Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
RepwtNe. P-4328-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO TIE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOlJNT EQUIVALENT TO US$ 57.0 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE
UPPER AND MIDDLE SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
May 22, 1986
'MIS documen h'  a zs&icted dib&budo. _a may be med by ueclenb ody in the perfomne of
tbdr ofcil dude& lb cont*e  .m  al odhrwise be dised withou Woid Bank uthoduatiom.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00             =        Cz$ 13.80 (February 28, 1986) 1/
Cz$1.00             =       US$0.072464 (February 28, 1986) 1/
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Brazil                   =    January 1 to December 31
Northeast Rural Development Program  =    April 1 to March 31
Project                                =    April 1 to March 31
/  A new currency, the Cruzado, equal to 1,000 cruzeiros, was introduced
effective February 28, 1986, at the exchange rate shown above. The cruzeiro
will continue to be legal tender until March 1, 1987, but will be devalued
against the Cruzado at a daily rate of 0.45% starting February 28, 1986.



FOR OFFCAUL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
BB                  Banco do Brasil
(Bank of Brazil)
BNB                  Banco do Nordeste do Brasil
(Bank of the Northeast of Brazil)
CODEVASF            Companhia de Desenvolvimento do Vale do Sao Francisco
(Sao Francisco River Valley Development Company)
COELBA              Companhia de Electricidade do Estado do Bahia
(Electric Company of Bahia)
COTIA               Cooperativa Agricola de Cotia
(Agricultural Cooperative of Cotia)
DER                 Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem
(Department of Roads)
DNOCS               Departamento Nacional de Obras Contra as Secas
(National Department of Drought Works)
DNOS                Departamento Nacional de Obras de Saneamento
(National Department of Sanitary Works)
EMATERBA            Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural de
Bahia
(Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company of
Bahia)
FAO/CP              United Nations' Food and Agriculture Organization/World
Bank Cooperative Program
FSESP               Fundacao de Servicos de Saude Publica
(Public Health Service Foundation)
ICB                 Concorrencia Internacional
(International Competitive Biddings)
LCB                  Concorrencia Local
(Local Competitive Biddings)
PIN                  Plano de Integracao Nacional
(National Plan of Integration)
POLONORDESTE        Programa de Desenvolvimento de Areas Iategradas do
Nordeste
(Program of Development of Integrated Areas of the
Northeast)
This document has a rstricted distribution and may be used by rmcipients only in the performance
of their of1icial duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosd without World Bank authorization.



PROCANOR            Programa Especial de Apoio as Populacoes Pobres das
Zonas Canavieras
(Special Program of Support for Poor Populations of the
Sugar-Growing Zones)
PROHIDRO             Programa de Recursos Hidricos
(Water Resources Use Program)
PROVARZEA            Programa para Irigacao de Varzeas
(Program of Irerigation of Flooding Lands)
SERTANEJO            Programa Especial de Apoio ao Desenvolvimento da Regiao
Semi-Arida do Nordeste
(Special Program of Support for the Development of
the Semi-arid Region of the Northeast)
SUCAM                Superintendencia de Campanh*s Medicinais
(Superintendency of Public Health Campaigns)
SUDENE               Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
(Superintendency for the Development for the Northeast)
UNDP                 United Nations Development Programme



BRAZIL
UPPER AND MIDDLE SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:             Federative Republic of Brazil
Pr!Ject Executing    Sao Francisco River Valley Development Company
Agency:             (CODEVASF)
Amount:               US$57.0 million equivalent
Terms:                Repayable in 15 years on a fixed amortization
schedule, including 3 years of grace, at the Bank's
standard variable rate.
Beneficiaries:        The project would benefit about 9,200 low income
families comprising (a) 2,600 farmer families in
existing CODEVASF irrigation perimeters operating up
to 6 ha plots; (b) 2,200 landless families to be
settled on newly irrigated land in 4 ha holdings; and
(c) about 4,400 additional rural families through
creation of permanent and part-time jobs.
Project
Description:        The proposed project is part of the Federal Irriga-
tion Program, designed to increase the income of the
small farmers living in one of the driest areas of the
Northeast Region. It would also provide support for
CODEVASF to develop the capability required for
executing, operating and managing its entire irriga-
tion program. The project would provide for the
rehabilitation of 17,800 ha of irrigated lands and the
irrigation of some 11,000 ha of new lands. Incre-
mental outp.t from the project wou'd conatribute to
offset regioral deficits of basic foods and to produce
significant dmounts of horticultural and export crops*
Risks:                CODE'TASF has limited experience in multi-faceted
operations and qualitative and quantitative limUita-
tions at middle management level to supervise
engineering consultants and contractors. The project
includes considerable technical assistance and
institutional strengthening to help overcome present
shortcomings and to develop CODEVASF capability to
operate and maintain the investment at full develop-
ment. The expected benefits of the proposed project
cannot be achieved through irrigation alone; it
requires interinstitutional cooperation among a nimber
of agencies responsible for assisting the farmers with
agricultural extension services, credit and input
supply. During project preparation, institutional
weaknesses were identified and measures introduced to
improve institutional effectiveness and coordination.



-ii-
- - - - US$ Millions - - - -
Estimated Project Costs                        Local     Foreign     Total
As New Pbrmoso A Irrigation                  24.7      17.2        41.9
B. Rehabilitation Schemes                    17.4      13.0        30.4
C. Production Support Activities              5.8       1.0         6.8
D. Investment Credit                          3.4       0.6         4.0
E. Social Investments                         2.7       1.6         4.3
F. Institution Building                      3.4        3.9         7.3
Tbtal Baseline Cost                         57.4       37.3        94.7
Physical Contingencies                       6.5        5.1        11.6
Price Contingencies                          11.2       b.1        17.3
Total Project Cost                           75.1      48.5       123.6 1/
-~~~~
Financing Plan
Govertment                                   66.6      -           66.6
IBRD                                         8.5       48.5        57.0
TOTAL                                        75.1      48.5       123.6
Estimated Disbursement
- - - - - - - - - -   -US$ Millions - -        … - - - - - - -
Bank F!                   1987  1988  1989  1990  1991   1992   1993   1994
Annual                     4.72/ 8.6  15.2  12.4   8.7      4.3    1.7   1.4
Cumulative                 4.7  13.3  28.5  40.9  49.6    53.9  55.6  57.0
Rate of Return:   15X 3/
- Rehabilitation Schemes
Estreito:                14%
Sao Desiderio:           16%
- New Formoso A Irrigation:  15%
Map: IBRD 19210
1/ Including about US$11.2 million of local taxes.
7/ Including initial deposit of US$2.5 million into the Special Account.
_   This figure is based on calculations for three schemes (Estreito, Sao
Desiderio and Formoso A) and estimates for the other five.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN OF US$57.0 MILLION
TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE UPPER AND MIDDLE SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
loan to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$57.0
million to help finance the Upper and Middle Sao Francisco Irrigation
Project. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including 3 years of
grace, at the Bank's standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled  Brazil:  Country Economic
Memorandum" (Report No. 5373-BR, dated February 26, 1985) was distributed
to the Executive Directors on March 7, 1985.
3.        Brazil's Government changed in March 1985 following indirect
elections in January for the first civilian president in 21 years. This
completed a major stage of the return to a fully democratic government and
involved a change in regime as well as administration, re-establishing the
authority of elected Federal and State representatives throughout Brazil.
In this changed environment the inability of the successful presidential
candidate, Mr. Tancredo Neves, to take office, created a crisis for the new
Government. On Mr. Neves' death in April 1985, Vice-President Jose Sarney
became President and has since faced the task of pursuing the objectives
stated by Mr. Neves, while also establishing his own authority in the New
Republic.
4.        The Sarney government is committed to a program of reform,
economic growth and inflation control, with a strong social and anti-
poverty orientation. Its first National Development Plan for 1986-89,
presented to Congress in November 1985, stresses social objectives
including the gradual recovery of real wages and, among Government
programs, a concentration on improving health, nutrition and housing for
low-income Brazilians. Reform of the public sector is a strategic
objective. The Government intends to concentrate more on "traditional'
functions, such as the provision of social services and basic infra-
structure, leaving directly productive activities increasingly for private
sector initiative. Given population growth of 2.2% p.a., and a more rapid
increase in the labor force, the Plan states as an essential condition a
return to GDP growth of at least 6% a year. Three major stabilization aims
are embodied in the Plan: reductions in the public sector deficit, re-
negotiation of the external debt, and the control of inflation.



-2-
Recent Economic Performance
5.        Brazil achieved a remarkable 11% average annual growth in real
GDP in the years 1967 to 1973, with declining domestic inflation and a
significant liberalization of both foreign and domestic trade, Further
substantial growth occurred in the years from 1974 to 1980, at an annual
average rate of 7%, but in greatly changed circumstances. Following the
large increases in 1973 in the price of imported oil, the international
recession, and the sharp deterioration in the terms of trade, successive
Brazilian governments sought to maintain output and employment growth
through policies characterized by generous credit and tax incentives for
industrial and agricultural exports and import substitution; rising import
barriers; investment in domestic energy resources to substitute for
imported oil; the expansion of state enterprises; and heavy foreign borrow-
ing. Between 1975 and 1980, Brazil's medium- and long-term debt more than
doubled from US$23.5 billion to US$56.5 billion, with total obligations of
approximately US$70 billion, including short-term debt. The efforts to
redress the external imbalance after 1974 created strong internal pressures
and increased inflation. The economy remained vulnerable to external
shocks, and when further increases in oil prices occurred in 1979 and 1980,
and international interest rates increased, the current account deficit
more than doubled to US$12.4 billion. Domestic inflation accelerated to
110%.
6.        Stabilization measures, relying heavily on monetary policy,
resulted in a decline of GDP in 1981, ending the long period of sustained
growth. Incipient recovery was checked in 1982 by a combination of
esternal developments, including declining world commodity prices, economic
problems of some major trading partners, and regional events leading to the
debt crisis of August 1982.  Faced with the loss of its reserves, the
reluctance of foreign banks to roll over existing loans or extend new
credits, and bleak internatinnal market prospects, Brazil sought assistance
from the International Monetary Fund in support of an intensified adjust-
ment program. In February 1983, the IMF pledged financial assistanice of
the order of US$5.4 billion through the Extended Fund Facility and
compensatory financing for the years 1983-85. Associated with this were
commercial bank commitments for 1983 of US$4.4 billion in new loans, the
rescheduling of US$4.6 billion in loan repayments due in 1983, and other
measures of financial support. A similar agreement for 1984 provided,
inter alia, for the rescheduling of US$4.7 billion in loan repayments, and
the 6ommitment of US$6.4 billion in new commercial bank loans.
7.        With this support, and through adjustment measures which included
a 30% devaluation of the cruzeiro early in 1983, import restrictions, and
tight monetary and fiscal restraints, Brazil weathered its foreign exchange
crisis. A trade surplus of US$6.5 billion was achieved in 1983 as imports
declined by 21% and exports increased by 9%; the current account deficit
was reduced from US$14.8 billion in 1982 (equivalent to about 5% of GDP) to
US$6.2 billion in 1983.
8.        The short-run cost of these adjustments was nevertheless high.
Inflation reached 211% in 1983 as a whole, exacerbated by crop shortages,



- 3 -
very high real interest rates, and the effects of devaluation. Real GDP
feLl by 3.2% in 1983, with the greatest reductions concentrated in the
industrial and commercial sectors. Per capita GDP declined by over 12%
during 1981-83 and industrial employment by over 20%, with the largest
reductions in incomes and employment concentrated in the main industrial
centers. Much of the social progress made in the 1970s--when all income
groups gained from economic growth and the expansion of education, health,
housing and urban and rural development programs-was undermined by the
recessicn.
9.        The recovery began in 1984.  Balance-of-payments performance was
again highly positive, aided by exchange rate changes which fully accounted
for domestic inflation and by the strong growth of the US economy. An
unprecedented trade surplus of US$13.1 billion wps generated. Although
total imports, especially of oil, continued to fall, much of this surplus
resulted from export expansion. Measured in current US dollars, total
exports for 1984 were 23Z greater than in 1983; the comparable increase for
industrial exports was 37%.  Refl_cting the favorable trade performance,
and substantial net capital inflows, Brazil's international reserve
position also improved markedly in 1984 with a net increase of over US$7
billion. Sparked by the export resurgence, GDP for 1984 is estimated to
have grown by 4.5% in real terms, or over 2% per capita. The increase in
manufacturing exports helped industrial recovery, despite the fact that for
most sectors the proportion of total output which is exported remained
small. Overall expansion was still inhibited by depressed domestic market
conditions, high inflation (224%), and real interest rates of 30-40%.
10.       In 1985, GDP growth accelerated and is estimated to have reached
8.3% in real terms for the year as a whole. The recovery was led by
industry, which expanded by an estimated 9.0%, though investment spending
remained low. Industrial employment increased by 6%. Open unemployment
declined significantly in 1985, in the major urban centers. Agriculture
expanded by an estimated 8.8%, contributing both to the balance of payments
and to domestic supply. Temporary price restraints imposed by the new
Government resulted in a reduction in price increases from nearly 12% a
month in the first quarter of 1985 to 7.6% in the second. Subsequent
increases, however, brought the 1985 annual rate to 235%. Externally, the
trade surplus amounted to over US$12.4 billion, the current account deficit
was about 0.5% of GDP, and gross intcrnational reserves remained at a level
equivalent to about 8 months o' imports.
11.       The high GDP growth of 1985 was achieved by relaxing demand
policies in the belief that the increased demand could be absorbed by the
substantial excess capacity in the economy. The public sector deficit,
adjusted for monetary correction, increased from about 1.6% of GDP in 1984
to an estimated 3.3% in 1985. Generous wage settlements in the organized
industrial sector, including partial quarterly adjustments of wages,
resulted, at least temporarily, in real wage gains of 8-10% for these
industries, and Federal Government salaries #ere also increased to
compensate for large previous declines. Profits were high in many private
sector activities. Monetary policy from August 1985 was accommodating; in
fact, some of the expansion in the monetary aggregates that occurred was



- 4 -
aimed at reducing interest rates. With a sharp reduction in foreign
ftnancing, the growing public debt was financed domestically at high,
though later declining, real interest rates. The real rate on Government
securities declined from 21% in August to 15% by the end of the year. For
the year, as a whole, the monetary aggregates increased faster than the
235Z inflation: 251Z for the monetary base, 312% for MI, and 262% for M3.
12.       By the end of 1985, inflation was causing new concern.  The rate
of inflation increased late in the year because of the need to raise public
sector and other regulated prices that had been held down in previous
months and through anticipation of the effects of a drought in the South
which damaged food crops and coffee. Inflation reached monthly rates of
11% in November and 13% in December, followed by rates of 16% and over 14%
in January and February of 1986, respectively. In late 1985, the
Government had prepared a program to reduce inflation gradually which was
centered around a substantial reduction of the fiscal deficit. Taxes were
increased and there were cuts in Federal Government and state enterprise
expenditure. Budgetary control was strengthened in January 1986 by the
unification of the fiscal and monetary budgets, transferring to the
Treasury the responsibility for programs previously financed by the Central
Bank and Bank of Brazil; the termination of the Bank of Brazil's role as a
second monetary authority; and the establishment of a National Treasury
Secretariat to centralize budget disbursements. A program for
restructuring and -elective privatization of state enterprises was
initiated.   Alarmed by the spurt in inflation in December and January, the
Government tightened consumer credit and announced a plan to increase food
imports to offset the drought-related increase in agricultural prices. At
the same time, a more radical comprehensive program to stop inflation was
being prepared.
Economic Outlook
13.      On February 28, the Government initiated its new program for
stabilization and currency reform. Until then, the inflation outlook for
1986 was threatening. There were a number of inflationary factors needing
to be dealt with, including the disappearance of excess capacity in a
number of industries, the pressures to raise wages to pre-recession levels
and to protect workers from higher future inflation, the poor agricultural
harvest, and the need to raise some public sector tariffs and prices.
Moreover, there was a growing awareness that maintaining inflation at
200-250% a year, the rate of the prior three years, was likely to be very
difficult over the medium term. The economy was reacting very quickly to
new, negative shocks, and the indexation system made it hard to bring
inflation down, once the shocks were reflected in the price index. In
addition, the small size of the monetary base relative to GDP (about 2%)
and the high liquidity of Government bonds complicated the use of monetary
policy to reduce aggregate demand.
14.       The new program seeks both to eliminate the impact of past,
indexed inflation and to change future inflation expectations. It features
a currency reform, with the new cruzado initially worth 1,000 cruzeiros; a
temporary price freeze on goods and services; an exchange rate set at



- 5 -
Cz$13.8 to the US dollar for a period to be determined; wage adjustments to
their average real value over the previous 6 months, with annual
adjustments thereafter, at least partly indexed to inflation; the freezing
for one year of rent and mortgage payments; prohibition of indexation of
financial contracts for periods of less than a year, except for personal
savings accounts; the conversion of nominal cruzeiro contracts to
appropriate cruzado values; the conversion of indexed Government bonds to
cruzados at the parity existing on February 28, without any adjustment, at
least for one year, in the nominal value of the new bonds; and a number of
measures intended to liberalize the financial system. These sweeping
financial reforms were accompanied by a continued effort to reduce the
fiscal deficit and to use monetary policy to stabilize and, if possible,
reduce real interest rates. A limited unemployment insurance program was
introduced. Initial political and public reactions have been highly
positive.
15.       Preliminary assessments suggest that the reforms will provide
increased stability and encourage productive private sector investment,
although there are risks inherent in the reforms, including problems of
adjustment for the financial sector. The transition period could be marked
by a temporary reduction in growth. Nevertheless, GDP growth is expected
to be substantial, even with below-normal agricultural growth due to the
recent drought. The exchange rate remains competitive; previous mini-
devaluations against the US dollar, and the decline of the dollar relative
to the currencies of Brazil's other trading partners, have resulted in a
15-20% fall in the real effective exchange rate since early 1985. The
February 28 wage adjustments do not raise real wage costs. The large trade
surplus remains a positive factor for growth. While progress needs to be
carefully monitored, the economic outlook has been substantially improved
by the measures to restore internal stability to complement the strong
Brasilian performance in external trade and the balance of payments.
16.       The medium-term economic outlook for Brazil is thus encouraging,
assuming the maintenance of a sound exchange rate policy, reasonable
success in the implementation of the new stabilization package, and the
present determination to reduce the public sector deficit. A focus on
further export promotion, greater productive efficiency, improved resource
allocation and increased savings and investment will be required if annual
GDP growth rates are to remain high enough (6-7% on average) to restore
living standards and generate the employment growth (at least 4% per annum)
to fit new entrants into the labor force and reabsorb those still affected
by the recent recession.
17.       The country's prospects depend on external factors outside the
control of Brazilian policy makers as well as on economic and social
policies pursued within the country. Recent developments, including the
decline in international interest rates and the fall in oil prices, have
been positive for Brazil. A 1% drop in average interest rates means a
balance-of-payments gain of about US$800 million. The agreement reached in
March with commercial bank creditors reschedules 1985 maturities, rolls
over 1986 maturities until early 1987, and reduces interest rates on this
debt from 2-1/8 to 1-1/8% over LIBOR. This agreement, which affects about



- 6 -
20% of Brazil's variable rate debt, will reduce annual interest payments by
some US$140 million. A reduction of a dollar per barrel in oil prices
means a net gain of over US$100 million a year.
18.       Brazil remains dependent on its success in exporting and
therefore on the international economy, market access, and its own trade
policies. However, major structural changes in its trade accounts in
recent years, including substantial export growth and recent efficient
import substitution in both industrial products and petroleum, should make
it feasible to continue to generate large trade surpluses for several
years, even with nominal growth in non-oil imports of up to 20% a year.
External Financing and Creditworthiness
19.       On the basis of relatively cautious assumptions about the
international environment, but assuming continued domestic economic growth,
Brazil could achieve substantial improvements in its balance of payments
situation, external debt outlook, and creditworthiness indicators. Bank
analysis, based on expected macro-economic and sector performance under
current and planned economic policies, results in projections of GDP growth
averaging about 7% in 1985-90, with additional foreign financing. Brazil's
net medium- and long-term financing needs are projected to average US$3.6
billion annually in the period 1986-90. Of this amount, approximately US$2
billion would be needed annually from commercial banks, which would result
in a gradual reduction in commercial bank exposure in Brazil in real
terms. With these moderate levels of net new foreign borrowing, Brazil's
total medium- and long-term debt would grow at an annual rate of 3.8% from
1985 to 1990, below the projected rate of international inflation.
20.       Brazil's creditworthiness indicators are expected to improve
substantially by the end of the decade. The medium- and long-term debt
service ratio is projected to fall from 69% of goods and non-factor service
exports in 1985, before the March rescheduling, to 52% in 1990. Similarly,
the ratio of total external debt to exports, which amounted to 3.6 in 1985,
is projected to decline to 2.6 by 1990. Nonetheless, debt service payments
will remain high. Interest payments alone would be equivalent to 24% of
exports in 1990, compared to 39% of exports in 1985. Therefore, Brazil
will need to continue rescheduling its commercial bank debt until the end
of the decade, unless it can obtain new foreign resources in excess of its
net medium- and long-term borrowing requirements. With such rescheduling,
continuation of its adjustment program and of its sound balance-of-payments
performance, and moderate infusion of new foreign financing, Brazil's
long-term prospects are good.



- 7 -
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
21.       By March 31, 1986, the Bank had made 145 loans to Brazil,
amounting to US$11,147.1 million (net of cancellations), of which 66 were
not yet fully disbursed. During FY70-75, annual disbursements averaged
US$155.0 million, and US$285.0 million during FY76-81, reaching US$472.0
million in FY82, US$764.0 million in FY83, US$1,405.0 million in FY84, and
US$1,054.5 million in FY85. The undisbursed amount as of March 31, 1986
was US$3,687.9 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans and IFC investments.
22.       Over the FY77-84 period, annual Bank lending to Brazil ranged
from US$425 million to about US$1,573 million per year. In FY84, 10 loans
totalling US$1,573.8 million were approved.  Nine loans totalling
US$1,523.0 million were approved in FY85. Thus far in FY86 five loans have
been approved; they are: a small towns improvement project in the amount of
US$24.5 million; a Northeast urban reconstruction project for US$100.0
million; an irrigation engineering project for US$48.0 million; a
metropolitan urban development project for US$55.0 million; and a second
agricultural extension project for US$155.0 million. A Northeast Health
project, for US$57.0 million, is scheduled to be considered by the
Executive Directors on May 22, 1986. Work is advanced for a second
agricultural sector project; an agricultural credit project; a power sector
project; several projects in the Northeast region including five r3ral
development projects; and a public sector management project.
23.       Brazil's external medium- and long-term public and private debt
outstanding and disbursed is estimated to have been US$88 billion at the
end of 1985. The Bank's share in-this total is estimated at 4.8% while its
share in total debt service is estimated at 4.1%.
24.       As of March 31, 1986, IFC commitments to Brazil totalled
US$1,041.14 million, of which US$710.73 million had been sold, repaid or
cancelled. Of the balance of US$330.41 million, US$255.47 million
represent loans and US$74.94 million equity. A summary of IFC's
investments as of March 31, 1986 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
25.       Brazil has been through a difficult transition period, achieving
only at substantial domestic cost, and with international cooperation, the
adjustments required to regain reasonable equilibrium in its balance of
payments. Economic recovery, export-led, began in 1984 when the GDP
increased by some 4.5%. For 1985, growth is estimated at over 8%. The
domestic stabilization measures which were introduced on February 28,
1986, improved the prospects for maintaining satisfactory growth rates in
the medium term. Stability and growth will depend on tighter public sector
expenditure and deficit control, increased savings and investment, and a
sound balance of payments. External and domestic resources will continue
to be constrained. Tne Bank lending strategy is therefore designed to



- 8 -
support the ongoing restructuring process, promote the mobilization and
effective use of resources, and contribute to the attainment of social and
regional development objectives to which high priority is being attached by
the Government.
26.       In the short run, the Bank will continue to help ease Brazil's
financing constraints through several modalities of the Bank's Special
Action Program, approved by the Executive Directors on February 22, 1983.
These include working capital financing and finaricing of a higher share of
project costs. Also, greater use is being made ot Project Special Accounts
into which Bank funds are deposited in advance in order to reduce the need
for the Government to prefinance the Bank's share of project costs.
27.       The Ban;, s longer-run lending strategy is directed toward helping
Brazil in sustaining efficient growth. One focus of the lending program is
on structural transformation and efficient resource use. Expanding export
capacity in industry and agriculture will ease the foreign exchange
constraint on development while promoting efficiency through exposure to
international competition. Sector loans to industry and agriculture,
envisaging a restructuring of incentive and trade policies in support of
Government initiatives, have been approved by the Executive Directors.
Follow-up loans designed to support the next steps in this adjustment
process are under preparation. Given agriculture's large potential
contribution to export growth and import substitution, adjustments in this
sector will be crucial to Brazil's stabilization and growth. Sector loans
in support of financial and fiscal reforms will help promote the flow of
resources to the private sector. Lending in support of the financial
restructuring, rehabilitation and development of the energy and industrial
sectors is also envisaged.
28.       Another lending priority is the rehabilitation and development of
infrastructure. Lending for energy development has addressed the need to
reduce petroleum imports while providing the energy required for
maintaining high rates of economic growth in the future. In the electric
power sector, the Bank's role will be to assist the Government and sector
authorities in their efforts to improve the financial condition of the
sector through realistic investment and financial policies. Lending for
transportation will be directed toward the rehabilitation and maintenance
of the existing transportation network with expansion in areas where
economic activity is outgrow-Ing present capacity.
29.       A third lending objective is to help intensify the efforts of the
Government to increase the productivity of the lowest income segments of
the population, to broaden the opportunities open to those groups, and to
improve their living conditions. Previous loans for primary education,
vocational training, agricultural research, agricultural extension, polder
construction in the lower Sao Francisco river basin, and integrated rural
development were designed to assist low-income groups in rural areas,
especially those in the Northeast and the Northwest. Loans for water
supply and sewerage projects throughout Brazil, loans for urban transport
in several major cities, a loan for sites and services and low-cost



- 9 -
housing, and four loans for urban development in two metropolitan areas, in
medium-sized cities, and in small market towns, are assisting the
improvement of the living conditions of the urban population, particularly
of the urban poor. Following up on a nutrition research and development
project and a first health project for the northwest region, a basic health
care project in the state of Sao Paulo and a national health studies
project are helping promote efficiency, cost effectiveness and equity in
the delivery of health services in Brazil. Future lending in the health
sector will seek to extend coverage of basic health services in the
Northeast, and to combat endemic diseases in the Northeast and the
Northwest. Continued lending for integrated rural development and
irrigation projects in the Northeiast of Brazil will support the
Government's objectives to further illeviate poverty, by addressing the
region's vulnerability to drought, inadequate structure of regional
institutions, and concentration of land ownership. Further lending for
urban development will address ways to improve urban services and
infrastructure, while simultaneously strengthening the financial basis of
municipalities, particularly in the Northeast region, with a view toward
self-financing of investments and cost recovery. New projects for water
supply and sewerage will also foster these goals while extending services
to rural areas and to the low-income urban population. Education lending
will continue to strengthen financial and administrative institutions while
also increasing the contribution of education to the development process,
especially in the Northeast. The proposed project, the third to be
undertaken by the Bank with CODEVASF (see para. 41 below), would have a
considerable impact on rural poverty (para. 35) and the beneficiaries'
ability to withstand adverse climatic conditions in the Northeast and
would strengthen CODEVASF to undertake an expanded irrigation program
(paras. 44-47).
30.       Improving the efficiency of the public sector and supporting the
Government's efforts to reduce the public sector deficit are important
components of the Bank strategy for Brazil. A special Public Sector
Management project, designed to strengthen planning and management
capabilities at the Federal level, is advanced in preparation. The Bank is
also undertaking a review of public sector investment programs and is
supporting the Government's efforts to rehabilitate state enterprises.
31.       Continued lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded by the
international financial community as a sign of confidence in Brazil's
development prospects. In some sectors, especially in electric power and
industry, Bank participation helped Brazil in the past to obtain additional
resources from bilateral credit agencies and private financial
institutions. Since 1976, 11 cofinancing operations for about US$570
million were arranged and signed with private financial institutions.
Cofinancing opportunities were rather limited in Brazil in the past four
years, as the volume and terms of commercial bank financing available to
Brazil were determined within the framework of debt rescheduling
negotiations. Given Brazil's recent progress in restoring balance-of-
payments stability and the current efforts to control inflation, the
prospects for obtaining new external financing from commercial sources are
now improving. Cofinancing could become important again in the near



- 10 -
future, and the new cofinancing instruments developed by the Bank could
play a role in encouraging commercial banks to provide Brazil additional
resources for High priority projects, with better financing terms.
PART III - AGRICULTURE IN THE NORTHEAST
A. Agriculture in the National Economy
32.       Although its relative importance in the Brazilian economy has
declined, agriculture remains an important sector, employing about 30% of
the labor force and contributing about 11% to the GDP and about 38% to
total export earnings (1982). During the 1970s, the gross value of
agricultural production grew at an annual rate of nearly 5%. Since 1980,
however, the value of agricultural output has declined, reflecting lower
international commodity prices, adverse domestic pricing policies,
unfavorable climatic conditions, and a restricted agricultural credit
supply. Per capita production of basic foods, such as maize, beans, rice,
and cassava, has also fallen. In most years, Brazil has remained
self-sufficient in food, except for wheat. However, periodic imports of
beans, maize, and rice have occurred, particularly in bad crop years.
33.       In recent years, the share of agricultural land devoted to
industrial and export crops (sugarcane, cocoa, soybeans, citrus, and
tobacco) has risen sharply. Brazil is the world's largest producer of
coffee and sugarcane, the second largest of soybeans, and the largest
exporter of coffee and orange juice. The changing structure of
agricultural production reflects the fact that most productivity gains,
expansion of production area, and increased market integration have
occurred in the South and Southeast, while the North and Northeast have
continued to follow traditional agricultural practices. Because of the
sector's key role in increasing rural incomes and food supplies, and
improving the country's balance of payments, the Government has shown a
strong commitment to agricultural development.l/
B. The Rural Northeast
34.       The Northeast is comprised of the States of Maranhao, Piaui,
Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba, Pernambuco, Alagoas, Sergipe and
Bahia, as well as the federal territory of Fernando do Noronha and the
northern portion of the State of Minas Gerais. Its area is over 1.5
million km2, or 18% of the country's total area. The Northeast has been
1/   For further discussion on the agricultural sector, see A Review of
A!rIcultural Policies in Brazil, September 11, 1981, Report No.
3305-BR.



- 11 -
viewed as the nation's foremost problem region since the late 1800s. The
country's wealthiest region during the colonial period, it subsequently
lagged behind, as industrial, agricultural and commercial activity shifted
to the south.
35.       Drought and uncertain rainfall, highly skewed land distribution,
and limited urban employment opportunities have resulted in widespread
poverty and underemployment. From 1970 to 1983, 3.3 million people
migrated from the Northeast. The large number of recent migrants is at
least partially the result of five successive years of severe drought
affecting large areas of the Northeast from 1978 to 1983. In 1980, the
Northeast had a population of 35 million (about 29Z of the national total)
growing at 2.2% per annum and an average population density of 22.5
inhabitants per square kilometer. About one-half of the population lives
in rural areas, and more than one-half of the regional work force is
engaged in agriculture. Ownership of agricultural land throughout the
Northeast is highly concentrated: farms under 10 ha (70% of all farms)
occupy less than 6% of total farm area; farms over 500 ha (1% of all farms)
occupy more than 40% of the total farm area. Rural incomes are very low.
As of 1980, over 80% ot the rural population earned one minimum salary
(about US$675 annually) or less, a little over 35% of the national average,
and the poorest 50% received only about 10% of total regional income.
36.       The Northeast contributes about one-fifth of the total value of
Brazilian crop production; many regionally produced commodities (sisal,
cassava, sugar, cocoa and cotton) represent significant shares of national
production. The zona da mata, a narrow, fertile, coastal strip, contains
one-third of the regional population and a major proportion of industry and
plantation agriculture (largely sugarcane and cocoa). The agreste is a
transitional zone with some semi-arid areas, dominated by mixed farming for
the domestic market as well as the raising of beef and dairy cattle. The
semi-arid sertao, comprising some 750,000 km2, but only sparsely populated,
is the largest of the subregions and the most vulnerable to periodic
droughts.
37.       Rainfed agriculture in much of the Northeast, and especially in
the semi-arid sertao, is limited mainly to subsistence crops and to
extensive livestock production. Due to high climatic risks, difficulty in
obtaining land, lack of access to credit, and inadequate production support
services, most rainfed farmers in the drought polygon are unwilling to
adopt high value crop production methods. The large sums spent by the
Government in the Northeast for disaster in drought years relief have gone
primarily to support rural small holders in the semi-arid sertao whose
rainfed crops have failed.
C. Government Policy for the Rural Northeast
38.       Until the 1950s, most Government interventions in the rural
Northeast were limited to drought relief works and emergency programs and
to incentives for export crops. The slow pace of socio-economic
development and the need for improved regional planning led to the creation



- 12 -
in 1959 of the Superintendency for Development of the Northeast (SUDENE).
SUDENE was originally responsible for the coordination of all public
investment activities, drought emerge&.-y measures, and fiscal and credit
incentives to attract new private investment. In the 1970s, initiative for
regional policy formulation was transferred to the Ministry of Interior
with SUDENE coordinating federally-funded special rural programs.
39.       The special rural programs have followed two approaches.  The
first is based on the integrated development of selected subregions and is
focused on specific target groups. Programs following this approach
include the Program of Development of Integrated Areas of the Northeast
(POLONORDESTE), the Special Program of Support for the Development of the
Semi-Arid Region of the Northeast (SERTANEJO), which is largely concerned
with alleviating the effects of the recurring droughts, and the Special
Program of Support for Poor Populations of the Sugar Growing Zones
(PROCANOR). Several parallel programs, including the Northeast Water
Resources Use Program (PROHIDRO), the Semi-Arid Tropics Research Program
and the Drought Emergency Relief Program, as well as large federal public
irrigation projects, have attempted to increase the productive use of
scarce water resources or to provide temporary drought relief assistance.
40.       The second approach to the problems of rural development which
evolved in 1982, implied more attention to the security of tenure, the
quality of the soil and the availability of water on the farm. The special
rural programs were no longer to be integrated area by area, but considered
on a state-wide basis along functional lines. A series of region-wide
sector programs has been worked out to support this approach. One of these
programs is a fifteen-year Federal Irrigation Program based on a
comprehensive regional policy framework and dealing with irrigation works
which are part of rural development projects.
D. Past Bank Lending in the Northeast
41.       The Bank has made 35 loans, totalling US$2,248.6 million, for
agricultural and rural development in Brazil. Many of these loans were for
projects with nation-wide impact, but about fifteen were for various
settlement, irrigation and rural development projects, located in the
Northeast2/. Completion and Project Performance Audit Reports for the
Alto Turi Land Settlement Project (Loan 853-BR) showed that the project
raised settler incomes beyond expectations, but was less successful in the
areas of environmental protection, community organization, and the
strengthening of cooperatives. The recent Project Completion Report for
the Leower Sao Francisco Polders Project (Loan 1153-BR) showed that despite
implementation delays due to design changes and social tension in the area,
beneficiaries' net incomes increased beyond original estimates and small
farmers were capable of moving successfully from subsistence to commercial
2, A preliminary evaluation of impact is provided in the World Bank
Country Study, Brazil: An Interim Assessment of Rural Development
Programs for the Northeast, Washington, D.C., 1983.



- 13 -
agriculture. The ongoing Sao Francisco Second Irrigation Project (Loan
1729-BR) is progressing satisfactorily and should be completed by CODEVASF
in a seven-year period, by December 1986.
42.       Ten of the Bank-financed projects located in the Northeast are
POLONORDESTE rural development projects in eight states. Approved from
1976 to 1983, all these projects have experienced implementation and
disbursement delays. Among the reasons are the unusually severe and
prolonged 1978-83 drought, delays in providing local funds, limited
execution capacity for carrying out small-scale irrigation activities and
initial lags in the generation of drought-resistant technology for small
farmers.
43.       As part of the Northeast Rural Development Program of 1984, which
deals with both rural development and irrigation, the Executive Directors
approved in April 1985 the First and Second Northeast Rural Development
Projects in Sergipe and Rio Grande do Norte (Loans 2523-BR and 2524-BR) and
an Irrigation Engineering and Technical Assistance Project in March 1986.
Loans for the rural development projects in Bahia and Piaui have been
negotiated and are scheduled for presentation to the Executive Directors
shortly. Other rural development projects have been appraised in Ceara and
Maranhao and are in preparation in Minas Gerais, Paraiba and Alagoas. Land
tenure improvement activities in the Northeast have been planned under the
Northeast Region Land Tenure Improvement Project approved by the Executive
Directors in June 1985.
E. Irrigation in the Northeast
44.       The National Irrigation Law of 19793/ defines national
irrigation policies, rights, obligations and institutional
responsibilities. The Law distinguishes between "public" and "private"
irrigation.  Federal public irrigation systems id the Northeast are
planned, constructed and operated by the Sao Francisco River Valley
Development Company (CODEVASF) and the National Department of
Drought-Related Works (DNOCS). CODEVASF, a Government owned company
established in 1974 and run along private enterprise lines, is responsible
for the execution of major public irrigation systems in the Sao Francisco
Valley. DNOCS, established in 1945 as a Government agency and subordinated
to the Ministry of Interior until February 1986, is responsible for the
development of public irrigation elsewhere in the semi-arid Northeast. In
the last few years, the National Department of Sanitary Works (DNOS),
another Government agency established in 1940 and subordinated to the
Ministry of Urban Development and Environment until February 1986, has also
begun to develop irrigation projects in the Northeast. Private irrigation
projects are those carried out through private initiative with--or
without--Government assistance and incentives. Most of them are financed
with the help of the nation-wide Program for Irrigation of Flood Plains and
the Financing Program for Irrigation.
3/ Irrigation Law No. 6662 of June 25, 1979.



- 14 -
45.       At present CODEVASF operates 18 irrigation projects, with some
40,000 ha fully developed and 25,000 ha in various stages of construction.
DNOCS has 27 irrigation projects in operation, covering a total area of
about 26,800 ha. However, agricultural production in the irrigated
perimeters has been generally disappointing. The principal constraints to
achieving results originally projected have been the poor performance of
executing agencies and the erratic annual budgetary allocations to CODEVASF
and DNOCS, which tended to be related to the incidence and severity of the
droughts.
46.       Brazilian laws provide for the recovery of the entire operation
and maintenance cost of the system, as well as part of the capital cost.
Charges are levied on a volume basis to cover operation and maintenance
costs and on an area basis to recover part of the capital (see paras. 63-64
below).
47.       The traumatic effects of the 1978-83 drought have caused the
Government to review its development policies, priorities and plans for the
Northeast. In the outcome of the review, a five-year Irrigation Program
for the Northeast was enacted by Decree on January 29, 1986. Its target is
quite ambitious: it proposes to increase the area under public and private
irrigation in the Northeast by one million hectares during the years
1986-90. Two weeks later, in order to streamline the decision-making and
speed up the preparation and execution of irrigation projects, the
President of the Republic appointed a 'Minister of State Extraordinary for
Irrigation Affairs" for a term of three years. The appointment was made in
the Decree of February 12, 1986, instituting a three-year National
Irrigation Program and subordinating to the Minister the three Federal
irrigation agencies, DNOCS, DNCS and CODEVASF, with all personnel and other
resources. The Minister is being assisted and advised by an Executive
Secretariat for the National Irrigation Program. Responsibility for
irrigation components of rural development projects remains with SUDENE;
SUDENE will also assist the Minister in managing private irrigation
matters.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Proj ect History
48.       The proposed project is a component of the Federal Iri7qtion
Program (see para. 47 above) established under the framework of tI&
Northeast Rural Development Program, and aims at reducing the risks of
rainfed farming in the region. These risks are the result of poor soils,
erratic climate, and periodic multi-year droughts that have decimated
regional agricultural production in recent years.



- 15 -
49.       The Federal Government requested Bank assistance in preparing the
project in October 1983. Preparation work was carried out by CODEVASF,
with guidance from the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program and assistance
from private consultants. The project was appraised during July 1985, and
negotiations were held in Washington, D. C., in March 1986. Mrs. Stael
Martins Baltar, of the Federal Planning Ministry and Mr. Eliseu Alves,
President of CODEVASF led the Brazilian delegation. A Staff Appraisal
Report (No. 5975-BR) is being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. Annex III provides other key project data.
Project Area
50.       All proposed subprojects (Formoso A, Estreito, Sao Desiderio/
Barreiras Sul, Formosinho, Ceraima, Curaca, Manicoba and Gorotuba) are
within the Sao Francisco River Basin in Brazil's Northeast (Map IBRD
19210).   All are within the drought-prone area and contain fertile soils,
well suited for irrigation. Water availability and quality would not be
constraints for the project's requirements. CODEVASF holds title to all
the land in the project area, except in Sao Desiderio/Barreiras Sul where
it has been sold already to small farmers. CODEVASF policy is to award
title to its own lands to the present and future operators. The existing
communication systems and transportation services are adequate to satisfy
the service demands expected to arise from the project's execution.
Project Objectives
51.       Major project objectives would be:  (a) improving the incomes and
access to social services of about 9,200 rural families; and (b) increasing
agricultural production to alleviate regional basic foods deficits and to
increase volumes available for export. To achieve these objectives the
project would: (a) increase the economic return of past investments by
rehabilitating seven areas where the irrigation infrastructure is already
built but where cropping intensity and yields remain below acceptable
levels; (b) develop new irrigation schemes on public lands with expected
high returns on Government investments; (c) improve farm technology and
provide farmers agricultural production and social services; (d) strengthen
CODEVASF's capacity to plan, construct, operate and maintain the irrigation
and drainage works included in this project as well as in its other opera-
tions which are part of the federal irrigation program for the Northeast
(see paras. 40 and 47 above); and (e) transfer to farmers most of the
responsibilities for the operation and maintenance of internal irrigation
and drainage networks. Project objectives are consistent with the Bank' s
strategy (para. 29 above) for the economically disadvantaged Northeast.
Project Description and Detailed Features
52.       The project would include the following activities:
(a) Rehabilitation of seven existing irrigation schemes out of
CODEVASF's 18 existing schemes. The total net area covered by
this component would be about 19,730 ha, including 1,910 ha of
new extensions to the irrigated areas. These schemes were put
into operations some ten years ago. Defects in original designs



- 16 -
or construction standards, inadequate land preparation and
farming practices, and unsatisfactory maintenance have all led to
precarious water supply in some areas and to rising water tables
in others. Project works would consist of rehabilitation of
common irrigation and drainage infrastructure, on-farm upgrading
through land-levelling, soil amendments and field network
improvements, and rehabilitation and surfacing of about 105 km of
access and service roads. Sprinkler irrigation systems would be
installed in the new extensions because CODEVASF's experience
showed that inexrerienced farmers are more willing to adopt this
technology than surface irrigation.
(b) Construction of the New Formoso A Irrigation Scheme: The Formoso
A irrigation scheme would cover a net area of 9,130 ha, of which
some 7,070 ha (or about 77Z) would be distributed among 1,800
small farmers, each owning a 4 ha plot, and the remainder leased
to medium- and large-size farmers. It would involve construction
of an irrigation and drainage network, pumping stations, on-farm
works (including land levelling, installation of sprinkler
equipment and construction of field drains), and about 80 km of
access and service roads and the installation of electrical
transmission and distribution lines and associated equipment.
(c) Provision of Operation and Maintenance Equipment and Services:
This component would include the construction and equipping of
about 6 workshops, about 7 stores, offices, and acquisition of
heavy machinery and vehicles. Staff salaries and other recurrent
costs needed to operate the system during the seven-year project
implementation period have also been included in the cost
estimates.
(d) Provision of Extension Services to Farm Families to help them
become self-sustaining units, including selection and settlement
of farmers in newly irrigated areas and training of farmers and
their associations in the operation and maintenance of on-farm
irrigation and drainage infrastructure and equipment.
(e) Social Services and Infrastructure: New construction or repairs
of about 24 schools, about 12 health posts, and at Formoso A,
construction of six service centers for delivery of social
services; construction of housing for about 1,500 farm families
and carrying out of sanitary erradication and preventive
education campaigns against waterborne diseases.
(f) Staff Training and Technical Assistance Programs to provide some
1,600 CODEVASF staff the specialized technical, operational and
managerial skills necessary to implement CODEVASF's entire
irrigation program (1986-1990). This component will be financed
by the Bank and CODEVASF. However, if UNDP funds became
available for this purpose during project execution, US$1.0
million of the proposed loan would be cancelled. During
negotiations, CODEVASF and the Bank agreed upon the detailed
design of the staff training subcomponent, and on the draft of a



- 17 -
FAD Technical Ass1stance Project Document.  The effectiveness of
the FAO Project Document would be a condition of loan effectlive-
ness.
(g)  Medium- and Long--term Investment Credit for farmers:  lt would be
available in both new and rehabilitation areas to purchase
tractors, draft animals and related tillage equipment, and to
build sheds and on-farm grain storage. Financing would cover up
to 100% of the above goods required for on farm development, with
a maximum repayment period of 12 years including up to 6 years
grace. Sugarcane plantations, irrigation schemes larger than 4
ha and automobiles would not be eligible. Cooperatives would be
eligible if at least 70% of their members were small farmers who
would benefit directly from the proposed investment. Short-term
production credit (custeio) would be provided, on a priority
basis, to project beneficlaries by participating banks. Both
investment and production credit would be channeled through the
existing agencies of Banco do Brasil (BB) and Banco do Nordeste
do Brasil (BNB). Credit norms would be those specified in the
Rural Credit Manual issued by the Central Bank (see para. 62
below). Extension agents would assist farmers in formulating
investment plans. Assurances have been received that these
criteria would be applied.
Project Implementation
53.       Project implementation would begin in 1986 and be completed
within seven years. CODEVASF, which operates under the Ministry of the
Interior, would have overall responsibility for the construction, operation
and maintenance of the project, except for the investment credit component,
to be carried by the Central Bank and selected government banks. The
schedule takes into account CODEVASF's capability to carry out the farmers'
settlement project component in the new Formoso A perimeter and the need to
limit interference of construction activities with cropping in the
rehabilitation components. As a company, with a core of experienced staff,
CODEVASF has more freedom than Government agencies in certain areas, such
as in establishing salaries, borrowing money, and participating financially
in agroindustrial enterprises. However, CODEVASF has only limited
experience in multi-faceted operations and quantitative and qualitative
limitations at the middle-management level to supervise engineering
consultants and contractors. The project's technical assistance component
(para. 52 (f) above) aims at giving CODEVASF the capability required for
planning, executing and operating the project. The First, Second and Third
Regional Directorates of CODEVASF would be the units responsible for
project implementation. In addition to its overall coordination role,
CODEVASF would directly manage the settlement program and operate and
maintain the major irrigation. -nd drainage works. Within each perimeter,
CODEVASF would organize an operation and maintenance division headed by a
civil, mechanical or agricultural engineer (depending on type of
component); the engineer would be directly responsible to the head of the
perimeter. The division would be structured into (a) an operational



- 18 -
unit responsible for day-to-day operation, including irrigation scheduling
and water distribution; and (b) a maintenance unit. Both units would be
headed by qualified technical staff in line with project demands.
CODEVASF's recently revised guidelines for operations and maintenance are
suitable for the physical conditions to be found in the area after project
completion. CODEVASF would provide most of the personnel for agricultural,
technical and management services for the rehabilitated subprojects. As
conditions for loan effectiveness, CODEVASF would (a) select
internationally and retain a construction management firm to assist
CODEVASF with all construction phases of the Formoso A subproject; (b)
appoint qualified staff as Chiefs of the Districts of Bom Jesus de Lapa and
Sao Desiderio; (c) appoint at least three suitable and qualified
specialists within the Agri ultural Development Unit of each regional
directorate involved in project implementation; (d) create a Rehabilitation
Unit in the Second Regional Directorate, to be responsible for the
construction of the rehabilitation works; and (e) appoint a high-level
resident engineer to head the Rehabilitation Unit.
54.       The State Road Department of Bahia (DER) would be responsible for
the maintenance of the road system to be built by CODEVASF at the Formoso A
Irrigation subproject, while COELBA would build, operate and maintain the
transmission lines and electrical distribution systems required by the
project. The Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company of Bahia
(EMATERBA) or another specialized agency acceptable to the Bank would be in
charge of extension at the Formoso A irrigation sub-project under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Existing CODEVASF or COTIA personnel
would continue to provide this assistance to the present and new farmers in
the rehabilitation subprojects using the same norms and working methods as
those in the Formoso A irrigation subproject. As a condition of loan
effectiveness, CODEVASF would sign agreements catisfactory to the Bank with
DER, COELBA and the selected extension agency.
55.       CODEVASF consultants have already (a) prepared detailed engineer-
ing designs and bidding documents for the Formoso A subproject and (b) for
the rehabilitation schemes of Sao Desiderio and Estreito, compared the
original designs with the actual situation in the field, prepared a
detailed inventory of project rehabilitation work requirements, and
detailed engineering designs. CODEVASF has also agreed to retain
consultants acceptable to the Bank to carry out the engineering design for
the remaining five rehabilitation schemes. As a condition for disbursement
for each one of these five rel-abilitation schemes, CODEVASF would (a)
prepare an economic analysis in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and (b)
demonstrate, to the Bank's satisfaction, that the proposed investments for
each such scheme are economically justified (see paras. 70-72 below on
economic benefits).
56.       The Government has provided assurances that, in order to carry
out the social services component of the project (para. 51(e) above),
CODEVASF would, as a condition of loan effectiveness, enter into agreements
with the Secretariat of Education of the State of Bahia (SEDUC), and the
Federal Public Health Service Foundation (FSESP) in respect of project
areas to be brought under irrigation and would modify or maintain, as the



- 19 -
case may be, similar existing agreements in respect of rehabilitation areas
already under irrigation. These agreements would provide inter alia that
CODEVASF would build and maintain the schools and health posts, and bear
the total cost of their operation and maintenance for a period of seven
years, while SEDUC and FSESP would provide qualified teaching and health
staff in sufficient numbers and the curricula and guidelines for those
facilities' operation, and will assume responsibility for the costs of
their operation and maintenance at the end of the above seven-year period.
57.       Assurances have been received that CODEVASF would organize water
users' groups along tertiary or quaternary canals (sectors) in order for
the farmers to assume responsibility for their operation and maintenance.
These groups would be trained in basic financing and basic water management
to assume responsibility for water allocation and water charges collection
within their sectors. The organization of, at least, one of such farmers'
groups for each rehabilitation scheme would be a condition of disbursement
of any loan funds required to finance works at each of the irrigation
rehabilitation schemes.
58.       The CODEVASF 1983 Settlement Manual outlines criteria and
procedures for selection and settlement of new farmers which are consistent
with Bank policies on rural development. Assurances have been received
that such manual would be applied in the selection and settlement of
farmers required to carry out the project.
Environmental Impact
59.       The project is not expected to have adverse effects on
down-stream water users. Extension agents would advise farmers on
selection and use of pesticides in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Schistosomiasis in the existing irrigation subprojects would be reduced
through an endemic disease control program to be developed by the federal
Superintendency of Public Health Campaigns (SUCAM). Through this campaign,
SUCAM would implement measures aiming to reduce human exposure to
waterborne diseases. In addition, the drainage systems and the reduction
of seepage from water bodies would reduce the number of potential habitats
suitable for disease veLtors. A condition of loan effectiveness would be
that CODEVASF sign with SUCAM an agreement satisfactory to the Bank
ensuring the implementation of the campaign against waterborne diseases in
the project area.
Project Cost Estimates
60.       Total project costs, over a seven-year execution period
(beginning in April 1986) are estimated at US$123.6 million (June 1985),
including a direct and indirect foreign exchange component of about US$48.6
million or about 39%, and local taxes equivalent to about US$11.2 million.
A breakdown of cost estimates is provided in page ii of the Loan and
Project Summary. Physical and price contingencies are equivalent to 12%
and 19% of baseline costs, respectively. Physical contingencies were added
to baseline costs at 10% for the civil works under the Formoso A, Sao
Desiderio and Estreito subprojects and at 15% for the remaining five



- 20 -
rehabilitation subprojects; at 10% for other construction; and at 5% for
equipment, vehicles, vehicle operation and maintenance, and training.
Price contingencies were estimated in terms of US dollars based on
international inflation rates estimated at 7.0% for 1986 and 1987; 7.5% for
1988, 7.7% for 1989, 7.6Z for 1990, and 4.5% annually thereafter. It was
assumed that periodic local currency devaluations, estimated on a
purchasing power parity basis would compensate for the difference between
projected US dollar inflation and local inflation rates.
Financing Plan
61.       The amount of the proposed Bank loan would be US$57.0 million
equivalent, which would finance 50% of the total estimated costs, net of
taxes, or 100% of the direct and indirect foreign exchange costs and
approximately 11% of local costs. The loan would be payable in 15 years,
including a 3-year grace period. UNDP might, at a later time, contribute a
US$1.0 million grant for the staff training and technical assistance
project component (para. 52(f) above). The Bank loan would be made to the
Federative Republic of Brazil which would carry the foreign exchange risk
and provide counterpart funds as uecessary to complete the project. In
addition, the Government-owned participating banks (BB and BNB) would
finance short-term seasonal credit, not included in project costs, for
project beneficiaries. During negotiations, the Government provided
evidence that counterpart funds for the first year of project
implementation have been included in its budget for 1986.
On-Lending Terms
62.       The proceeds of the loan would be made available, on a grant
basis, to the Central Bank for the investment credit component and the
remainder to CODEVASF; the latter would make available to all other federal
and state agencies participating in the execution of the project such
portions of the loan as they might require to carry out their parts of the
project, all in accordance with the agreements referred to in paras. 53,
54, 56 and 59 above. The Central Bank would rediscount the sub-loans for
investment extended to farmers by the Government-owned participating banks
(BB and BNB). Following the February 28, 1986 financial and monetary
reform (para. 13 above), the Government decided, in May 1986, to adopt a
new interest rate policy for rural credit.  This policy-which would
provide part of the policy framework for the proposed Second Agricultural
Sector Loan(paras. 22 and 27 above)--would be aimed at maintaining interest
rates that would be positive in real terms and would fluctuate according to
market conditions. Another important policy objective would be to reduce
credit subsidies substantially. There would be a general agricultural
interest rate, applicable to rural investment credit operations outside the
North and Northeast regions, equal to the rate on commercial banks'
certificates of deposit (Certificados de Deposito Bancario, CDB) minus 10
percentage points. This rate would be adjusted every six months, on March
1st and September 1st of each year, to a level 10 percentage points below
the CDB rate prevailing then. For short-term credit, the interest rate
would be initially set at the level prevailing for investment cred't at the
time of signing the contract and would remain fixed for the term of the



- 21 -
loan. Until February 28, 1987, the general rate has been fixed at 10% and
it is expected that, in subsequent periods, the rate will fluctuate near
10% in real terms. The interest rates to be applied to the Northeast
farmers who would benefit from the proposed project (para. 52(b) above)
would be: 2 percentage points below the general rate, for investments in
sugarcane, cocoa, coffee and rubber; and 3 percentage points below the
general rate, for investments in irrigation works and related on-farm
equipment and facilities (para. 52(g) above), which would be changed to 2.5
percentage points below the general rate in 1987, and to 2 percentage
points below in 1988 and thereafter. These rates represent a substantial
improvement over the ones prevailing until last February.
63.       During negotiations, the Federal Government provided assurances
that: (a) the Central Bank would provide sufficient funds to the
participating banks to carry out the project's investment credit component;
(b) the Central Bank and the other participating banks would carry out this
component in accordance with the lending terms and conditions set forth in
paras. 52(g) and 62 above; (c) each of the participating banks would
provide monthly information to the Bank on investment credit availability,
demand and lending per bank agency; and (d) priority would be given by the
participating banks to allocations of short-term production credit to their
agencies serving the project area in amounts adequate to finance the
working capital requirements of project beneficiaries. The new rural
interest policy referred to in para. 62 above would provide the basis for
an amendment to the original agreement between the Bank and the Government
on rural interest rates (negotiated in February 1983), in connection with
the Agricultural Credit and Export Project (Loan 2348-BR). This amendment
would also provide for an annual review of Brazil's agricultural credit
policy by the Bank and the Government. The signing of the above amendment
would be a co-dition of signing for the loan proposed in this report.
Recovery of Project Costs
64.       Until recently CODEVASF charged farmers only a small fraction of
the operation and maintenance (O&M) costs and relied mainly on Government
allocations to operate its irrigation perimeters. Cost recovery through
water charges was established on March 29, 1984, through Decree 89.496
which regulates the National Irrigation Law. The Decree stipulates that
two charges shall be levied on public irrigation schemes: a volume-based
charge to recover O&M costs and an area-based charge to reflect the value
of public investment in off-farm infrastructure. In the case of small
farmers, current regulations permit CODEVASF to recover 100% of O&M costs
and public investments in common irrigation and drainage infrastructure
over a 50-year period. Under these regulations, the initial investment is
revalued but without charging interest. Currently, in those schemes now
requiring rehabilitation works, CODEVASF is charging only 60% of its O&M



- 22 -
to the users. During negotiations CODEVASF provided assurances that O&M
costs will be recovered in full by January 1, 1992, through successive
reductions in the above-mentioned rebates of the order of 15% during 1987,
30% during 1988, 50% during 1989, 75% during 1990, and 100% during 1991.
The effectiveness of water charge collections by CODEVASF varies from 45%
in projects located in the Second CODEVASF Regional Directorate to more
than 90% in the irrigation perimeters financed by the Bank in the lower Sao
Francisco (Loans 1153-BR and 1729-BR). During negotiations CODEVASF
provided assurances that accounts receivable shall not exceed 15% of
CODEVASF's total water charges by January 1, 1989. Specifically, CODEVASP
intends to adopt the following measures to increase its ability to collect
water charges: (i) making the beneficiaries' land tenure rights contingent
on the payment of water charges; (ii) transferring to water users'
associations the responsibility for collecting the charges from their
individual members; (iii) carrying out educational campaigns among
irrigation beneficiaries; and (iv) proposing to the authorities that water
charges be eligible for production credit financing.
65.       In addition, the Government is entitled, pursuant to Decree
90.991 of February 26, 1985, to recover from beneficiaries the cost of
public investments in land acquisition and on-farm irrigation woiks over a
25-year payback period (including five years of grace), at 6% interest
without monetary correction. Assurances have been received that (a) as a
condition of loan effectiveness, Decree 90.991 would be modified to bring
it in line with the terms applicable to investment credit (para. 62 above),
and (b) these terms would thereafter apply to the recovery of all public
investment in land acquisition and construction of on-farm works under the
project.
Procurement
66.       Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
(US$million)
Type of Project
Expenditure                     Procurement Method                 Total Cost
None
ICB       LCB      Other  Rei4Ad
Civil Engineering Works        26.9     43.5                          70.4
(10.8)   (17.4)                        (28.2)
Vehicles, Machinery and
Equipment                  22.8       1.9                          24.7
(17.2)    (1.5)                        (18.7)
Consultants                     3.3                 3.8                7.1
(3.3)               (3.8)              (7.1)
Training                                                     3.6       3.6
(1.4)     (1.4)
Investment Credit                                          (410 )     (41
Recurrent Expenditures
in SaiaLiZ.  and O&M                                     13.8       13.8
TOTAL                       53.0      45.4        3.8    21.4      123.6
(31.3)   (18.9)      (3.8)   (3.0)    (57.0)
Note: figures in parentheses are the respective amounts expected to be
tinanced by the Bank.



- 23 -
67.       Irrigation and drainage civil works for the new Formoso A
subproject would be procured through international competitive bidding
(ICB). Since the civil works for the rehabilitation component are
dispersed and small, foreign contractors are not expected to bid but would
not be excluded from doing so; consequently, these works would be procured
through local competitive bidding procedures (LCB) acceptable to the Bank.
Irrigation equipment would be grouped into three separate contracts for
large pumping equipment (US$4.7 million), sprinkler irrigation equipment
(US$6.8 million) and pipes and fittings (US$5.6 million), all to be awarded
through ICB. Transmission lines and electrical equipment would also be
acquired through ICB (US$4.4 million).   O&M equipment would be grouped,
whenever possible, into contracts valued at US$100,000 or more and would be
procured through ICB. A margin of preference equal to the lesser of 15% of
the c.i.f. bid price of imported goods or the actual custom duties and
import taxes, would be allowed for domestic manufacturers. Vehicles and
equipment (other than that to be procured through ICB as explained above)
would be procured in accordance with local competitive bidding procedures,
acceptable to the Bank, up to an amount not exceeding US$1.9 million
equivalent. All civil works contracts over US$1.0 million and services and
equipment contracts over US$200,000 (about 70% of total procurement) would
be subject to prior Bank review of bidding documents, bid evaluation and
award proposals. Other contracts, which are expected to cover about 20% of
the value of works and 10% of the equipment value, would be subject to
selective post-award review. Consultant services would be contracted in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Detailed engineering consultant costs are
estimated at US$2.5 million for the seven rehabilitation subprojects. The
construction management services for Formoso A (see para. 53(a) above)
would provide for 224 man-months of consultant services, and the cost of
vehicles, survey equipment, local transportation and some other minor
items.
Disbursements
68.       The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed at the rates of
40X of expenditures in civil engineering works; 75% of expenditures in
vehicles, machinery and equipment; 100% of expenditures in consultants'
services; 40% of expenditures in investment credit; and 100% of foreign
expenditures or 30% of local expenditures in training. The projected
seven-and-a-half year disbursement period for this project is based on the
investment program and the administrative capacity of CODEVASF's management
to carry out the project efficiently. The regional disbursement profile
for this type of project is ten years and for the first two Bank loans for
CODEVASF projects, disbursements required eight and seven years
respectively. The proposed seven and a half years disbursement period
would thus be realistic; furthermore, the administrative structure already
exists, and most of the rehabilitation works (about 32% of base cost) are
small subprojects which would be managed simultaneously by three different
regional CODEVASF directorates.
69.       Disbursements for all eligible expenditures under US$50,000 would
be made against statements of expenditure certified by CODEVASF.
Supporting documentation would not be submitted to the Bank but would be
made available during project supervision. Standard documentation for



- 24 -
eligible expenditures over US$50,000 would be submitted to the Bank. In
order to reduce Government prefinancing requirements, a Special Account
would be opened in the Central Bdnk where the Bank would, at Government
request, make an initial deposit equivalent to US$2.5 million. Withdrawals
in cruzados from the Special Account, supported by statements of
expenditure and other required documentation, would be made at the exchange
rate that prevailed on the date of expenditure. The Central Bank would
send the corresponding withdrawal applications to the Bank, which would
then replenish the Special Account.
Project Benefits
70.       The economic rate of return has been estimated at about 15% for
the new irrigation scheme of Formoso A and at about 16% and 14% for,
respectively, the rehabilitation schemes of Sao Desiderio and Estreito.
Preliminary estimates for the other 5 rehabilitation schemes show that
their EROR would be in the range of 14% to 18%. These results are based on
the quantifiable benefits from crop production in the areas allocated to
small farmers. The project would settle 2,200 landless families and
substantially increase the income of an additional 2,600 small-scale
farmers already settled in the irrigation schemes to be rehabilitated.
Incomes of existing small-scale irrigation farmers are expected to increase
three-to-five times while those of the landless families (most of which now
earn less than USS33v annually per capita) eventually would increase about
eight-fold, reaching from US$3,500 to US$5,000 per year in 1985 dollars
upon project completion. The project would also create about 4,400
man-years of additional demand for hired labor, including permanent and
part-time employment.
71.       The economic rates of return are based on the following
assumptions:
(a) that the development of the various crops will follow projections
in the respective farm models and investment plans (see para. 73 below);
(b) prices for traded commodities, including fertilizers, were
calculated according to Bank projections for 1985 in constant international
prices and adjusted for handling, processing and transportation costs to
reach an average farmgate price; for other products prevailing farmgate
prices were used; labor costs were adjusted to opportunity cost estimates;
family labor was considered to be 80% of the unskilled market price; hired
unskilled labor was estimated at 70% of its market price. Other production
costs were priced at local market conditions on the grounds that this best
reflects opportunity costs, given the market structure and current
Government policies;
(c) the period of analysis is 35 years; and
(d) calculation of the economic rate of return includes all the
capital and recurrent costs, except those related to the construction and
operation of the social infrastructure and the campaign against water-borne
diseases (see para. 51(e) above).



- 25 -
72.       Sensitivity tests showed that particular project components are
not sensitive to changes in costs. Civil engineering works could increase
up to 100% in the new Formoso A irrigation scheme and 50% for the rehabili-
tation schemes, and the economic rates of return could still remain above
12%. Likewise, project benefits could be reduced by 20% for Formoso A and
Estreito and by more than 30Z for the Sao Desiderio rehabilitation scheme,
and the economic rate of return would still be above 12%. A lag about
three years in achieving project benefits would be required to cause the
economic rates of return to drop to 12%, assuming that the cost outlays
would occur as planned.
73.       Economic benefits projections assume that, at least initially,
cropping patterns will be based on traditional crops, such as cotton, maize
and beans. It can be reasonably expected that, as farmers develop a
capability to take advantage of existing market opportunities, vegetable
crops, such as watermelons, pumpkins, onions and garlic would be introduced
gradually in the project area and that cropping intensities in the 150-160%
range could be achieved by the fifth year of project implementation.
Project Risks
74.       The project would be difficult to implement.  CODEVASF has
limited experience in rehabilitation activities and quantitative and
qualitative limitations at the middle-management level.  However,
considerable technical assistance and institution strengthening is built
into the project to help CODEVASF overcome these shortcomings.
75.       Sustained high yields and production cannot be achieved through
irrigation alone; they require that line agencies cooperate with CODEVASF
by assisting the farmers in the project area with credit, extension
services, and input supply. During project preparation institutional
weaknesses were identified and measures introduced to improve institutional
effectiveness and coordination arrangements. The project's incremental
production, though significant for the project beneficiaries and the local
economy, is relatively small and could be easily absorbed by the urban and
industrial markets within the project's reach.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
76.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and I recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 22, 1986
Washington, D.C.



-26-                                                 ANNEX I
Page 1 of 7
HMIT                    (nO2   aRNT  UTmIs) a
a~~oL  igit*t 1083            NICOLE INCON          NICK  NCS
19*08!     1970Lb asTzmTLN        LILT. A.1ICA A CAR          WUlFP
nu CSTuaD IQ. s0
TOTAL                           612.0      3512.0     812.O0
AGRICULTURAL                    1636.4     19812       2376 7
ir Pu cea (8)                         ..         .. VW)6.O                 1875.9                  2144.3
1010  ouiens a  cerr
(KILocRMS OF OIL SQUIVALVNT)     264.0      412.0       740.0            993.4                  1119.8
OIUTLAEOUNa VITaL anmcu
POPULATIoN.NID-TIAR (THOUUANISD   72594.0    93847.0   129662.0
URNS POPULATIW  (I 0? TOTAL)      44.9       35.6       70.7              67.7                    47.5
POPULATION PUIDRCTONS
POPULATION IN YEA 2000 CHILL)                         176.1
STATlONARt POPULATION (HILL)                          297.0
POPULATION NON#lUN                                      1.6.
POPULATION DUSITY
PER SQ. IX.                      8.3        11.3       15.2             46.0                    34.7
PIr SQ. IN. AULl. LAD           44.4       48.4        53.4             91.1                    16.9
POPULATION AGR STRUCTUR (Z)
0-o  RS                        453.3      42.6        37.2             36.5                     31.2
15-64 YmS                       53.8       54.2       58.7              57.1                    61.5
65 AND ASOVC                     2.6        3.0        4.0               4.2                     7.2
POPULATION GURM  RATE (C)
TOTAL                            3.1        2.8         2.3              2.4                      1.6
URiA                             5.7        5.0         4.0              3.6                      3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (Pr THOUS)       42.7       35.0        30.3             30.9                    23.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER TDUWS)      12.9        10.3       6.2               8.0                     8.9
GROSS RSPRODUCTION lATE            3.0        2.4         1.9              2.0                     1.5
FAILT PLANING
ACCEPTORS AMIEAL (THOUS)         ..        111.0
UShS (E OF HARRIED VENZ)          ..        ..         50.o             45.3
FM Am 
1NDO2 OF FOOD PUw. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                     $9.0      102.0       130.0            109.6                   109.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES CX OF RRQUHUTS)       101.0       103.0      111.0            113.2                    131.5
PROTEINS (CROAS Pr DAT)         60.0       60.0       64.0              69.4                    92.4
OP WHICI ANIML AND PUL         35.0        34.0       36.0 Ic          34.2                     34.5
CiILa  CAGES 1-4) DRAI RATE       16.2       11.6        6.0               4.8                     4.7
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YTARS)     54.7       58.9       63.7              64.8                    67.2
INFANT WORT. RATE (PER TENUS)    115.5       95.5       70.0              59.7                    53.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATE (ZPOP)
TOTAL                            *          55.0       71.0 /d          65.3                     70.2
URAN                                        78.0       80.0 Td          76.5                    89.4
RURAL                            *-        26.0        51.0 7           44.2                    57.0
ACCESS TO EXCRZTA DISPOSAL
(I OF POPULATIO)
TOTAL                                       58.0       64.6 /a          56.3                    59.6
URBAN                            *         85.0        83.7 7           73.4                    65.9
RURAL                            *-        24.0        31.7 7;          25.5                    47.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIa         2210.0     2130.0         ..            1909.7                  1070.6
POP. PER NURSING PERSON         2810.0     1120.0        .8. 60.2                                769.5
POP. PER HOSPITAL -M
TOTAL                          310.0       270.0      250.0 /a         362.0                    328.3
URBAN                          250.0       320.0        ..             422.0                    201.9
RURAL                            ..         ..         ..             2716.7                  4519.7
ADMISSIONS PR HOSPITAL eD          ..        18.4        ..               27.5                    20.0
80SCi
AVERASE SIZE OF HOUSEOLD
TOTAL                            5.1        4.8        4.9 /a
URBAN                            *.         4.6         4.7 7;-
RURAL                            *-         5.2        5.3 7e*
AVERSE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                            *-          1.1
URBAN                            ..          1.0
RURAL                            ..         1.2
PERCNTAGE OF DELLINGS WfITH ELECT.
TOIAL                           38.7       47.6        67.4 /d
URBAN                            ..         75.6       88.5               ...
RURAL                                       6.4        20.6 71.



- 27 -                                                    ANNEX I
Page 2 of 7
HAZIL                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SRAZIL                              REERENCE GROUPS (U IGHTED AVERACES) 
HOST                     (MOST RECENT ESTINATE) Lb
19601±      97ab RECRNT             MIDDLE INCONE          NIDOLE INCOME
19 ESTIMATEkb   LAT. AMERICA A CAR           EUROPE
moaom
ADJUSTED ENROLLMNT RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                  95.0        84.0       96.0 tt           106.7                    101.9
MALE                   97.0       64.0        98.07             108.5                    106.2
FMALE                  93.0       84.0        93.011            104.6                     97.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                  11.0       26.0        32.0 l            44.2                     57.5
MALE                   11.0       26.0        29.0              42.7                      64.9
PDWLE                  10.0       27.0        35.01             44.9                      50.0
VOCATIONAL (K OF SECONDARY)         0.0         0.0        0.1 fA            13.3                     21.0
PUPIL-TAIR RATIO
P3RDtAR                          33.0        26.0       26.0 /h            29.9                     25.1
SNCONDARY                        13.0        12.0        14.0 7j           16.7                     19.1
cmmon?=
PASSUIWR CARS/THOUSAND PoP          7.6        16.6       48.9 fd            46.0                     54.2
RADIO RICEIVERSITR0USAND POP       65.4       108.4      354.9              328.3                    170.7
TV RCItIVERS/THOUSAND POP          16.5        44.3       122.2             112.4                    149.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY CEAL
INTERE3') CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION           52.9        35.6       43.0 /h            81.1                     97.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATYKNDANCE/CAPITA     4.4         2.0         1.1               2.4                      2.7
1A YOM
TOTAL 1A.40 FORCE (THOUS)        23326.0    30411.0    43736.0
ENILE (PERCENT)                  17.2        20.1        23.5              23.6                     36.3
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)            51.9        45.6        29.9 /d           31.4                     40.8
INDUSTTY (P1RCNT)                14.8        18.3        24.4              24.3                     23.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            32.1        31.7        33.7              33.5                     43.1
MILE                              32.7       50.3        51.6              51.3                      55.1
nEALE                            11.2        12.6        15.6              15.9                     31.4
ECONOMIC DEPNDENCY RATIO            1.4         1.4         1.2               1.3                      0.9
XRE  DIS_11M
PERCZIT OF PIATE INCM
RECEIVED Y
HIGCHST 3 OP HOUSEHOLDS            .. O 
HICHEST 20S OF HOUSEHOLDS        60.0        63.5
LOWEST 20S or HOFUSEOLDS          3.8         3.2
LOIST 402 0F HOUSEHOLDS          10.8         9.0
-  T            -S
ISTIMATED ABSOUIT  POVERTY IN-O
LEVEL (UaS Ma CAPItA)
URWN                               ..         ..          ..              288.3
RUMAL                             ..          ..        150.0 Ie          183.3
ESTIMLTD RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBN                              ..          ..        465.0 /e          519.8
RURAL                             ..          ..        332.0 7-c         359.7
ESTIMATED POP. SELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (Z)
URBAN                             ..
RURAL                             ..
nor AvAL
NOT APPLICI.E
N O T E S
/a  The group averagee for each indicator are population-veighted aritbmetic mans. Coverage of countriea
among the Indicator depende on availability of data and la not uniform.
/b   Unlear otherrwis noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between
1969 and 1971; ad data for "Moat Rent Estiate" betwen  1981 and 1983.
/c  1977; /d 1980; /e 1976; /f Begnning 1973. prlry a"d secondary education cover age group. 7-14 and
15-17 tnutead of o10 and 11-17 in earlier yeara; tberefore, most recent estimates are not c  aorable
with earlier data; /I 1978; /h 1979.
JUNE, 1985



- 28-                                             ANNEX I
Page 3 of 7
D3VNrIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Nolu AlIthoug the data aredrawn from mourcn. purally judped she moat authoritative ai reliable is should alo be noted that they may not be inanafmently
co_mparble became of the lck of emtadrdmd deinidom mnd rempa uted by dilers countmrie in elbctaing the data The dame a. nonthede  umeful to
dtnuibe ordem of magnitude. indicate [rnd, and characterie catin major dilferena between countri.
The refen  group are  (1) tdi mm country group or the subject country and (2) a country group with momehas hiher averee income theitm he coutiry
groupofo sh wbj  country (cmp for 'Hash IncomeOil Exporter" group where 'Middle Income North Afric aind Middk East' isachaen bcause ofstmarer
moclo.cultural ainitil). In the remrnce gup data die avae ar popusstion weighted arithmetic meana ror each indicator and shown anly when majority
orbotmetoetein ita goup bs dats for thdt indacitor. Since d coava  of countuiec among she indicato de rmpends on the swailabafity ordta nnd i not uniformn
cautden muti beeuircid in reflingt sveg. oroneindicuasrto mnosher These averages re only ueful in campenng th value of nemndicatuora s same among
the country and rence group.
AREA (thouand cq.km.)                                            Crude Math Rae (per the md)-Number of live births in the year
reast-Total surface area comprising lend area and inland waters;  per thousand of mid-year population; 1960, 1970, and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1933 data.                                        Crpud Deth Rate (per thiasaad)-Number of deaths in the year
guekabd -Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or       per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 dat.
permanently for crops. pastures, market and kitchen prdens or to  Grs Repredwex Rate-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960, 1970 and 1982 data.                            will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertility races; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-NP per capita estimates at current          in 1960. 1970, and 1983.
market prices, calculated by same conversion method as World     Fatally Plasmhu-Accepters, Anwl (tahoiamaas)-Annual num-
Bank Atlas (1981-83 basis): 1983 data.                           berofacceptorsofbirth-controldevicesunderauspicesofnational
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                   family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.      Fasr4y Pnag-.-se  (pereet Ofmrkd            e)-The prcen-
petroleum, natural gas and hydrn-, nuclear and geothermal elec-  tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whos. husbands are practicing any form of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                       ofchild-bearing age are generally women aged 1549. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATSTICS                                   groups.
Ftaf PepxuWh. Mid- Year (atas  i-As of July 1: 1960 1970.        FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data.
-rh.m  Pbpuhaiea (percent of°salj-Ratio of urban to total        Inde of od Prdwiam Per Cap(19697J -100N  Index of per
UJrbi  Poe   ;"fian (p tcew of tordl)- Ratio or urban to total   capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population; different definitions of ua yn areas may affect compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countiries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.     include primary commodities (e.g. suprcane instead of sugar)
hpuALac  fta gs                                                   which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Popsation in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000     excluded); they comprise cereals, root crops, pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economy eparately. Starting with infonnation on    vegetables, fruits, nuts. suprcane and sugar beess, livestock, and
total population by age and sex, fertility rates. mortality rates, and  livestock products. Aggregte production of each country is based
international migmtion in the base year 1980. these parameters   on national average producer price weights; 1961-65, 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.              Per Capita Suppy ofCalores perrceit efreqare_ss -Com-put-
Siasioery populartei-s one in which age- and nx-specific mor-    ed from caloric equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period, while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement lvel  tion. imports less exports, and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate - 1). In such a population, the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agniculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also  food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The :tationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
siz was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level,                                       waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Momenutm-ls the tendency ror population growth to     Per Capita Supply of Protein (rmos per Ay)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is, even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultirnate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year 1, given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be aninal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
nment level from year s onward. 1985 data.                       75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
-          Dei*j                                                 average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqkkm.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-    Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.                 Per Capita Protein Supply Ir A      dnimal d Pule-Protein supply
Per sq.kn. agricultural land-Computed as abovc for agricultural  of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day; 1961-65.
land only. 1960, 1970. and 1982 data.                            1970 and 1977 data.
ftp.fai.a Age Strucwe (percet)-Children (0-14 years). work-      Child(ages 1-4) Dearh Rate (per:thusad)-Numberofdeathsof
ing age (15-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the samc age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.               group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Aeplaie. Growthb Rate (percent)-a-tal-Annual growth rates of     from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
tol-t mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.     HEALTH
Pop.l.ow Groewh Rate (percen)l-war --Annual growth rates         Life Expectancy at Bith (years)-Ntumber of years a ncwborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.      infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



- 29-                                         ANNEX I
Page 4 of 7
at the time of of its birth were to stay the sme throughout ib life;  PupIl-teacher Ratio - primary. and secondary-Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                    rolled in primary and scondary levels divided by numben of
lho    Marshy Rot (per th_msd)-Number of infants who die      teachers in the corresponding levels.
before reching one year of ag per thousand live births in a given
yew, 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                CONSUMPTION
Acessrto S*  Wa   (pl      of O*l   ihtt-,4        ark d      Peaaer Cas (per theoaad pepulAdoJ-Pausenger cars com-
u.S-Number of peope (toal, urbn, and rural) with resonable    prise motor cars sating ls than eight persons excludes ambul-
access to safe water supply (ncludes trated surface water or  ances, hearses and military vehicks.
untreated but uncontaminated water such as that from  protected  s   Recers (per theusud poepubdu-AI types of r ceiver
bomebols, spring and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respec-  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand or population;
tive popultions In an urban aea a public rountain or standpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in yeas when
cad not more than 200 meters from a house may be cnsidered    registration or radio sets was in effect, data for recent years may
as being withir. resonable acss of that houe. In rural areas  not be comprable since mo countries abolished lioming
reaonable acce would imply that the housewife or members of the
household do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  TV Recimvrs (per thoussdlp_pilatou)-TV receivrs for broadcast
in fetching the familys water needs.                          to general public per thousand population; exdudes unlicnsed TV
Acce/ to Esower  DopJ_  (ptreew of P&_"atim)--oretl, urbaw.   reevers in countries and in years when reistration of TV sets was
AccsssoEznt Duprl pecet f svuluim)-atl,uraA          in elecct.
ad nruu-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by  if
excreta disposal as percentages of tbeir respective populations.   ier Cclado (per houm papepisbu )--Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or  age circulation of 'daily general interest newspaper,' defined as a
without treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-  periodical publication devoted primarily to recording general news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installatioits.  It is considered to be -daily- if it appears at least four times a week.
Rupaion per Physioa-pnpulation divided by number of prac-     Claerw A _ral Attend_ne per Cpta per Yea-Based on the
tising physicians quallfied from a medical school at university leve.  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
Popueion per Nuing Pose-Population divided by number of       drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing malc and female graduate nurses, assistant nurses.
pracical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                      LABOR FORCE
Popuuiw.pe  asps  Be-total, whav, and ruals-Population  cudnarefoesndnmpydbtexuighuewvs
-7- -jiVn pgr   1 M spk tuul B|                               Totpuatinl Lao Foc (thEcod)-nomically active persons. in-
(totaL urban, and rural) divided by their respective number Of  studing aetne. forces and unlpionyed but excluding houwtinesi
hospital beds available in public and private, general and specaed  students. tcu.. covenng  population of a19  0ges.  Definitions in
hospitak and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments  various wuntrics am not compambk; 1960,1970 and 1983 dau.
permanently staffed by at loast one physician. Establishments prov-  Fniae (pereentl-Female labor force as percentage of total labor
iting principally custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals,  force.
however, include health and medical centers not permanently staffed  Agricule (peant-Labor rorce in farming, forestry, hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant. nurse. midwife, etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force; 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical faclities.                                         lndustry (perceutI-Labor force in mining. construction. manu-
Admisios per Hospital hd-Total number of admissions to or     facturing and electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharg  from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Partciaton Rate (psc tew  elorw mwl, andfs  -leParticipation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are computed as total, male. and female labor force
Avg S;w of Hosetad (persons per A-houh)-->tetal, whan,        as percentages of total, male and female population or all ages
sdrmrnl-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex stru-ture of the population, and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources
Aer   NaMer of Pr     per Ree-total, ar, ad rural-            Ecmonoic Depndency Rato-Ratio or population under 15. and
Avrage number of persons per room in all urban. and rural     65 and over, to the working age populatiorn (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings. respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Pecente of Duelings wit Eectriciy-6tt4 urbane , ad rural-     Perentage of Totaf Disposabk lure (hoth i cas ad kind)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total, urban. and rural dwellings respectively.       hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adsted Ewrioent Ratos                                         The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Pfunary scwool - total, male and femal-ross total. rna  and  levels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enroilent of all ags at the primary kvel as percentages of  Estiaed Absolute Porty Income Level (US3 per capitay-urhu
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  and rural-Absolute poverty income kvel is that income klvel
consider primary school a  to be 6-11 years, others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of chool  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are rflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Estwated Rclve Poert Income Levl  (5 per capiran)-aran
education. gross enroDlment may exceed 100 percent since some  and rural-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban klvel is
age.                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary sdcool - towl, nmak and fenmak-Computed as above;    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Estimated Populion Bdeow Absole Poerty Iome Levd (per-
nary instruction provides general, vocational. or teacher training  cenlt-uran and rural- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspond-  who are -absolute poor.-
ence courses are genrally excluded.
Vocationa Enroineni (percent of secondary)-Vocational institu-          Comparative Analysis and Dain Division
tions include technical, industrial. or other programs which operate  Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independendy or as departments of secondary institutions.                             June 1985



- 30 -
AM I
ELArn - inaiic IMxcam
PPIbpibon:     129.7 iILlon (mi*l993)
GNP For CapiLt: IEI,I9M0 (1963)
Ms 4Uiicn M                              Ia     Qul   r aith  (At Z
OAMW PVL
Indicator                     (984)                                A c t u a                                                        Projet*ed
1975     19E0      3981      1962        1983     1984Ld          19851/    19Y6      1WS7       1988       199       1990
Cn. Dattc PZ,hct/U             12 3DD           5.6       7.2     -1.6        0.9       -3.2       4.5            8.3        6.2       7.0        7.0       7.0        7.0
Agricalum                     24,238          2.7       6.2      6.4       -2.5        2.2       4.3            8.8        2.0       4.5       4.5        4.5        4.5
ItLry                         62,7M2          5.3       7.9     -5.2        0.8       -b.8       5.9            9.0       8.0        8.5       8.5        85        8.5
Seviet                       103.865         10.3       7.3     -0.1        1.7         1.5      3.0            7.8       6.0        6.5       6.5        6.5        6.5
Gamumption                     165.571          8.4       3.5      0.2        3.3       -2.0       0.6            8.3        4.7       5.2       6.5        6.3        6.1
GM" iiwtu lJb                   34.817         -7.0      12.1    -15.9       -4.2      -17.5       1.0            12.2      M.9       1Z.3       12.0      11.8       :1.6
Exprts of CMFS                  29,399         12.4      27       20.9       -.4        13.b      24.9           -3.2       -1.0       5.4        3.4       2.3        5.3
lqortA of M24S                 17,865         -9.6       1.8    -13.4      -5.2       -17.2     -6.5            -3.2       21.0       1.5       10.7       8.3       9.7
c!m  %tial S rw                 23,818         -6.4      11.6    -16.6      -10.6       -3.4      22.6           11.7       26.3      15.0       11.3      11.1       12.6
Prim
CD PhfLsor (1970-100)                         305       2.955    5.544    11.480      28.241   90.541
Edmhwe  RAte  (erne.crSAES)                     8.1      527      93.1      179.5      577.0  1,646.9
Uumw of CDP at 3- Iu Priam (2)                               hmmq.    fld Incrase (C)
(AL Omue  Priam)                                       (At 0a c  18X  6 lila.)
1975       19E0       194td    Ig90e                           197540   198045   198540
Grow DOlic Peluci                     IO.0      1W.O       IOD.0    10.0                            6.5       0.8        6.8
Agplikau.-                            9.2       11.0       11.5      10.1                             9.5       2.2        4.1
trdtr                                 31.3      28.8       29.B      32.1                             4.6      -0.3        8.4
Service                              43.6       44.8       48.7      47A                              7.8       1.3       8.4
*aamopsin                              76.6       81.3       78.0      74.3                             7.7      -I.8       5.8
oCm   .nveatr.Jb                        27.3      21.1       17.0      24.0                             2.8       4.2       13.7
Exports 0N15                            7.5        L8        12.5      10.4                            6.4       14.5        3.2
bwpta QNS                               11.4      11.2       7.4        8.7                           -1.3       -I.8       9.3
G     Nattoaml Sinp                     22.1      16.1       17.1      23.0                            -1.6      -45        14.3
Am of Z of GOP
(At Owret  0n   ro Pce.)
Pabic Fin        (Clntod   tEt)                             1970     1975    1979   1980W1   1161/'  1982V
Owxeo  Revem,                                               16.6     19.8    21.8    20.1    18.9    21.2
Ogrrt Exisiditue                                            14.4     15.8    17.6    19.8    20.2    25.4
Sirplus (+) or Deficit (-)                                   2.2      4.0      3.2     0.3    -1.4    -4.2
Capital E Nqmsxie                                            2.6      3.8      3.7     4.1      3.5     3.4
Fizmacng (bt)                                               0.4      -0.2      0.5     3.9      4.9     7.6
OtDer iubtator.                    1975-00  190-85  1985-90
0W1 Crwth RBae (Z)                   7.0      0.5      7.3
OFW Per CaptA  MAth Rate (2)         3.0     -1.9      5.0
Fwr  Qxml tim  Cnkath Rate (CZ)    6.5        -        -
IMI                                  3.3     20.7      3.0
lrag-Iz  Sav1ze Race                 0.0      0.5      0.4
lqp-rt Elsicty                     -402      -2.4      1.4
/a At fuat prim; c1a    e                I  at f cimr       d wmu    t add due to exUIc Ef rAt Irditci rm        d ubldla.
7b 1975-0 erlrm wre for ga. lnemt.t; eintea for a_vm*=c yar  we for fLI                            %dit, dl I  in stodr  IochmJed In zauumption.
T   Projece yt    a m tw  pri.
7id P      ,elimzry.
Te Estlnce.
7F 198042 indcude t,er   eip   ctar  effected dxotVa rw %woerazy  bx%t .d mIcer   n trmm   fA. * 'eU  m true.,. tn de fSiral ucerpla.
Nld 21. 1986



- 31 -
r_ #i of 7
EAUL - DInL WA
IMS iUUm a                                                  AMiN  IatsLh PSate      - (EL eaUt          1970 prlowk/4
Oui Pdrim
Indicator                       (1964)                                  ActuaI                                                           Praj nct.d
1975      19D       1I         1962        1913      1936       19E5/e    1966         1987       1143       193Y      1990
Exue,l Tm_
l      t   be 1zoit.              27.005           23.9      21.2        9.9       -3. L       27.5      24.1         2.6       -1.0         5.4        3.4        2.1       S.3
primryPt                         10,357           30.7      20.4      46.t       -10.1        14.3       3.8        24.5       -3.4         0.2        3j         3.h       Ib
Hendd!tui1b 16,66W                                 0.0      22.5       40.6        7.4        43.5      2b.3        15.5        0.7         3.6        3.2        1.5       6.b
1      _dind. I4arta              13,916          -15.0        1.4      -9.4      -20.3       -15.9      -2.2        -4.8        22.0        1.5       10.7        Yt.1      9.7
riawd 4 tbwr 0O0b                1,53'            6.2      13.2    -54.6         -1.2        48.1      -2.0         3.0       109.0     -43.4 h.2                7.7       6.7
ILVOISM                          6.386           -3.6      -9.8      -5.0        -2.h       -10.6    -13.7        -18.7       -2.1        11.3       1.6         2.H       9.9
didnty md qipm        t          2.151            9.8       0.4      -6.9       -32.2       -13.0       8.4        1H.S        3.3       1Y.4       15.6       14.2      11.h
3Lur                             3.351          -30.6      -2.2        3.8      -20.3       -20.3      20.9         9.0        23.0       10.9       10.1        9.4       8.6
Prim
bqmo  Priid                                          69        147        12J        114         97        100         97         105        103        116        127       139
1bOI PriIn.                                          71        125        13I        152        143        100         99         94         98    I OS            112       120
II of TieIu                                          125       118         93         75    h     8        100         96         112        Ila        III        113       116
CkitIn Of  1          _rdiM    Ttde (2)                           Avrm   Anml Incres  CZ)
(at aMt Prim)                                              (St COtMIt. 1970 prim)/d
1975        19E0       1965       1990                            1975{0    1960-65    19t5-90
bjq,                                      100.0     IO0O       100.0      100.0                              5.8        11.0        3.2
Prli_xyvJ                               62.7       44.a       41.2       41.2                               11         8.6        3.6
ffai      duib                          37.3       55.2        58.8       56.8                             16.2 /a    23.2         3.0
IqorU                                    100.0      IOD.0       100.0      100.0                             -1.4       -2.7        10.4
fbzI  td Omunr Gint                      9.8       11.1       12.0        10.8                             17.5      - 4.5        7.9
66toln                                  25.4       44.4       42.1        34.5                              4.3       -7.3        6.4
.hdgiuy -d B3dp-               26.5                15.4        19.2       28.3                             -7.5        -3.4       18.2
O(11,                                   33.3       29.1       26.7        26.4                             -1.9       -3.1         9.9
sham of T       With              Sam of trad with              hre of trade with LIU
luutrIa  Caztrlm  CX)             Dwqdzg Cowrl.   (Z)              Dwqiot  Coatrii  (C)
Dir ion   T ale                       1975      1960     1983           1975      1900    1963          1975      19110    1963
Ert                                 70.2      57.3    51.7            L.5       2.5      23.9          2.8      10.1      11.8
Tqat.                               67.3      41.8     37.1           8.7       15.8     1.7          21.1      41.1     41.6
/a  For the parlod 1931-1990, Prqimay Pwaigzx tncluzah  -ptam.1 gath plum iwo or.
W       For ptho  d 1975-19E0.                 u irde otlw gooth.
Ic PrdLtmry.
7d  Pt'jecat Ipu    ud eota  an at 1964 prL .
llrh 21. 1986



- 32 -
041.11901 Or IAVHtIt. *XflhN-4. AL     l A!pI'IM 1 P11111
(U09 111 Niil.d at CurreIL 7133..)
I'ogitnlenu         129.1 "I111.,. (eti41991
321P Ma CaPItL 111111.1191) 1492111
1913  39110     19111        1912~~~;;    1911         39114        39  14       ION91        19111         t9Pi         39119        Iw
Pet Depart. of Gna  ar end ruc               -m*. liiI    -12,144    -11.142    -14,29l          -6,2S0           141         0699        3.793         -7011       1.011       -1.441         -023i
Report. of 519O4.                           11,020     '0.112       23.291        2.1,111     21,1199       21,001       21.039       21.292       39.39        11.098       10,932       92,913
Impert  at ileod.                         12.210       22.911       22.1419      19.191       11.929        11.919       31.3119      11.119       10.191       19,010       22.0116      23,299
9.1  Fa4tor l..aae                        -i.Psn       -9,923       -9.uhl    -1 1.9311      -10,111      -10,999       -1 1,61      -11.1111     -II ,2111    -£1,aoo      -12.111u1    -12,111
(09 dittCo, L orest papaeo,o            (2.1m 13     (9.1111      (711093      (9,12o3      41473        (.141       (91.11)       (4.2116)     (9.013l       (9,229)      (9,399)    19.111)
-m 1141. debt)
INot Non-Poct.r Serc.-1,429                            -1,1211      -2,1101      -1,1119      '2.2417      -1 .141)      -1,119       -2.129       -2,6111      -1.119       -4,2906      -1.I13
9.1 ?ra...nf.ra                                   II          373.        ION1         -30          1111          322          ISO1           0                   0      a            O            0
Correot Acc,eot ftaIa,c                      -9.011      -32,438    -13,014    -14.71)          -4..I,2           WI          -149      -1,1111         -2011     -3.011        -1.941         -071
DireCt Private  I.-.eLo.L                       1192       1. 121       1.11            "I 991      994          .07           1611         19           1119       1,1111       1 .242       1.929
Ml.T? tnan I £9.t                             4,81111      9,491        11.93        7,699        1.232         9.2112         119        1.9811       2.924        1.409        9,0011       1.019
ir.a  03Ooo..t                            10.9112)   (11. 111)   (191.(1)    114.9111)    (10,9w1)          [&.091       10,911        411         3.2           211         1,21          1,0
AmortIaotie.                               (2,11%2)    I4,w1)2i      (5. 191)    (7,454)      (1,179).        .1,41       9,212l      32,601       11,102       1-1,412       34.000       34,021
Lr~Ia    ...... Abroad  M9.)             -1911         -21         -923         -194           3 22         911          mm0      - 1.40r      -3,1149      -2,011I       -2,110       -2.600
Mlbr CaPitaL1 (ioCl.dtogeror
a..l eotonl..,.I                              -IL        1,402        1,19         2,200      -1.991        -3,0112      -1,1109          319        -991          0M11      -3411        -400
Cheogo  I. Rea.r...  C' Intlcat..
I=cra.e                                     I 2"1        1.109        -1149       4.311           24      -2,027           41         '.12          -145         '4)9         -992       -.1,24
I.aer..attaoal  Oaaervan  Ia  1,219        4,~~~~~~~6932  2,19       1,21.:0      1,1          1,944f      11,411       31.202       31,139)       14,114       111.111      10.111
(f $9320 geld)                                It       1.141          9131           41          202         .a           ie            ..          va            ..          '..          0a
..ar.. a. 11-,tha of lap-rLo  (asPI)              1.1          M.1          1.2I         1.9          2.1          11. 2         11.9         7.9          2.9          4.9          0.11         1.9
toar,.Al CapIta1 and 0D91
Graso IlIbroa,eaata                            ,1 2        1.113       39,041       34..9111     30.9n2       19,091       30,013        14.112      39,220        32.12.2      f1.1211      I 11,600
Ran-Caacanta'ia  Loans                      0.130       11,294       160,01      14.81101     10.1199      I3.0911       10,031       b0,32        14,220       17.t22       311.211       32.600
OfFIlc1s  F.09It Cradita                    1'i          9362        1151%         142       3,099         1,302        L,210)       1.200        1,31£        1.2911       1.2110        1,4*1
tako                                       'St,         141          1m9          911        1,204        3,294b          290        1.4119       3.1.         1,111.9      1,910        L,1131
.Ig.Or IL Ib.tiL.itra                       119         lIng          190          I31          237          209          219          217          2511         11            171          421
Priate                                   4.313.)     30.111       14,142       3111.02       11,179       32   11,28   8112         11.111      31.010        I3,t29       14.922       13.221
Debt DotLteading and Otobior-d            21.441       10,499       04,0235      21.014       79.191,        86151,1     118,037      93.099       94.921       911.291     302.1)       101,991B
PblitcIIobltclr Guaranteed               33,949      19,1194      44,91133     99.3 1       39.0911      09,117       116,912      13,099       94.921       99.293       302.119      10O,999
PrIvate KoeC--iben.a                     9.192,      34.001       39,792       21,132       21.112       19,2211      00            1.            .            .           .8.
O iooodDebt.                        1.19i       31.n21       32,041       34.122       21.912        11.227       131.04       34.911       15.452       33S1114      31.1)0        13,150
31100 dIabar-enLte         grea
bltoo -eeot                    3.5          1.2          2.4          4.2.         11.3         4.9           2.4          9.0         10.2         20.2         10.2         10.1
39B10 t9ID/tatl1 Dub0                           4.           1.2          3.'           ,           4.           4.           4.1          1.           9.2           7.          91.:2         1.
[MD0 Debt  dovc/s .b at Senice                  2.1          2.1     .      3          2.1          4.'          1.0          4.           4.0          4.7           1.2'         9.           :.'
Dbot ServIce
TetL1  e.-Ica Ptmay.et  Lb                  I,921)      1.1341       31.111      39t.921       II,206       20,919       11,023       23 .410      22.133       22.122       21.659       23,320
tatereanle                     3.~~~~~~~~~1491  9.-121  2.0111       9.143         7.012        9,.41        1,111        11.240       9,011        9,229        9,19          9.130
Pay-vt. ae 2 Enparta (0311)                    19.9         34.1         011.0        71.2,        40.0/f       72.1         09.2         71.3         1 0.0        o1.S          39.3         33.7
Av-Ra. ILoteeL mete en Or.
Goariated Lean. (22 L.0.                                     t.           1.3.         (2.2          11.4         11.9          9.t          9.4          9.2          9.2          9.2          9.0
Offitcia                                        90           9.3         33.9         30.9         10.1          ..           ie            ..          '..          va            ..          0.
Private Surce                                   11.         31.4         10.1         31.1         11.s           ..         sc             ..         '.e           ,a            ..          v
Average Ilatrity of 9..
Guranteed Lea.  freer.) /.c                      9.0          'a.?         9.2         10.9           9.1          9.0         30.1.        33.9         11.9         12.3         31.1         II.)
Offictal                                       311.4         II.?1       12.4         31.7          12.9        oa              a.          ,a          oa.           .a          oa...
Prinet. Saur                                    4.9          0.9          .9.         tO.2          9.4         '..          va            ie            .,         va             ..          va
4. 2 of 0iebt fOtetondiag
M.-rh L9113
Maturitt  Stroctur  .3 PublI  Deb   t 0.tatedtnc
MaturIltee due .ttblo S Yearn                                            94.
Materttten doe .dthl. 30 y-..                                            91.
Intern"t StruCture of Debt, Oat.t.ndtng
nteroaLt do     LkI tdt ion. Itrat poar                                 n
I.  Dome net inClude gold art dollar  -aoaL- ..  dutet
7;h  lateroat ad aor*tmmteei.  an edt. ad tang teen debt.
rZ teottc Debt only for t975.
7; 1Latereet so -la- an toor-ter debt.
77 IZIdea ealy aartLleettI.n eCt.alty Paid.
1.4.. - MatL avalable.                                                                                                                                                 March 21, 39114



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STTEMENT OF LOANS
(As of March 31, 1986)
Amount less   Undis-
Loan #   Year           Borrower                   Purpose       Cancellations  bursed
(US$ Milllons)
Seventy nine loans fully disbursed                                  3,672.7
1317     1976  Brazil                          Agro-Industry           83.0       24.6
1452     1977  Brazil                          Education               32.0         .9
1488     1977  Brazil                          Rural Development       11.0        1.1
1537     1978  Brazil                          Rural Development       24.0       11.6
1538     1978  ELETROBRAS                      Power                  127.4        8.1
1568     1978  Brazil                          Agric. Extension       100.0         .2
1589     1978  Brazil                          Rural Development       37.0       11.0
1656     1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao     Water and Sewerage    100.0          .1
1714     1979  Brazil                          Rural Development       26.0       14.6
1720     1979  Brazil                          Urban Development       70.0       18.5
1721     1979  COPEL                           Power                  109.0       22.3
1728     1979  Brazil                          Rural Development       31.4        6.8
1729     1979  Brazil                          Irrigation              28.0        3.1
1730-5   1979  Brazil                          Roads                  107.9        3.9
1822-5   1980  Brazil/BNDE                     Pollution Control       34.0       22.2
1823     1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao     Water Supply           130.0         .1
1839     1980  Brazil                          Urban Transport        159.0       26.9
1850     1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao     Water Supply           139.0       13.5
1867     1980  Brazil                          Education               32.0       14.2
1877     1980  State of Minas Gerais           Rural Development       63.0       45.5
1895     1980  ELETROSUL                       Power                  100.5       56.2
1924     1981  Brazil                          Rural Development       56.0       12.4
1939     1981  ELETROBLAS                      Power                   54.0       39.2
1965     1981 EBTIJ                            Urban Transport         90.0       46.0
1970     1981  Banco Nacional da Habitacao     Water Supply           180.0       69.5
1989     1981  Brazil                          Alcohol Development   250.0        20.3
2015     1981  Brazil                          Agriculture             29.0       13.3
2016     1981  Brazil                          Agriculture             60.0        4.9
2060     1982  Brazil                          Agriculture             67.0       25.6
2061     1982  Brazil                          Health                  13.0        4.5
2062     1982  Brazil                          Highways               240.0       60.8
2116     1982  Brazil                          Agriculture             26.4       11.1
2138     1982 ELETROBRAS                       Power                  182.7      141.5
2163     1982  Brazil                          Agriculture             26.4       16.2
2170     1982  Brazil                          Urban Development      123.9       99.2
2177     1982  Brazil                          Rural Development       42.7       27.0
2193     1982  Brazil                          Urban Development        8.9        3.1
2196     1982 CVRD                              Iron Ore              304.5       69.3



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of March 31, 1986)
Amount less   Undis-
Loan #   Year            Borrower                    Purpose      Cancellations  bursed
(US$ Millions)
2224     1982  Brazil                           Feeder Roads           154.0       102.6
2249     1983  Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water Supply           302.3       134.8
2268     1983  Brazil                           Agro-Industries        400.0       358.5
2269     1983  Brazil                           Rural Development       67.8        57.7
2343     1983  Brazil                           Urban Development       52.7        40.1
2347     1983  Brazil                           Export Development    352.0           .7
2348     1083  Brazil                           Agriculture            303.0          .5
2353     1983  Brazil                           Agriculture             65.2        57.5
1729-1   1983  Brazil                           Agriculture              7.7         7.7
2060-1   1983  Brazil                           Agriculture             22.8        22.7
2364     1983  Eletrobras                       Power                  250.6       223.0
2365     1983  Eletrobras                       Power                  222.8       103.3
2366     1983  Brazil                           Education               20.0        13.6
2412     1984  Brazil                           Education               40.0        33.0
2446     1984  Brazil                           Federal Highways       210.0       165.5
2447     1984  State of Sao Paulo               Health                  55.5        49.4
2448     1984  Brazil                           Health Studies           2.0         2.0
2488     1985  Brazil                           Development Banking   300.0        249.3
2489     1985  Brazil                           Education               72.0        64.5
2523     1985  Brazil                           Rural Development       61.3        58.0
2524/1   1985  Brazil                           Rural Development       61.4        61.4
2532T   1985  Brazil                            Rural WS&S Pilot        16.3        16.3
2563     1985  Brazil                           Railways               200.0       184.8
2564     1985  Eletrobras                       Power Transmission    400.0        388.8
2565     1985  Eletrobras                       Power Distribution    312.0        301.0
2593/1   1985  Brazil                           Land Tenure            100.0       100.0
26237    1985  State of Santa Catarina          Urban Development       24.5        24.5
26547    1985  Brazil                           Urban Reconstruction  100.0        100.0
Total                                                11,147.10/2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                  2,169.37
Total now outstanding                                 8,977.73
Amount sold                              45.8
Of which has been repaid               45.8             0.0
Total now held by Bank                                8,977.73
Total undisbursed                                                3,890.5
/1 Not yet effective.
/2 No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.
TJ Not yet signed.
Note: The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 35 -
AMOU 11
Iw 3 ot 3
SurDW OF IC nwNseuS  (amtf Marh 31, 1296)
Flood                                                                                                                       _    nat in M55 dlii.n
Ye                                        O b I L g o r                                   Type of Dbin                      1f        Eqfdty    Ttal
195                 Sim.t do k1i Cla. de Elctriidole                                  Electrical Epqtnt                      2.00        -       2.00
1959                 Olhtraft, 5. A. rauim  a Pad                                     ltp ad Pqer                              1.21)      -        1.20
195. D. L R. P  i                       atilomtdlrs, SA.                              Ahaemtiw   "at                          0.45        -       0.45
1959                 Willyw-Oarlard da Ormil, S. A. - ttmtriA ea tueio                 ttor V h Alt                            2.45       -       2.45
1959                 ObqatL  Hlnera de MOm          Factlmd, S. A.                    Cont                                     1.20       -       1.20
1959                 Ohdpicn Ceulan, S. A.                                             tilp                                   4.00        -       4.0D
196W19681972         Ae VILLe. S. A.                                                  Steel                                  8L0         1.93     9.93
19621969             P4p1 a t1lul2e Ctarnen., S. A.                                    Rlp Ut Paer                             3.78      5.71     9.49
196J/1972            Ultmfrti'l. S. A. - tItutri  a GdCo  de FettilasteA               Fertuiluer                             8.22       3.03    11.25
1969                 Petre.dmlea IdA. S. A.                                            fetrudueikAlm                          5.50       2.88     8.31
1970                 Pollntefina, S. A. bdutril e rcio                                 Ptrmdcmicals                            5.50      2.88     8.38
1971                 Odreno, S. A. Iutria e (hurtco                                    Ntrodurmcalm                           4.60       1.44     6.04
1971                 Nio Cande - Mnpf" de Cdulunse do Ia                               tp                                     4.90        -       4.90
n7nizsL9zu            txSa de  sco N1Iorud de Hli                                     Cant                                   169.14      6.70   175.84
197374M778/1/3/8&    0ptda Sliugis ad ODab    - lSlA                                   Steel                                  76.97     15.27    92.24
1973                 Cqaptal  kts Dewinpmnt Rind - FMCAP                              Opcdtc Maket evelnjuet                  5.00       -        sno
1973Y1978U1983          1   de D      lwwnlsa de 1one Hlnerlst - MWPN, S. A.   Nlckel Htnidq ad Refinidg                     85.00       8.74    93.74
1974                  7nbutrtm  ViLlla, S. A.                                         Elever  aUd bdesLritl Epmnt             6.00        -       6.00
1974                 Fabrics de Tl&do Tsqme. S. A.                                    Tetis                                 31.00        -      31.0t0
197Y1979             C_apr Cwbhom       trt a Ltd.                                    CAbn Blck                               6.18       1.19     7.317
1975                 Odt.o. tcds e, S. A.                                              Petrodrmicel                           10.00       -       10OD
1976                 Snlna  7nltria - lTil do teite, S. A.                            TbitlIs                                 6.45       I.00     7.45
1976/1911            Taemn   S. A. - Taitil  eAdinin do Ironte                        TestIs                                  16.20       -       16.20
1977                 33 S. A. Putns HAmlgtse                                          Ira and Alusma Cotings                 20.00       -       20.00
1977                 HMnereo  Rio do Ibrte S. A.                                       MIitn                                  15.00       -       15.00
1978                 O51t Sdemzra S. A.                                               Iron U  Sted               h38                     3.00    11.31
1979                  iwm do 1a1m    Ncms e Vdnzloe, S. A.                            Motr Videls                            60.00       5.27    65.21
198)                  trIng dD toleea S. A. - Mil_                                    bMAy-ude CannEs                         2.00       -        2.00
19H0                D0de do Prm S/A - Ikim  - ArzU, tnhutrd
e Gonmlo de OIa%0ms                                           Pa]s                                    3.50      1.00      4.50
191D                 Vilarm  Irustris de Bame S. A. - VISS                            Yr. ed Sted                             5.0O       -        5.00
198D                 PFM - Q_at.a thatitd  de ftlprqtl1s                              Omals ard PetroduedcAl.                15.00       2.00    17.00
198D                 C4stlarts Cancte S. A.                                           Oumteal od Pecynuicat                    -         0.25     0.25
BID                  Setae Ads Qmdwca  Ifiesn S/A                                     Fertztim                               35.00      6.00    41.00
19WD                 Pbial  ecraquimLca                                               Ounicsie ad Petrdcnlcale               43.0        5.00    48.00
1981                   hupe                                                           Money Ud Capital Muwatt                  -         1.50     1.50
19SI                 Muddrudta       iva de A_epwduria - WUIAoE odal Ut Fad Procmtqr!                                         5.50       3o       8.50
1981                 futo                                                             Ondeles Utd Peatcrodals                46.00      4.0      50.00
19B2                 CLmo  tEOen o                                                    Case tt    id  btnxin Huterials        40.00      S5O    45.00
1982                 Jlamugl S. A.                                                    Mong Cquital mat                       30600      0.45    30.45
1983                COs aqnane de Partlcipes (anC)                                    Yaney Caqtal MHar                       -           .01      .01
1963                 Ala.s  FOrrifi                                                   Foal  d Food Proagq                     1300       -       1100
1983                 omMa ODm   do 1Ma (AMEPA)                                          P  0U                                 6. 10      -        6 10
1983                 PDA - Pqd de li s am LA                                          t    S PquerFnuct                      60.00       5.17    6x.17
1983                 Socom/SA.                                                        Foold  d Food ftomsPu                   3.0        2.50     5.50
1983                 COIc                                                              Clat am Omutnutioc materials          35.00       -       35.00
19E6                 Hlltidr Protto.                                                  Omicale Ud Fetrodinicals                100        5.00     8CO0
196e                   CStt    Aiooqpdmis Macial                                      Cheelcsls ad Fetranodmicels            22.W0       4.01    24.W
1985                 QAdcs de Bds                                                      Omktds Ut Petrodslculs                 3.20       1.80     5.00
Thcl Cnm   xbnea                                                                             935.42    105.72  1,041.14
Les Cau 1lltm, Tedntia,  RaPep  and Sels                                                     679.95      30.7a   710.73
otal. Gadtbs Nel  Held by 1IF                                                                255.47      74.94   330.41
octal IkUtlaburnd                                                                             64.-       14.82    79.26
April 18, M6



- 36 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
UPPER AND MIDDLE SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:  3 years
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:  CODEVASF and Federal and
State Government Agencies
with Bank and FAO assistance
(c)  First presentation to the Bank   :  1983
id) Appraisal mission departure         : July 1985
Ce)  Negotiations                       : March 1986
(f)  Estimated Loan Effectiveness       : September 19J6
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
1. Loan Conditions
(a) credit for (i) on-farm investments and (ii) acquisition of
improved land would be granted in accordance Wlth terms agreed
with the Bank (paras. 62, 63 and 65);
(b) CODEVASF would enter into agreements, satisfactory to the Bank,
for the overall management of project construction (para. 53) and
for the execution of certain projects sub-components under the
jurisdiction of other government agencies (paras. 54, 56, and 59);



- 37 -                                ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) CODEVASF would organize and train the farmers to assume
responsibility for the operation and maintenance of tertiary and
quaternary canals (para. 57); and
(d) the Government and CODEVASF would maintain adequate cost recovery
policies through water tariffs (para. 64).
2. Condition of Signing
The amendment to the loan agreement for Loan No. 2348-BR would be
signed prior to, or simultaneously with, the documents for the
loan proposed in this report (para. 63).
3. Special Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) effectiveness of the FAO Project Document (para. 52(f));
(b) institutional strengthening measures (para. 54);
(c) the agreements referred to in para. III. l(b) of this Annex shall
have been entered into; and
(d) Decree 90.991 shall have been modified to bring it in line
with the terms applicable to investment credit (para. 65).
4. Special Condition of Disbursement
(a) Bank approval of the economic justification of investments in each
of the five irrigation rehabilitation schemes other than Sao
Desiderio and Estreito, prior to disbursement of any loan proceeds
allocated to finance construction of any such rehabilitation
scheme (para. 55).
(b) CODEVASF would organize irrigation beneficiaries into users'
groups (para. 57).



A                  4.                             /     IrM; 
PARAiBA   AN;
PIAUi                    //
PERNAMBIUCO  -
nfeNx i 11" A0z- -
*.s'T'    AlAfCUPRACA                     A     e_       S    F
lr   \.,,;           )                           $ e_          rN  , -  -           ALAY9OAS   t              V.4
I      ATSEIGI NE ''
,. COlASS,
(           *SACO ESIQER10  BARREIRAS SUI   BAI-IIA
AO..AD A                       BAHIA
? ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~BRAZiL
UPPER AND MIDDLE SAo FRANCISCO
-'  )        EEFO                                           IRRIGATION PROJECT
LOCATION OF PROPOSED SUBPROJECTS
F .                                                                               0       i
N A,S                                                  f5RA NB
\   _zz          <@  n-                                   UPPER~~~~~~~~-    AND . CMIDDIE A   RNCSO
(               /"Cfl                                                                 RtGTO   RJC
I                                                              4'                     F__          S________
CLt                                                              /                      ' 1W             F"
M I NA S     GE RMAIS          (*) Et _ _ _ __10_ _ _ _ 2XEt
r ~ESPIRITO
\                            /.'                        ,r
S/ ANTO                                   BAD
'SAO  (                                            (                               Ar. "
?AULO~~~~~\                            RIO~~~ DE  a-
l PALILO\                                         /JANEIRO                      i                            -LA U?
i            A'                  ~         / rrt                                                   i      0 l "           ~.



