           THIRDBASICHEALTHCARE PROJECT(LOAN 7061-ME)
                                   PROJECTPAPER
                                     DATA SHEET




   ProteccionSocial en Salud (SPSS), specifically, to improve access o fpoor people
   eligible for enrollment or enrolled inthe subsidized regime o fthe Seguro Popularto
   the insurance's benefit package, restructure and develop State Health Systems, and
   strengthen the Federal MinistryofHealth inits role as the steward o fthe SPSS.

Does the restructuredProject trigger any new safeguard policies?No
                       Revised FinancingPlan(US$426 million)
                               Source                                        Total
Borrower                                                               $ 76 million
IBRD/IDA                                                               !$ 350 million


                                      PROJECTPAPER

Introduction

1. This Project Paper seeks the approval ofthe Executive Directors to introduce the following
    changes inthe UnitedMexican States, ThirdBasic Health Care Project, Loan 7061-ME,
    Project IDPE-P-066321 and any accompanying amendments to the Project's legal
    documents.

2. The proposed restructuring would support the Borrower inimplementing the Social
   Protection System inHealth(SPSS), specifically, to improve access of poor people eligible
    for enrollment or enrolled inthe subsidized regime ofthe Seguro Popular to the insurance's
   benefit package, restructure and develop State Health Systems and strengthen the Federal
   Ministry of Healthinits role as the steward o f the SPSS.

3. In2002, the Government o f Mexico designed and initiated an ambitious sector reform agenda
   that was subsequently adopted by all States. The reform's key objective is to provide social
   protection inhealth for the non-formally employed. With the launch of the reform agenda, the
   original Project objectives became too narrow or irrelevant and Project implementation
   experienced substantial delays.

4. The proposed changes align the Project withthe sector reform agenda and include
   comprehensive changes to the Project's Development Objectives, components, activities and
   outputs. The proposed restructuring also includes changes to the Project's fiduciary
   arrangements to permit States to execute the majority o f Project activities under unified
   procurement norms.

BackgroundandReasonsfor Restructuring

5. The Boardapproved a $350 million loan for the ThirdBasic HealthCare Project (the Project)
   on June 21,2001with the objective to (i)   increase the provision and quality of health services
   for the populations o fthe Borrower living inunderserved rural and urbanareas; (ii)   increase
   the access and quality of health services to indigenous populations; (iii)support the
   institutional strengthening of the SSA, the SESA, the HealthJurisdictions, municipal and
   community health entities and local healthservice providers; and (iv) develop innovative
   prevention and health care models for the populations mentioned in(i) above.
                                                                             and (ii)

6. The objectives and the design o f the ThirdBasic Health Care Project built on a successful
   predecessor project. Since the loan became effective on November 11,2002, however, the
   Project experienced substantial implementation delays. Discussions between the Government
   o f Mexico (GoM) and the Bank, starting inMarch 2003, identified two main reasons for the
   unsatisfactory implementationprogress. First, as an exception to general GoMpolicy, loan
   resources o f the predecessor project were incremental to general budget transfers from the
   GoMto states. This exception was not granted to the Project and loanresources became only
   available to reimburse budgeted items earmarked for external funding. Thus, state
   governments faced weaker incentives to participate inthe Project and none to comply with
  Bankfiduciary standards that presentedadditional requirements to nationalnorms.

7. Second, assuming office inDecember 2000, the Fox administration designed and initiated an
  ambitious reform with the key objective to provide social protection inhealth for the non-
  formally employed. The legal framework for the Social Protection System inHealth (SPSS)
  was introducedinto the General Health L a w in2003. Central to the SPSS is the Seguro

                                                 2

     Popular, an insurance mechanismfor the non-formally employed that removes financial
     barriers to access a catalog o f initially 72, later 76 essential health services, The
     implementationo f the SPSS requires a fundamental restructuring o f the State HealthSystems
     with core healthsystem functions separately assigned to distinct organizations. The
     separation o f these functions introducesmarket mechanisms into the system withlikely
     efficiency gains. l h s ambitious reformprogram fundamentally departed fi-om past sector
     priorities; moreover, reformand Project objectives became incongruent. Consequently,
     budget allocations for activities eligible for financing out o f loan proceeds substantially
     decreased.

8. On September 13,2004, the GoM and the Bank signed a first amendment o f the Loan
     Agreement that retrofitted financial and administrative procedures under a Sector Wide
     Approach (SWAp). Under the SWAp, GoM, State andBank funds are commingled to finance
     subprojects executed according to unifiedstandards that reflect, with few exceptions, G o M
     norms and laws. However, the first amendment didnot succeedinfacilitating and
     acceleratingProject implementation. The amendedprocurement provisions inadvertently
     impededthe execution o f subprojects as they didnot successfully unifyBank and government
    requirements. Moreover, the amendment didnot adequately align Project objectives with
    reformpriorities.

9. InJanuary 2005, more than two years after the loanbecame effective, only about $31million
    or less than 10%o floanproceeds had been disbursed. However, following discussions that
    ledto the first amendment, the GoM assigned budgets o f approximately $80 millioninFY
    2004 and $300 million inFY 2005 to subprojects that it assumedto be eligible for
    reimbursement once the LoanAgreement would be amended. The federal Ministry o f Health
    transferredthese amounts to the States that carried out the subprojects. However, when the
    first amendment became effective, the Bank couldnot reimburse these transfers since the
    amendment didnot introduce the necessary changes to the Project objectives and
    procurement provisions. As a result, the federal Ministry o fHealthfaces a deficit o f more
    than$300million. Toresolve the impasse, the GoMandBankagreed on a two-step
    approach. A second amendment was preparedto resolve legal barriers to reimburse eligible
    expenditures incurredby the GoM between March 1,2003 and December 31,2004. This
    second amendment became effective on June 16,2005 and allowed the disbursement o f
    approximately $50 million. A third amendment would restructure the Project to align its
    objectives and activities with reformpriorities andresolvebarriers to execute the majority o f
    Project activities under the SWAP arrangements. Discussionsregarding the third amendment
    started inMay 2005 andresulted inthe proposedchanges summarizedbelow.

Proposedchanges

10. The proposedrestructuringincludes comprehensive changes to the Project's Development
    Objectives, components, activities and outputs to fully align the Project withthe sector
    reform agenda o f the federal and state governments. With the launch o f this reform agenda in
    2002, the original Project Objectives became, as detailed below, too narrow or irrelevant to
    the governments' ambitious reformpriorities. The proposedrestructuring includes also
    changes to the Project's fiduciary arrangements to permitstates to execute the majority o f
    Project activities under unifiedprocurement norms.

Project objectives, components and activities

11, The objective ofthe restructuredProject i s to support the G o Minimplementing the Sistema
   Proteccion Social de Salud. Specifically, as detailedbelow, it would improve access o fpoor

                                                     3

     people eligible for enrollment or enrolled inthe subsidized regime o f the Seguro Popularto
     the insurance's benefit package, restructure and develop State Health Systems and strengthen
     the Federal Ministry of Health's role as the steward o fthe SPSS. Changes to the objectives
     and the eligibility o f activities would be retroactive to July 1,2005, the date when discussions
     about the restructuring proposal commenced.

Component I:Improve access of poor people eligiblefor enrollmentor enrolled in the subsidized
regime of the SeguroPopular to the insurance's beneft package ($220 million)

12. The impact ofthe Sistema de Proteccion Social en Salud on health and out-of-pocket
     expenditures critically depends on geographical access o f individuals enrolled into the Seguro
    Popularto services included inthe insurance's benefitpackage. In2004, The GoMlaunched
    a strategy to strengthen the service delivery capacity o f decentralized public health services
    delivering the benefit package of the Seguro Popular (FOROSS). The FOROSS strategy
    includes 10 dimensions that correspond to the criteria for accreditation o f health service
    providers with the SPSS. A key element of the FOROSS strategy is an InvestmentPlan for
    Infrastructure and Equipment that will ensure by 2010 universal access ofpoor people
    eligible for enrollment inthe subsidized regime o f the Seguro Popular to the insurance's
    benefit package. The Project would support the implementation o f the FOROSS strategy as it
    relates to health centers, hospitals up to 120beds and specialized ambulatory care units
    identified inthe Investment Plan for Infrastructure and Equipment o f the subsidized regime.
    This would imply strengthening health service delivery where poor people are already
    enrolled and where poor people will be enrolled into the subsidized regime of Seguro
    Popular.

13. Activities supporting the implementationof the FOROSS strategy would constitute the first
    component o f the restructured Project. The scope of these activities would substantially differ
    fromthe original Projectcomponent to strengthen health service delivery. The benefit
    package o f the Seguro Popular includes 76 interventions delivered at primaryand secondary
    care facilities. The benefit package financed by the original project included 13, mainly
    preventive essential services delivered at the primary care level or by mobile services. To
    better focus project investments under the FOROSS strategy, activities of the restructured
    Project wouldbe limited, independent of the geographical location, to health facilities
    identified inthe Investment Plan for Infrastructure andEquipment that ensures universal
    access o fpoorpeople eligible for enrollment or enrolled inthe subsidized regime of the
    Seguro Popular to the insurance's benefit package. The goal of universal access ofthe poor
    can be contrasted withthe original Project design, under which activities to strengthen health
    service delivery capacity were limitedto 841 m a l and 50 urban municipalities. Finally, the
   restructured Project would finance only investments inthe health service delivery capacity
    and exclude, incontrast to the original Project design, the reimbursement of recurrent costs.

Component2: Restructureand develop StateHealth Systems ($27 million)

14. The SPSS will introduce new market mechanisms intothe State HealthSystems. Efficiency
   gains will depend on a fundamental restructuring of the State Health Systems. Prior to the
   reform, the health system functions of financing, service provision and stewardship were
   concentrated ina single organization, inmost ofthe states inthe State Ministry of Health.
   The introduction of the SPSS envisions that distinct organizations, some of them to be newly
   created, would assume the different functions of the health system. Inprinciple, the State
   Ministries of Health will assume the role of the system's steward. The State Regimes for
   Social Protection inHealthwill manage finances andpurchase services included inthe
   service catalog of the Seguro Popular from decentralized health service provider units and

                                                    4

    networks. The Project would support the organizational and institutionalrestructuring of the
     State Health Systems, the strengthening o f administrative and management functions o f
     decentralized state health service provider units and networks, andthe strengthening o f the
     information technology infrastructure, including telemedicine networks, of organizations and
     decentralized health service providers of State Health Systems.

15. Activities supporting the restructuring and strengthening of State Health Systems would
    constitute the second component o fthe restructured Project. Supported subprojects would
    include consultancies and technical assistance inthe areas ofpolitical analysis, strategic
    planning, design and implementation of instruments to foster change and capacity buildingin
    new tasks and functions. The objectives andactivities o f this component would substantially
    exceed the eligibility criteria of the original Project design that are, inprinciple, limitedto the
    strengthening of decentralized health service networks.

Component3: Strengthen the Federal Ministry of Health's role as the steward of the SPSS ($16
million)

16. Inthe reform process, the Federal Ministry of Health assumed the role of the steward o f the
    SPSS. The restructured Project would help the Federal Ministry o f Health to enhance its
    capacity incritical stewardship functions, mainly, coordinating, supporting and monitoring (i)
    the implementation o f the FOROSS strategy, (ii) restructuring of the State Health Systems
                                                        the
    and (iii) the strengthening of decentralized state healthprovider units andnetworks.

17. Activities to strengthen the capacity o f the Federal Ministry of Healthincritical stewardship
    functions would form the thirdcomponent of the restructured Project. The component would
    additionally include Project management activities. The activities financed under this
    component would differ from those originally envisioned. Under the restructured Project, the
    scope of activities to strengthen the Federal Ministry of Healthwouldbe narrowed down to
    some critical stewardship functions related to the SPSS, while the scope of activities to
    monitor and evaluate progress wouldbe expanded to cover not only Project activities but
    overall G o M health strategies.

Fiduciary arrangements

18. Under the restructured project, a procurement planwould be mandatory for all Project
    activities. This change wouldpermit droppingfromthe Loan Agreement aggregate thresholds
    for procurement procedures other than international bidding. This change would resolve the
    remaining barriers to execute activities under the Project's SWAP arrangements.

19. Underthe SWAParrangements, the GoMtransfers funds to states on the basis of cost
    estimates for approved subprojects. The loan reimburses transferred funds on the basis of
    statements of transfers. Reimbursements are monitoredunder a separate disbursement
    category (Transfers). Component 1and 2 of the restructured Project totaling approximately
    $250 millionwouldbe executed consistent with the SWAP arrangements. However, only
    about $190 millionremain inthis category. The restructuring wouldtherefore entail a
   reallocation o f approximately $60 millionto the disbursement category of transfers.

20. The reallocation o fundisbursed loan amounts across disbursement categories with varying
   Bank financing shares wouldresult ina reduction of GoMcounterpart fundrequirements and
   Project size of approximately $33 millionor 7% of the original Project size (see table below).




                                                  5

21. Institutional arrangements, flow o ffunds and closing date would remain as stipulated inthe
      first amendment to the Loan Agreement.

Analysis

22, Under the SWAP arrangements, States propose and a federal advisory committee evaluates
      and approves subprojects that advance the implementationo f the SPSS. Under this demand
      driven institutional design, the actual net present value and the internal rate ofreturn of the
     restructured Project depend on the selected subprojects. However, the inclusion of activities
      into the National Investment Planfor Infrastructure andEquipment under the SPSSrequire
      certificates o f need which are issued by the Federal Ministry o fHealth. Certification depends
      on a net present value, internal rate of social returns, and internal rate o f immediate
     profitabilityofthe investment acceptable to the GoM.Hence, the majority ofactivities that
     the restructured Project would finance under component 1,which totals more than 70% of the
     remaining loanamount, would produce acceptable rates ofretum.

23. The original Project was classified as environmental category B.The Regional Safeguards
     Advisory Team concluded that the proposed changes would not result ina change of the
     environmental category. However, the supplemental assessment revealed that the original
     Operational Manual was missingthe requiredprovisions to ensure compliance with the
     safeguard policies triggered by the Project. The GoMtherefore prepared an Environmental
     Management Framework, Indigenous Peoples Development Plan', and Resettlement
     Framework, all acceptable to the Bank, and successfully integrated these Frameworks and
     Plans into the Operational Manual. As the approval of subprojects executed by States under
     components 1and 2 of the restructured Project requires compliance with the procedures set
     out inthe Operational Manual, compliance withall safeguardpolicies would be ensured in
     the hture. Moreover, the G o M prepared Terms of Reference, acceptable to the Bank, for a
     social and environmental safeguards audit to assess compliance with the relevant safeguard
     policies inpast and ongoingProject activities. The amended Loan Agreement includes a
     dated covenant that requires the completion of the audit byNovember 15,2006, and
     furthermore commits the G o M to develop and implement a remedial plan, based on the
     findings andrecommendations of the safeguards audit, to repair and compensate for any
     damage that may have resulted from safeguards-related omissions inthe Project's original
     Operational Manual.

Expected outcomes

24. The proposedrestructuring includes changes to the Project's Development Objective. The
     revisedProject Development Objective is to:



 The original financial data sheet inadvertently shows a GoM contribution of $231million and a Project
size of $582 million.
 The Project was approved inJune 2001, henceO.D. 4.20 applies.
                                                    6

     Support theBorrower in the implementation of the Sistemade Proteccion Social en Salud
     (SPSS), specifically, to improve access of poor people eligiblefor enrollment or enrolled in
     the subsidizedregime of the SeguroPopular to the insurance's beneJitpackage, restructure
     and developStateHealth Systems, and strengthentheFederal Ministry of Health's role as
     thesteward of the SPSS.

     RevisedProject monitoringindicators andtargets havebeenjointly developedby the Federal
     MinistryofHealth andthe Bank.Therevisedimplementationletter ispresentedinannex 1.It
     shouldbe notedthat indicators agreedfor part A of the project also serve to measure the
     contribution o fthe activities financed bythe project prior to the proposedamendment
     towards the achievemento fproject objectives.

Risks

25. Following the forthcoming Presidentialelections, healthsectorpriorities may change and
     future budget allocations for Project activities could be inadequateto completely exhaust loan
     resourcesprior to the loan closing date. This riskis consideredlow as it is mitigated by the
     fact that the budget for calendaryear 2007 will be approvedprior to the changeinthe
     administration and disbursementsscheduled for calendaryear 2008 are below 10%o fthe
     total loan amount. Furthermore, the reformsupportedbythe Project hasbeen introduced into
    the MexicanGeneralHealthLaw and endorsedand adoptedby all states. The Bankwill
    proactively engage ina dialogue with the incoming administration about sector priorities,
    including the Project.

26. Underthe SWAParrangements, the GoM transfers funds to the States on the basiso fcost
    estimatesfor approved subprojects. The riskthat States do not comply with fiduciary norms
    acceptableto the Bankinthe implementation ofthe subprojects i s consideredmoderateand
    mitigated through various mechanisms. First, prior to the first amendment, the capacity o f
    States to comply with Bank fiduciary requirementshasbeen assessedand found satisfactory.
    Onthe procurement side, all Project procedures are monitored closely andprocurement
    procedures of subprojectsare subject to an annualpostreview. Onthe financial management
    side, annualaudit reviews are carried out by qualified and independentauditors under Terms
    ofReferenceacceptableto the Bank. Results of these reviews are scrutinized bythe Bank. In
    addition, the decentralized OrganosInternos de Control o fthe GoMcarry out annual audits
    o fthe Project. Finally, financial managementandprocurement at the State level i s supervised
    duringProject supervision missions.

27. Project component 1will finance major investments inhealth service delivery systemsunder
    the Government's FOROSS strategy. These investmentswill contribute to improvements in
    the health ofMexicans; however, they will not reduce out-of-pocket expenditures o fthe poor
    iftheyarenotwell coordinatedwiththe enrollment ofthepoor into SeguroPopular. The
    GoM agreedto develop under Project component 3 a comprehensivemonitoring and
    evaluation system for FOROSS that will enablethe GoMto better coordinate investment into
    health service delivery with subsidies to the Seguro Popular. Progressinthe development of
    the monitoring and evaluation systemwill be a continuous focus o fProject supervision.

28. The restructuring o fthe State HealthSystems has beenunexpectedly slow. Reasonshaveyet
   to be hlly evaluatedbut anecdotalinformationindicates that lack o f organizational capacity
   andineffective incentives have hamperedreform. Therefore, demand for financing under
    component2 of the Project may be low and its targets overly ambitious. The GoMagreedto
   rapidly assess the current status, identifyopportunities to acceleratethe restructuring and


                                                   7

monitor progress.Furthermore, GoMandBank agreedto developjointly andimplementa
series o f capacity buildingactivities to foster demandfor reform.




                                              8


                                        ANNEX 1
                            REVISEDIMPLEMENTATIONLETTER

                             UNITEDMEXICANSTATES


                                                                                ,2006


InternationalBank for Reconstruction
andDevelopment
 1818 HStreetN.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433


                       Re:   MEXICO: Loan 7061-ME
                             (ThirdBasic HealthCareProject)
                             ImplementationLetter


       This letter, withthe Annex attachedhereto, constitutes the ImplementationLetter
defined inArticle 1, Section 1.02 (J o f the LoanAgreement betweenUnitedMexican
States andthe InternationalBank for Reconstruction andDevelopment (the Bank) for the
above-captioned Project, as amended on June             ,2006.


                                    Sincerely yours,

                             UNITEDMEXICANSTATES


                            BYAuthorized  Representative


CONFIRMED:

INTERNATIONALBANKFOR
RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT


BY
   Authorized Representative

Date:




                                           9


                                                                 ANNEX 1
                                          MONITORINGINDICATORSOFTHE PROJECT




                                                                     PartA

                                                          No. of individuals entitled and
                                                       enrolled inthe subsidizedregimeof
                                                                     Seguro Popular                        2005 = 10%
 Increasethe enrollment of individuals entitled to be                                                     2006 =20.5%
enrolled inthe subsidizedregimeof Seguro Popular                                                          2007 =23.3%
                                                         No. of individuals entitled to be                2008 =26.6%
                                                       enrolled in the subsidizedregimeof
                                                                    Seguro Popular

                                                          No.of indigenousentitled and
Increasethe enrollment of indigenouspeople entitled    enrolled inthe subsidizedregimeof       2005 = 3,500,000 / 13,851,503 = 25 %
  to be enrolled inthe subsidizedregime of Seguro                   Seguro Popular             2006 =3,700,000 / 13,851,503 = 27 %
                       Popular                           No. of indigenousentitledto be        2007 =4,000,000 / 13,851,503 =29 %
                                                       enrolled inthe subsidizedregime of      2008 =4200,000 / 13,851,503 =30 %
                                                                    Seguro Popular


                                                        No. of health facilities (by type of         2005= 916/5000=18.3%
  Increasethe number ofhealthfacilities accredited      facility) included inthe PMIE and            2006 =1200/5000=24%
   with SPSS that guaranteethe access ofpeople               accreditedwith the SPSS                2007 = 1500/5000=30%
 entitled to be enrolled into the subsidizedregimeof                                                 2008 =1800/5000= 36%
 Seguro Popularto the insurance's benefit package       No. of healthfacilities (by type of
                                                         facility) included inthe PMIE'


                                                       No. of health facilities (by type of
                                                       facility) included inthe PMIE and             2004= 620/5000=12.4%
                                                       evaluated for accreditationwith the          2005 =1527/5000=30.5%
                                                                           SPSS                     2006=2000/5000= 40%
                                                             _-----___-_--_--_---__I_____           2007 =2800/5000= 56%
                                                       No.ofhealthfacilities (by type of             2008=3200/5000= 64%
                                                          facility) included inthe PMlE

                                                                    PartB



                                                        No. of federalentities thathave a
 Increasethe number of federal entities4that have a   establishedREPSSthat operate with a                    2005= 3
   establishedREPSS that operatewith a financial       financial managementsystemthat                       2006=7
                                                                                                                           ~

    managementsystemthat allows the strategic            allows the strategic purchaseof                    2007 = 12
              purchaseofhospitalcare                                 hospital care                          2008 = 16




      PMIE: Investment Planfor Infrastructure and Equipmentto ensure universal access ofpoor people
    enrolled or to be enrolled inthe subsidized regime of Seguro Popularto the insurance's benefit package by
   2010.
      There are 31federal states inthe country plus the Federal District D.F.


                                                                      10

                                                        No. of staffrecruitedand contracted
Increasethe proportion of staffthat is recruitedand      underinnovativeHRmanagement                   20054
  contracted under innovativemodels for human              modelsinHighlySpecialized                 2006= 58%
   resourcemanagementin Highly Specialized                           Hospitals                       2007=90%
                     Hospitals                          Totalnumberof staffcontractedin              2008=100%
                                                           Highly SpecializedHospitals


                                                           Averagenumberofmodules
                                                          implemented inthe five Highly              2005:=0%
Adoption of innovativeinformationsystems in the                _________________-_-_____
                                                               Specialized Hospitals                  20064%
         five Highly SpecializedHospitals                                                            2007=20%
                                                          Totalnumberof modulestobe                  2008 = 80%
                                                        implementedinHighly Specialized
                                                                   Hospitals(20)

                                                                                           I
                                                       Numberofmedicinesprescribedand
                                                      suppliedto individualsenrolledinthe
   Improveaccessof individuals enrolledinthe           subsidizedregimeof Seguro Popular             2005= 85%
 subsidizedregimeof SeguroPopularto essential                                                        2006= 90%
                    medicines                           Numberofmedicinesprescribedto                2007= 95%
                                                       individuals enrolledinthe subsidized          2008= 100%
                                                             regime of Seguro Popular

                                                                  Part C

                                                                                                     2005 =No
SSA monitorsprogressinthe structuralreforms of           ProgressinrestructuringSES is             2006=Yes or No
             the State HealthSystems                   monitoredinall states andan annual
                                                        reportpreparedanddisseminated              2007-Yes or No
                                                                                                   2008=Yes or No
                                                    I
                                                          Systemdesignedby June2007                ~~




   SSA monitorsand evaluatesthe efficiency,                                                     June2007: Yes or No
effectiveness ofFOROSSincludingthe impacton           M&Esystempopulatedby December
accessofpriority populationsto services of Seguro                     2007                     December2007: Yes or No
            Popular's benefitpackage                1' FirstM&Ermortdisseminated:June      I    June2008: Yes or No


                                                     Numberof statesthat reportthe health
   SS monitorsthe healthstatus ofindigenous           status oftheir populationby ethnicity      2007= 6 statesreport
                   populations                                 andnativelanguage                2008= 15states report




                                                                   11

