                                 Document of
                              The World Bank




                                                 Report No: ICR00001127



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (IBRD-70610)



                                    ON A

                                   LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$350 MILLION
                                TO THE

                         UNITED MEXICAN STATES

                                   FOR A

                   THIRD BASIC HEALTH CARE PROJECT
                              (PROCEDES)



                                June 29, 2010




Human Development Sector Management Unit
Colombia and Mexico Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective June 29, 2010)

               Currency Unit = Mexican Pesos (MXN)
                     1.00 MXN = US$0.07884
                      US$1.00 = 12.84 MXN

                             FISCAL YEAR

               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AIDS        Acquired Immumodeficiency Syndrome
CAUSES      Catalogo Único de Servicios Esenciales de Salud
COMPRANET   Internet Procurement Mechanism
CONASIDA    National HIV/AIDS Council (Consejo Nacional para Prevención y
            Control del SIDA)
CONAPO      National Population Council (Consejo Nacional de Población)
CPS         Country Partnership Stragegy
DALE        Disability-Adjusted Life Expectancy
DALYS       Disability Adjusted Life Years
DGCES       Dirección General de Calidad y Educación en Salud
DGEC        Dirección General de Extensión de Cobertura
DGED        Dirección General de Evaluación del Desempeño
DGEDS       Dirección General de Equidad y Desarrollo en Salud
DGPLADES    Dirección General de Planeación y Desarrollo en Salud
DRG         Disgnostic ­ Related Groups
EEC         Strategy for the Expansion of Health Coverage (Estrategia de Extensión
            de Cobertura)
ENIGH       Mexican Health System Financing (Encuesta Nacional de Ingresos y
            Gastos de los Hogares
FAEB        Basic Education Fund
FAETA       Technical and Adult Education Fund
FAIS        Social Infrastructure Fund
FAM         Multiple Transfer Fund
FASP        Public Security Fund
FASSA       Health Services Fund
FOROSS      Fortalecimiento de la Oferta de Servicios de Salud
FORTAMUN    Municipal Strengthening Fund (Fondo de Fortalecimeinto Municipal)
FUNSALUD    Mexican Health Foundation (Fundación Mexicana para la Salud)
GOM         Government of Mexico
HCP         Health Care Providers
HIV         Human Immunodeficiency Virus
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
INEGI       National Institute of Statistics, Geography and Data Information (Instituto
            Nacional de Estadística y Geografía)
INI         National Indigenous Institute (Instituto Nacional Indigenista)
IMSS        Mexican Social Security Institute (Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social)
IMSS-SOL    Mexican Social Security Institute-Solidarity Program (Instituto Mexicano
            del Seguro Social-Programa de Solidaridad)
ISSSTE      Social Security Institute for Public Employees (Instituto de Seguridad y
            Servicios Sociales de los Trabajadores del Estado)
MASPA       Health Services Model for the Uninsured Population
MCH         Maternal and Child Health Services
MIS         Management Information System
MIDAS       Integrated Health Care Model (Modelo Integrado de Atención a la Salud)
NAFIN       National Development Banking Institution (Nacional Financiera)
OPD         Decentralized Public Agencies (Organismos Públicos Descentralizados)
PABSS       Package of Essential Health Services
PAHO        Pan American Health Organization
PAC         Second Basic Health Care Project (Programa de Ampliación de
            Cobertura)
PAZI        Program for the Support to Indigenous People
PCE         Mobile Surgery Program
PCU         Project Coordination Unit
PEMEX       Mexican Petroleum Company (Petroleos Mexicanos)
PIAJA       Intersectoral Program for Peasant Workers
PMIE        Plan Maestro de Infraestructura y Equipamiento
PMIFS       Plan Maestro de Infraestructura Física en Salud
PROCEDES    Program for Quality, Equity and Development in Health (Programa de
            Calidad Equidad y Desarrollo en Salud)
PROGRESA    Education, Health and Nutrition Program (Programa de Educación, Salud
            y Alimentación)
PROMAP      Public Administration Modernization Program (Programa de
            Modernización de la Administración Pública)
PRONAFIDE   National Investment Plan for Development 1997-2000 (Programa
            Nacional de Financiamiento del Desarrollo 1997-2000)
QUEJANET    Internet System for Public Complaints about Health Services
REDSSA      SSA'S Management Information Network (Red Global de
            Comunicaciones de Voz y Datos de la Secretaria de Salud)
REPSS       Regímenes Estatales de Protección Social en Salud
SECODAM     Federal Secretariat for Control and Administrative Development
            (Secretaría de Contraloría y Desarrollo Administrativo)
SEMARNAT    Federal Secretariat of Environment and Natural Resources (Secretaría de
            Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales)
SES         Servicios Estatales de Salud
SESA        State Health Secretariat (Servicios Estatales de Salud)
SHCP        Federal Secretariat (Secretaria de Hacienda y Crédito Público)
SIA         Administrative Information System (Sistema Integral de Administración)
SISPA       Uninsured Population Health Information System (Sistema de
            Información de la Secretaria de Salud para Población Abierta del IMSS)
SPSS        Social Protection System in Health (Sistema de Protección Social en
            Salud)
SSA         Federal Health Secretariat (Secretaria de Salud)
STDs        Sexually Transmitted Diseases
STIs        Sexually Transmitted Infections
SUIVE       Epidemiological Surveillance System
SWAp        Sector-Wide Approach
TOR         Terms of Reference
UNEMES      Unidades de Especialización Médica Ambulatoria
WHO         World Health Organization (Organización Mundial de la Salud)
     Vice President: Pamela Cox
   Country Director: Gloria M. Grandolini
    Sector Manager: Keith Hansen
Project Team Leader: Claudia Macias
  ICR Team Leader: Claudia Macias
ICR Primary Author: Suzana de Campos Abbott
                                              MEXICO
                            Third Basic Health Care Project (PROCEDES)


                                                        CONTENTS
Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ......................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ....................................................... 16
3. Assessment of Outcomes................................................................................................. 25
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome .................................................................. 41
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ............................................................... 42
6. Lessons Learned ............................................................................................................. 46
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ........................ 49
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .................................................................................. 50
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ......................................................................................... 51
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis.......................................................................... 68
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.......................... 69
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ................................................................................... 71
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ............................................................ 72
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................................. 73
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ................................... 81
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .............................................................................. 82
Annex 10: Original Project Components and Project Monitoring Indicators as described and
presented in the PAD (Original Project Objectives and Description) ...................................... 83
Annex 11: Project Amendments and Restructurings ............................................................. 91
Annex 12: Revised Project Description Following First Project Restructuring ....................... 92
Annex 13: Revised Project Objectives and Description following Second Project Restructuring9
Annex 14: Revised Project Monitoring Indicators Following Second Project Restructuring .... 97
Annex 15: Revised Project Monitoring Indicators Following December 18, 2009 Revision .... 99
Annex 16: Chronology of Implementation Experience ....................................................... 102
Annex 17: Calculation for Outcome Rating for Formally Revised Project ........................... 107
Annex 18: Value-Added Activities supported by the World Bank in Mexico' Health Sector in
the context of the Third Basic Health Care Project .............................................................. 108
MAP ............................................................................................................................... 112
A. Basic Information
                                                                          MX: III BASIC
Country:                Mexico                  Project Name:             HEALTH CARE
                                                                          PROJECT
Project ID:             P066321                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-70610
ICR Date:               06/29/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:                 SHCP
Original Total
                        USD 350.0M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 350.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 350.0M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Secretariat of Health
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:       03/29/2000     Effectiveness:                              11/11/2002
                                                                                 09/13/2004
                                                                                 03/18/2005
Appraisal:            04/30/2001     Restructuring(s):
                                                                                 07/11/2006
                                                                                 12/18/2009
Approval:             06/21/2001     Mid-term Review:        09/15/2006          05/18/2006
                                     Closing:                06/30/2007          12/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Unsatisfactory          Government:      Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:



                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     2                       2
Health                                                                98                  98


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Access to urban services and housing                                  13
Decentralization                                                      13                  13
Health system performance                                             25                  25
Indigenous peoples                                                    24                  24
Rural services and infrastructure                                     25                  38

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                           David de Ferranti
Country Director:          David N. Sislen                      Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:            Keith E. Hansen                      Charles C. Griffin
Project Team Leader:       Claudia Macias                       Patricio V. Marquez
ICR Team Leader:           Claudia Macias
ICR Primary Author:        Suzana Nagele de Campos Abbott


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
- Achieve equity in health services for the people living in underserved rural and urban
areas of Mexico;




                                               ii
  - Increase access, quality, and equity of health services provided to indigenous
populations, and quality of health services provided to people living in municipalities
with the lowest national welfare indexes;
  - Support institutional development of the Federal Secretariat of Health (SSA), State
Health Secretariats (SESAs), Health Jurisdictions, local health agencies, and service
providers; and
  - Develop innovative health prevention and care models in order to reduce the health
gap for underserved and vulnerable populations.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The Project supports the Borrower in the implementation of the Sistema de Proteccion
Social en Salud (SPSS), specifically, to improve access of poor people eligible for
enrollment or enrolled in the subsidized regime of the Seguro Popular to the insurance's
benefit package, restructure and develop State Health Systems, and strengthen the
Federal Ministry of Health in its role as the steward of the SPSS.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target       Formally         Actual Value
                                               Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                 approval           Target         Completion or
                                               documents)           Values          Target Years
                Individuals entitled and enrolled in the subsidized regime (RS) of Seguro Popular
Indicator 1 :
                (SP) as a proportion of all individuals entitled to be enrolled in the RS of SP
Value
quantitative or 26%                          60%               65%            70%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                     06/30/2008        12/31/2009     12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Indigenous entitled and enrolled in the RS of SP as a proportion of all indigenous
Indicator 2 :
                entitled to be enrolled in the RS of SP
Value
quantitative or 6.1%                         30%               30.6%          21.3%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                     06/30/2008        12/31/2009     12/31/2009
Comments
                Affiliation of indigenous achieved at the end of the project was lower than target
(incl. %
                for the end of the project
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Health facilities accredited with the SPSS
Value
quantitative or 10.7%                        40%               60%            62.4%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                     06/30/2008        12/31/2009     12/31/2009
Comments
                The number of health facilities accredited surpassed revised target for the end of
(incl. %
                the project
achievement)


                                                iii
                  No. of federal entities that have established a REPSS that operates with a
Indicator 4 :
                  financial management system that allows the strategic purchase of hospital care
Value
quantitative or   0                          16                  16              1
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2005                 06/30/2008          12/31/2009      12/31/2009
Comments
                  Progress towards the objectives of the restructuring of health services was the
(incl. %
                  weakest overall
achievement)
                  Progress in restructuring SES is monitored in all states and an annual report
Indicator 5 :
                  prepared and disseminated
Value
                  Information not            Annual report
quantitative or                                                                  Partially achieved
                  systematically collected   disseminated
Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2005                 12/31/2008                          12/31/2009
Comments
                  Balance score card to monitor progress in organizational restructuring towards
(incl. %
                  the separation of functions was developed and questionnaire applied in 2008
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                                Values (from                      Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                 approval                        Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                                documents)                       Target Years
                  Staff recruited and contracted under innovative HR management models in
Indicator 1 :     Highly Specialized Hospitals as a proportion of the total number of staff
                  contracted in Highly Specialized Hospitals
Value
(quantitative     0%                         100%                                Partially achieved
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2006                 12/31/2008                          12/31/2009
Comments
                  Models were developed but were not implemented due to organizational
(incl. %
                  restructuring of the Federal Secretariat of Health
achievement)
                  Number of states that report the health status of their population by ethnicity and
Indicator 2 :
                  native language
Value
(quantitative     6 States                   15 States                           Partially achieved
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2007                 12/31/2008                          12/31/2009
Comments
                  As of December 2009, the Ministry of Health has the information systems in
(incl. %
                  place that captures this information
achievement)
                  Monitoring and assessment of the efficiency and effectiveness of the FOROSS
Indicator 3 :
                  strategy through the evaluation of the Master Plan for Infrastructure
Value                                                           Evaluation
                                                                                Partially achieved
(quantitative                                                   completed



                                                  iv
or Qualitative)                                                   before the
                                                                  project's
                                                                  closing date
Date achieved                                                     12/31/2009      12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %          Desk review with limited scope was carried out
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Number of patients with prescriptions fully and timely filled
Value
(quantitative     85%                       88%                   89%             91%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2005                06/30/2008            12/31/2009      12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %          Project ambitious target for the end of the project was met and slightly surpassed
achievement)
                  Medicines supplied to individuals enrolled in the SR of SP as a proportion of all
Indicator 5 :
                  medicines prescribed for individuals enrolled in the RS of SP.
Value
(quantitative   85%                         92%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                    12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                       Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                               DO                            IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                   (USD millions)
  1     12/19/2001           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                       0.00
  2     06/12/2002           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                       0.00
  3     12/11/2002           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     13.50
  4     06/16/2003           Satisfactory                 Unsatisfactory                    22.27
  5     12/09/2003           Satisfactory                 Unsatisfactory                    22.27
  6     06/03/2004           Satisfactory                 Unsatisfactory                    28.83
  7     06/23/2004           Satisfactory                 Unsatisfactory                    29.51
  8     08/25/2004           Satisfactory                 Unsatisfactory                    29.51
  9     10/08/2004           Satisfactory                 Unsatisfactory                    30.78
 10     12/09/2004           Satisfactory                 Unsatisfactory                    30.78
 11     04/17/2005          Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory                    31.93
 12     05/29/2006          Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory                    83.98
 13     06/29/2006          Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory                    84.26
 14     12/19/2006       Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory             163.35
 15     06/09/2007       Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory             173.83
 16     12/20/2007       Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory             220.05
 17     06/26/2008       Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory             247.80


                                                   v
 18    12/12/2008     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory       321.72
 19    06/23/2009     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory       350.00
                                                          Moderately
 20    12/29/2009     Moderately Satisfactory                                      350.00
                                                        Unsatisfactory


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Align project activities with
                                                     changes in the General Health
                                                     Law expenditures under 1st
 09/13/2004       N        S     U           30.45
                                                     amendment while 2nd
                                                     restructuring was being
                                                     prepared
                                                     Allow disbursement of
                                                     expenditures under 1st
 03/18/2005       N        S     U           31.93
                                                     amendment while 2nd
                                                     restructuring prepared
 07/11/2006       Y       U      U           84.26
                                                     Support to address A H1/N1
 12/18/2009               MS     MS         350.00
                                                     Pandemic


If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving
body) enter ratings below:
                                                            Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets                                  Unsatisfactory
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets                      Moderately Satisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                                 Moderately Satisfactory




                                                vi
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design


1.1 Context at Appraisal
In the decades before appraisal of the Third Basic Health Care Project (PROCEDES, the
Project), Mexico had witnessed significant improvements in the health status of its
population as a result of better access to basic services and public health measures.
Typical indicators of health status such as life expectancy, infant mortality, mortality of
children under five, mortality from pneumonia and diarrhea, maternal mortality, vaccine
preventable diseases and the total fertility rate had all shown dramatic improvement by
the year 2000. Like other middle-income countries, Mexico was undergoing an
epidemiological transition.      While childhood diseases, respiratory diseases and
malnutrition continued to be significant causes of illness and death, cardiovascular
diseases, cancer and injuries due to accidents and violence were becoming responsible for
an increasing number of illnesses and deaths. HIV/AIDS prevalence had increased in
recent years, but was still concentrated among those with high-risk behaviors and in
marginal urban areas.

The Government of Mexico (GOM) had targeted expanding health services coverage and
facilitating access to basic health services among the uninsured poor1 under its 1995-2000
Health Sector Reform Program, supported in part by the Bank-financed Second Basic
Health Care Project (PAC).2 During this period, the Government had succeeded in: (i)
expanding coverage of basic health services to 10.9 million persons in dispersed rural
areas--the PAC alone expanded coverage to 8.1 million persons in 874 municipalities, 96
health jurisdictions and 42,900 rural localities in 19 states; (ii) decentralizing health
services delivery for the uninsured population by creating 32 decentralized public
agencies (OPDs), which were autonomous, had their own assets, and managed the
resources needed to operate the services under the policies set and regulated by the
Federal Health Secretariat (SSA); and (iii) targeting women and children under the PAC
which resulted in near universal vaccination rates for children, a reduction of childhood
morbidity and preventable mortality, and of maternal and peri-natal mortality.

Under this Plan, the Government had also: (i) designed and adapted a health care and
delivery model for the uninsured population (MASPA) in each participating state
according to its local characteristics; (ii) designed a package of Essential Health Services
(PABSS) as a universal, minimum, irreducible set of 13 low-cost, high-impact health
interventions in response to the health needs in rural areas identified in a national
epidemiological survey; (iii) developed a micro-regionalization methodology as a

1
  The major pillar of Mexico's healthcare system is a mandatory social insurance program funded out of
contributions from formal sector employees, employers, and the government. The main institutions are the
Mexican Social Security Institute (IMSS) and the Social Security Institute for Public Employees (ISSSTE),
but the Mexican Petroleum Company (PEMEX), the Federal District Government, the armed forces, the
police and others also have their own systems. The remainder of the population, the uninsured, receive
healthcare services primarily from a health system under the auspices of the Federal Secretariat of Health.
2
  Second Basic Health Care Project, Loan No. 3943-ME for $310.0 million equivalent, approved on
September 26, 1995.


                                                    1
planning and targeting tool for PAC; and (iv) implemented a dual strategy to expand
health service coverage: (a) a functional expansion strengthening the existing supply of
services by rehabilitating and equipping health units, hiring and training personnel,
providing drugs, and reorganizing the delivery of services; and (b) a geographic
expansion augmenting the network of services by using mobile units, involving
community personnel, and providing radio-communications equipment and logistical
support.

Despite this progress, however, at the time the Project was appraised, Mexico still faced
the following important challenges to improving the quality, equity and efficiency in the
delivery of health care services to its population:

·      Unequal Access to Quality Health Care. While health care coverage had
       improved significantly ­only 500,000 people living in scattered and rural
       communities with less than 100 inhabitants remained without access to basic
       health care services­ the accessibility, quality, completeness and regularity of
       health services varied greatly in practice. This was due in part to: (i) a population
       distribution in which about 24 million Mexicans lived in 201,138 localities with
       fewer than 500 people, and more than 151,000 localities with fewer than 100
       people; (ii) cultural, ethnic and linguistic barriers, especially in remote areas; (iii)
       difficulties in attracting health personnel to remote areas; and (iv) the irregular
       distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical supplies.
·      Differences in Health Status. Mexico's health status indicators masked large
       variations in health status indicators throughout the country, where the
       economically better-off groups had health status indicators similar to those of
       developed countries, while most of the indigenous communities had indicators
       closer to or even lower than those of low-income countries.
·      The Ongoing Challenge of Decentralization. Mexico had been moving toward
       more autonomy and fiscal responsibility at sub-national levels of government,
       transferring authority, responsibility, and resources from the Federal Government
       to the 31 states, the Federal District and thousands of municipalities across the
       country. The Ramo 33 legislation issued in 1997 transfers resources for
       supporting social expenditures and for administrative and supervisory
       responsibilities to state and local governments; for health, Ramo 33 provided
       resources for the decentralization of health services and helped finance investment
       and recurrent cost such as salaries of medical personnel and pharmaceutical
       products. The Social Infrastructure Fund (FAIS) was established to finance the
       construction and maintenance of basic health infrastructure and of institutional
       development programs.
       Important objectives of the 1995-2000 Health Sector Reform Program were to
       strengthen the SSA's role in regulating the health sector and establishing national
       health policies and to decentralize health budgets and delegate authority for
       service provision and quality of care to the 32 federal entities. States had begun
       to deconcentrate service provision to sanitary districts and health facilities.
       Another objective was to introduce the use of a resource-allocation formula that
       included infant mortality and poverty indicators, although the replacement of


                                              2
       historical budgets and negotiating ability with the states was limited given the
       large share of salaries and benefits of personnel within the health budget. The
       states were not yet benefiting from decentralization as they needed to strengthen
       the organizational, managerial and operational capacity of their state health
       secretariats, health districts and service providers.
·      Inequitable Distribution of Healthcare Spending. The distribution of health care
       resources and outcomes varied considerably across delivery institutions (see
       footnote 1) and states. Per capita health care spending for the uninsured
       population varied between $19 and $28 per capita, considerably less than the
       estimated $500 per capita that PEMEX was estimated to spend for its workers.
       The poorest states, which happened to have the highest burden of disease, receive
       considerably less resources per capita than the national average, exacerbating the
       overall inequity in the system. Remote areas continued to be underserved
       compared with the national average in spite of previous increases in rural health
       facilities. With an increasing proportion of the working population (covered by
       IMSS, ISSSTE, PEMEX and other mandatory social insurance programs), and an
       aging population with a shifting epidemiological profile requiring higher-cost
       care, inequities in the health care system were expected to increase.
·      Inefficiency and Low Quality in Public Health Services. The Government had
       made progress in improving access, efficiency and quality of public health
       services and in closing the gap in access to basic health care in rural areas, yet
       much more needed to be done to achieve better quality and higher levels of
       efficiency and continue removing operational deficiencies that constrained quality
       and effectiveness of public health care. Besides the inefficiencies that existed
       across the public system, a survey taken at the time revealed that approximately
       62 percent of the users of the public health system reported low satisfaction with
       the services provided.
·      Weaknesses in Management and Stewardship of the Health System. In spite of
       previous improvements, the SSA's role in defining health sector priorities,
       formulating policies and norms, and regulating health care activity within a
       decentralized and deconcentrated context required further strengthening. Most
       state level health institutions, health districts and health care providers lacked the
       management systems to administer their resources and services effectively;
       managers were not trained to plan the strategic use of their resources, to use
       budgets as tools for planning and control, to train and develop their workforce, to
       manage and use clinical and management information systems and to measure
       outcomes. A Management Information Network (REDSSA) integrated 32 federal
       entities and 23 departments providing on-line access to health information
       systems, but it did not yet reach ambulatory facilities and most of the public
       hospitals.

Government Strategy for 2001-2006. The Government's strategy for the health sector
prioritized decreasing social and regional inequities and creating an equitable healthcare
delivery system with comparable results for all population groups, through the following
strategies:




                                             3
        1) Equity: to decrease social and regional inequities by reducing differences in
           health status among the Mexican population;
        2) Quality:     to provide quality health care services to the poor, the
           disenfranchised and the indigenous populations through improved technical
           and interpersonal medical care; and
        3) Financial Protection: to decrease the financial burden incurred through
           catastrophic illnesses that exacerbated poverty.

To carry this out, the Government aimed to deepen the decentralization process,
delegating more decision-making authority to the states, who would in turn deconcentrate
functional and financial authority to health districts and to municipal health authorities
and promote collaboration between public and private health providers. It also prioritized
modernizing, simplifying and structuring with more transparency the policy-making and
regulatory roles of the SSA.

Rationale for Bank Assistance. The Project was fully consistent with the World Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy3 which stated that continued support would be provided to
the Government for increasing health care access among the poor while reforming and
strengthening public health care institutions. It was the logical next step in Bank
assistance, following two previous projects in support of Mexico's program of improving
the delivery of basic health care services. At the time of the Project's appraisal the
second project, the PAC was still under implementation and was performing above
expectations. In fact, in the end, the PAC's outcome was rated Highly Satisfactory. The
Project also complemented other Bank assistance to Mexico's health sector4, and more
importantly, in support of Mexico's decentralization efforts under an adjustment
operation5 which included a one-time grant to finance training, monitoring, reporting and
institutional development to improve the delivery of the basic package of health services.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
Achieve equity in health services for the people living in undeserved rural and urban
areas of Mexico; Increase access, quality, and equity of health services provided to
indigenous populations, and quality of health services provided to people living in
municipalities with the lowest national welfare indexes; Support institutional
development of the Federal Secretariat of Health (SSA), State Health Secretariats
(SESAs), Health Jurisdictions, local health agencies, and service providers; and Develop
innovative health prevention and care models in order to reduce the health gap for
underserved and vulnerable populations.

The Project's Development Objectives as presented in the PAD were to: (i) achieve
equity in health services for the people living in underserved rural and urban areas of
Mexico; (ii) increase access, quality and equity of health services provided to indigenous

3
  World Bank Mexico Country Assistance Strategy, Report No. 19289-ME dated May 13, 1999.
4
  Health System Reform Technical Assistance Loan, Loan No. 4367-ME for $25 million approved on June
30,1998, and Health System Reform Structural Adjustment Loan, Loan No. 4364-ME for $700 million
approved on June 30,1999.
5
  Decentralization Adjustment Loan, Loan No. 7002-ME for $600 million approved on December 14, 1999.


                                                 4
populations, and quality of health services provided to people living in municipalities
with the lowest national welfare indexes; (iii) support institutional development of the
Federal Secretariat of Health (SSA), State Health Secretariats (SESAs), Health
Jurisdictions (Jurisdicciones Sanitarias), local health agencies and service providers; and
(iv) develop innovative health prevention and care models in order to reduce the health
gap for underserved and vulnerable populations.


The impact of the Project was to be measured according to an extensive list of input,
output and outcome indicators as follows (See Annex 10):



·   Input Indicators. Improvements in physical structures, equipment, and stocks of
    medical supplies; development of management information systems; number, quality
    and presence of appropriately trained health staff; sustainable budgetary allocations.

·   Output Indicators. Number of underserved rural and urban poor receiving
    appropriate, comprehensive and quality health care services provided by trained and
    motivated health staff on a planned and continuous basis; number of indigenous
    children (aged 6-24 months) and pregnant women receiving micronutrient
    supplementation; number of cities receiving HIV/AIDS prevention messages via
    radio on a regular basis.

·   Outcome Indicators. Increased accessibility to quality health care by indigenous
    populations; increased awareness among the population of HIV/AIDS prevention;
    and in the medium term, improvement in the health status of the beneficiary
    population through decreases in morbidity and mortality from vaccine-preventable
    diseases, respiratory infections, diarrheal diseases, sexually transmitted infections and
    reproductive health related causes, resulting in an increase life expectancy with less
    disease and disabilities.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
The Project supports the Borrower in the implementation of the Sistema de Protección
Social en Salud (SPSS), specifically, to improve access of poor people eligible for
enrollment or enrolled in the subsidized regime of the Seguro Popular to the insurance's
benefit package, restructure and develop State Health Systems, and strengthen the
Federal Ministry of Health in its role as the steward of the SPSS. The Seguro Popular is
the public health insurance, named after a first pilot Seguro Popular. It constitutes the
key pillar of Mexico's Sistema de Protección Social en Salud serving people without
contributory social security. It is the largest health insurance both in terms of coverage
and benefits for people lacking contributory social security in Latin America.It is
administered by State Health Systems.

The Project had three restructurings with loan amendments, one simple loan amendment,
and one separate closing date extension (See Annex 11 for a summary of these


                                             5
restructurings/amendments). Of these, only the second restructuring (which resulted in
the third amendment to the Loan Agreement) modified the Project's Development
Objectives and Key Indicators, as described below. The other restructurings and the loan
amendment are described in detail in Sections 1.6 and 2.2.


The first restructuring, a first-order restructuring, was approved by the Bank's Board on
an absence-of-objection basis on September 9, 2004 and resulted in the first amendment
to the Loan Agreement, dated September 13, 2004. Although this restructuring contained
a significant modification of the Project's description, it did not change formally the
Project's objectives or revise its key indicators. However, the Loan Amendment did
modify the wording of the Project's first objectives to read: (a) increase the provision
and quality of health services for the population of the Borrower living in underserved
rural and urban areas; (b) increase the access and quality of health services provided to
indigenous populations; (c) support the institutional strengthening of the SSA, the SESA,
the Health Jurisdictions, municipal and community health entities and local health service
providers; and (d) develop innovative prevention and health care models for the
populations mentioned in (a) and (b) above.


The second restructuring, also a first order restructuring, was approved by the Bank's
Board on an absence-of-objection basis on June 29, 2006 and resulted in the third
amendment to the Loan Agreement, dated July 11, 2006. This was the most significant
of the Project's restructurings which included comprehensive changes to the Project's
Development Objectives, components, activities and outputs to align the Project fully
with the Government's new reform agenda of the federal and state governments that had
been launched in 2002, roughly at the same time the loan had become effective.


Upon assuming office in December 2000, a new Administration had designed and
initiated an ambitious reform with the key objective of providing social protection in
health for the poor. In 2001 Seguro Popular was piloted in 5 states: Aguascalientes,
Campeche, Colima, Jalisco y Tabasco. A number of surveys and studies accompanied the
Seguro Popular's pilot phase and the evidence gathered was an essential element in
designing the reform and developing consensus. The legal framework for this reform, the
Social Protection System in Health (Sistema de Proteccion Social en Salud, SPSS) was
introduced into the General Law in 2003. A central feature of this SPSS reform was the
creation of the Seguro Popular, an insurance mechanism for the non-formally employed
that was to remove the financial barriers to access a catalog of initially 72, later 76
essential health services.6 The implementation of the SPSS required a fundamental
restructuring of the State Health Systems, with core health system functions separately
assigned to distinct organizations. The separation of these functions introduced market

6
 The catalog of essential health services was increased to 266 interventions at present covering 95 percent
of the main illnesses and 100 percent of illnesses treated at the primary level.


                                                    6
mechanisms into the system with what were expected to be efficiency gains. The
ambitious reform program departed fundamentally from past sector priorities; moreover,
the reform and the Project's objectives became incongruent. Consequently, budget
allocations for activities eligible for financing under the Project decreased substantially.
The first restructuring had attempted to modify the Project's components to reflect the
Government's new reform priorities and adapt the loan's design into one of a Sector-
Wide Approach designed around the SPSS, but for reasons described in detail in Section
2.2, that restructuring fell short of what would have been required to support fully the
Government's new program through better project implementation.
The revised Project Development Objectives after the second restructuring were to
support the Borrower in the implementation of the SPSS, specifically, to improve access
of poor people eligible for enrollment or enrolled in the Seguro Popular to the
insurance's benefit package, restructure and develop State Health Systems, and
strengthen the Federal Ministry of Health's role as the steward of the SPSS. This
restructuring also modified the Project's description as presented in Annex 13.

Revised Project monitoring indicators and targets were developed jointly by the SSA and
the Bank, and presented in a revised Implementation Letter. The indicators agreed for
Part A of the Project also served to measure the contribution of the activities financed by
the Project prior to the proposed amendment towards the achievement of project
objectives. The revised project monitoring indicators after the second restructuring are
presented in Annex 14.

The Project's third restructuring (described in Section 1.6) did not modify its
Development Objectives or its monitoring indicators, although it did expand the scope of
project activities through a new component and expenditure category aimed at supporting
the Government's response to the A/H1N1 influenza pandemic in early 2009.


Finally, on December 18, 2009, the Bank agreed to a modified Implementation Letter for
the Project aimed at refining the Project's Monitoring Matrix7. The changes were aimed
at correcting numerators, denominators and baseline values of some indicators as better
information had become available. The modifications did not imply the substitution or
elimination of any of the original indicators, nor a weakening of the targets. They did,
however, include the introduction of a few additional indicators to capture better progress
in project implementation. The revised indicators are presented in Annex 15.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
The Project's main beneficiaries were expected to be 13.1 million uninsured and
underserved poor living in Mexico's rural and marginal urban areas. Of these, the Project
expected to provide services to 10.5 million poor rural residents, (including 7.5 million




7
    The Government has not yet countersigned this modified Implementation Letter.


                                                     7
rural indigenous people) and 2.6 million urban poor residents8. The rural population was
considered ethnically, linguistically and culturally diverse, and geographically dispersed,
which presented organization, cultural and linguistic challenges. The urban poor were
concentrated in marginalized areas where the delivery and financing of service presented
different challenges associated with the safety of health facilities and of health personnel
and patients, and the intersectoral nature of risk factors such as alcohol abuse, drug
addiction and domestic violence that were associated with the rising incidence of non-
communicable diseases, injuries, violence and mental disorders9.


The actual selection of states and communities that would be eligible for assistance under
the Project was to be made on the basis of criteria that reflected the degree of
marginalization, urban deprivation and welfare of those state and communities using
different indices based on the national census, and that took into consideration the health
needs and the supply of health and other social services in each area, following eligibility
criteria established for inclusion under the Project.


By supporting the decentralization of the SSA and its policies and practices of
transferring resources and delegating authority to state governments, deconcentrating
management authority from the state level to sanitary jurisdictions and assigning more
decision making authority to the point of service, the Project was also expected to result
in a more efficient system capable of delivering a sustainable and enhanced basic health
care package to all of Mexico's population.
After the Project's restructurings described above, its beneficiaries became the Seguro
Popular's target beneficiaries, that is the entirety of the Mexican population without
contributory social security, i.e., IMSS and ISSSTE. This was expected to represent an
approximate 48 million people.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
The Project was to meet its objectives through the implementation of three components,
summarized below and described in detail in Annex 10:


Component I: Quality and Equity for Rural and Marginal Urban Areas ($430.9
million project cost, $220.38 loan financing)



8
   The Project's rural areas were to be the PAC project area located in 19 states and expanded
geographically to include additional municipalities selected according to welfare indicators located in five
new states for a total of 908 municipalities.
9
  The Project was to first pilot test a basic urban health services delivery model involving public and private
providers in the marginal urban areas of three cities: Tijuana, Acapulco and Valle del Chaco. Continuous
monitoring and rapid assessments of these pilot experiences was to allow adjustments before replicating it
in the marginal urban areas of an initial set of 50 selected cities.


                                                      8
Component I aimed to help improve equity and quality of health services by providing
rural and marginal urban poor with access to a package of cost-effective health
interventions and basic hospital care, including emergency medical services closer to
their place of residence. The Project aimed to provide expanded and improved services
to those communities for which the PAC program had not yet provided regular access to
essential clinical care (functional expansion) and to expand coverage to those that had not
yet received any regular services under the PAC program (geographical expansion).


The Project was designed to finance subprojects prepared by health jurisdictions at the
state level that met eligibility criteria that included: (i) local level in scope in selected
rural and marginal urban areas; (ii) targeting following socio-economic criteria (e.g.
unmet social needs); (iii) use of a plan involving existing organizations, including state,
health jurisdictions, and non-governmental organizations, as well as existing facilities;
(iv) financial and administrative capacity to carry out the subproject; (v) agreement to
implement package of essential health services, including public health interventions and
basis clinical care, as defined by SSA; (vi) establishment of separate project accounts,
accounting and audits; (vii) agreement to assign required resources, including annual
funding allocations and for incremental expenditures; and (viii) agreement to monitor
implementation according to the Project's monitoring indicators, and evaluate its impact.


The Project would finance these subprojects prepared by health jurisdictions at the state
level that would include: (i) construction, upgrading, expansion and maintenance of
health centers and basic community hospitals, following a detailed diagnostic
infrastructure review and an assessment of alternative ways of delivering health services
(e.g., contracting with other public and non-government health care providers); (ii) basic
medical equipment; (iii) essential office equipment; (iv) essential medical supplies,
including access to an essential package of pharmaceuticals and micronutrient
supplementation for the indigenous children and pregnant women; (v) laboratory
equipment; (vi) radio and other communication equipment to improve referrals; (vii)
ambulances; (viii) training and supervision; and (ix) on a declining basis, the purchase of
health services under agreements and contracts with third party providers.


These subprojects were to focus on: (i) service delivery in rural areas; (ii) service
delivery in marginal urban areas; (iii) HIV/AIDS prevention and control; (iv)
organization of health care networks; and (v) social communications.


Component II: Efficiency, Institutional Development and Decentralization ($70.0
million project cost, $59.47 loan financing)




                                             9
Component II of the Project was to support The National Crusade for Improving the
Quality of Health Services, launched by SSA in February 2001, through the
implementation of strategies and models geared to the development of structures,
processes, and skills required to provide quality care, ensure user satisfaction, and
support effective organizational performance. It was to focus on leadership, strategic
planning and management, clinical and managerial processes, human resources
management and management information systems. Specifically, this component was
designed to:


     (i)    Support the modernization and transparency of the decentralized
            organizational and operational structure by strengthening the managerial
            capacity of the OPDs;10
     (ii)   Support the OPDs in deconcentrating managerial functions to the health
            jurisdictions;
     (iii) Strengthen the management capacity of the health jurisdictions;
     (iv)   Improve the management of the inpatient and outpatient services at the
            primary and secondary levels of the health care delivery system;
     (v)    Train central and state level personnel in order to achieve efficiency in their
            financial and budgetary functions;
     (vi)   Create an indigenous health monitoring system;
     (vii) Certify the quality of laboratory procedures and HIV testing; and
     (viii) Support central areas of the SSA in order to achieve transparency and
            excellence in their administrative procedures.


 Component III: Innovation, Pilot Models, Policy Studies and Impact Evaluation
 ($76.8 million project cost, $66.65 loan financing)
Component III of the Project was designed to test innovative proposals and alternative
health care models, carry out policy studies, evaluate the impact of the Project and
finance project management, through the implementation of activities in support of: (i)
the National Crusade for Improving the Quality of Health Services; (ii) an increase in the
quality and equity of health services provided to Indigenous populations; (iii) financial
protection initiative the would protect families against financial losses due to illness; and
(iv) initiatives to decrease social and regional inequities.

1.6 Revised Components




10
  Under the PAC, the authority for managing health care organization and delivery for the uninsured
population at the state level was transferred from the SSA to OPDs in the 31 states and the Federal District.
The OPDs, which were run by a Board of Directors, were responsible for physical, human, financial and
material resources. The Executive Director of the OPDs was the SESA. Health programs were
implemented by the 231 health jurisdictions in the country, with the number of jurisdictions in each state
varying according to population density and geographical extension.


                                                    10
The Project's components were revised through the three restructurings and one loan
amendment that were processed throughout implementation.
The Project's first restructuring and the corresponding amendment to the Loan
Agreement aimed to better align the Project's activities with the provision of the 2003
General Health Law, particularly to support the states in restructuring the organization,
financing, and delivery of their health care systems to provide quality services to the
beneficiary population under the SPSS. Following a SWAp (Sector-Wide Approach), the
restructured project would be geared to support the country-led sector-wide program
whose scale was to be greater than that of a traditional project. The key features of the
proposed approach were: (i) country ownership ­development partners such as the Bank
support the government's own nationwide program and there is a high level of
consultation between the government and its partners for program implementation; (ii) a
comprehensive sector/program policy framework (i.e., SPSS) that partners agreed with;
and (iii) harmonization around country systems as the goal was to help strengthen
government institutions at different levels of the system, procedures and staff, rather than
establishing parallel systems. The restructuring and corresponding amendment consisted
of:


·      Adjusting the Project Description and its components as described in
       Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement to fully align the Project with the SPSS
       initiative resulted in the following three components that are spelled out in detail
       in Annex 12:



       ¾ Part A: Essential Health Care Services and Institutional Development at the
         State Level
       ¾ Part B: Essential Health Care Services and Institutional Development at the
         National Level
       ¾ Part C: Pilot Models, Policy Studies, Impact Evaluation and Project
         Management



·      Reallocating loan proceeds to assign $241.3 million to a new disbursement
       category (Transfers) that would permit the financing of the inputs and activities
       associated with Health Subprojects implemented by state governments. Although
       such subprojects were to be financed under the original project as well, they
       would now receive increased emphasis under the Government's new strategy as
       an instrument to support the reorganization and the strengthening of state level
       health care delivery networks in accordance with the SPSS initiative under
       mutually-agreed Participation Agreements.      This shift reflected the new
       decentralized approach and a de-emphasis on direct federal interventions. To
       streamline implementation, this new disbursement category allowed for loan



                                            11
    financing to reimburse 80 percent of the transfers from the Federal Government to
    the state for health subprojects. This level of financing was based on reviews
    which determined that at least 80 percent of the transfers would be expected to be
    used for items eligible for funding under the restructured project.



·   Financing of recurrent expenditures including drugs, vaccines, and other
    medical supplies, was proposed to promote the comprehensiveness of the
    Participating Agreements with the states and to streamline implementation. Since
    the policy on Country Financing Parameters was not in place at the time this
    restructuring was approved, the financing of recurrent of expenditures that were
    not "incremental", on a flat (as opposed to declining) basis required a waiver of
    the provisions of OMS 1.21. Typical concerns about financing recurrent
    expenditures at the time (i.e., that the financing would not be sustained when
    external financing ceased to exist), did not apply in the case of the Project
    especially in view of the reliability and levels of transfers to finance the
    Participating Agreements, the small increment in recurrent expenditures relative
    to the sector budget, along with activities to support enhanced spending
    efficiency, and a recent concrete example of incremental recurrent spending being
    sustained following completion of a previous Bank-financed operation in the
    sector, the PAC.



·   Supporting the Government in scaling up the treatment program for
    HIV/AIDS by financing the purchase of anti-retroviral drugs. As had been
    shown by international experience, more widespread access to care and treatment
    in Mexico was seen to offer the potential to attract hundreds of people into health
    care settings, in which HIV prevention messages could be delivered and
    reinforced. The availability of HIV treatment would also provide new incentives
    for HIV testing, which in turn would increase opportunities for counseling on
    HIV prevention, and help reduce stigma and discrimination that is widespread in
    most of the Latin American and Caribbean countries.



·   Extending the Loan's Closing Date by 18 months to December 31, 2008 to
    allow sufficient time for successful project implementation and full disbursement
    of loan proceeds. The Borrower and the Bank agreed to a specific action plan and
    a schedule to complete the Project within the requested extension period.



·   Increasing procurement prior review thresholds and rules for no-objections,
    with the redefinition based on the level of risk and procurement capacity of
    implementing agencies. The Procurement Capacity Assessment of the units that
    carried out procurement activities concluded that the risk was average. This


                                        12
      modification would result in fewer prior-reviews for the Project and more post-
      review to expedite implementation. New thresholds for the Project were to be:
      works, $5 million; goods, $500,000; consultants (firms), $350,000 and consultants
      (individuals), $100,000.



·     Modifying the administrative and financial arrangements under the Project
      to reflect disbursements against transfers from the Federal Government to
      the States. Transfers to the States to strengthen their health care delivery systems
      would be agreed under Participation Agreements between the SSA and the
      Governors of the participating States that would detail the type of activities that
      would be supported, the goods and services that would be financed, and the
      expected outputs and outcomes. Withdrawals from the Loan Account were to be
      made on the basis of Statements of Transfer (SOT) to co-finance with the
      Participating States the works, goods, services and operating costs required for the
      implementation of State Health Development Subprojects. The new Category 5
      of Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement was to permit payments for such works,
      goods, services and operating costs incurred by the Participating States on or after
      March 31, 2003. This was expected to facilitate the potential disbursement of
      about $80 million as reimbursement for project-related activities under eligible
      State Health Development Subprojects financed under the SSA budget.


The second amendment to the Loan Agreement, which did not involve a restructuring
to the Project, was dated March 18, 2005. It was approved to introduce adjustments that
would permit disbursement of retroactive expenditures that were to be eligible for
financing under the Project's first restructuring and loan amendment. The amendment
provided for: (i) reallocating among categories in Schedule 1 to reflect expenditures
with pharmaceuticals; (ii) changing the disbursement percentages against
pharmaceuticals from 86 percent to 100 percent, after the originally allocated $9.0
million were disbursed; (iii) adjusting the aggregate limits for procurement under NCB
for goods, works and Shopping for goods, works; and (iv) extending the retroactivity of
the financing for the purchase of pharmaceuticals to March 1, 2003.

The second restructuring (and third amendment to the Loan Agreement) resulted in
comprehensive changes to the Project's description (and objectives) that resulted in
revised components, activities and outputs to align fully the Project with the sector
reform agenda of the federal and state government (see Annex 13). Specifically, to help
achieve the revised Development Objectives described in Section 1.3, the Project's
Components were modified as follows:




                                          13
 Component I (Part A)11: Improve access of poor people eligible for enrollment or
 enrolled in the subsidized regime of the Seguro Popular to the insurance's benefit
 package (US$220 million)

 The impact of the SPSS on health and out-of-pocket expenditures was seen as depending
 critically on geographical access of individuals enrolled into the Seguro Popular to
 services included in the insurance's benefit package. To address this, in 2004 the
 Government had launched a strategy, Fortalecimiento de los Servicios de Salud
 (FOROSS) to strengthen the service delivery capacity of decentralized public health
 services delivering the benefit package of the Seguro Popular. This strategy spelled out
 ten dimensions that corresponded to the criteria for accreditation of health service
 providers with the SPSS. A key element of the strategy was the Investment Plan for
 Infrastructure and Equipment (Plan Maestro de Infraestructura en Salud, PMIFS) that
 would ensure universal access of poor people eligible for enrollment in the Seguro
 Popular to the insurance's benefit package by 2010. The restructured Project would
 support the implementation of the FOROSS strategy as it related to health centers, to
 hospitals up to 120 beds and to specialized ambulatory care units identified in the
 PMIFS. The scope of the activities supporting implementation of the FOROSS strategy
 would also differ substantially form those of the original Project: Seguro Popular's
 benefit package at the time included 76 interventions (currently 266) delivered at
 primary and secondary care facilities whereas that of the original Project included on 13,
 mainly preventive essential services delivered at the primary care level or by mobile
 services. Under this restructured component, the Project would only finance investments
 in health service delivery capacity, excluding the reimbursement of recurrent costs that
 had been included in the original project description (i.e., pharmaceuticals and vaccines).

 Component II (Part B): Restructure and develop State Health Systems (US$27
 million)

 The SPSS aimed to introduce new market mechanisms into the State Health Systems,
 and efficiency gains were considered dependent on a fundamental restructuring of these
 systems. Before the Health Reform, the State Ministries of Health were responsible for
 health system financing, service provision and stewardship. The introduction of the
 SPSS envisioned that distinct organizations, some of which were to be created, would
 assume the different functions of the health system. The Ministries of Health were
 expected to assume the role of the systems' steward. The State Regimes for Social
 Protection in Health would manage finances and purchase services included in the
 service catalog of the Seguro Popular from decentralized health service provider units
 and networks. The restructured Project would support the organizational and
 institutional restructuring of the State Health Systems, the strengthening of
 administrative and management functions of decentralized state health service provider
 units and networks, and the strengthening of the information technology infrastructure,


11
   The Project Restructuring dated July 11, 2006 renames Components I, II and III as Parts A, B, and C,
respectively. In order to avoid confusion between the Components in the original project, and those in the
restructured project, those of the latter will be referred to as Parts A, B and C.


                                                   14
including telemedicine networks, of organizations and decentralized health service
providers of State Health Systems.

Component III (Part C): Strengthen the Federal Ministry of Health's role as the
steward of the SPSS (US$16 million)

In the reform process, the Federal Ministry of Health assumed the role of the steward of
the SPSS. The restructured Project would help the Federal Ministry of Health to
enhance its capacity in critical stewardship functions, mainly, coordinating, supporting
and monitoring: (i) the implementation of the FOROSS strategy; (ii) the restructuring of
the State Health Systems; and (iii) the strengthening of decentralized state health
provider units and networks. Activities to strengthen the capacity of the Federal
Ministry of Health in these stewardship functions would form the third component of the
restructured Project.

The Project's monitoring indicators were also revised, an additional $60 million was
transferred to the Transfers disbursement category, aggregate thresholds for procurement
procedures other than ICB were eliminated and adjustments were required to the
Project's safeguards framework (which required adjustment, as described in Section 2.4)
by requiring the incorporation of safeguards plans into the Operational Manual (OM),
and a dated covenant in the Loan Agreement requiring a social and environmental
safeguards audit to assess compliance with the relevant safeguard policies in the past and
ongoing project activities.

The Project's third restructuring, a second order restructuring, was approved by the
Regional Vice President and resulted in a fourth amendment to the Loan Agreement,
dated December 18, 2009. This restructuring was processed to provide support to the
Government in its response to the national public health emergency due to the A/H1N1
Influenza emergency (consistent with OP/BP 8.00, Rapid Response to Crises and
Emergencies).

An influenza pandemic had originated in Mexico in mid-March 2009. By the end of
June 2009, a first wave of infections with a new strain of A/H1N1 had caused more than
9,200 episodes of severe illnesses and 119 deaths in Mexico. The spread of A/H1N1 in
Mexico further weakened macro-economic conditions in the country. The Secretariat of
Finance projected a contraction of Mexico's GDP by 8 percent for 2009 with five to 10
percent of this decline attributable to revenues lost due to reduced demand results from
social distancing and a severe drop in tourism following the outbreak of A/H1N1.

The Government acted quickly to reduce the spread of the new virus and to minimize
morbidity. In accordance with the National Plan for Preparedness and Response to an
Influenza Pandemic (which was developed in view of World Health Organization
Guidelines), the Government heightened epidemiological surveillance, upgraded
laboratories, executed a massive communications campaign encouraging preventive
behaviors, expanded and strengthened the provision of health services and replenished




                                           15
 stocks of medicines and vaccines. The Government estimated that the direct cost of
 these measures had surpassed $600 million.

 Responding to the Government's request for assistance, the Project's third restructuring
 expanded the scope of project activities and included a new component, Part D, to
 provide for: supporting SS's response to the influenza epidemic through the financing of
 goods, including pharmaceuticals and consumable medical supplies. The restructuring
 and loan amendment also: (i) introduced a new expenditure category under Schedule 1
 to the Loan Agreement for Goods, including Pharmaceutical and Consumable Medical
 Supplies (including the distribution thereof) and allocated $25.7 million to that category;
 (ii) modified procurement procedures for those goods to allow procurement by direct
 contracting; and (iii) provided for financing for those goods retroactive to March 18,
 2009, the date when the SSA implemented the first measures to respond to an unusual
 level of influenza-like illnesses.
The Government was to continue financing activities that were considered critical to
advance towards Project objectives that had yet to be fully achieved and the activities
included under the third restructuring fell within the Project Development Objective of
strengthening the quality of public health services for the poor. While the Project would
continue to target the poor, proposed additional activities would focus on vulnerable and
infected people.

1.7 Other significant changes
An additional one year loan Closing Date extension was approved by the Regional Vice
President on December 12, 2008.12

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
The Project was a follow-up to the Second Basic Health Care Project that had been rated
Highly Satisfactory. It followed the same basic health care delivery model, utilized
mostly the same fiduciary and other systems, and basically provided continued financing
for a model that had been successful, adjusting the model and the Project on the basis of
lessons of experience. These lessons included those with respect to: (i) targeting; (ii) the
role of health jurisdictions; (iii) staffing in hardship areas; (iv) building ownership and
sustainability in the states; (v) decentralization, deconcentration and resource allocation;
and (vi) monitoring and evaluation.

By providing support for increasing health care access among the poor while reforming
and strengthening public health care institutions, the Project was consistent with the
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy that had been considered by the Bank's Board on
June 8, 1999 (Report No. 19289-MX), and with the Progress Report that was scheduled
for consideration in June 2001 (Report No. 22147-MX).

12
  The Closing Date extension required approval by the Regional Vice President since it would extend the
implementation period beyond seven years. It was justified for the same reasons that justified the waiver of
commitment fee payments in 2006.


                                                    16
Although the General Health Law that provided the framework for the SPSS was
approved only in 2003, health system reform, especially the fairness of finance and
financial protection had been under discussion for quite some time before then (since the
late nineties). In fact, President Fox and his transition team had already identified health
sector priorities, including a proposal for universal health insurance, since coming to
office in 2000. Preparation of the Health Sector Reform and the Seguro Popular began
as soon as the new Administration came to office. As mentioned in Section 1.3, by 2001
the Seguro Popular was already being piloted in five states. In fact, the incorporation of
Seguro Popular as a strategy was included in the Government's National Health Program
2001-2006.

Yet, the Project's PAD made no reference to the new Government's plans to reform the
health sector. It mentioned only the Government's strategic objectives of improving
equity and quality, and providing financial protection. Specifically, the PAD mentioned
that to implement the strategic goals of increased equity, improved quality and financial
protection, the Government aimed to "link improvement in health status to social and
economic development, to prioritize emerging health problems, to offer financial
protection to the whole population, and to increase freedom of choice and community
participation. A national crusade for improving the quality of health services has already
been launched whereby decentralization will be deepened and more decision-making
authority will be passed to states. In turn, states will deconcentrate functional and
financial authority to the health districts and to the municipal health authorities and
promote collaboration between public and private health care providers....".

Although the Project was classified as a Category B for environmental purposes, the
Environmental Assessment (or Annex in the PAD) dealt only with the issue of medical
wastes, although investments under the original Component I would finance subprojects
that included construction, upgrading, expansion and maintenance of health centers and
basic community hospitals. A review of indigenous health issues was prepared, but was
based mostly on early work that had been prepared and disclosed by the Government.
More importantly, the Project's Operational Manual did not include requirements to
follow the Bank's environmental, Indigenous Peoples' or Pesticides safeguard policies.

While recognizing that Bank standards on the analysis and presentation of risks, and the
design of a project's monitoring and evaluation framework have become more stringent,
the Project's treatment of both of these in the PAD appeared superficial. The risk
analysis didn't address the possible risk that the new administration might opt to follow
another course in the health sector, and the only risk that was rated above "modest" was
that of weak NGO institutional capacity to develop HIV/AIDS prevention proposals.
Similarly, the original Project's monitoring framework was a long list of different types
of indicators that would have been difficult to monitor, and, even if that would have been
possible, would have not provided a tight, objective, basis on which to measure the
Project's achievements.


2.2 Implementation


                                            17
The Third Basic Health Care Project was approved by the Board on June 21, 2001,
signed on March 10, 2002 and became effective on November 11, 2002. Its objectives
and design built upon on successful predecessor project. However, since becoming
effective, the Project suffered implementation delays until its second restructuring on July
11, 2006. Given its several restructurings and amendments, a complete chronology of
events to facilitate understanding the various factors and circumstances that affected the
Project's implementation is provided in Annex 16. A summary of the issues that affected
the Project implementation follows.


Project Objectives. The ambitious reform program that the Government introduced in
2002/2003 departed fundamentally from past sector priorities; moreover, the reform and
the Project's objectives became incongruent. Consequently, the Project lost its relevance
practically before implementation began, and budget allocations for activities eligible for
financing under the Project decreased substantially. It was not until the Project was
restructured for the second time that its objectives became fully aligned with the
Government's program and the associated Health Reform Law.


Incomplete Preparation. The Project was affected by incomplete preparation in two
instances. First, during preparation, the Bank's safeguard policies and requirements were
not incorporated into the Project's framework and Operational Manual. As a result, in
the context of the Project's second restructuring, significant effort was devoted to address
this issue, and to carry out a safeguards audit of the activities that had until then been
financed (Section 2.4). When the Bank realized that the Project's objectives were no
longer compatible with the Government's priorities, a first attempt to restructure the
Project to get implementation underway fell short of aligning its objectives with those of
the SPSS reform. The preparation of this first restructuring also failed to find a common
ground among the Government's and the Bank's fiduciary requirements, which was
required for a SWAp mechanism. Furthermore, the loan was signed without assurances
that the SSA would have the required budget to carry out the Project. This was
considered especially important since unlike the earlier II Basic Health Care Project, loan
funds were not incremental to the SSA's budget.


Government Commitment. Although Government commitment to the appraised project
quickly faded, once the second restructuring was approved, the Government
demonstrated unwavering commitment to the Project and its objectives, and more
importantly to its SPSS and the Seguro Popular that the Project supported. It has
continuously provided the necessary budgetary allocations to the program, and has
decided to expand the Seguro Popular in the midst of a difficult economic climate.


Complexity of the Program and Project. The introduction of the SPSS and the Seguro
Popular was unquestionably an ambitious and complex undertaking that involved a


                                            18
major redirection of the process of ensuring universal access to basic health care services.
It was all the more complex in that its implementation required not only putting in place
the structures and processes at the federal level, but also a restructuring of health systems
in 32 Federal Entities. These Federal Entities, of course, face different realities ranging
from the status of their health service delivery infrastructure and capacity, their physical
and social realities, and more importantly, the institutional capabilities of their health
system institutions.


Procurement. Issues with respect to the Bank's procurement framework affected the
Project's implementation practically from the very start until the closing of the loan.
These are described in detail in Section 2.4, but involved mostly the incompatibility of
the Government's procurement procedures with those of the Bank's Guidelines, the use
(or non-use) of the unified bidding documents, and finally, the Bank's inability to finance
the purchase of pharmaceuticals and medical equipment that had been acquired under
direct contracting procedures to respond to the AH1/N1 Influenza Epidemic, as provided
under the Project's third restructuring.


Structure of Financing. As an exception to Mexico's general policy, loan proceeds of
the earlier PAC Project had been incremental to general budget transfers from the Federal
Government to the states. However, this exception was not granted for the Project with
the result that loan resources became available only to reimburse budgeted items
earmarked for external, loan, funding. Thus, state governments faced weaker incentives
to participate under the Project and none to comply with the Bank's fiduciary
requirements that presented requirements over and above the national norms.


Staffing. There was a high turnover of staff in the Undersecretariat of Innovation and
Quality and particularly in DGPLADES throughout implementation. In all, since
approval, the Project was assigned to nine different Director Generals in DGPLADES.
Moreover, the turnover of staff also affected the level of Project Coordinator---there were
four different Project Coordinators throughout implementation and staff of the various
units within DGPLADES. This turnover invariably lead to some delays and at times led
to a lack of continuity in following up on agreed actions. Some of DGPLADES' units
are still understaffed, such as the Direction of Infrastructure (Dirección de Espacios para
la Salud) that plays a key role in developing the PMIFS and reviewing all the technical
infrastructure proposals for their inclusion in the PMIFS.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
Design. As appraised, the Project was to take advantage of the monitoring and evaluation
system that had been used for the Second Basic Health Care Project. The Project's PAD
stated that "the proposed project would ensure adequate financial and technical support
for developing appropriate indicators for monitoring and evaluation project processes,
results and impact. During project preparation, baseline data has been collected and an


                                             19
ex-ante economic and financial evaluation of the project has been conducted on the basis
of this information". The Project's Results Framework presented in Annex 1 of the PAD
was an extensive list of input, process, outcome and impact indicators that in retrospect
would have been almost impossible to monitor.


In the context of the Project's first restructuring the Bank provided technical support for
SSA to develop a monitoring and evaluation system that could measure the impact of the
Project in helping reorganize and improve the delivery of health care services at the state
level (the supply aspect of the SPSS). The conceptual framework distinguished clearly
between the monitoring of processes to measure and report on inputs (including
procurement and disbursement actions) and on outputs/products, and the evaluation of
outcomes/results and impact with a feedback loop to annual work plans that were an
integral part of the Participation Agreements signed between the federal government and
each of the states.


The activities related mainly to monitoring processes of financing and procuring inputs
would be done internally by the government and an external, independent, non-
government institution would be contracted to evaluate outcomes and impact under
monitoring and control of the SSA. In the context of the Project's second restructuring, a
comprehensive framework for monitoring its progress towards revised development
objectives was developed (Annex 14).

Implementation and Utilization. For the closely monitoring of the Project, DGPLADES
consolidated the information gathered through the SSA information systems as well as its
own information systems. The data produced is reliable given that SSA information
systems provide timely and consistent data on the health sector. Progress on Project
indicators was reported to the Bank by the PCU during supervision missions and in the
semi-annual project reports. The project monitoring extracted information mainly from
the National Health Information System (SINAIS), the CNPSS monitoring system and
DGPLADES own system. SINAIS collects gathers information on basic health statistics,
demographic, economic, social and environmental factors linked to health and physical,
human and financial resources available in the Health System. SINAIS is managed by the
General Directorate of Information in Health and is regulated by the National Health Law
and the Statistical and Geographic Information Law. Information was also pulled out
from the Commission's integrated supervision system that tracks and consolidates
information on affiliation including data on the number of beneficiary families and their
characteristics (for example, number of family members, indigenous, female or male
head of household, income decile). Finally information on infrastructure and equipment
was retrieved from DGPLADES'own data bases as it is responsible for the management
of PMIFS and PME. It should be noted that the SSA was not able to report progress, in a
comprehensive way, in the monitoring of progress of health status of indigenous
populations. Even though the SINAIS collects information on some indicators on basic
health statistics of the indigenous groups, there is not a system in place that allows for the
closely monitoring of their health status. As of 2009 the SSA is able to obtain more


                                             20
disaggregated information by ethnic group through the hospital discharge registries which
constitutes advancement in the monitoring of indigenous health.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Safefuards. The appraised project was classified as Environmental Category B due to the
construction of health units and hospitals up to 120 beds; potential issues of medical
waste management in participating health units; and the potential use of loan proceeds to
finance the acquisition, use and handling of pesticides. Environmental construction
norms, internal waste management in health facilities, personnel health and safety
provision for the handling and disposal of bio-medical waste and equipment operation
were to be included as part of the Project's Operations Manual. Similarly, the Operations
Manual was to restrict the financing of certain pesticides unless proper procedures were
in place to oversee their distribution, handling and use. Given Mexico's large indigenous
population, and their overrepresentation among those without access to health care, the
Project was to target the improvement of health conditions in municipalities with the
highest concentration of indigenous population groups. A review of the health status of
Mexico's indigenous population and a proposal for how the Project was to address their
needs, including through consultation and community participation, was included in the
Project's PAD. Its preparation and consultation was based on earlier country-wide work
that had been prepared on indigenous health issues, and that was adapted for the Project.


During the preparation of the Project's second restructuring, the review of the original
loan agreement and Operations Manual revealed that those legal documents inadequately
reflected the Borrower's obligation to comply with the Bank's safeguard policies.
Therefore, the Bank agreed to proceed with the second loan restructuring, as follows:
before submitting the restructuring proposal to the Board, the Government, with support
from the Bank would prepare an Operations Manual that laid out implementation
procedures that were fully compliant with Bank safeguard policies. The Bank's
safeguard team was also concerned that the construction of health units could have
caused physical displacements or losses of assets or other means of support in the process
of acquiring land for the construction or expansion of health facilities. Therefore, the
Government would also prepare terms-of-reference for: (i) an audit of past and ongoing
Project activities to assess their compliance with Bank safeguard policies; and (ii) the
development of an action plan to remedy eventual harm. However, the implementation
of that audit and action plan would not be a condition for the submission of the
restructuring proposal to the Board, mainly to avoid further delays in project
implementation, but the loan agreement would provide a covenant with a firm deadline
for the audit and action plan


The Government submitted the revised Operations Manual and the terms-of-reference on
May 31, 2005, and the SSA carried out the safeguard audit of project activities
implemented in 2004 and 2005. The Bank reviewed the findings of the audit in January
2007 and concluded that: (i) the audit had been carried out according to standards
acceptable to the Bank, and (ii) its findings suggested that no harm had been done that


                                           21
would require remedial action. Based on the audit's finding, the Bank drafted
recommendations to strengthen federal safeguard oversight with respect to all federal
investments in sector infrastructure and shared these with the Government to help them
develop an action plan for their implementation. Supervision of the implementation of
actions plans for indigenous health and medical waste management in December 2008
found that these had been followed closely, progress was adequate and milestones were
being achieved.


Fiduciary. As appraised, the Project was to utilize, by and large, the financial
management and procurement arrangements and processes that had been utilized for the
predecessor Second Basic Health Care Project. With a redefinition of the Project's
components, starting with the first restructuring, and later its objectives and components
with the second restructuring, the Bank needed to reappraise continuously the Project's
fiduciary arrangements. For the purpose of adopting a transfer approach under the
Project to disburse loan proceeds allocated in the new Category 5 of Schedule 1 of the
Loan Agreement, the program was re-assessed in terms of procurement and financial
management arrangements, including the capacity of the states to procure goods and
services required for the implementation of project activities, and to ensure proper
financial management and reporting. With the redesign of the Project under a SWAp
mechanism, the Project's administrative and financial arrangements were modified in
accordance with a transfer approach to finance transfers to the states to strengthen their
health care delivery systems as specified in the Participation Agreements signed between
the SSA and the Governors of the participating states (i.e., the type of activities that
would be supported under the Project, the goods and services that would be financed to
implement those activities, and the expected outputs and outcomes). The Bank would
require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of Statements of
Transfers to co-finance with the Participating states the works, goods, services and
incremental operating costs required for the implementation of the State Health
Development Subprojects. Government financial management systems were utilized for
purposed of budgeting, accounting, internal control, auditing and reporting to the extent
possible, adding additional mechanisms as needed to ensure effective implementation and
appropriate use of funds. For procurement, Mexican laws forbade the use of state
legislation and procedures to procure goods and works when federal money was
involved. For this reason, all the state delegations of SSA would have to use procedures
under the federal legislation. The staff of the state units was evaluated satisfactorily
during preparation, and they remained satisfactory. These units were part of the Bank's
e-Procurement Pilot Project and had been monitored very closely showing a satisfactory
performance. The procurement of consultants' services was only to be done at the
federal level. As a result, no changes were expected in procurement procedures after the
Project's first restructuring.


The requirements for procurement, including thresholds, aggregate limits, limits for prior
review, etc., were adjusted throughout implementation in order to accommodate the
Project's changing objectives, components, and design as a SWAp. In addition, the Bank


                                           22
approved new procedures to set prior-review thresholds based on the level of risk and
procurement capacity of implementing agencies. During the Project's first restructuring, a
Procurement Capacity Assessment of the units that carried out procurement activities
under the Project had been carried out and concluded that the procurement risk was
average. As a result, the procurement prior-review thresholds and rules for no-objection
for the Project were adjusted resulting in less prior-review and more post-review to
expedite implementation. Nevertheless, the Loan Agreement as amended by the first
restructuring resulted in some inconsistencies with Mexican legislation; i.e prior
review thresholds established in the Loan Agreement were below the thresholds in
Mexican legislation. This went against the spirit of the SWAP. In addition, the Loan
Agreement was ambiguous with respect to whether a Procurement Plan was needed.


However, a subsequent ex-post procurement review carried out in 2006 showed that the
federal procurement norms originally adopted under the Project were insufficient to
guarantee procedures acceptable to the Bank. In the Project's second restructuring the
Loan Agreement required the use of unified bidding documents for both national and
international competitive bidding procedures. The Government felt that this change
would increase the risk of non-compliance with procurement procedures, in particular
under subprojects carried out by states, and thus, the risk that expenditures might not be
fully eligible for reimbursement. To mitigate this risk, it was agreed that: (i) the
threshold for prior review of civil works was to remain at US$5 million (thus below the
US$10 million threshold for ICB); (ii) the Bank would consider on a case by case basis
State requests to use procurement procedures other than those approved by the Bank, and
(iii) the Bank would consider on a case by case basis the possibility to substitute
subprojects that did not fully comply with Bank norms by other eligible activities. Also,
the Bank carried out a series of procurement-related training events with state
governments, and developed guidelines for the use of unified bidding documents.


Then, an ex-post procurement review carried out in mid-2007 identified several processes
carried out in early 2006 that did not meet Bank standards; these processes followed
federal procurement rules but did not make use of the agreed standard bidding
documents. Subject to a procurement review, the Bank agreed to substitute other
activities under Part A (structured as a SWAp) to compensate for approximately US$30
million in ineligible expenditures that had not followed procurement processes that met
Bank standards. With this, the Bank considered that the procurement issues that had
plagued project implementation were largely resolved.


As described in Section 1.6, one of the objectives of the Project's first restructuring, was
to support the harmonization of the requirements of Bank assistance with the
Government's own internal systems. By restructuring the Project to support the entirety
of the Government's program, and with strong institution and capacity building
objectives, this harmonization was seen to be a more effective mechanism to strengthen


                                            23
government institutions at different levels of the health system, improve procedures
including monitoring and evaluation, and provide technical support to staff throughout
the system than establishing parallel systems. As implementation progressed, there was
some regression on this harmonization, and the use of harmonized bidding documents
became required


Yet another ex-post review carried out in 2008 found that while procurement procedures
carried out at the state level were by and large acceptable to the Bank, the annual
budgeting process mandated by federal law resulted in the fragmentation of processes for
larger civil works, leading to delays, impeding the quality of works, and increasing costs.
The Borrower committed to address this not only for activities financed by the Project,
but also for all health infrastructure investment financed with federal funds.


Finally, the Project's third restructuring was to have allowed retroactive financing for the
purchase of pharmaceuticals and medical equipment. As described in Section 2.2,
although the restructuring was approved, the Bank did not authorize loan financing of
goods acquired under direct contracting procedures, and alternative, eligible,
expenditures in the amount of approximately US$25 million were substituted for those
purchases to allow for the loan's full disbursement.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
The Seguro Popular is in its seventh year of operation, and is firmly established and with
its financing guaranteed by law. The Government has reconfirmed the goal of providing
universal health insurance coverage to all Mexicans by 2012. In response to the
economic effects of the global financial and economic crisis, which have affected Mexico
more than any other Latin American country, the Government has taken bold steps to
expand substantially the Seguro Popular, and to adjust the premium levels so as to allow
the enrollment of more than 10 million additional beneficiaries within current state health
system budgets. At the same time, the Government is focusing on addressing challenges
facing Seguro Popular, that include the need to: (i) administer effectively its
entitlements; (ii) deepen the changes to the organization and management of state health
systems, including the development of critical health insurance functions; (iii) refine and
strengthen performance management arrangements between the National Commission for
Social Protection in Health and state health systems; (iv) improve beneficiaries'
understanding of their entitlements; and (v) stimulate beneficiaries' demand for health
promotion and disease prevention.


The Mexican Government requested Bank support in tackling the above challenges
facing the Seguro Popular. On March 25, 2010, the Bank's Board approved a US$1.25
billion loan in support of a Social Protection System in Health Project (Report 52142-
MX) whose objective is to support the Borrower in initially preserving and later
expanding the coverage as well as strengthening the capacity of the National Commission


                                            24
for Social Protection in Health and the state health systems to effectively administer the
entitlements of the Seguro Popular. This project is comprised of two components, as
follows: (a) Component 1: Initially preserving and later expanding the Seguro Popular's
coverage of people without contributory social security (US$1.24 billion); and (b)
Component 2: Strengthening the capacity of the National Commission for Social
Protection in Health and state health systems to administer the Seguro Popular
entitlements (US$10 million). This last component will continue efforts started by
PROCEDES.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The objectives, components and design of the Project as originally approved lost their
relevance in 2003 when the Mexican Government approved the General Health Law
introducing the SPSS. The Project's second restructuring described in Sections 1.3 and
1.6 modified it to become the central pillar of the Government's strategy to remove
supply side constraints for the enrollment of the poor living in most marginalized
municipalities into the Seguro Popular. The Project financed activities to promote the
reorganization of the State Health Systems for them to assume their new role in the
insurance scheme. As such, the restructured Project's objectives and design became, and
remains to this day, fully relevant to Mexico's current development priorities and the
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy.


Specifically, through the Bank's implementation assistance, the Project was responsive to
the Government's changing priorities over time. It became fully consistent with the
Government's National Health Sector Program (Programa Sectorial de Salud,
PROSESA) 2007-2012 and aligned with the health-related MDGs and the Government's
National Development Plan 2007-2012. It supported directly three of the ten strategies
outlined in PROSESA: (i) consolidating the financing reform for effective, universal
access to essential health care interventions; (ii) improving the planning, organization,
development and accountability mechanisms of the health system; and (iii) developing
systems, technologies and processes that improve the efficiency and promote the
integration of the sector. Furthermore, it contributed to central objectives of the
PROSESA, including increases in health service utilization and reductions of mortality
and out-of-pocket expenditures. Figures 1 and 2 below show that out of pocket
expenditures are lower for families in the lowest income quintiles affiliated to Seguro
Popular compared to those not affiliated. As such, it helped to sustain and accelerate
progress towards the health-related MDGs in the context of the economic crisis,
particularly reducing infant and maternal mortality. Finally, the Project contributed to the
goals and principals of the NDP, specifically, the goal of creating equal opportunities and
the principle of targeting resources to programs that have demonstrated their
effectiveness in reaching the poor.
     Figure 1. Per capita out-of pocket health expenditures by income quintiles
                                  (2008, real pesos)


                                            25
               Source: World Bank Report (draft), Mexican Health System Financing,
               using data from ENIGH (2008).



     Figure 2. Per capita out-of pocket health expenditure as a share of disposable
                     income by income quintiles (2008, real pesos)




               Source: World Bank Report (draft), Mexican Health System Financing,
               using data from ENIGH (2008).

The Project, through restructuring, also maintained its relevance to the Bank's Country
Partnership Strategy (CPS).13 The Project is closely aligned with two of the strategic
development challenges identified in the CPS: sustainable growth through investment in
human capital and strengthening institutions which it supported by helping to remove

13
  World Bank Group Country Partnership Strategy for Mexico (Report No. 42846-MX, dated March 4,
2008).


                                                   26
barriers to access health services and strengthening financial protection for people, and
establishing and strengthening the organizational and institutional arrangements and
performance of the Seguro Popular.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)
As a formally restructured project, whose project objectives (as encompassed by the
stated Project Development Objectives and key associated outcome targets) were
formally revised through a Board-approved restructuring on June 29, 2006, the Project's
outcome is assessed against both the original and revised project objectives. Separate
outcome ratings, against original and revised objectives approved in the Project's second
restructuring, were weighed in proportion to the share of actual loan/credit disbursements
made in the periods before and after approval of the restructuring (Annex 17), and are
discussed below.




The achievement of the Project's original Development Objectives during the period
from approval until the Board-approved second restructuring is considered
unsatisfactory. Almost immediately, with the passage of the General Law introducing
the SPSS the Project had lost its relevance. It was not until the Project's second
restructuring that its Development Objectives became aligned fully with those of the
Government's Health Sector Program. The first restructuring, supported by the second
loan amendment, eventually permitted loan financing to reimburse a total of US$160
million retroactively, that was used to finance initial activities in support of the supply-
side of the SPSS, through transfers to states to finance infrastructure and recurrent costs
needed to improve access to the Seguro Popular, and technical assistance for SSA's
institutional development. These activities were all roughly in line with the Project's
original Development Objectives while also in line of those of the eventually restructured
Project.


The Project made considerable progress towards the achievement of its revised
Development Objectives following the second restructuring. This progress was to be
measured against key associated outcome targets that were revised in that restructuring
(Annex 14). As mentioned in Section 1.3, these associated outcome targets were adjusted
slightly (inter alia, to extend targets to the new December 31, 2009 Closing Date), and
the precise definition of the indicators themselves improved and refined, to better
measure the Project's progress towards the achievement of its Development Objectives.14
However, the modifications made in no way represented a slackening of the original
targets, and only served to update the targets to actual experience (when progress was
14
     These adjustments were not approved formally by the Bank's Board.


                                                   27
faster than expected, e.g., for enrollment), and to measure more precisely the Project's
achievements (e.g., the new outcome target on enrollment of indigenous people enrolled
in the subsidized regime of Seguro Popular with respect to entitled individuals that
measures increased equity towards indigenous individuals). The specific outputs and
activities financed by the restructured Project are described in Annex 2.


The 2003 health sector reform, through the General Health Law, aimed to focus on the
health system through the horizontal integration of three basic functions: stewardship,
financing and service delivery. The reform sought to reinforce the SSA's stewardship
role through instruments designed to prioritize financial flows by linking supply side
allocations to demand side incentives. The SSA assumed the role of steward of the
SPSS. The Project supported a strengthening of the SSA in its critical stewardship
functions, mainly those of coordinating, supporting and monitoring: (i) the
implementation of the FOROSS strategy; (ii) activities to advance the restructuring of the
SESs; and (iii) the strengthening of decentralized state health provider units and
networks.




Part A: Improve access of poor people eligible for enrollment or enrolled in the
subsidized regime of the Seguro Popular to the insurance's benefit package


The reform to the General Health Law with regard to social protection provided a
strategic opportunity for development and strengthening the supply of health services. In
addition to the mechanisms of health insurance, implementation of Seguro Popular
required an expansion in the supply of personal health interventions and organizational
changes required to ensure an adequate provision of services. The Project contributed
significantly to this expansion.


The FOROSS strategy was developed with a view to strengthen the supply of high
quality health services that would facilitate beneficiaries' affiliation and re-affiliation to
the Seguro Popular. The FOROSS strategy contemplates: management, supply of
medicines, infrastructure, evaluation, information systems, human resources and
organizational design, which together would provide the inputs needed to deliver quality
health services. The Project supported some of the core elements of the FOROSS
strategy such as the implementation of the PMIFS and PME, which together contributed
to the accreditation of health units that offer services to Seguro Popular beneficiaries.




                                             28
Construction, rehabilitation and equipping of health units. Between 2002 and 2009, the
Project financed the construction, rehabilitation and equipping of 205 health units,
including health centers, hospitals (up to 120 beds) and specialized ambulatory care units
identified in the PMIFS. The PMIFS was developed to guide the decision-making
process with regard to the development of physical infrastructure, determine the
appropriate infrastructure for meeting the demand for health services, make optimal use
of the existing infrastructure, identify the criteria to prioritize the requirements of
physical infrastructure in relation to the health profile of the population and the
percentage of coverage, and promote the coordination and amount of resources needed,
eliminating duplications and inefficiencies.


The PMIFS represents a starting point for reorganization of existing infrastructure
through a prioritized plan that will guarantee universal access. It involved the
establishment of 18 regions at the national level, which became the development axis for
health services. Each of these regions, or Health Services Networks (RESS), were
structured to provide the most effective and efficient health service delivery to their
populations. The PMIFS also includes new prototypes of health units for the Integrating
Model of Care to Health (MIDAS) that break the paradigm of delivery based on level of
care by delivering services through a group of health establishments of differing degrees
of complexity. Together, these two innovations were designed to achieve greater
responsiveness, connectivity and problem-solving capacity to address beneficiaries'
health care needs.


The Project also financed the purchase of equipment included in the PME, a complement
to the PMIFS that followed roughly the same procedure for prioritization. The PME also
strengthens the maintenance procedures for medical equipment and rationalizes the
adoption of new technology through evidence-based assessment.


Seguro Popular. The introduction of the Seguro Popular brought three fundamental
changes to Mexico's health systems that were expected to contribute to the achievement
of this objective. It: (i) replaced budgets with premiums; (ii) eliminated user fees by
introducing beneficiary contributions; and (iii) introduced explicitly defined entitlements.
By replacing budgets with premiums, the SSA bases its budget envelope and allocations
to states on an actuarially-calculated premium that is a statistically determined payment
based on the expected costs of ensuring, providing, and overseeing a wide range of
services and supporting activities for the enrolled population (as opposed to allocations to
states based on the payroll and infrastructure of each state health system). The federal
budget finances 83 percent of the premium, with the states financing the balance. State
health systems, as administrators of the insurance, guarantee explicitly defined benefits,
free of charge, to those enrolled. This has already made some progress in reducing
funding disparities across states. By eliminating user fees and introducing beneficiary
contributions, the Government aims to increase health service utilization among


                                            29
beneficiaries, while reducing their out-of-pocket expenses. Whereas before uninsured
Mexicans paid fees to access health services, the Seguro Popular provides free access at
the time of use, but with annual beneficiary contributions, proportional to each family's
ability to pay, that states reinvest in health services or use to build reserves for the
insurance.15 By introducing explicitly defined entitlements, the Government aimed to
expand access, whose provision in any event depended largely on the availability of
financial resources. The Seguro Popular explicitly defined beneficiary entitlements,
introduced an accreditation system for health facilities and established mechanisms such
as mediation and arbitration systems for beneficiaries to enforce their rights.


Since its establishment in 2004, coverage of the Seguro Popular has expanded rapidly.
At the end of 2009, there were close to 30.7 million individuals enrolled in the system,
representing approximately 70 percent of the population eligible to be enrolled. At the
same time, the benefits covered increased significantly from 76 health interventions at the
time the Seguro Popular was introduced to 266 interventions today. Progress towards
reaching and enrolling indigenous beneficiaries was less than expected, in part due to the
significant cultural, geographic and other challenges that the Project faced in reaching out
to these individuals.16 While the original outcome target was to enroll 30 percent of the
indigenous population or 4.2 million entitled to be enrolled by 2008, the Project was only
able to enroll 21.3 percent (2.9 million) of the indigenous entitled to be enrolled by the
end of 2009. The enrollment of indigenous with respect to that of all entitled individuals
also fell short of the target set when the outcome targets were adjusted: enrollment of
indigenous as a proportion of those indigenous entitled represented only 30 percent of the
total enrollment as a proportion of all entitled to be enrolled.


Accreditation. The improvement of health service quality is one of the central issues of
the Health Sector Reform. Before, few public or private facilities were subject to a
formal accreditation process. The drive to improve quality involved establishing an
accreditation process, and the consequent requirement that only certified providers are
allowed to participate in the Seguro Popular. The Project made significant progress in
increasing the number of health facilities accredited with the SPSS that guaranteed the
access of people entitled to be enrolled into the subsidized regime of the Seguro Popular
to the insurance's benefit package. Of the total of health facilities in all states, 62.4
percent had been accredited to the Seguro Popular by the end of 2009, i.e. above the

15
   Beneficiary households pay an annual contribution that is proportional to each family's ability to pay,
according to an income assessment. Families belonging to the two lowest income deciles are exempted
from contributing, as are families of low- and middle-income families with children younger than five
years.
16
   Indigenous peoples have a limited understanding of the concept of insurance, which in part explains less-
than-expected demand for enrollment. Also, the indigenous reside commonly in remote areas with little or
no access to formal health care services. Finally, state face a major financial disincentive to enroll
indigenous peoples who are eligible to participate in other Government safety net programs, i.e.,
Oportunidades. See the Mexico Social Protection System in Health Project PAD (Report No. 52142-MX,
dated February 23,2010) for further details.


                                                    30
target for the end of the project (60%). Of the health centers, hospitals with up to 120
beds and specialized ambulatory care units under the PMIFS that received financing
under the Project, a total of 38.6 percent had obtained accreditation by the end of 2009,
surpassing project target of 38% for the end of the project. Figure 4 below shows
progress in accreditation between PROCEDES financed Health Units and non-
PROCEDES. Figure 5 shows the significant efforts of some states in the accreditation of
health units during 2009.




Figure 4. Percentage of SESA accredited units compared to percentage of
PROCEDES accredited units by federal entity (2008).




                                           31
Figure 5 Accreditation achievements of some federal entities in 2008 and 2009.

100.0%
                                    92.7%

    90.0%

    80.0%
                                                71.5%
    70.0%                 65.3%

                59.0%
    60.0%
                                                                       54.5%

    50.0%   45.7%       45.5%                               45.0%
                                  43.0%       42.2%
    40.0%                                                                                  38.1%
                                                          33.9%     33.5%        32.9%               32.6%

    30.0%                                                                      26.8%                           27.9%
                                                                                         24.1%
                                                                                                   18.4%
    20.0%
                                                                                                             9.9%
    10.0%

    0.0%




                                    % Accreditation 2008            % Accreditation 2009

S           D            G                C           E                 S         DGCES



Part B: Restructure and Develop State Health Systems


The implementation of the Seguro Popular in the states requires a fundamental
restructuring of state health systems, with core health system functions separately
assigned to distinct organizations. It also requires the organizational restructuring of the
SESAs to be able to meet their responsibilities as head of sector and to allow the
managerial and administrative separation between a responsible entity directly in charge
of the delivery of services and another one that performs the function of financing and
results-based budgeting. It also implies that at the state level each one of the entities
must understand and carry out efficiently, depending on its responsibility, the functions
of stewardship, service provider, financier or generator of resources.


The Project made some progress in changing the organization and management of the
State Health Systems, including the development of health insurance functions, but its
progress towards its objectives in this area was perhaps the weakest overall. The
introduction of the Seguro Popular called for an organizational separation of the
functions of oversight, financing and service provision, and the creation of insurance
agencies, or Regimenes Estatales de Protección Social en Salud (REPSS). This
separation of functions was expected to eventually lead to stronger accountability


                                                                  32
mechanisms between the REPSS and service providers, including the possibility of
establishing performance-based payment systems, and pave the way for the possible
purchase of services from all existing provider networks in Mexico. As targeted, 30 out
of 32 federal entities have established Ministries of Health operating as stewards of their
states' health systems. To date, all states have established REPSS, eighteen have joined
forces under the Commission for the Organizational Restructuring of State Health
Systems to further advance the organizational and institutional reforms and two have
adopted the strategic purchasing of hospital care services (against an originally ambitious
target of 16).


Technical assistance activities for organizational restructuring only got underway in
2008, most of the efforts have concentrated in carrying out the legal analysis in 14 of the
country's the Federal Entities that is necessary to implement the required organizational
restructuring. A significant effort was dedicated to developing a shared vision of the
separation of responsibilities in the long term, and in the developing and understanding of
the rationale for the needed organizational restructuring.


The Seguro Popular faces many challenges. One of them consists, as universal coverage
nears, of shifting towards the effective administration of its entitlements. To promote this
shift, further changes to the organization and management of the State Health Systems
are necessary; most importantly, further autonomy of the REPSS and the strengthening of
its functions. In the meantime, refined and stronger performance management
arrangements between the Commission and State Health Systems have to be put in place.
Enhancing the effective administration of Popular Health Insurance entitlements will also
hinge on improvements in the understanding of entitlements under the Popular Health
Insurance by beneficiaries as well as on fostering demand for health promotion and
disease prevention.


Pharmaceuticals. The Project supported several activities aimed at increasing the
efficiency and effectiveness in the supply of pharmaceuticals, and made significant
progress in this area. A 2002 study had identified two problems related to shortages of
pharmaceuticals: budgetary and, especially, efficiency with respect to planning,
purchasing, distributing and prescribing. These findings gave rise to a strategy to
improve access to pharmaceuticals in the SESA that included: (i) distance education for
SESA staff in planning inventories, demand and administration; (ii) monitoring and the
dissemination of information on suppliers and prices of pharmaceuticals; (iii) training for
the adequate management of the hospital pharmacies; (iv) promotion of outsourcing, and
(v) monitoring the quality and timeliness of access to pharmaceuticals by SESA users.


Significant progress was also made in the distribution of essential medicines included in
the Essential Health Services Catalogue (Catalogo Unico de Servicios Esenciales de


                                            33
Salud, CAUSES) to beneficiaries of the Seguro Popular: by project completion, 87.7%
of the patients surveyed reported that their prescriptions were filled in a timely manner17.
Some progress was made in adopting innovative models for human resource management
and innovative information systems in highly specialized hospitals. The responsibility to
develop these was transferred to another area of the SSA, and the implementation of this
work is still ongoing.




Figure 3: Percentage of fully delivered prescriptions in SESA's ambulatory units




Source: DGED


Part C: Strengthening the Federal Ministry of Health's role as steward of the SPSS

The Project supported the strengthening of the SSA to carry out its stewardship function
of the SPSS. For this, the Project assisted in developing and formalizing various
processes for affiliation of beneficiaries, accreditation of health units that provide
services to beneficiaries, ensuring the adequate supply of high quality medical services to
the beneficiaries of the Seguro Popular through provision of infrastructure and
equipment, and monitoring and evaluation. Specifically, the SSA developed guidelines
for the affiliation process that establish the criteria for affiliation, the operation of the

17
  The original indicator that was to be used to measure progress with distribution of essential medicines
was "the number of medicines prescribed and supplied to individuals enrolled in Seguro Popular/number
of medicines prescribed to individuals enrolled in Seguro Popular", and the target was 100 percent. This
indicator was modified to reflect progress on the basis of a survey of beneficiaries.


                                                   34
process, the integration of the national list of Seguro Popular beneficiaries and the
determination of the level of the family contribution. Under the Project, the SSA
designed the accreditation process based on an initial audit of the capacity, security and
quality of the health units that are pursuing accreditation, as a means of guaranteeing the
quality of services in accordance with the Catalogo Universal de Servicios de Salud
(CAUSES) and the Fondo de Protección Contra Gastos Catastróficos. Federal and state
level staff is responsible for collecting and comparing information on checklists that were
developed specifically for the accreditation process. For a health unit to be included in
the network of Seguro Popular providers, it must count on a formal approval of
accreditation based on an audit as defined in the Manual para la Acreditación y Garantía
de la Calidad en Establecimientos para la Prestación de Servicios de Salud (Manual for
Accreditation and Quality Assurance in Units Delivering Health Services).

Under the Project, the SSA conceptualized, designed and put into practice two processes
aimed at ensuring the adequate supply of high quality medical services to the
beneficiaries of the Seguro Popular: the Plan Maestro de Infraestructura en Salud
(PMIFS) and the Plan Maestro de Equipamiento en Salud. The PMIFS aims to: (i) guide
the process of decision-making and prioritizing infrastructure development; (ii) determine
the supply of infrastructure necessary to respond to the demand for health services, under
a real and virtual supply network that includes the entire territory; (iii) provide proposals
and recommendations to optimize and strengthen existing infrastructure; and (iv) identify
criteria to prioritize infrastructure investments on the basis of the population's health
profile. The PMIFS includes a definition of the different models of health units, and
architectural plans, and a process for the design of different models of new health units.
The SSA developed the Certificado de Necesidad (Certificate of Need) for infrastructure
(new works, replacement works, expansion, strengthening and relocation) to function as a
planning instrument that would determine the infrastructure needs of the various Federal
Entities for their incorporation in the PMIFS. DGPLADES is responsible for reviewing
and approving the requests for Certificado de Necesidad that are prepared and forwarded
by the SESAs, using criteria that were developed specifically for this purpose.

Like the PMIFS, the Plan Maestro de Equipamiento (PME) aims to ensure that the health
units can count on the necessary equipment to deliver the health services demanded by
the beneficiaries of the Seguro Popular, while promoting the optimal use of that medical
equipment. The PME has helped to reassign medical equipment to the optimal locations
in the country, and to carry out and update the medical equipment requirements of the
Federal Entities. The Certificado de Necesidad for medical equipment is a planning
instrument, developed under the Project, that promotes a more rational use of
technological resources for health and helps coordinate the provision of both
infrastructure and equipment in the Modelo Integrador de Atención a la Salud (MIDAS,
Integrator Model of Health Service Provision). It permits the carrying out of an
evaluation of investing in a given equipment for medical attention at a specific place and
time, applying criteria relating to medical and epidemiological needs, installed capacity
in the region, perceived demand, cost-effectiveness, operational and financial feasibility
for use, and expected impacts for the target population.




                                             35
The General Health Law mandates the use of the Certificado de Necesidad as a
prerequisite for requesting the establishment of new health service units and the
acquisition of new technologies, as well as for inclusion in the PMIFS and PME, for
participating as service providers, for receiving financing from the SSA. The process for
the putting in place the system of the Certificado de Necesidad for infrastructure and
medical equipment has brought important benefits to the Federal Entitites. It has
contributed to strengthening the strategic planning capabilities of the health units, to the
development of their capacity for project evaluation and appraisal, to permit them to see
the individual health unit within a larger network of health service delivery, and
facilitated the management of financial resources. All of the infrastructure and medical
equipment financed under the Project had as a prerequisite that it be included in the PME.

The SSA through CENETEC provided invaluable support to the Federal Entities by
disseminating technical information regarding medical equipment, that has supported
their decision-making with respect to the acquisition and use of different equipment, and
the integration of health service networks to promote accessibility, quality service and
optimization of resources. All medical equipment financed under the Project was required
to adopt the technical specifications for purchase disseminated by CENETEC. This
requirement, in addition, made the procurement of these items more transparent and
efficient.

Under the Project, the SSA carried out several evaluations of the Seguro Popular, and
developed a monitoring system for the program. A broad evaluation of the Seguro
Popular was carried out in 2006. It was conducted by researchers from Harvard
University working together with specialists from the Instituto Nacional de Salud
Pública. The SSA also carried out an external evaluation of Sistema de Protección Social
en Salud focussed on the Regímenes Estatales de Protección Social en Salud (REPSS).
This evaluation provided a more definitive analysis of the progress in the separation of
normative, financing and service provision functions among the Federal Entities, and
measure progress in the strategic purchasing of health care services. Also, since 2002 the
SSA has published the annual Informe para la Rendición de Cuentas that provides
information on over 50 pre-defined health indicators.


Overall, the restructured Project's achievement of its Development Outcomes is
considered Moderately Satisfactory. By supporting the states in expanding and
improving the infrastructure needed to provide health care services to the rapidly
expanding beneficiaries of the Seguro Popular, by strengthening and improving the
provision of medicines, and by ensuring that health units counted on the equipment
needed to deliver quality service, all of which represented by far the largest share of Bank
financing under the restructured Project, the Project addressed supply side constraints that
would have restricted the provision of services to the program's beneficiaries had they
not been in place. Progress on the institutional side under Parts B and C of the
restructured Project, was slower than had been anticipated, but no less important, since
the basic structure for the Seguro Popular is now in place, and will continue to be
supported and strengthened by the Government, with Bank assistance under the recently-
approved Social Protection System in Health Project.


                                            36
3.3 Efficiency
An ex-post economic analysis was not prepared for the ICR. Still, the restructured
Project's efficiency can be evaluated on the basis of early indications of improved
efficiency of the health system, efficiency in implementing the PMIFS, and efficiency
gains in the distribution of medicines and pharmaceuticals to the Seguro Popular's
beneficiary population. With respect to the health system in general, there are several
findings based mostly on internal and external evaluations of the Seguro Popular that
bode well for its contribution towards improving the efficiency of the delivery of health
care services in Mexico. These findings include: (i) increases in the spending on the
health of people without contributory social security (under IMSS and ISSSTE); (ii) the
removal of financial barriers to access health services; and (iii) reductions in the
likelihood of suffering from catastrophic and impoverishing health expenditures.


Since the establishment of the Seguro Popular yearly health care spending on individuals
without contributory social security has increased from US$52 per capita in 2001 to
US$154 per capita in 2004, thereby beginning to address the inequities in public health
spending across the different systems. The ratios of public health expenditures for IMSS
and ISSSTE in relation to the previous public health system for uninsured individuals
were 5:1 and 6:1, respectively. With the introduction of the Seguro Popular, those ratios
have dropped to 3:1 and 4:1, respectively. Inequities in public expenditures across
federal entities have also narrowed.


There is evidence that affiliation to Seguro Popular has removed financial barriers to
access health services, resulting in the higher utilization of inpatient and outpatient
services than for the uninsured, which in turn is expected to translate into better health
outcomes in the future. The utilization of services by those who perceived that they
needed health care attention increased from 61 percent in 2005 to 64 percent in 2006.
Utilization was higher for Seguro Popular beneficiaries (63.6 percent) compared to those
that were not enrolled and insured (58.3 percent).


Affiliation with Seguro Popular has also been shown to reduce the likelihood of suffering
from catastrophic and impoverishing health expenditures, as compared to those that are
not insured. Between 2005 and 2006, affiliation with Seguro Popular was shown to
reduce the proportion of individuals suffering catastrophic expenditures by 23 percent,
and the probability of incurring catastrophic health expenditures was estimated as eight
percent less for households with Seguro Popular beneficiaries than for uninsured
households.


As the Seguro Popular has only been in place since 2003, it is still too soon to see its full
effects on increased health system efficiency and, eventually, improved health outcomes.
For the Project, which financed the supply-side through improvements in service


                                             37
provision and institutional strengthening of systems to support the Government in the
roll-out and scale-up of the SPSS by improving access of the poor people that are eligible
for enrollment or enrolled in the Seguro Popular, it is even more difficult to quantify its
impact on efficiency in such a short period of time. Still, experience from other countries
that have implemented similar non-contributory health insurance systems confirm that
those systems have played a major role in achieving universal health insurance coverage,
and improving health system performance through improved utilization and financial
access to health care services and a reduction in catastrophic health expenditures.


The separation of functions of service delivery and financing at the state level is expected
to result in increased health sector efficiency, through introduction of market mechanisms
such as great choice of health care providers, cost-effective purchasing, devolution of
budget and some degree of public-private provider mix. Furthermore, these changes will
prepare the SSA for a future functional integration of health service provision.


As described earlier, the PMIFS was designed to optimize and rationalize installed
capacity, while promoting greater interaction and coordination among the institutions and
units to make the most efficient use of installed capacity. The process for including
proposed physical infrastructure activities in the PMIFS was evaluated and later decided
upon based on information provided in an instrument called the Certificado de Necesidad
(Certificate of Need). The PMIFS prioritized marginalized areas, defined on the basis of
the Mexican National Population Council's Municipal Marginality Index, that includes
criteria such as poverty levels and distance from urban areas. Among Mexico's 2444
municipalities, 2200 municipalities considered of high and medium marginality were
targeted by the Project.18 Overall, 52 percent of the infrastructure and equipment
activities financed by the Project were targeted at municipalities of high and medium
marginality, and accounted for 27 percent of resources allocated for these purposes under
the Project. This is because the infrastructure for health units in these areas involved
mostly smaller, less costly health units.           Larger investments supported in 18
municipalities with low marginality indices represented slightly over half of loan
resources allocated to infrastructure and equipment activities. These larger investments
financed the construction and equipping of regional referral hospitals of up to 120 beds
that constitute the cornerstone of the service delivery networks under the new integrated
health care model (MIDAS), and serve Seguro Popular beneficiaries living in near by
municipalities that are part of the respective delivery network.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The Project's Overall Outcome Rating is considered to be Moderately Satisfactory. This
composite is based on the following considerations. The Project almost immediately

18 Of these, 125 are identified as being of very high marginality, and receive funding from a targeted 100
X 100 program that aims to improve service delivery through large investments in those areas. As a result,
these 125 municipalities were not prioritized under the Project.


                                                   38
after effectiveness lost its relevance, and accomplished few, if any, of its expected
outputs or outcomes. Its outcome rating for this early period would be considered
unsatisfactory. However, through the second restructuring, the Project regained its
relevance, to the extent that it supported the Government's flagship social protection in
health policy--it is hard to imagine how the Project could have become more relevant.
The accomplishment of the restructured Project's Development Objectives fell short in
some areas--not in the establishment, but in selected aspects of the strengthening of
institutions that it had helped establish. On the other hand, the Project exceeded its
targets in other areas, such as enrollment of uninsured individuals, and increasing the
number of health institutions that were accredited with the SPSS that furthers the Federal
Entities' capacity to deliver ever more quality and timely health service in the future.
Furthermore, there is every reason to believe that what were in retrospect overly
ambitious institutional strengthening targets will most certainly be met, and with the
Bank's support and assistance under the Social Protection System in Health Project.
Finally, there are promising indications that the Project supported the initial scale-up of a
program that will lead to increased efficiency in the delivery of health care services to
Mexicans, and the activities it financed were carried out efficiently.




3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
During the first phases of scaling-up of the Seguro Popular, families in the first and
second income deciles, which include the indigenous population, were given priority for
enrollment. However, affiliation rates of indigenous peoples have lagged behind total
affiliation rates. For example, between 2006 and 2009, while the number of affiliates to
the Seguro Popular increased 88.2 percent, the number of indigenous affiliates increased
only 83.6 percent. Moreover, there is still a large portion of the indigenous population
that needs to be reached by the Seguro Popular. For example, the insurance has reached
only 68.8 percent of the localities with greater than 40 percent of indigenous population.
This equals 16,571 localities with approximately 4 million inhabitants out of a total of
24,090 localities with 6.5 million inhabitants. Furthermore, in general, only 27.5 percent
of the indigenous population has declared that it is enrolled in any type of health
insurance; 38 percent of which are enrolled with the Seguro Popular.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The Project, as appraised, was to support an improvement of the delivery of basic health
care services, the responsibility for which had been decentralized to the Federal Entities
in the 1980s and 1990s. It relied upon a vertically integrated organizational model where



                                             39
the functions of oversight (stewardship), financing and service provision were centralized
in state ministries of health.


By supporting the implementation of the SPSS, governed by the General Health Law
approved in 2003 and its regulations, the restructured Project had a major impact on the
institutional structure for the delivery of basic health care services to the uninsured
population in Mexico. This law also created the Seguro Popular, the health insurance
component of the health reform and regulated the National Commission for Social
Protection in Health (the Commission), a unit within the SSA with technical,
administrative and operational autonomy that is responsible for the implementation of the
SPSS, which was indirectly supported under the restructured Project, along with activities
that helped the SSA to develop, coordinate, monitor and evaluate and regulate the health
system that is under the responsibility of the federal entities. The SPSS is in place, fully
functioning, and institutionalized, although its expansion and strengthening is a
continuous process involving challenges that the Government will continue to address in
the future. Multi-year Coordination Agreements between the SSA and each of the
Federal Entities specify the commitments of both parties regarding affiliation targets and
estimates of the annual flow of financial resources in accordance with the General Health
Law.
With the introduction of the Seguro Popular, the implementation of which the
restructured Project supported, the regulatory framework for the state health systems
stipulated an organizational separation of those functions, and the creation of REPSS
(which all Federal Entities have now established and functioning). The REPSS are
charged with guaranteeing the social protection actions in health through the financing,
and timely and systematic coordination of the delivery of health services. The REPSS
perform the following responsibilities: (i) ensuring the coverage of health services
provided by the insurance; (ii) promoting the separation of functions at the state level;
(iii) providing the timely supply of medicines; (iv) carrying out the affiliation process; (v)
disseminating beneficiary rights and obligations; (vi) protecting the rights of
beneficiaries; (vii) budgeting based on results; (viii) channeling resources to the service
providers through agreements; (ix) verifying that the providers of services fulfill the
requirements of the General Health Law; and (x) managing payments to providers and
accountability. This separation of functions at the state level is expected to lead to
stronger accountability mechanisms between the insurance agencies and service
providers, and, as mentioned previously, to the possibility for those agencies to purchase
health services from all existing provider networks (including the networks of IMSS and
ISSSTE), which would in turn enhance access to services, make the use of existing
service infrastructure more efficient, and facilitate the portability of insurance coverage
across state health systems, thereby beginning to address the fragmentation of the
Mexican health system.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
N/A




                                             40
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Opinion surveys show that the Seguro Popular beneficiaries are satisfied with the
program. According to the two surveys carried out in 2008, as mandated by Congress,
more than 95 percent of beneficiaries were "very satisfied" or "relatively satisfied" with
Seguro Popular, and 95 percent of health service users were "very satisfied" or
"somewhat satisfied" with the health services provided. More than nine out of ten
beneficiaries responded that they would return to the same health clinic when needed. In
December 2008, 99 percent of beneficiaries responded that it was "very probable" or
"probable" that they would continue affiliated with the Seguro Popular. The surveys
show improvements in waiting times at health service facilities over time, with users
waiting an average of 59 minutes (September 2009) to receive medical attention.

A survey carried out in 2009, broke down levels of satisfaction, by component of the
Seguro Popular. The average satisfaction rating was 95.9 percent, broken down as
follows: (i) enrollment process, 96.3 percent satisfied; (ii) attention in general, 96.5
percent satisfied; (iii) medical attention, 96.4 percent satisfied; (iv) performance of the
medical doctor, 96.4 percent satisfied; (v) services received, 94.9 percent satisfied; (v)
satisfaction in general, 94.9 percent satisfied.

As part of the preparation of the loan in support to the SPSS an indigenous consultation
was carried out (December 2009 ­ January 2010). The results of the consultation
indicated that Seguro Popular is highly accepted among indigenous. From the total on
indigenous interviewed and that are already Seguro Popular affiliates, 91% would
recommend other people to join the insurance and none of them said that it would not
recommend it.


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Negligible
The Risk to Development Outcome of the restructured Project is considered Negligible.
The SPSS, the Seguro Popular, and its financing are grounded in the General Health Law
and widely supported by all stakeholders and political parties. As such, Seguro Popular
is a national policy, whose financing is grounded in law, as opposed to a program, whose
allocations could be adjusted on the basis of Government priorities. The Seguro Popular,
which counts on infrastructure and other institutional streamlining and strengthening
activities financed under the Project, is fully functional, and has expanded rapidly to an
enrollment of over 30 million individuals, covering 266 interventions. As such, it is the
largest health insurance system both in terms of coverage and benefits for an uninsured
population in Latin America, where experience confirms the significant role that such
non-contributory health insurance schemes can play in achieving universal health
coverage. The greatest challenge to the SPSS could be the current economic crisis which
has led to an increase in informal employment and unemployment, and consequently and
increase in the number of persons without access to contributory social security systems
that depend on public health care. However, recent actions by the Government to expand
substantially the Seguro Popular during an economic crisis through Congressionally
approved modifications to the General Health Law bode well for the Government's



                                            41
determination to achieving its goal of providing health insurance to all Mexicans by
2012. Alone, the modification to the Law resulted in a reduction of premiums that will
allow the enrollment of more than 10 million additional beneficiaries within current state
health system budgets.19

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Unsatisfactory
The Bank's Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry is considered Unsatisfactory. As
mentioned in Section 2.1, the Project was a follow-up to the Second Basic Health Care
Project that had been rated Highly Satisfactory, and incorporated relevant lessons learned
during implementation of that Project. However, the health care delivery model that the
earlier Project supported was no longer consistent with the Government's strategy and
priorities for the health sector. Increased financing through a model that was no longer
relevant--satisfactory as its implementation may have been under the earlier project--was
doomed to failure when the Government changed fundamentally its service delivery
model.

Also as mentioned in Section 2.1, although the General Health Law that provided the
framework for the SPSS was approved only in 2003, the incorporation of Seguro Popular
as a strategy was included in the Government's National Health Program 2001-2006. It
is difficult to understand, therefore, how the Bank, with a history of successful assistance
to Mexico's health sector and a strong sector dialogue, was not aware at the time the
Bank's financing for the Project approved in mid-2001, that the new Administration was
considering a major redirection in the service delivery model for providing universal
access to basic health care. At the very least, the Bank team should have established a
dialogue with the incoming Administration in order to confirm whether the Project's
objectives were still relevant.

There were other problems with the Bank's Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry, as
described in Section 2.1. The preparation team's handling of the Bank's safeguards
framework was deficient. Although the Project was classified as a Category B for
environmental purposes, the Environmental Assessment (or Annex in the PAD) dealt
only with the issue of medical wastes, and the Project's Operational Manual did not
include requirements to follow the Bank's environmental, Indigenous Peoples' or
Pesticides safeguard policies. The Project's treatment of risks, and the design of its
monitoring and evaluation were also superficial. In retrospect few of the risks that came
to affect the Project's implementation had been identified during preparation, and the
Project's early implementation was potentially threatened by a variety of these
unidentified risks, not the least of which related to the Bank's inability to enforce its
safeguard policies, if any issues had arisen. The Project's monitoring framework and

19
   The reduction in premium levels rectified a discrepancy between the information on family size that fed
into the original calculation of the premium (based on 4.3 members per family based on census data) and
the actual average size of beneficiary families (3.1 members per family).


                                                   42
indicators, as originally designed, would have been extremely difficult to track and
follow, at best.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The Quality of the Bank's Supervision needs to be divided into two distinct phases: from
loan approval until about mid-2005, the first phase, and from then until project
completion, the second phase.

During the first phase, the Quality of Supervision was Unsatisfactory. Early supervision
focused mainly on following up on compliance with effectiveness conditions, budget
allocation, restructuring in the SSA, and procurement issues and process streamlining.
By mid-2003, the Implementation Status Report mentioned the new General Health Law,
but, by and large, appeared to view the Project as still very relevant as an instrument to
support the implementation of the SPSS, albeit with the need for a minor loan
amendment. The Bank began working with the Government to redesign the Project as a
SWAp, and preparatory work towards this was started. Work towards the Project's first
restructuring intensified in mid-2004, especially towards helping the Government
establish a system of monitoring and evaluation that could measure the then soon-to-be
restructured Project's impact at the state level. At about that time, Bank technical
supervision also intensified, and became very results-oriented, assisting the Government
to put into place the information, monitoring and other systems that it needed to
implement its new health care delivery model. When the Government found that the first
restructuring would not allow for a retroactive disbursement of expenditures it had
incurred in the earlier two years, the dialogue began to suffer. An ISR dated April 2005,
reports that this was due to: "(i) the first amendment was insufficient to reflect actual
government implementation arrangements for the project; (ii) during 2003 and 2004 (18
month preparation of the first amendment) the government did not follow procedures and
did not document activities as later specified in the first amendment; (iii) the Bank team
has been unable to find substantive supporting documentation about Bank-government
agreements reached during the preparation of the first amendment that would have
facilitated disbursements; and (iv) the government has had expectations about the first
amendment (it assumed it is a full SWAp) that are not fully supported by the first
amendment." Basically, the Bank had sought a rapid solution to get the Project in line
with the Government's new General Health Law, but somewhere along the line there had
been an issue in communications and in understanding what sort of restructuring this
would have entailed. With a large undisbursed balance, the Government requesting
support for a new, ambitious health program, the Bank had been slow in identifying the
need to restructure the Project, and when it did had not been able to restructure it in a
manner that responded to the Government's program.

Shortly thereafter, the Quality of Bank Supervision made a huge turnaround, and is rated
Highly Satisfactory. An intensified supervision and mission effort, including a change in
the Bank's Task Manager, a thorough review of the Project, the Government's program,
and the assistance it requested from the Bank resulted in the two-step process that
eventually culminated in the Project's second restructuring. The Bank's responsiveness
improved dramatically, even though in the process of restructuring the Bank's team had


                                           43
to address relatively delicate issues such as addressing the Project's retrofitting to the
Bank's safeguard policies, and the auditing of already financed expenditures for purposes
of safeguard compliance. The amount of coordination, time and effort that was involved
in bringing the Project into compliance with the Bank's safeguard policies was enormous,
yet the Bank's supervision team was determined to start from scratch in making the
Project fully responsive to the Government's needs and fully compliant with the Bank's
policies. The Bank's supervision during this second phase was intensive, results-focused
(so much so that refinements to the Project's monitoring matrix were still being made in
the Project's final month of implementation), responsive to the Government's needs and
priorities (e.g., the restructuring to respond to the A/H1N1 Virus), and technically strong.
It was complemented by several parallel advisory or general supervision activities aimed
at furthering the reform process at the level of the Federal Entities and of promoting a
greater understanding of Bank fiduciary requirements for the Project (Annex 18).
Supervision during this phase succeeded in turning around what had become a somewhat
cautious dialogue into one where the Government continues to seek the Bank's technical
and financial support for the next stage in implementation of the SPSS.

Weighing the Quality of the Bank's Supervision during both of these phases, especially
in view of the important contribution that its assistance during the final phase made to the
Project's overall outcome, a overall rating of ModeratelySatisfactory appears justified.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Overall Bank Performance is considered Moderately Satisfactory. This rating is
weighted based on a rating of Unsatisfactory for Quality at Entry and Moderately
Satisfactory for Quality of Supervision, and an overall rating of Moderately Satisfactory
for the Project's Achievement of its Development Objectives. Despite early loss of
relevance, significant issues with preparation and early supervision, the Bank was able to
overcome these initial setbacks and to support and work closely with the Government in
partnership not only to achieve important results under the Project as described earlier,
but to develop a true partnership with the Government in the implementation of the
Seguro Popular.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
It is difficult to rate the Government's performance from the time of preparation until the
time of the Project's first restructuring. In effect, the Government's priorities had
changed, and the Project as then designed no longer responded to its priorities. From the
moment the Government enacted the General Health Law, its priorities were clear, and it
worked closely with the Bank to ensure that the Project could be adjusted to be
responsive to its sector priorities. The Government embraced the challenge of launching
a very ambitious and comprehensive reform process, understanding the need to
strengthen the supply of quality services in order to improve access of the poor people to
the Seguro Popular in a very short period in order to reach universal coverage by 2012.
Budgetary authorities were responsive to what this represented in terms of budgetary
allocation, and provided the necessary budgetary resources. The Government was


                                            44
successful in putting in place major changes in its internal financial mechanisms to allow
for the expansion of the Seguro Popular, and as a result, the implementation of the
Project's activities received broad support.

The participation of Nacional Financiera (NAFIN), the Borrower, was consistently
supportive throughout implementation. NAFIN, as the Government's financial agent,
provided a high degree of continuity and an adequate transfer of knowledge,
implementation support and oversight based on its many years of experience with Bank-
financed projects, maintaining adequate records and accounts to reflect the Project's
operations and financial status.

Overall, the performance of the Government was highly supportive of the Project, and is
considered Satisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The SSA through its General Directorate of Planning and Health Development
(DGPLADES) was responsible for the Project's overall implementation, working as
appropriate with the state health secretariats and other implementing units. Project
implementation performance was generally unsatisfactory until the Project's second
restructuring. Upon approval of the Project's third restructuring, DGPLADES began to
assume a critical role in the implementation of the restructured Project, maintaining close
coordination with other of the SSA's General Directorates, as required, and with the
many state health service planning units.

Obviously, the SSA was driving the Project's second restructuring in an effort to make
the Project compatible with the Government's priorities. Its technical personnel worked
on the conceptualization of the restructured Project and in the development of the
Project's indicators. The SSA was very supportive of the Bank's need to "get things
right" and DGPLADES staff participated very actively when was requested by the Bank
to carry out a special safeguards audit and develop appropriate environmental and social
frameworks for the Project.

DGPLADES had the ability to promote innovative initiatives and to mobilize state and
federal support for carrying them out, and in the process developed strong capacity to
design and execute the Project's technical assistance activities. It developed innovative
planning tools such as the PMIFS and PME which has been used as the basis for
developing the Health Sector Master Sector Plan for Infrastructure (Plan Maestro de
Infraestructura Sectorial) expected to become the health needs diagnostic for the entire
country (public and private), and which has already been replicated in other countries in
the region.

The SSA implemented and coordinated the Project with high technical standards and was
successful in institutionalizing the changes it designed such as the PMIFS and PME, the
Sistema de Información de Gerencia Hospitalaria (SIGHO, Hospital Mangement
Information System), the Certificate of Needs (works and equipment) that feeds the
PMIES, the development of health centers and community hospitals with intercultural


                                            45
focus, managements tools in hospitals, and the development of innovative models of
ambulatory surgery care units (UNEMES).20 DGPLADES was able to manage well a
large construction and equipping program (around 205 infrastructure and equipment
projects) that involved complex procurement and that ultimately supported the increase in
service utilization by Seguro Popular beneficiaries.

DGPLADES demonstrated good capacity to process information in a timely manner, as
necessary to monitor project activities. It established a process of consultation and
dialogue with all of the relevant actors, particularly at the state level, and intensified
efforts to promote an interchange of new experiences, problems and ideas between
different states, incorporating or adjusting their program as required addressing the
findings. DGPLADES handled daily administration, the coordinated with the different
technical groups of the SSA and state authorities, and managed fiduciary issues in close
coordination with NAFIN. Overall decision-making remained the responsibility of the
Undersecretary of Innovation and Quality upon which DGPLADES depends directly.

On a less positive side, there was a high turnover of staff in the Undersecretariat of
Innovation and Quality, and particularly in DGPLADES throughout implementation, as
described in Section 2.2.

Overall, the Implementing Agencies' performance is considered Moderately Satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Overall, the Borrower's performance is considered Moderately Satisfactory. This takes
into account performance during the Project's early phase of implementation, but
especially after the second restructuring, and is based on the Government's and the
Implementing Agencies': (i) ownership and commitment to the preparation of the
Project's second restructuring and its implementation thereafter; (ii) commitment to the
Project's development objectives; (iii) ability to increase substantially the amount of
budgetary resources allocated to health services through Seguro Popular; (iv)
commitment to "retrofit" the Project to bring it into compliance with the Bank's
safeguard policies; (v) provide counterpart funding throughout implementation despite
the severe fiscal constraints the country is facing; (vi) periodic turnover of staff and
staffing shortages in DGPLADES; (vii) a perceived lack of commitment to advance the
process of organizational restructuring at the state level; and (viii) occasional fiduciary
issues as described in Section 2.4.

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)
The Project and its implementation offer several lessons, both respect to the
implementation of health projects, and to the delivery of Bank assistance.



20
  UNEMES are Specialized Ambulatory Units. There are different types of UNEMES by specialization:
oncology, ambulatory surgery, hemodialisis.


                                               46
With respect to the delivery of Bank assistance, the following lessons are relevant:


   ¾ Follow-up operations, even if scaling up Bank assistance to what had been highly
     successful predecessor projects, are not guaranteed to perform well, especially if
     realities and more importantly, the government's priorities or programs change
     implementation modalities. The Project followed on the earlier PAC that had been
     rated Highly Satisfactory for outcome, yet the Government's Health Reform
     resulted in a major redirection in its sectoral priorities.


   ¾ The pressure to move towards loan approval, especially in the immediate
     aftermath of a change in Government administration, may lead to supporting a
     project that no longer responds to the new administration's priorities.


   ¾ The Sector-Wide Approach (SWAp) mechanism offers an important modality for
     supporting the entirety of a Government program, and for scaling up the impact of
     Bank assistance. It also serves to elevate the level of the Bank's dialogue to
     almost the entirety of a sector, as opposed to an individual project. However, for
     a SWAp to be an effective vehicle for Bank assistance, it is important to
     understand the Government's internal financial management arrangements and
     incentives, and agree upon the loan's fiduciary requirements so that they are
     compatible with those of the Government.


   ¾ When a major preparation issue is uncovered, it is best to address that issue
     straight on, and correct the problem. What can be considered minor preparation
     problems, often become bigger ones, and it is best to invest the additional time
     and effort to get things "right" as soon as an issue surfaces. For example, when
     the Bank's supervision team found that the Bank's safeguard policies had not
     properly been incorporated in the Operational Manual, it made the effort to go
     back, incorporate the required provisions, and carry out an audit to ensure that the
     expenditures that had already been financed complied fully with the Bank's
     policies.


   ¾ When a project is not performing, sometimes a "quick fix" is not sufficient. Often
     it is worth stepping back and starting from scratch to redesign the Bank-financed
     Project (which was the case with the Project's second restructuring). And
     sometimes, given unfulfilled expectations from the client, it may make sense to
     agree upon a two-step process for full restructuring. However, the two-step
     process followed under this Project impacted the "weighting" in the calculation of
     the Outcome Rating for Formally Revised Projects, as per the ICR Guidelines.


                                           47
      Given problems with the first restructuring, and client expectations of
      disbursements, the two-step process amended the loan to facilitate a large
      disbursement that the client had expected with the first restructuring while
      carrying out a comprehensive restructuring. But the large disbursement increased
      the weight assigned to unsatisfactory performance before the Project's second
      restructuring.


   ¾ Financing large operations in federal states pose unique challenges, especially
     given the different institutional capacities and social realities of the various
     federal entities.   Targets for activities addressing institutional capacity
     strengthening, for example, should be conservative to take into account the
     challenges of working with various levels of government with a wide range of
     capabilities.


   ¾ Intensive supervision of what is a "problem project", coupled with other
     complementary assistance activities on the part of the Bank, can turn a project
     around. More importantly, a tense relationship with a client, due to expectations
     of Bank assistance that does not materialize, can be strengthened and improved,
     but it requires hands-on assistance and support. When the Project's
     implementation had not improved after the first restructuring, the Government's
     expectations in terms of disbursements were not met. This led to a somewhat
     difficult relationship with the client. In order to respond to those expectations, the
     Bank adopted the two-pronged approach of processing a quick amendment that
     permitted expected loan disbursements, while processing a detailed restructuring
     to adjust definitively the Project to the Government's program. This approach
     responded to the client's needs, but involved intensive hands-on assistance and
     supervision resources on the Bank's part.


With respect to the implementation of health projects, the following lessons are
relevant:


   ¾ In highly decentralized systems, successful implementation of comprehensive
     health sector reforms hinges on the effective use of incentive and support systems
     and, yet, tend to require ample time (often up to two decades).


   ¾ Because of the importance of strong monitoring and evaluation systems for large
     government programs such as this one, the Project's results framework, which
     should be similar to the Government's program monitoring framework, should be
     included among the legal agreements for the project, with the requirement that the


                                           48
        monitoring of progress against that framework should begin immediately upon
        start of project implementation, readjusted as necessary throughout
        implementation.

    ¾ Projects should also have in place agreed, reliable and efficient information
      systems that support the project's monitoring and evaluation, from the start of
      implementation. The adequacy of these systems should be reviewed periodically
      by the Bank in the course of routine supervision.


    ¾ The experience with non-contributory health insurance programs reveals the
      following with respect to inequality in financing and benefits: (i) the level of
      financing is generally higher and more stable, but lower in comparison with
      contributory health insurance; (ii) benefits are defined, but limited; (iii) fiscal
      limitations often constrain their rapid expansion; (iv) factors such as access, and
      knowledge of benefits affect demand for services; (v) contributory programs are
      not as effective in providing coverage for a target population; and (vi) on the
      negative side, weaknesses in information systems reduce the efficiency and
      progressiveness of subsidies.


    ¾ For non-contributory health insurance programs to function effectively, the
      following are needed: (i) regulatory systems to guide the contracting process; (ii)
      strong institutional capacity in the financing agencies for strategic contracting;
      (iii) service providers with sufficient autonomy and human resource capacity to
      respond to financial incentives; and (iv) elimination of public financing, outside
      the framework of the health insurance system, to respond to supply incentives.



7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
Not applicable

(b) Cofinanciers
Not applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
Not applicable




                                           49
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                Total cost at
                                              Total IBRD cost
                                   Second                      Actual IBRD Actual IBRD as
                                                 at Second
         Components            Restructuring                  financing (US$ Percentage of
                                               Restructuring
                               Estimate (US$                     millions)    Appraisal
                                               (US$ millions)
                                 millions)
1.        Improve access of
the poor to services included        542.30          320.90        320.90        100%
in the SP benefit package
2.        Restructure State
                                       2.40            1.90           1.90       100%
Health Systems
3.        Strengthen SSA in
its role as the health systems        33.00           23.70         23.70        100%
steward
         Total Baseline Cost         577.70          346.50        346.50        100%
Physical Contingencies                 0.00            0.00           0.00
Price Contingencies                    0.00            0.00           0.00
          Total Project Costs        577.70          346.50        346.50        100%
Front-end fee PPF                      0.00            0.00           0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                     3.50            3.50           3.50       100%
 Total Financing Required            581.20          350.00        350.00       100%

(b) Project's costs by Category
Disbursement Category                Government             Bank              Total
                                       (US$m)              (US$m)            (US$m)
1. Civil Works                            0.128              0.298             0.426
2. Goods                                  0.634              3.895             4.529
3. Pharmaceuticals                                          47.790            47.790
4. Services                               0.666              4.088             4.754
5. Financing of State Programs          221.400            264.322           485.722
6. Operational Costs                      8.372             26.106            34.478
8. Laboratory Equipment and                                   0.00
Supplement under Part D of
the Project
Front-end Fee                                                3.500             3.500
TOTAL                                   231.200             350.00           581.200

(c) Financing
                                              Appraisal     Actual/Latest   Percentage
                Source of Funds               Estimate        Estimate          of
                                            (USD millions) (USD millions)   Appraisal
Borrower                                          231.20        231.20             100%
International Bank for Reconstruction and
                                                  350.00        350.00            100%
Development




                                            50
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The outputs, by component, of the Project as restructured under the second project
restructuring were as follows:

Part A: Improving Access of the Poor People that are Eligible for Enrollment or
Enrolled in the Subsidized Regime of the Seguro Popular to the Seguro Popular's
Health Service Benefit Package

The Project played an important role in supporting the development of a strategy to
strengthen the supply of health services, linking the financing that it provided with the
strengthening of the State Health Systems (SESAs) and with the Seguro Popular's
objectives of providing a pre-defined target number of benefiaries with a package of pre-
defined services. The objective of strengthening the supply of health care services was
designed to include a set of activities, including: (i) management of health service
delivery; (ii) supply of pharmaceuticals; (iii) infrastructure; (iv) evaluation; (v) medical
supplies and equipment; (vi) information systems; (vii) human resources; and (viii)
organizational structures.

    ¾ Affiliation

The Government's targets are that the Seguro Popular will achieve universal health
coverage for all Mexicans by the year 2012 --enrolling around 44 million of individuals
in the subsidized regime of Seguro Popular. Enrollment in the Seguro Popular has
grown from 11.4 million individual affiliates in 2005 to 30.7 million at the end of 2009.
Figure 1 below presents the progress of enrollment in the Seguro Popular by year, in
comparison with the Government's targets. The percentage of affiliation to the
subsidized regime of Seguro Popular reached 69.8% exceeding the 65% that was the
target for at the end of the project. Starting in 2008, the Government has made
significant progress in enrolling more vulnerable groups such as pregnant women,
infants, the population living in areas with the lowest Human Development Index, and
others.

Figure: 1 Affiliates of the Seguro Popular 2006-2009




Source: Project report prepared by the General Directorate of Planning and Health Development
(DGPLADES), 2010



                                                 51
Enrollment of indigenous people in the Seguro Popular. The pace of enrolling
indigenous people in the Seguro Popular has been slower than expected, especially in
comparison with the pace in enrolling the population as a whole.

In the first phases of scaling up affiliation, the Seguro Popular prioritized families in the
first and second income deciles. Despite this, the total affiliation of the indigenous
peoples21 still lagged behind that of the general population. For example, in 2008, 60
percent of the total eligible population as compared to only 30 percent of the indigenous
population was affiliated. Moreover, there is still a large eligible indigenous population
that lacks Seguro Popular insurance. For example, the Seguro Popular has reached only
68.8 percent of the localities that have an indigenous population of at least 40 percent.
This equals 16,571 localities with approximately 4 million inhabitants out of a total of
24,090 localities with 6.5 million inhabitants. Furthermore, only 27.5 percent of the
indigenous population has declared that it is enrolled in any type of health insurance at all
(public or private), 38 percent of whom are enrolled with the Seguro Popular.22 Table 1
below shows that to date, from the 10.5 million families affiliated to the Seguro Popular,
only about 8.6 percent are indigenous families. While there has been some progress in
extending coverage to these groups, further actions will be needed to achieve universal
coverage.

Table 1: Coverage of the Seguro Popular in indigenous areas, by federal entity and
by family

                                                           Families enrolled
               Federal Entity         Families enrolled     in indigenous    % of families enrolled in
                                                                areas /1        indigenous areas
              1 Aguascalientes                  126,070                      0                        0.0%
              2 Baja California                 246,872                      4                        0.0%
                Baja California
              3 Sur                              42,545                      5                        0.0%
              4 Campeche                        119,281                19,380                       16.2%
              5 Coahuila                        161,955                      0                        0.0%
              6 Colima                           90,270                      0                        0.0%
              7 Chiapas                         681,711               163,555                       24.0%
              8 Chihuahua                       246,155                 5,160                         2.1%
              9 Distrito Federal                417,834                      1                        0.0%
            10 Durango                          122,133                 3,016                         2.5%
            11 Guanajuato                       676,987                      3                        0.0%
            12 Guerrero                         356,840                71,230                       20.0%
            13 Hidalgo                          335,729                57,522                       17.1%

21
   Seguro Popular does not identify their beneficiaries by their specific ethnicity but by whether or not they
consider themselves to be indigenous.
22
   Of the rest of the 27.5 percent, 44 percent are enrolled in IMSS-Oportunidades and 18 percent in other
institutions. CDI-UNDP study.


                                                     52
                                                                       Families enrolled
                   Federal Entity            Families enrolled          in indigenous    % of families enrolled in
                                                                            areas /1        indigenous areas
               14 Jalisco                                 577,856                      1,030                               0.2%
               15 México                                1,069,509                     30,291                               2.8%
               16 Michoacán                               385,906                      9,003                               2.3%
               17 Morelos                                 218,286                         795                              0.4%
               18 Nayarit                                 140,160                      7,096                               5.1%
               19 Nuevo León                              223,682                            0                             0.0%
               20 Oaxaca                                  562,692                   161,494                              28.7%
               21 Puebla                                  533,985                     87,199                             16.3%
               22 Querétaro                               163,407                      4,809                               2.9%
               23 Quintana Roo                            108,683                     22,114                             20.3%
               24 San Luis Potosí                         282,282                     43,590                             15.4%
               25 Sinaloa                                 243,386                      1,133                               0.5%
               26 Sonora                                  186,385                      7,378                               4.0%
               27 Tabasco                                 445,920                      7,514                               1.7%
               28 Tamaulipas                              335,759                            0                             0.0%
               29 Tlaxcala                                179,147                      1,939                               1.1%
               30 Veracruz                                833,966                   102,898                              12.3%
               31 Yucatán                                 202,097                     98,892                             48.9%
              32 Zacatecas                               196,835                          2                               0.0%
              Mexico National                         10,514,325                    907,053                               8.6%
1/Classification of areas in México according to the degree of indigenous people residing, 2000 : The locations with more than 40% of
persons speaking indigenous languages with a marginalization rate of high or very high are reported, based on publications in
CONAPO's website.


       ¾ Physical Infrastructure and Equipment

The SSA agreed with the 32 Federal Entities on the establishment of a Plan Maestro de
Infraestructura Física de Salud (PMIFS, Master Plan of Physical Infrastructure for
Health) that includes specific physical infrastructure and equipment needs required to
strengthen and improve the supply of health services. The PMIFS has been developed
through 18 (as of now) service networks aimed at providing the infrastructure and
equipment needed to deliver services through the Seguro Popular. (A description of the
PMIFS is provided under the description of Component III below.) The Project financed
about 205 different activities related to development of infrastructure and provision of
equipment that were included in the PMIFS and PME23. Table 2 below provides a
summary of the health facilities, by type, that were either constructed/rehabilitated and/or
equipped under the Project.




23
     These activities benefited 174 health units.


                                                                53
Table 2: Infrastructure and equipment carried out with PROCEDES resources.
Cumulative data 2005-2008

                                                                                        Specialized
                                       Health            Blood                          ambulatory
                                                                        Hospitals                         Total
                                       Centers           banks                             units
                                                                                        (UNEMES)
Equipment and construction                       33              0                15                  3           51
Construction                                      7              1                62                  2           72
Equipment                                         1              0                13                  0           14
Expansion                                        23              0                39                  0           62
Not Specified                                     2              0                  3                 1            6
Total                                           66              1               132                 6         205
Beneficiaries                              255,000        400,000         7,100,000         1,500,000     955,000
Infrastructure in Health (SSA)               4201             n.a.              438                13       4472
PROCEDES Units                               1.60%             n.a.          23.50%           38.50%        3.90%



Source: DGPLADES, Presidencia de la República, Tercer Informe de Gobierno, 2009


As can be observed in table above, the Project contributed approximately 4 percent of the
works of carried out infrastructure and equipment in the SPSS between 2005 and 2008.
However, the relative weight of its contribution was considerably greater in the case of
the hospital units (23.5 percent) and the medical specialized ambulatory units (UNEMES)
(38.5 percent).


     ¾ Accreditation of health units

The establishment of the Seguro Popular required that the Government be prepared to
offer its beneficiaries quality health services, with dignity and security. To achieve this,
the SSA developed standards for health sector facilities (accreditation process), to ensure
that every facility in the delivery networks reached quality service standards with
adequate provisión of infrastructure, equipment, human resources and organization
management. The Project, by supporting an improvement in services, contributed
helping health units achieve their accreditation. The process of accrediting the health
units began in 2004 with the preparation of an Accreditation Manual and the training by
the Dirección General de Calidad y Educación en Salud (DGCES, General Directorate of
Quality and Education in Health of the SSA) of staff that would be performing the
evaluation and accreditation process. As of December 31, 2009, 8,168 health units,
representing 66.3 percent of the total 12,321 health units had been accredited to provide
services to beneficiaries of the Seguro Popular, slightly exceeding the Government's
targets for 2009. Furthermore, the increase of health facilities financed, concluded and
accredited with PROCEDES (38.6 percent) slightly surpassed the target established for
achievement by completion of the Project (38 percent). Still, the accreditation process
has lagged behind the pace of affiliation of new beneficiaries.




                                                            54
Also, the progress in accreditation of health units has varied by each of the Federal
Entities, as shown in Figure 2 below. In broad terms, there has been a push to expand the
supply in areas of easier access, with less progress in the more marginalized areas where
the accreditation process would require stronger efforts to bring the health units up to
required standards. Only 16 percent of health units have been accredited in the 125
municipalities with indigenous people that have the lowest Human Development Index.
The principle concerns that the SSA has identified with respect to the accreditation
process are: (i) the fact that in many states the gap in provision for health services was so
inadequate prior to the implementation of Seguro Popular that its transformation requires
more time; (ii) the fact that most of the health units accredited to date are in urban areas;
and (iii) the de-linking of the financing for the Seguro Popular with the process of
accreditation.

Figure 2: Accredited Health Facilities, by Federal Entity, in Relation to the Total of
Health Facilities (Universe=12,321; National Average=56.9%).




   ¾ Consultant's Services and Training to Build Management Capacity

In order to strengthen the delivery of health services, DGPLADES developed a training
program to build management capacity for responding to the increase in demand for
health services. The objectives of this training were to strengthen the capacity to respond
to an increased demand in health services by the newly enrolled beneficiaries, improve
the efficiency in the use of financial resources, and improve the quality of services
delivered. Of great importance within the training program was the planning of the
demand and administration of inventories of medicines. The SSA collected information
from the 32 Federal Entities on the background and experience of their health sector staff
and following a diagnosis of the information, designed training programs that responded
to identified needs. A summary of training programs financed by the Project is provided
in Table 3 below.



                                             55
Table 3: Training Financed by the Project

      Type of Event                Number of Events              Number of Persons
                                                                    Trained
Workshop on Leadership                      3                         170
in Health
Induction and Refresher                     1                             60
Course for High-Level
Officials
Masters in Public Health                    2                             47
Diploma in Leadership in                   10                            419
Health Management
Diploma in Strategic                        1                             27
Management and
Organizational
Development
Diploma in Health                           1                             40
Services Planning
Telemedicine Workshops                      3                             91
Workshops in Health                         5                            219
Services Extensions
(Caravanas)
Refresher courses for                       2                            150
Medical Doctors and
Nurses
Induction Courses for                       8                            228
High Level Officials
TOTAL                                      36                            1451


   ¾ Development of Management Tools

The Project financed the development of management tools for the management of health
units. These tools were aimed at enabling the health teams to identify the beneficiaries'
needs, establish management teams and manage priority processes in health service
delivery. The tools developed include clinical tools, statistical for monitoring purposes,
strategic, operational, quality enhancement, learning, human resource management and
material resource management. DGPLADES prepared a catalog of Management Tools,
which includes around 90 different tools, and has made it available to all health units
through dissemination on its web page.




                                           56
   ¾ Development of Alternative Forms of Service Delivery

The Project financed several activities aimed at developing alternative forms of service
delivery, including Inter-Cultural service delivery models.

Models for Health Units. The Project provided technical assistance for designing
architectural plans for inter-cultural health units. These plans have been incorporated in
the Manual de Modelos de Unidades Medicas (Manual of Models for Health Units), and
will be incorporated in the PMIFS.

Consultative Process. Under the Project, DGPLADES developed and published
guidelines for carrying out inter-cultural consultation processes, Metodologia
Intercultural para la Realización de Consultas Informadas (Inter-cultural Methodology
for Carrying Out Informed Consultations), and distributed these to the Federal Entities
with instructions on how these should be followed.

Accreditation of Health Units in Indigenous Areas. Under the Project, the checklist for
accreditation of health units was expanded to include inter-cultural aspects for use in
accrediting health units in areas with indigenous population. This involved the inclusion
of additional items in the checklist to reflect the inter-cultural aspects of these areas,
including for example the need to have staff that were familiar with inter-cultural issues,
the availability of bilingual facilitators, and specifics regarding health care issues of
indigenous people.

Dissemination of the Involuntary Resettlement Policy. In order to comply with the
Bank's Involuntary Resettlement Policy, the Certificate of Needs was modified to
incorporate relevant questions on the checklist. Questions relating to the need to acquire
land, how they would be acquired (donation, purchase, expropriation), present use of the
land, were incorporated, as well as a question as to whether any involuntary resettlement
would be involved.

   ¾ Design, Piloting and Implementation of Monitoring and Evaluation Systems

Due to the complexity of the FOROSS, it was not possible to make an evaluation of this
strategy. However, some assessment studies of specific components of FOROSS were
conducted. This is the case of the surveys in ambulatory health units in order to measure
the level of prescriptions fully and timely filled in 2004, 2005, and 2006. The SSA
through one of its units (DGCES) established a monitoring system for the accreditation of
health units. This system has been very useful for establishing accreditation plans,
together with the SESAs.




                                            57
Part B: Restructuring and Developing State Health Systems within the framework
of the SPSS.


   ¾ Technical Assistance and workshops for organizational and institutional
     restructuring of State Health Systems

The Project provided technical assistance to 14 Federal Entities to support the process of
institutional and organizational restructuring of their State Health Systems, to separate the
normative, financing and service delivery functions. The objective was to standardize the
organizational structure of the SESAs. The principal activities that the consultancy firms
were contracted to develop were to: (i) identify the macro-processes of the SESAs; (ii)
prepare proposals of organizational and functional restructuring; (iii) validate the
restructuring proposal based on the current state standardization; (iv) prepare manuals on
organization and on procedures based on quality criteria adhered to the standards of the
ISOS; (v) design a matrix of indicators of evaluation of processes, and vi) prepare a
dissemination program of all the proposal of restructuring.

As these activities only got underway in 2008, most of the efforts have concentrated on
carrying out the legal analysis of each of the Federal Entities that is necessary to
implement the required organizational restructuring. A significant effort was dedicated to
developing a shared vision of the separation of responsibilities in the long term, and in
the developing and understanding of the rationale for the needed organizational
restructuring.

A total of 30 federal entities out of the 32 count on a State Health Secretariat (SESA) that
responds to the State's executive branch, and that is the agency at the state level that is
responsible for normative functions, the design of public policy in health and sectoral
coordination. Still, in many cases the SESAs are weak and understaffed, or inexistant,
and as a result rely on Organismos Públicos Descentralizados (OPD, Decentralized
Public Organizations) to fulfill their normative functions. The OPDs are, in general
terms, the state-level organizations that are responsible for delivering health care services
to individuals and the communities.

The Federal Entities' degree of progress in creating and strengthening the SESAs, can be
classified as follows:

Group One: Federal Entities that still do not count on a SESA, and as a result show a
marked dependence and concentration of responsibilities on their OPDs, that depend on
the State's Executive and assume normative, financing and service delivery functions.
The Federal Entities of Aguascalientes, Chihuahua y Zacatecas are in this group.

Group Two: Federal Entities where the SESA and the OPDs coexist, and the
responsibility is shared among them. Twenty-six Federal Entities are in this group: Baja
California, Baja California Sur, Campeche, Coahuila, Colima, Chiapas, Durango,
Guanajuato, Guerrero, Hidalgo, Jalisco, Michoacán, Nayarit, Nuevo León, Oaxaca,



                                             58
Puebla, Querétaro, Quintana Roo, San Luis Potosí, Sinaloa, Sonora, Tabasco,
Tamaulipas, Tlaxcala, Veracruz, Yucatán and the Distrito Federal.

Group Three: Federal Entities that have both an SESA and an OPD that is a service
provider, and where the responsibility among them is clearly split. Two Federal Entities
are in this group: México y Morelos.

Table 5 shows the status of the federal entities with regard to its new administrative
structure.

Table 5: Administrative Structure of the federal entities.

                Federal Entity24       Has a    Has an    Responsibility
                                      SESA25    OPD26     for the SESA
                                                          and the OPD
                                                          are the same
             AGUASCALIENTES             NO          YES        YES
             BAJA CALIFORNIA            YES         YES        YES
             BAJA CALIFORNIA            YES         YES        YES
             SUR
             CAMPECHE                   YES         YES       YES
             COAHUILA                   YES         YES       YES
             COLIMA                     YES         YES       YES
             CHIAPAS                    YES         YES       YES
             CHIHUAHUA                  NO          YES       NO
             DISTRITO                   YES         YES       YES
             FEDERAL
             DURANGO                    YES         YES       YES
             GUANAJUATO                 YES         YES       YES
             GUERRERO                   YES         YES       YES
             HIDALGO                    YES         YES       YES
             JALISCO                    YES         YES       YES
             EDO. DE MÉXICO             YES         YES       NO
             MICHOACAN                  YES         YES       YES
             MORELOS                    YES         YES       NO
             NAYARIT                    YES         YES       YES
             NUEVO LEÓN                 YES         YES       YES
             OAXACA                     YES         YES       YES
             PUEBLA                     YES         YES       YES
             QUERETARO                  YES         YES       YES
             QUINTANA ROO               YES         YES       YES
             SAN LUIS POTOSI            YES         YES       YES
             SINALOA                    YES         YES       YES
             SONORA                     YES         YES       YES
             TABASCO                    YES         YES       YES

24
   Entidad Federativa.
25
   SESA Secretaría de Salud Estatal.
26
   OPD Organismo Público Descentralizado.


                                               59
               Federal Entity24      Has a     Has an     Responsibility
                                    SESA25     OPD26      for the SESA
                                                          and the OPD
                                                          are the same
            TAMAULIPAS                YES         YES          YES
            TLAXCALA                  YES         YES          YES
            VERACRUZ                  YES         YES          YES
            YUCATAN                   YES         YES          YES
            ZACATECAS                 NO          YES          NO

   ¾ State-level seminars and workshops

Since 2005, several workshops were held in Baja California Sur, Guanajuato, Veracruz,
Nayarit, Guerrero and Oaxaca to start the process of restructuring of State Health
Systems. To provide technical assistance in carrying out these workshops, DGPLADES
contracted the Consorcio Hospitalario de Cataluña. These workshops focused on
establishing working groups that focussed on: (i) normative functions; (ii) service
delivery; (iii) financing; and (iv) resource generation. They also promoted the design of
technical assistance activites for the legal restructuring in some states, for the elaboration
of internal regulations, and the formation of REPSS. Finally, the workshops led to the
creation of the Comisión de Reestructuración Organizativa de los Servicios Estatales de
Salud (ROSES, Commission for the Organizational Restructuring of State Health
Systems), a discussion forum that succeeded in putting organizational restructuring of
health systems on the agenda of the Consejo Nacional de Salud.

   ¾ Distribution of Pharmaceuticals

The Government has been increasing concerned about access to pharmaceuticals by
health care beneficiaries. In 2002, it estimated that shortages of pharmaceuticals (i.e.,
prescribed medications that were not delivered) was estimated at between 25 and 30
percent. These shortages were due mainly to lack of budgetary resources, inefficiency in
the pharmaceutical supply chain, and lack of transparency in the distribution process.
Under the Project, the SSA addressed this issue by implementing activities geared to
improve, regulate, transform and innovate by increasing transparency in the distribution
process and controlling demand. Activities carried out under the Project can be grouped
into the following categories: (i) preparation of studies on the process of supply of drugs
(planning, purchase and distribution) to detect areas susceptible to improvement; (ii)
training of the SESA staff in planning activities, purchase (outsourcing, purchase
consolidated, purchase fast), distribution, and management of drug inventories; (iii)
design of sites on the Internet with relevant information for the purchase of drugs
(suppliers, market prices), and (iv) periodic monitoring of the levels of prescriptions
filled fully in a timely manner, especially in ambulatory units of the SESAs.

Improvement in the distribution of prescribed pharmaceuticals is reflected in several
surveys, which reveal an increase from 85 to levels above 90 percent of prescribed
pharmaceuticals being delivered in full and on time. Figure 3 shows the achievements
reached with regard to prescriptions fully and timely filled in SESA's ambulatory units


                                             60
during Project implementation. This achievement surpassed the Project's target (89
percent) for the end of the project.

Figure 3 Percentage of prescriptions fully and timely filled in SESAs ambulatory
units




Source: DGED and DGPLADES




                                       61
Table 4: Achievements in the supply of complete and fully delivered prescriptions
by federal entity.

                           F
                           E
                     GRO
                     NAY
                     YUC
                     CAMP
                     COA
                     JAL
                     OAX
                     TAMPS
                     BCS
                     SIN
                     NL
                     TAB
                     QROO
                     QRO
                     GTO
                     ZACS
                     TLAX
                     SLP
                     SON
                     CHIS
                     NAL
                     DGO
                     MEX
                     COL
                     VER
                     AGS
                     CHIH
                     HGO
                     BC
                     PUE
                     MICH
                     MOR
                     DF




                                        62
Part C: Strengthen the Secretaria de Salud in its role as the steward of the SPSS.

      ¾ Design of the Affiliation Process

Under the Project, the SSA developed guidelines for the affiliation process that establish
the criteria for affiliation, the operation of the process, the integration of the national list
of Seguro Popular beneficiaries and the determination of the level of the family
contribution. Each year, the Commission and State Health Systems agree on affiliation
targets commensurate with the overall budget envelope for the Seguro Popular. Targets
have given priority to families in the lower income deciles and those enrolled into social
assistance programs (such as the conditional cash transfer program, Oportunidades, and
the food supplementation program, Diconsa). Moreover, since December 2006, pregnant
women, sick children and newborns can enroll with Seguro Popular through the Health
Insurance for a New Generation at any time. Affiliation is subject only to proof of
citizenship and a lack of contributory social security. A birth certificate or an official
document including the national identification number can be presented as the proof of
citizenship. The lack of contributory social security is assessed through a survey applied
at the point of affiliation27. To identify the closest health center that will serve as an entry
point to the health care delivery system, a document confirming the beneficiary family's
address is required (usually a utility bill is sufficient). In addition, during the affiliation
process, the family member present at affiliation has to complete a proxy means test to
determine the family contribution level. All data collected in this process are submitted
and confirmed at the federal level. Upon confirmation, the State Health Systems issue an
insurance policy to the beneficiary family along with a letter describing their rights and
obligations (Carta de Derechos and Obligaciones). Finally, the Federal Government
carries out annual audits of the affiliation processes.

      ¾ Design of Accreditation Process

The General Health Law established that health units that become a part of the network
of service providers for the Seguro Popular must be accredited. SSA designed the
accreditation process under the Project as a means of guaranteeing the quality of services
in accordance with the Catalogo Universal de Servicios de Salud (CAUSES) and the
Fondo de Protección Contra Gastos Catastróficos. The accreditation process begins
with an initial audit of the capacity, security and quality of the health units that are
pursuing accreditation. The process counts on federal and state level staff to collect and
compare information on checklists that were developed specifically for the accreditation
process. For a health unit to be included in the network, it must count on a formal
approval of accreditation based on an audit as defined in the Manual para la Acreditación
y Garantía de la Calidad en Establecimientos para la Prestación de Servicios de Salud
(Manual for Accreditation and Quality Assurance in Units Delivering Health Services).




27
   CECASOEH. Cédula de Características Socioeconómicas del Hogar. A standardized instrument
developed by the SSA that is used by the REPSS to determine the socio-economic status of families.


                                               63
      ¾ Design of the Master Plan of Infrastructure and Master Plan of Equipment

Under the Project, the SSA conceptualized and designed two processes aimed at ensuring
the adequate supply of high quality medical services to the beneficiaries of the Seguro
Popular. These include the Plan Maestro de Infraestructura en Salud (PMIFS) and the
Plan Maestro de Equipamiento en Salud. Both of these were designed by multi-
disciplinary teams with representatives from SSA's Direccion General de Información en
Salud (DGIA), DGPLADES and the Centro Nacional de Excelencia Tecnológica en
Salud (CENETEC.)

      ¾ Monitoring and Evaluation

Under the Project, the SSA carried out several evaluations of the Seguro Popular, and
developed a monitoring system for the program.

A broad evaluation of the Seguro Popular was carried out in 2006. It was conducted by
researchers from Harvard University working together with specialists from the Instituto
Nacional de Salud Pública. This evaluation had three components: (i) financial
evaluation; ii) operational/process evaluation; and (iii) an experimental impact evaluation
based on information collected from 40 thousand households. Initial data reveals that the
existence of the Seguro Popular is reducing the frequency of catastrophic health expenses
among its beneficiaries. The results were published in Lancet in 2009, with very
favorable editorial comments28.

The SSA also carried out an external evaluation of Sistema de Protección Social en Salud
focussed on the Regímenes Estatales de Protección Social en Salud (REPSS). This
evaluation provided a more definitive analysis of the progress in the separation of
normative, financing and service provision functions among the Federal Entities, and
measure progress in the strategic purchasing of health care services. An evaluation for
the PMIFS had been planned in order to assess the efficiency and effectiveness of the
FOROS strategy. Nevertheless, DGPLADES only carried out a desk review with a very
limited scope that did not allow to meet the original objective.

Monitoring

The Bank supported DGPLADES in developing a set of indicators and baselines to
monitor the implementation of the SPSS and the organization of states regarding the new
responsibilities that came with the health reform. The Bank provided hands-on assistance
to develop a Rapid Assessment Tool to evaluate progress in the implementation of the
SPSS and the restructuring of the State Health Systems (SES). The tool was presented to
the staff of State Health Systems and REPSS (Regimenes Estatales de Protección Social
en Salud) during a workshop hosted by the Bank. The workshop helped to refine
indicators and databases developed and encouraged the discussion between the SSA and

28
  King G, Gakidou E, Imai K et al. Public policy for the poor? A randomised assessment of the Mexican
universal health insurance programme. Lancet 2009;373(9673):1447-54.


                                                  64
State Health authorities on the main existing obstacles for monitoring the implementation
of the Social Protection System for Health (SPSS). Through this meeting staff from
states was able to identify existing gaps and obstacles for the implementation and
monitoring of the SPSS. A questionnaire applied in 2008 to the states helped to finalize
the tool (Balance Score Card). The tool although finalized has not been implemented. It
will be implemented in the context of the new operation in support of the Social
Protection System in Health.

Also, since 2002 the SSA has published the annual Informe para la Rendición de Cuentas
that provides information on over 50 pre-defined health indicators, disaggregated by
Federal Entity. This report is widely disseminated, both published in hard copy and made
available electronically.

   Master Plan of infrastructure

The SSA developed a planning instrument to rationalize and prioritize investment in
physical infrastructure known as Plan Maestro de Infraestructura. The PMIFS aims to:
(i) guide the process of decision-making and prioritizing infrastructure development; (ii)
determine the supply of infrastructure necessary to respond to the demand for health
services, under a real and virtual supply network that includes the entire territory; (iii)
provide proposals and recommendations to optimize and strengthen existing
infrastructure; and (iv) identify criteria to prioritize infrastructure investments on the
basis of the population's health profile. The PMIFS includes a definition of the different
models of health units, and arquitectural plans, and a process for the design of different
models of new health units.

To be in a position to respond to the Seguro Popular's demand for health care services,
the PMIFS considers the following:

     a) Socio-demographic information;
     b) Epidemiological information;
     c) Information on health infrastructure (existing infrastructure of the SESA,
        location, characteristics, percentage occupation, availability of human resources
        and equipment, and number of units operating by both the public and private
        sectors, and infrastructure development/expansion in progress);
     d) Geographic information; and
     e) Other aspects, such as hospital occupancy rates, accessibility to health services,
        population flows, physical terrain, development programs in the area, and
        specific proposals/requests put forward by the Federal Entity.

The PMIFS has served as a basis for the development of a sectoral master plan that aims
to promote coordination of various sources of funding and efforts, thereby minimizing
overlaps and inefficiencies, and prioritizing investments to ensure supply of physical
infrastructure for health services. Specific works related to new construction or
rehabilitation of health units had to be included in the PMIFS as a precondition for
financing under the Project. The SSA plans to carry out an impact evaluation of the
PMIFS in 2010-2011.


                                            65
     ¾ Design of the Needs Certificate for infrastructure

The SSA developed the Certificado de Necesidad (Certificate of Need) for infrastructure
to function as a planning instrument that would enable Federal Entities to determine their
infrastructure needs for their incorporation in the PMIFS. A request for a Certificado de
Necesidad must be presented for new works, replacement works, expansion,
strengthening and relocation. The Certificado de Necesidad is mandated in the General
Health Lawi and as a result, the Federal Entities are required to prepare a technical study
as background for obtaining the Certificado de Necesidad for infrastructure to guarantee
their inclusion in the PMIFS. The Federal Entities must have a current Certificado de
Necesidad as a precondition for the SSA to transfer resources for infrastructure works for
a health unit. DGPLADES is responsible for reviewing and approving the requests for
Certificado de Necesidad that are prepared and forwarded by the SESAs, using criteria
that were developed specifically for this purpose.

     ¾ Plan Maestro de Equipamiento

Like the PMIFS, the Plan Maestro de Equipamiento (PME) aims to ensure that the health
units can count on the necessary equipment to deliver the health services demanded by
the beneficiaries of the Seguro Popular, while promoting the optimal use of that medical
equipment. The PME has helped to reassign medical equipment to the optimal locations
in the country, and to carry out and update the medical equipment requirements of the
Federal Entities.

     ¾ Design of the Needs Certificate for Equipment

The Certificado de Necesidad for medical equipment is a planning instrument that
promotes a more rational use of technological resources for health and the coordination
of the provision of both infrastructure and equipment in the Modelo Integrador de
Atención a la Salud (MIDAS, Integrator Model of Health Service Provision). It permits
the carrying out of an evaluation of investing in a given equipment for medical attention
at a specific place and time, applying criteria relating to medical and epidemiological
needs, installed capacity in the region, perceived demand, cost-effectiveness, operational
and financial feasibility for use, and expected impacts for the target population. The
application of the Certificado de Necesidad for medical equipment was designed to
optimize and rationalize installed capacity, while promoting greater interaction and
coordination among the institutions and units to make the most efficient use of installed
capacity.

The General Health Law mandates the use of the Certificado de Necesidad as a
prerequisite for requesting the establishment of new health service units and the
acquisition of new technologies, as well as for inclusion in the PME, for participating as
service providers, for receiving financing from the SSA.

The process for the putting in place the system of Certificación de Necesidad for medical
equipment has brought important benefits to the Federal Entities. It has contributed to


                                            66
strengthening the strategic planning capabilities of the health units, to the development of
their capacity for project evaluation and appraisal, to permit them to see the individual
health unit within a larger network of health service delivery, and facilitated the
management of financial resources. All of the medical equipment financed under the
Project had as a prerequisite that it be included in the PME.

     ¾ Development of Technical Specifications for Medical Equipment

The SSA through CENETEC provided relevant technical assistance to the Federal
Entities for promoting the use of appropriate technology and the integration of health
service networks to promote accessibility, quality service and optimization of resources.
The CENETEC provided invaluable support to the Federal Entities by disseminating
technical information regarding medical equipment that has supported their decision-
making with respect to the acquisition and use of different equipments. All medical
equipment financed under the Project was required to adopt the technical specifications
for purchase disseminated by CENETEC. This requirement, in addition, made the
procurement of these items more transparent and efficient.

     ¾ Development of Information Systems

The SSA has promoted a national strategy for the use of the electronic registries with the
objective of improving and optimizing the quality and access to health care services,
promoting an information systems culture in the sector and advancing toward the
functional integration of the health system in Mexico. Under the Project, support was
given to the development and installation of the Hospital Management Information
System (SIGHO) in 23 hospitals and in more than 1,200 health centers and the
Administration Hospital System (SAHO) in eight hospitals. These developments
constitute a basis for the implementation of the file electronic clinical file at the national
level. The electronic clinical file is being tested in the states of Baja California Sur and
Sinaloa.




                                             67
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)


Not applicable




                                    68
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                              Responsibility/
            Names                             Title             Unit
                                                                                Specialty
Lending
Patricio Marquez              Principal Health Specialist       LCSHD    Task Team Leader
Eduardo Velez                 Sector Manager                    LCSHD    Management
Willy de Geyndt               Consultant                        LCSHD    Health Specialist
Alberto Gonima                Consultant                        LCSHD    Health Specialist
Oscar Echeverri               Consultant                        LCSHD    Health Specialist
Claudia Macias                Operations Officer                LCSHD    Operations Specialist
Victor Ordonez                Financial Management Specialist   LCOAA    Financial Management
Lea Braslavsky                Country Procurement Specialist    LCOPR    Procurement
Mariangeles Sabella           Legal Counsel                     LEGOP    Legal Counsel
                              Manager Marketing and Client
Dorris Herrera-Pol                                               FPS     Financial Services
                              Outreach
Issam Abousleiman             Disbursements Officer              LOA     Disbursement
Karina Kashiwamoto            Project Assistant                 LCC1C    Team Assistant
Supervision/ICR
Christoph Kurowski            Sector Leader                     LCSHD   Task Team Leader
Juan Carlos Alvarez           Sr Counsel                        LEGLA   Legal
                                                                        Operational and
Mary A. Dowling               Language Program Assistant      LCSHS-DPT
                                                                        Administrative Support
Leanne Farrell                Junior Professional Associate     LCSSA Operational Support
                                                                        Operational and
Alina Garduno Lozano          Temporary                         LCSHD
                                                                        Administrative Support
Efraim Jimenez                Consultant                        EAPCO Procurement
                                                                        Operations /
Claudia Macias                Operations Officer                LCSHH
                                                                        ICR Task Team Leader
Suzana de Campos Abbott       Consultant                        LCSHD ICR Author
Fernando Montenegro Torres    Economist (Health)                LCSHH Health
Silvia Moran-Porche           Procurement Asst.                 LCSPT Procurement
Victor Manuel Ordonez Conde   Financial Management Specialist   CTRLP Financial Management
Gabriel Penaloza              Procurement Analyst               LCSPT Procurement
Gunars H. Platais             Sr Environmental Econ.            LCSEN Environment issues
Ximena B. Traa-Valarezo       E T Consultant                    LCSSO Social Scientist
                                                                        Operational and
Maria E. Colchao              Senior Program Assistant          LCSHE
                                                                        Administrative Support
Felix Prieto Arbelaez         Senior Procurement Specialist     LCSPT Procurement
                                                                        Operational and
Veronica Yolanda Jarrin       Senior Program Assistant          LCSHH
                                                                        Administrative Support
                                                                        Operational and
Alejandra Gonzalez            Language Program Assistant        LCSHH
                                                                        Administrative Support




                                                  69
(b) Staff Time and Cost (automatically generated by the system until FY08. Please revise
FY09 and FY10 when the ICR is being finalized)
                                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                         USD Thousands (including
                                        No. of staff weeks
                                                               travel and consultant costs)
Lending
   FY00                                         29                        111.90
   FY01                                         32                        253.21
   FY02                                          1                          2.70
                            Total:              62                        367.81
Supervision/ICR
   FY00                                                                     2.42
   FY01                                                                     1.53
   FY02                                          9                         71.88
   FY03                                         17                         69.95
   FY04                                         36                        114.11
   FY05                                         48                        177.93
   FY06                                         41                        150.56
   FY07                                         61                        233.75
   FY08                                         42                        169.59
   FY09                                         57                        149.20
   FY10                                         38                         98.51
                            Total:            349                       1,239.43




                                            70
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

Not applicable




                                      71
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

Not applicable




                                   72
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                      UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
                 COMMENTS ON THE PROCEDES EXECUTION

Most problems faced through the PROCEDES Project execution are a manifestation, with
several expressions, of the challenges at the beginning of the Program.
The creation of SPSS did not mean a re-statement of the central objective of PROCEDES
as the tool to make quality health services available to the populations with huge social
deprivations. However, the creation of the SPSS and of Seguro Popular as an operative
instrument translated into a deep change in the development strategy and health service
rendering for the population that is not covered by the Mexican social security system,
and the reorganization of resources and instruments at its service; therefore, the
restructuring of PROCEDES was necessary. From delays in the interpretation of this
need and lack of institutional flexibility and adaptation capacity derive the different
difficulties and other delays throughout the Project.
Initially PROCEDES was designed at the end of one Federal Executive administration, as
a program to consolidate the coverage objectives and care through the granting of
services, which had offered experience and successes through the Coverage Extension
Program (PAC ­ in Spanish).
The new federal administration successfully promoted the amendment to the Law that
originated the SPS, and approved in 2003; the discussion of the amendment to
PROCEDES began since that same year and up to the end of 2004 when changes began
to realize. The inability to quickly respond to such changes was not due to the lack of
capacities of the World Bank responsible individuals of the project, but to the
complicated processes followed within the institution; even in cases derived from such
obvious transformations, as that which fully changed the strategic context of the
development of health services in Mexico.

From this, we learned the following lessons:

     · The design of a project as significant as PROCEDES that is developed under the
       assumption that it will be executed by a different administration, compels to
       consider the feasibility of mayor changes in the policies that affect the program,
       and therefore, the identification and establishment, ex ante, of the negotiation and
       adaptation mechanisms, to be used at the time the changes occur.

     · In the absence of this mechanism, the change of administration should have
       forced an earlier dynamic and exhaustive revision of contents and loan processing
       schedules.

     · The monitoring system, as well as the evaluation mechanisms and instruments,
       must be part of documents that are attached to loan contracts and shall be
       activated immediately on the date the program starts operations, to guarantee the
       careful and punctual follow-up of the project, as well as timely changes ­ if
       needed.


                                           73
        · In a project similar to that of PROCEDES, which is executed with the
          participation of several entities and administration levels, the training of local
          players is critical to assure compliance with the objectives, both with respect to
          the contents and objectives of the Program as with respect to the management and
          operative aspects and the strategic implications. Also critical is the diffusion of
          the achieved successful experiences during the implementation of several
          elements of the program.

        · When the Program implies strategic reorganization tasks, whenever possible, the
          implementation shall be gradual, ideally, as from pilot experiences that allow to
          define the know-how and to understand the financial, operative and strategic
          implications of the proposed changes.

        · The documented midterm evaluations, as well as the Project's feedback and
          follow-up consultation mechanisms should be part of the expressed obligations of
          the responsible persons for the execution of the Program and should count on
          labeled resources for its execution. The results of these evaluations must include
          recommendations and should be discussed with the corresponding authorities,
          establishing commitments and deadlines for solution.

        · Likewise, throughout a complex and extensive project it is important to count on a
          reliable and efficient information system and capable of full integration for
          follow-up and assessment.

Project achievements

The program's beneficiary population for component I and II amounted to little more of 9
million individuals in 28 states. The states with the highest number of beneficiaries were
Campeche (1,420,000 persons), Baja California Sur and Querétaro (610,000 persons) and
Chiapas (600,000 persons).

Infrastructure and Equipment. Between 2005 and 2008, PROCEDES executed 205
work and equipping projects in 28 states that benefitted 174 health units.* Of these 205
projects, 66 were for health centers, 132 to hospitals, 6 to UNEMES and for the
construction of a blood bank. Out of the 174 benefitted units, 65 were health centers, 103
hospitals, 5 UNEMES and the blood bank.

If we only consider the construction of the new work, PROCEDES developed 105
projects that represented 15.6% of total new works executed within the country between
2005 and 2008: 39 new health centers; 62 hospitals and 4 UNEMES.




*
    The same unit can be benefitted by more than one work and/or equipping project.



                                              74
Per state, 28 health centers, equivalent to 71.8% of all the health centers built with
PROCEDES resources and to 5% of the total centers built in the country, were built in
Oaxaca.

Hospital works. - 40% of the new hospitals (25 hospital units) were built in the States of
Michoacán, Campeche, Chiapas and Sinaloa, and represented 20% of the total number of
hospitals built in the country during the program's period.

Strengthening of the medicine offer.- The main activities developed within this area refer
to the development of studies regarding the studies on the medicine supply process to
detect improvement areas; to train SESA personnel in relation to planning, purchasing,
distribution and management of medicine inventories; and periodical monitoring of
prescriptions full supply. Thus, in 2002 a study was developed on the causes for the lack
of medicines in SESAs that allowed the identification of two main problems: budget and
efficiency. Thereafter we developed a strategy to improve access to medicine in SESAs
with activities such as distance training in demand planning and management of medicine
inventories (CADIPDAI); monitoring of information concerning medicine prices and
training for the management of hospital pharmacy. However, there are still challenges;
again, in 2008, problems were identified one more time in the efficiency of medicine
handling.

Regarding training, the main strategy was the offer of several courses in two important
areas: demand planning and medicine inventories management. Between 2005 and 2008,
in cooperation with Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México (UNAM) we developed
courses and 370 students from 30 different states participated.

Impact of PROCEDES in Access to Medicines

In mid decade, with Seguro Popular (Peoples' Insurance) already working and several
monitoring and follow-up actions, the percentages of full prescription supply in SESA
ambulatory units increased to more than 70%, and it may achieve similar figures to those
in the main social security institutions, over 90%.

Measurements made with PROCEDES resources allowed to identify the efficiency of
SESA operations concerning the medicine supply. We measured the relation that existed
in 2005 between the per capita health public expenditure in the population without social
security and the full supply of prescriptions in SESA ambulatory units; the states (BC,
Nuevo León, Querétaro, SLP, Tlaxcala and Guanajuato) that with a relatively low per
capita health expenditure achieved high levels of full supply of prescriptions. In contrast,
we identified the states (BCS, Aguascalientes, Distrito Federal and Sonora) that with a
relatively high health per capita expenditure showed lower levels in the supply of
prescriptions.

The relationship between satisfaction levels with medicine supply and percentage of full
prescription supply was also studied. In general terms, we can say that the full supply of



                                            75
prescriptions in SESA ambulatory units has significantly improved in the last five years
in practically all states, achieving similar percentages as those of the social security area.

Performance of the PROCEDES units.- In 2009, the Instituto Nacional de Salud Pública
(INSP ­ its Spanish acronym for National Institute of Public Health) was contracted to
assess the performance of public hospitals in matters such as availability of resources,
quality and efficiency of service rendering, treatment received by hospitalized patients
and satisfaction levels of users concerning the furnished services. 126 hospitals in the
entire nation were visited, equivalent to an average of four hospitals per entity
(Satisfaction and Treatment Survey 2009, ENSATA 2009).

With the results from this study, the performance of units that received PROCEDES
resources and performance of units that did not receive resources from this program were
compared.

Waiting time in emergency cases. - Prompt service considers that waiting times shall
not sum-up additional discomforts to those generated by the condition or to aggravate the
health condition. Under ENSATA 2009 the percentage of patients that waited less than
15 minutes to be taken care of in emergency services was higher in hospitals that
received resources from PROCEDES (69.9%) than in those hospitals that did not receive
resources from the program (59.5%).

Waiting time to receive bed or to enter the operating room.- Users of hospitals that
received resources from PROCEDES reported shorter waiting times to receive bed or to
enter the operating room, than users of hospitals that did not received resources from the
program.

Postponed surgeries. - The percentage of patients with postponed surgeries was, in the
aggregate, lower in users of hospital services that received resources from PROCEDES
(1.5%) than in users of hospitals that received resources from this program (3.1%). Only
in Sinaloa and Guerrero the percentage of postponed surgeries was higher in units
benefitted by the PROCEDES resources.

Satisfaction of users with health services.- Satisfaction under ENSATA 2009 as the
percentage of patients that would use the same hospitals where they were taken care of, in
addition to recommend it to family members and friends, was higher in hospital units that
received resources from PROCEDES (95.8%) than in hospitals that did not receive
resources from the program (92.6%).

Proper Treatment. - The variable, proper treatment considers non medical aspects of
users' interaction with health services. The percentage of patients that rated as "good" or
"very good" the treatment received, in the aggregate, is a little bit higher in hospitals that
received resources from PROCEDES (96.3%) than in hospitals that did not receive the
support of this program (94.9%). In brief, the analysis of performance of PROCEDES
and non PROCEDES hospitals showed that hospital units supported by the program
featured better results concerning satisfaction and treatment than those that were not
supported by the program. However, it is necessary to specify two situations. Firstly, the



                                             76
PROCEDES factor cannot explain per se these results, because there are several variables
in the operation of services that affect these indicators and that are not necessarily linked
to the strategy of the program's offer strengthening. Second, the differences found in
practically all the selected indicators were not statistically significant, but what this not
statistically significance shows in that PROCEDES hospitals feature the same
performance than non PROCEDES hospitals, which can be interpreted as a success of the
program.

Certification of Health Units Linked to SPS. Certification is a process that verifies that
health units to be affiliated to the SPS do count on the necessary requirements to offer the
medical processes that are covered under the Health Services Universal Catalogue
(CAUSES). In this sense PROCEDES was able to contribute with financial resources to
support health units to achieve certification.

At national level, the percentage of certified SESA units between 2005 and 2008
increased to 42.3%. This percentage represents 5,523 certified health units from a
universe of 13,047 units. The certification percentage of PROCEDES units was of 46.6%,
equivalent to 81 health units from a total of 174 health units that are benefitted with the
program resources.

Affiliation to Seguro Popular de Salud. - The main purpose of PROCEDES was to
strengthen the offer of services by SESA to promote affiliation to SPS. Between 2006
and 2009, the number of persons affiliated to SPS went from 15.5 to 30.7 million
persons, practically an increase of 100%.

Between 2006 and 2009, the percentage of persons affiliated to the SPS subsidized
regime, as percentage of the total went from 35.2% to 69.8%, a little bit higher than the
percentage programmed by PROCEDES.

While the native population affiliated to the SPS increased from 3.7 to 4.2 million
persons in that same period, representing an increase of little less than 14%. Native
population affiliated to the SPS, measured as a percentage of the total affiliated
population, consistently increase between 2006 and 2009, from 10.8% to 21.3%; without
reaching the goal of 31%, that was established for this last year.

In most states the PROCEDES SPS affiliation goals were achieved, in 60% or more.

Unfortunately, on the date of this report we failed to include information concerning the
evolution of affiliation in the municipalities where PROCEDES intervenes. However, we
can say that at national level, around 35% of families living in areas of high or very high
poverty are affiliated to the SPS, percentage that is equivalent to more than 2.5 million
persons. Per state, in Chiapas, Guerrero, Yucatán, Oaxaca, Puebla, San Luis Potosí and
Veracruz, more than 50% of the population that resides in areas of high or very high
poverty is affiliated to the SPS.
On the other hand, regarding the Program for the Development of Priority Zones (PDZP
­ in Spanish), developed by SEDESOL, that integrally takes care of marginalization


                                             77
associated to the basic community infrastructure (such as health units) and of basic
services in households located in municipalities of high or very high poverty, with a
coverage of more than 800 locations, it is logical to suppose that these localities represent
a sub-set of the PROCEDES localities.
As we can see in figure 26, little less than the third part of target families of PDZP is
affiliated to SPS. Such percentage is equivalent to almost 3 million persons. In the state
of Baja California, Baja California Sur and Coahuila there is no affiliation of families in
priority zones in spite of the reception of resources from PROCEDES. On the contrary, in
the states of Chiapas, Guerrero, Yucatán and Oaxaca more than 60% of families that
receive resources from the program are affiliated to the SPS. Outstanding in this sense is
the State of Chiapas, where almost all the population that benefitted from the resources of
PROCEDES is affiliated to the SPS.
Strengthening of the Stewardship function.- One of the main functions of the
stewardship is the planning, whose central purpose is to anticipate the future challenges
in order to move forward and to organize the necessary resources to face said challenges
in a rational way; In this sense PROCEDES promoted the design and used three
fundamental instruments with respect to planning: The Infrastructure Master Plan (PMI ­
in Spanish), Equipping Master Plan (PME ­ in Spanish) and the Integrated Model of
Health Care (MIDAS ­ its Spanish acronym).

Infrastructure Master Plan. The PMI is the driving instrument for the promotion,
development and reordering of the SESA infrastructure. Starting with this Plan, the
PROCEDES works' construction, replacement, extension and refurbishing tasks were
planned; focusing efforts in the creation of health service networks and not in individual
health units, towards the population health needs; the optimum use of infrastructure and
existing resources; making services available to the population, articulation and
coordination between the medical units and institutions and perspectives for 2010.

In its preparation we used social-demographical and epidemiological information, data
concerning the existing health infrastructure, rates of hospital occupation, health services
availability for the population, population flow patterns and development poles and
programs.
Thus, the proposal of the creation of service networks headed by regional hospitals of
high specialty (HRAE) was made, for cities with more than 500,000 inhabitants featuring
proper education, commercial infrastructure as well as with maintenance service offer.
Thereafter, for each network we identified the hospital services (general and community
hospitals) and UNEMES that would be required to make them self sufficient, generating
a proposal based on 18 Health Care Service Networks.

Support to Monitoring and Assessment Activities. Concerning assessment and
monitoring, PROCEDES was linked to the External Assessment of SPS, the evaluations
of the National Crusade for Health Service Quality, the monitoring of medicine supply
and the annual publication of the report Health: Mexico (2001-2005), known in this
present administration as "Rendición de Cuentas" (Submittal of Results) (2007-2008).




                                             78
Other Activities. - The second component of PROCEDES financed the SESA
organization re-structuring bound to the separation of functions.
In practical terms, what this component made was to hire the services of a consulting firm
to design integral projects of organizational strengthening of SESA and its administrative
units based on the separation of functions. The idea was to homologate the organization
structure of SESA's.
The program financed projects for the organization re-structuring in 14 federal entities
(Baja California Sur, Chiapas, Chihuahua, Colima, Distrito Federal, Durango, Hidalgo,
Jalisco, Nayarit, Nuevo León, Oaxaca, Sinaloa, Tlaxcala and Zacatecas). One of the
conclusions of activities in this matter is that there were some doubts in some entities
regarding the meaning and significance of separation of functions, which called for the
organization of a workshop on this matter. At the end of 2009, only two states ­Baja
California Sur and Zacatecas ­ where the consulting firms had begun and developed a re-
structuring project.
Actions to improve indigenous groups access to health services
One of the original objectives of PROCEDES was to improve access of indigenous
groups to quality health services, tearing down cultural barriers that cause fears and
resistance, and cause abuses and disrespect to people's beliefs and finally causing
deprivation of health services.
In 2009, 4.7 million persons benefitted by PROCEDES were indigenous individuals, a
figure that represents 30% of the total native population of the country.
PROCEDES developed an inter-cultural focus frame to work with the indigenous
population through the preparation of documents and materials regarding health care of
native peoples, including subjects on traditional medicine, direction and operative
personnel training on inter-cultural service matters and modification of infrastructure of
health units according to the cultural needs of the native population.
PROCEDES organized shops with health personnel, both at direction and operative
service levels regarding awareness to improve the health care of native populations.
These shops have been carried out also in medicine and nursery schools, as well as the
incorporation of inter-cultural elements in certification cards of health units rendering
services to the SPS. Included among the main elements: (i) health personnel should pass
the awareness and cultural competencies shop; (ii) personnel and promoters should speak
the language spoken in the localities; (iii) health units should have general guidelines
regarding inter-cultural treatment, and the staff should know said general guidelines, duly
designed by the area of traditional medicine; (iv) the necessary conditions so the midwife
can accompany the patient during the delivery process in the health unit; and (v) to count
on broadcasting or publication means to furnish relevant information to the population in
the local language.

Support to control the A H1N1 influenza epidemic. - In April 2009 Mexico suffered
an outbreak of porcine influenza that eventually received the name of A H1N1 flu. The
World Health Organization (WHO) classified it as an international public health
emergency and in June the organization raised the flu at level 6 of pandemics alert, which
presumes the virus transmission in more than one region.



                                            79
Given that these flu combat actions were not among the objectives of the contract, some
necessary procedures took place to prepare and sign a fourth amendment to said contract
which was signed, as mentioned before, in December 18, 2009.

It is in January 2010, that the World Bank informs that contracts corresponding to
influenza expenses, that were previously submitted are to be modified and re-signed,
otherwise the Mexican government should reintegrate those 25.7 million dollars, because
contracts failed to comply with the contract standards of the World Bank, as the
expenditure ­ based on Presidential Decree ­ was considered as an emergency.

With this scenario, DGPLADES was not able to request figure changes in financing
sources through budgetary modifications, and thus the negotiation of acknowledgment by
the World Bank was possible for the verification of resources with similar expenses,
mainly of FOROSS (strengthening of health care services offer), through request 65
submitted by the Financial Agent.




                                          80
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


Not applicable




                                    81
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Comisión del Sistema de Protección Social en Salud (2009). Informe de Resultados : Primer
       Semestre.

World Bank (2010). Indigenous Peoples Plan (Plan de Pueblos Indígenas or IPP): Proyecto
       de apoyo al Sistema de Protección Social en Salud.

- - - - (2010). Mexico: Social Protection System in Health Project. --(Project Appraisal
           Document ; Report No. 52142-MX).

- - - - (2002). Mexico: II Basic Health Project. --(Implementation Completion Report ; Report
           No. 25240).

- - - - (2001). Mexico: III Basic Health Care Project (PROCEDES). --(Project Appraisal
           Document ; Report No. 22186-ME).

Secretaria de Salud (2010). Programa de Calidad, Equidad y Desarrollo en Salud. : Informe
         de Cierre. -- Mexico: SSA, Dirección General de Planeación y Desarrollo en Salud. :
         Subsecretaría de Integración y Desarrollo del Sector Salud Secretaría de Salud.

Secretaria de Salud (2006). Sistema de Protección Social en Salud. : Evaluación Financiera.

Ipsos Marketing. (2008). Resultados de la Encuesta del Nivel de Satisfacción de los Usuarios
        del Sistema de Protección Social en Salud. ­ (Junio-Diciembre).

Project supervision documents




                                              82
Annex 10: Original Project Components and Project Monitoring Indicators as
described and presented in the PAD (Original Project Objectives and
Description)

The Project was to meet its objectives through the implementation of three components,
as follows:


Component I: Quality and Equity for Rural and Marginal Urban Areas ($430.9
million project cost, $220.38 loan financing)


Component I aimed to help improve equity and quality of health services by providing
rural and marginal urban poor with access to a package of cost-effective health
interventions and basic hospital care, including emergency medical services closer to
their place of residence. The Project aimed to provide expanded and improved services
to those communities for which the PAC program had not yet provided regular access to
essential clinical care (functional expansion) and to expand coverage to those that had not
yet received any regular services under the PAC program (geographical expansion).


The Project was designed to finance subprojects prepared by health jurisdictions at the
state level that met eligibility criteria that included: (i) local level in scope in selected
rural and marginal urban areas; (ii) targeting following socio-economic criteria (e.g.
unmet social needs); (iii) use of a plan involving existing organizations, including state,
health jurisdictions, and non-governmental organizations, as well as existing facilities;
(iv) financial and administrative capacity to carry out the subproject; (v) agreement to
implement package of essential health services, including public health interventions and
basis clinical care, as defined by SSA; (vi) establishment of separate project accounts,
accounting and audits; (vii) agreement to assign required resources, including annual
funding allocations and for incremental expenditures; and (viii) agreement to monitor
implementation according to the Project's monitoring indicators, and evaluate its impact.


The Project would finance these subprojects prepared by health jurisdictions at the state
level that would include: (i) construction, upgrading, expansion and maintenance of
health centers and basic community hospitals, following a detailed diagnostic
infrastructure review and an assessment of alternative ways of delivering health services
(e.g., contracting with other public and non-government health care providers); (ii) basic
medical equipment; (iii) essential office equipment; (iv) essential medical supplies,
including access to an essential package of pharmaceuticals and micronutrient
supplementation for the indigenous children and pregnant women; (v) laboratory
equipment; (vi) radio and other communication equipment to improve referrals; (vii)



                                             83
ambulances; (viii) training and supervision; and (ix) on a declining basis, the purchase of
health services under agreements and contracts with third party providers.


These subprojects were to focus on:



 ·   Service Delivery in Rural Areas was to support the improvement of the clinical
     problem solving capacity at the local level, by adding new cost-effective
     interventions complements with hospital services.             Operational costs
     (pharmaceuticals, micronutrient supplements and other medical supplies) were to be
     financed on a declining basis, while health care personnel were to be financed by
     the participating states (and not under the Project)

 ·   Service Delivery in Marginal Urban Areas was to support mainly preventive
     interventions to address specific urban pathology (e.g., alcohol abuse and drug
     addiction, violence, HIV/AIDS) through the development of new strategies as the
     health teams needed additional skills and safe working environments, and solving
     health problems in these areas required close inter-sectoral and multi-disciplinary
     coordination.

 ·   HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control was to support interventions aimed at reducing
     the incidence of infection in groups of people with high-risk practices: commercial
     sex workers, men having sex with men, injection drug users, and other patients with
     sexually transmitted infections (STI), living in marginal urban areas. The National
     AIDS Council (CONASIDA) was to provide technical assistance and evaluate
     program execution by state health secretariats in 50 priority cities with the most
     accumulated HIV/AIDS cases. Training was to be offered to civil society
     organizations to allow them to compete for participating in programs that delivered
     priority health promotion and prevention activities and education by peers.

 ·   Organizing Health Care Networks was included to support an improved network
     of mobile teams, health centers, basic community hospitals, radio communication
     and emergency medical care services, as well as pilot experiences with tele-
     medicine that would link general health care practitioners with specialist in hard to
     reach, dispersed communities. Public and non-government facilities were to be
     organized into virtual networks at the state level and universities were to be
     involved to better adapt academic curricula according to the characteristics of the
     health service delivery model.

 ·   Social Communications, through the development of a social communications
     strategy, was to support the achievement of the Project's goals including,
     indigenous population health issues, HIV/AIDS prevention, and reduction
     HIVAIDS stigmatization.




                                            84
Component II: Efficiency, Institutional Development and Decentralization ($70.0
million project cost, $59.47 loan financing)


Component II of the Project was to support The National Crusade for Improving the
Quality of Health Services, launched by SSA in February 2001, through the
implementation of strategies and models geared to the development of structures,
processes, and skills required to provide quality care, ensure user satisfaction, and
support effective organizational performance. It was to focus on leadership, strategic
planning and management, clinical and managerial processes, human resources
management and management information systems. Specifically, this component was
designed to:


     (i)     Support the modernization and transparency of the decentralized
             organizational and operational structure by strengthening the managerial
             capacity of the OPDs;29
     (ii)    Support the OPDs in deconcentrating managerial functions to the health
             jurisdictions;
     (iii)   Strengthen the management capacity of the health jurisdictions;
     (iv)    Improve the management of the inpatient and outpatient services at the
             primary and secondary levels of the health care delivery system;
     (v)     Train central and state level personnel in order to achieve efficiency in their
             financial and budgetary functions;
     (vi)    Create an indigenous health monitoring system;
     (vii)   Certify the quality of laboratory procedures and HIV testing; and
     (viii) Support central areas of the SSA in order to achieve transparency and
            excellence in their administrative procedures.


Component II was to achieve these institutional development objectives through
activities that were to:

29
   Under the PAC, the authority for managing health care organization and delivery for
the uninsured population at the state level was transferred from the SSA to OPDs in the
31 states and the Federal District. The OPDs, which were run by a Board of Directors,
were responsible for physical, human, financial and material resources. The Executive
Director of the OPDs was the SESA. Health programs were implemented by the 231
health jurisdictions in the country, with the number of jurisdictions in each state varying
according to population density and geographical extension.


                                             85
   (i)     Strengthen the organizational and management structure at the state level, at
           the health jurisdiction level, and at the service delivery level by supporting it
           with the appropriate legal framework, by training health staff, by assuring
           social participation and by improving the organization and the management of
           the services, including the revision and adaptation of the Health Services
           Model for the Uninsured Population (MASPA) into an integrated health care
           model (MIDAS) for the uninsured population;
   (ii)    Improve financial management and resource allocation processes by
           generalizing the use of uniform accounts, implementing cost accounting,
           improving programming and budgeting of financial, human and material
           resources, reallocating resources based on the results of productivity
           indicators, and diversifying revenue sources by charging public and private
           institutions for services provided; and
   (iii)   Continuously improving the quality of services provided to the rural and
           urban poor by providing incentives to health workers for quality work, by
           promoting efficiency in services delivered by mobile and facility-based health
           teams, by developing appropriate information systems to plan and control
           performance, by developing and encouraging the use of clinical protocols, by
           providing opportunities for continuing medical education, and by accrediting
           facilities and certifying health workers.


Component III: Innovation, Pilot Models, Policy Studies and Impact Evaluation
($76.8 million project cost, $66.65 loan financing)


Component III of the Project was designed to test innovative proposals and alternative
health care models, carry out policy studies, evaluate the impact of the Project and
finance project management, through the implementation of the following activities:


1. In support of the National Crusade for Improving the Quality of Health Services, the
   Project was to:
a) Adapt quality of care models and instruments to the provision of health services in
   rural areas, including develop models according to indigenous culture and beliefs;
b) Structure and test valid indicators to measure the quality of care provided to
   indigenous people;
c) Evaluate changes in the health status of the rural population;
d) Evaluate the HIV/AIDS subcomponent;


                                            86
e) Review and improve regulations to enhance the quality of care provided in the private
   sector;
f) Test and evaluate the efficiency and quality of outsourcing public health services;
g) Assess the environmental impact of providing basic health services; and
h) Automate a simplified Epidemiological Surveillance System.


2. To support an increase in the quality and equity of health services provided to
   Indigenous populations, the Project was to:
a) Monitor mortality and morbidity changes in Indigenous populations;
b) Pilot test a micronutrient program for Indigenous populations; and
c) Evaluate the Indigenous Health Program and MIDAS.


3. To support financial protection initiatives, the Project was to design and develop
   prepayment schemes that would protect families against financial losses due to
   illness.


4. To decrease social and regional inequities, the Project was to:
a) Evaluate, adapt and implement recent experiences in paying providers using
   diagnostic-related groups (DRG);
b) Evaluate alternatives for providing emergency health services in rural areas; and
c) Evaluate equity changes in providing health services, including the evaluation of the
   progress of the indigenous health program relative to the overall project.


Activities included under this component were also to evaluate project achievements
during implementation and through and ex-post evaluation, drawing upon indicators
developed by the World Health Organization in a 2000 report and on base-line data that
was to be collected before implementation began, and to finance project management
activities.




                                            87
                PROJECT MONITORING INDICATORS IN THE PAD
             OF THE MEXICO THIRD BASIC HEALTH CARE PROJECT
             (ORIGINAL PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION)

             Hierarchy of Objectives                                                 Key Indicators
Project Development Objective:                                   Input Indicators:

1.       Achieve equity in the delivery of health services for   MIDAS model designed and approved by national Health
         about 13.1 million uninsured people living in           Council; presence/absence of clear lines of authority,
         underserved rural and urban areas of Mexico             written policies, strategic planning, budgetary and
2.       Increase access, quality and equity of health           financial structures and processes; number and quality of
         services provided to indigenous populations, and        facilities, number and quality of health staff;
         quality of health services provided to people living    volume/adequacy of material resources; fully developed
         in municipalities with the lowest national welfare      management information systems; indigenous
         indexes                                                 communities with nutrition supplements
3.       Support institutional development of the SSA,
         SESAs, Health Jurisdictions, local health agencies      Process Indicators: use and monitoring of inputs:
         and services                                            human resource turnover, mobile units fully equipped and
4.       Develop innovative health prevention and care           working, timely supply of drugs and other inputs,
         models in order to lower the health gap for             equipment maintenance, adequacy of time schedules for
         underserved and vulnerable populations                  users; health care networks organized; new resource
                                                                 allocation mechanisms for the uninsured population
                                                                 developed; management information systems in use.
                                                                 Basic community hospitals fully equipped, increase on
                                                                 the number of Basic Community Hospitals receiving
                                                                 referrals from rural marginal areas

                                                                 Outcome Indicators: reorganization of service provision
                                                                 for the uninsured population according to the MIDAS
                                                                 model; changes in type, number, and location of
                                                                 uninsured rural and urban poor receiving basic health care
                                                                 services; degree of compliance with quality standards,
                                                                 criteria, and protocols; proportion of beneficiaries
                                                                 covered with basic maternal and child care services;
                                                                 proportion of children under two who are fully
                                                                 immunized; average number of health worker contacts
                                                                 per beneficiary, hospitalization per year and type,
                                                                 proportion of at risk people screened and followed up for
                                                                 cervical and breast cancer, hypertension, diabetes, and
                                                                 HIV/AIDS. Proportion of selected cities radio-
                                                                 broadcasting HIV/AIDS prevention messages on a
                                                                 regular basis. Proportion of pregnant indigenous women
                                                                 receiving nutritional supplements, proportion of
                                                                 indigenous children aged 6 to 24 months receiving
                                                                 nutritional supplements; New policymaking and
                                                                 regulatory structures and processes at SSA.

                                                                 Impact Indicators: in 5-7 year period, changes in health
                                                                 status measured through mortality and morbidity rates;
                                                                 changes in frequency and severity of specific infections
                                                                 and chronic diseases; and changes in beneficiary and
                                                                 provider satisfaction. Changes in patient satisfaction with
                                                                 MIDAS model in project area.


Component I: Quality and Equity for Rural and Marginal           Output Indicators:
Urban Areas
Health care networks delivering public health programs and a     Health jurisdictions, municipalities and micro regions in
package of essential clinical services to uninsured and          participating states selected.
underserved poor in rural and marginal urban areas;



                                                          88
              Hierarchy of Objectives                                                Key Indicators
1.   Increase quality of basic services in 24 states,             Number of sanitary jurisdictions, municipalities and
     incorporating basic secondary hospital care to rural         micro regions operating with the new health care delivery
     primary health care.                                         model, including primary and secondary levels.
2.   Health care delivery model (MASPA) adapted and
     developed in rural and marginal urban areas for              Signed contracts organizing networks and agreements
     delivering public health programs and a package of           ensuring inter-institutional coordination for delivering
     essential clinical service to open population:               basic health care services.
     a. Redesigned public health programs and package of
          essential clinical services, based on epidemiological   Signed contracts with NGOs and universities or research
          and health services studies assessing: (i) burden of    institutes ensuring their participation in HIV prevention
          disease; (ii) cost and effectiveness of health care     programs in selected urban settings.
          services and potential new interventions, i.e., STI
          treatment and HIV/AIDS prevention, according to         % of project population with access to public health
          disease patterns and risk factors; and (iii) use        programs and package of essential clinical services, and
          results, supplemented with studies and experiences      secondary hospital care.
          elsewhere, to inform policy debate for health sector
          reform, particularly priority setting and contents      Quality standards met in public health programs and
          review of essential package of services for rural and   package of essential clinical services.
          marginal peri-urban settings.
     b. Health care delivery networks operating under             Number of facilities that meet medical waste management
          contracting arrangements and/or inter-institutional     standards in participating states.
          coordination arrangements: (i) basic health
          package delivered through community participation       % of pregnant women with four prenatal visits before
          and out-reach strategies; (ii) effective referral       delivery.
          arrangements between rural and urban ambulatory
          centers and secondary, general and regional             % of pregnant women delivering in network facilities.
          hospitals; (iii) emergency medical care networks for
          rural and marginal urban areas, operating with          % of children under 2 years of age with complete
          trained medical and paramedic staff,                    immunizations.
          communication equipment and transport systems,
          NGOs involvement in delivering prevention               % of families with periodic parasite treatment.
          programs for the population with the highest risk of
          HIV infection.                                          % reduction in hospitalizations by dehydration and
     c. Rehabilitated and upgraded existing health                pneumonia
          infrastructure and equipment, and redeployed staff.
     d. New health facilities staffed and operating with          % of pregnant indigenous women receiving multiple
          qualified clinical and managerial personnel             vitamins
     e. Micronutrient supplementation available in
          indigenous municipalities                               % of indigenous children under 2 years receiving multiple
     f. Materials, drugs and medical supplies available in        vitamins
          ambulatory and basic inpatient facilities
     g. Equipment and procedures in place for management          Average number of health worker contacts per
          of medical waste in network facilities                  beneficiary.
     h. Workshops for capacity building and training of
          HIV/AIDS NGOs                                           Proportion of at risk people screened and followed up for
     i. Complaint system available through internet, in           cancer of cervix, and breast, hypertension, diabetes, and
          basic community hospitals and sanitary                  HIV/AIDS, etc.
          jurisdictions.
                                                                  Number of HIV/AIDS NGOs involved in delivering
                                                                  HIV/AIDS prevention programs.

                                                                  Number of HIV/AIDS NGOs trained in capacity building
                                                                  workshops.

                                                                  % of patients with referrals to higher levels of care
                                                                  according to medical condition.

                                                                  User satisfaction with accessibility and quality of health
                                                                  services.




                                                           89
              Hierarchy of Objectives                                                Key Indicators
Component II: Efficiency, Institutional Development and
Decentralization
Improved organization, management, logistics and                   Number of governance boards/foundations established in
information systems for health care delivery networks at           project areas.
state, sanitary jurisdiction, municipal and micro regional
levels for the delivery of basic health services to underserved    Number of states, jurisdictions and municipalities with
and uninsured rural and marginal urban populations:                resource allocation mechanisms implemented.
1. Redefined organizational and managerial structure:
      a. Decision-making framework in place with greater           Number of directors, managers, technical and
            financial autonomy in the delivery of health care      administrative personnel trained.
            services.
      b. New governance models in place allowing health            Number of health care networks and facilities with
            authorities and communities to share greater           community participation in governance.
            responsibility for managing health care networks
      c. Improved information systems, management                  Number of General Directorates at the Central SSA with
            structures and decision-making processes               certification of quality.
      d. Trained leaders and managers
2. Newly developed budgetary allocation criteria and               Functioning modular and scalable clinical and managerial
      mechanisms in place, for strengthened financial              IS modules acquired from the market or adapted from
      management at state, sanitary jurisdiction, municipal and    REDSSA, Internet Service for Presenting Complaints
      facility levels:                                             about Health Services (QUEJANET), PAC, PROGRESA
      a. Formal accounting systems and financial statements        and other hospitals or programs including: installed
            implemented at jurisdictional, municipal and micro     hardware and software for: information management,
            regional levels integrated to PAC's administrative     health statistics, indigenous health monitoring and
            information system (SIA) and other states'             epidemiological surveillance; budgeting and cost
            developed applications                                 accounting; medical and drug supply management,
      b. Performance reporting syst4ems, cost accounting,          integrated clinical records and ambulatory and hospital
            budgetary, contracting, billing and collection         information systems; billing and collection; human
            systems in place                                       resources management.
      c. Mechanisms to increase funding sources, including
            revised user fee structures, in place                  Number of managers, clinicians, administrators and
3. Human resource development plans implemented to                 network operators and data base administrators trained in
      strengthen strategic planning, management capacity and       the IT platform and mission critical applications.
      clinical performance at different levels of the system.
4. Clinical and management information systems (MIS)               Number of certified laboratories for HIV and other tests.
      implemented to support decision-making based on those
      already developed by the SSA for REDSSA, and other
      budgeting and management tools developed under PAC,
      PROGRESA and other programs.
5. Total quality management processes implemented
      including: reengineering of central level, state level,
      jurisdictional and municipal agencies' structures and
      processes, facilities organization and processes; clinical
      and managerial protocols and human resources devt.
Component III: Innovation, Policy Studies, Pilot Models
and Impact Evaluation
1. Policy Studies and Strategic Projects:
      a. Terms of reference of studies developed                   Proposals developed by DGEDS/SSA (PAC) adapted and
      b. IEC strategy developed                                    implemented according to project requirements.
2. Consolidation of PAC monitoring and evaluation system
      to assess project performance
      a. Federal, state, jurisdictional, municipal and micro
            regional level coordination and supervision
            mechanisms implemented and operational
      b. Target indicators for the measurement of coverage,
            outcomes and impact in primary and secondary
            levels of care developed
      c. Managerial control, monitoring and impact
            evaluation processes and operational




                                                            90
Annex 11: Project Amendments and Restructurings

Amendment    Restructuring        Date        Objectives    Project
   No.            No./                        Changed?     Description     Justification
                Order                                      Changed?
                                                                         Align project
                   1st
                              September 13,                              activities with
    1st      Restructuring/                      No           Yes
                                  2004                                   2003 General
               1st order
                                                                         Health Law
                                                                         Allow
                                                                         disbursement of
                                                                         expenditures
                               Marzo 18,
    2nd          None                            No            No        under 1st
                                2005
                                                                         amendment while
                                                                         2nd restructuring
                                                                         prepared
                                                                         Comprehensive
                                                                         changes to
                                                                         description and
                  2nd
     rd                         July 11,                                 objectives to align
    3        Restructuring/                      Yes          Yes
                                 2006                                    fully project with
               1st order
                                                                         Government's
                                                                         sector reform
                                                                         agenda
                                                                         Support to
                  3rd
    4th                       December 18,                               address A H1/N1
             Restructuring/                      No           Yes
                                 2009                                    Pandemic
               2nd order




                                      91
Annex 12: Revised Project Description Following First Project Restructuring


Upon approval of the first restructuring to the Project, its description was amended to
read as follows:


Part A: Essential Health Care Services and Institutional Development at the State Level

1. Delivery, through public or private health care providers, of a set of essential health
   services to the Target Population30 of the States consisting of, inter alia: (i) preventive
   services (including immunizations, and early detection and prevention of illnesses), (ii)
   health counseling and promotion services, (iii) ambulatory medical services, (iv)
   community mental health services, (v) reproductive health services, (vi) basic injuries and
   rehabilitation services, (vii) oral health services, (viii) emergency, hospitalization and
   surgery services (emergency medical care, hospitalization, pre-natal care, child delivery,
   post-natal care of mother and children, and surgical services), and (ix) provision of basic
   drugs.

2. Implementation of pilot subprojects to test and validate new approaches for the delivery of
   health services to Target Population in marginal urban areas.

3. Development of an inter-institutional emergency medical care network by, inter alia:
   refurbishing emergency units in Project areas; developing an emergency telephone service
   for the pre-hospital care service and a tracking radio system for connecting the pre-hospital
   care service with emergency care units in referral hospitals; developing an ambulance
   network to transport patients; and basic and advanced life support training for paramedics,
   nurses and medical personnel.

4. Development of a pilot telemedicine program aimed at linking hospitals and regional
   medical centers with remote area medical centers.

5. Improvement of the delivery of health care services for the Target Population by
   strengthening public and private health care providers through, inter alia, the construction
   and rehabilitation of health facilities, the acquisition of medical equipment, and the
   provision of training on medical and management issues to staff.

6. Provision of support for the consolidation of the Borrower's health decentralized
   organizational and institutional structure by: (1) strengthening the managerial capacity of
   SESAs (including the provision of training in health care planning); (2) supporting SESAs
   in delegating managerial functions to the Health Jurisdictions; (3) strengthening the
   management capacity of the Health Jurisdictions; (4) improving the management and
   quality of the inpatient and outpatient services at the primary and secondary levels of the

30
  Target Population was defined as the population not insured under any private or public health insurance
scheme and the population insured under the Health Insurance Program.


                                                   92
   health care delivery system; and (5) strengthening SESAs' logistics and distribution
   systems for medicines and other medical supplies.


Part B: Essential Health Care Services and Institutional Development at the National Level

1. Carrying out of activities for the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of HIV/AIDS and
   other sexually transmitted infections.

2. Strengthening the managerial capacity of SSA (including the provision of training in health
   care planning) and SSA's logistics and distribution systems for medicines and other
   medical supplies.


Part C: Pilot Models, Policy Studies, Impact Evaluation and Project Management

1. Carrying out studies and assessments as well as development and testing of models,
   instruments and indicators to support the Borrower's initiatives to improve the quality of
   health services.

2. Carrying out: (a) monitoring activities to evaluate: (1) mortality and morbidity changes in
   indigenous populations; and (ii) the Borrower's indigenous health program; and (b) a pilot
   test of the micronutrient program for indigenous populations.

3. Design and development of health services prepayment schemes.

4. Carrying out assessments of: (a) diagnostically-related groups of payment providers; (b)
   alternatives in emergency health services; and (c) changes to the provision of health
   services for purposes of achieving a more equitable health system.

5. (a) Coordination and supervision of project implementation; and (b) evaluation of the
   impact of the Project.

6. Design and implementation of a national integrated health care delivery system to, inter
   alia, support the separation of health services financing and provision of health services,
   promote hospital autonomy, integrate the operation of health care providers at the different
   levels of the health care system, promote the efficient and rational use of resources in the
   health care system, operate on the basis of performance agreements, improve the technical
   capacity to deliver health services at the primary health care levels and facilitate the access
   to specialized health services, and promote self-care and the participation of the community
   and local authorities in the decision-making and provision of health services.

7. Carrying out of: (i) medical technological assessments to facilitate decisions regarding
   investments in technology at the federal and state levels, (ii) studies to evaluate the
   performance, equity and quality of services under the Health Insurance Program, and (iii)
   studies to evaluate the sustainability of health service delivery under the national integrated



                                            93
   health care delivery system referred under Part C.6 above and reduction of risks for patients
   and staff at health care facilities.

8. Carrying out a media information campaign for the Project.

9. Design, development, and evaluation of pilot subprojects to test and validate new
   approaches for the delivery of health services under Part A of the Project to target
   population in marginal urban areas.




                                           94
Annex 13: Revised Project Objectives and Description following Second Project
Restructuring

Upon approval of the second restructuring to the Project, its objectives and description
were amended to read as follows:

The objectives of the Project is to support the Borrower in implementing its SPSS
through improving access of the poor people that are eligible for enrollment or enrolled in
the subsidized regime of Seguro Popular to the Seguro Popular's health service benefit
package, restructuring and developing State health systems and strengthening the
Secretaria de Salud in its role as steward of SPSS.

The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:

Part A: Improving Access of the Poor People that are Eligible for Enrollment or Enrolled
in the Subsidized Regime of Seguro Popular to the Seguro Popular's Health Service
Benefit Package

Supporting the implementation of the Borrower's FOROSS31 strategy as it relates to
health centers, hospitals of up to 120 beds and specialized medical ambulatory units, all
identified in the Infrastructure and Equipment Investment Plan of the Ministry of Health,
through the carrying out of civil works, the acquisition of goods and equipment, the
provision of technical advisory services and the carrying out of capacity building
activities and training in relation to:

     1. The construction, expansion, rehabilitation, equipping and refurbishment of health
        facilities;
     2. The building of management capacity, including the management of human
        resources and the strengthening of financial management;
     3. The design, piloting, evaluation and implementation of tools: (a) to improve the
        quality of service provision; (b) to plan, purchase and distribute pharmaceuticals;
        and (c) to develop alternative forms of service delivery;
     4. The design, piloting and implementation of monitoring and evaluation systems for
        all aspects of the FOROSS strategy

Part B: Restructuring and Developing SES32 Within the Framework of SPSS

Supporting the States in the restructuring and development of their health systems,
through the acquisition of goods and installation of equipment, the provision of technical
advisory services and the carrying out of training and capacity building in relation to:


31
    FOROSS means Fortalecimiento de los Servicios de la Salud, the Borrower's strategy for the
strengthening of health service delivery according to the provisions of the General Health Lae.
32
   SES means the Sistema Estatal de Salud, the Borrower's State Health System.


                                              95
     1. The institutional and organizational restructuring and the operational
        strengthening of SES through the analysis of socio-economic and political
        feasibility, strategic planning, design and implementation of instruments to foster
        change, the development of innovative models and the building of capacity with
        respect to the enrollment of target populations into SPSS, the purchase of health
        services, financial management, the management of human resources, the
        purchase, distribution and monitoring of pharmaceuticals and medical supplies,
        meeting health service needs of indigenous populations, the planning and design
        of telemedicine networks and the monitoring and evaluation of service
        performance.
     2. The institutional and operational strengthening of decentralized State health
        service provider units and networks including the building of relevant capacity
        with respect to administration, planning, financial management, quality
        management, human resource management, the purchase and distribution of
        pharmaceuticals and medical supplies, traditional medicine, service delivery to
        indigenous people and the development and implementation of health
        management and information systems.
     3. The strengthening of information technology infrastructure for organizations and
        providers constituting SES including, inter alia, telemedicine and as further
        required under parts B.1 and B.2 above.

Part C: Strengthening SS33 in its Role as Steward of SPSS

Supporting under the Project SS in its role as steward of SPSS through the acquisition of
goods and equipment, the provision of technical advisory services and the carrying out of
capacity building activities and training towards:

     1. Supporting SES in all aspects of the FOROSS strategy as described under Part A
        above and the coordination and planning of investments in infrastructure and
        equipment, the development of a communication strategy and the design and
        implementation of a monitoring and evaluation system for the FOROSS strategy;

     2. Supporting SES and health service provider units and networks in carrying out the
        activities considered under Part B above, and the development of a monitoring
        and evaluation system for the restructuring of State Health Systems; and

     3. The administration of the Project, including the financial management, the
        procurement and the monitoring and evaluation thereof.




33
   SS means Secretaria de Salud, the Federal Ministry of Health, referred to as SSA or MOH elsewhere in
this ICR.


                                                  96
             Annex 14: Revised Project Monitoring Indicators Following Second Project
             Restructuring

          OBJECTIVES                                 INDICATORS                              TARGETS
                                                             Part A
Increase the enrollment of               No. of individuals entitled and
individuals entitled to be enrolled in   enrolled in the subsidized regime of               2005 = 10%
the subsidized regime of Seguro          Seguro Popular/No. of individuals                 2006 = 20.5%
Popular                                  entitle to be enrolled in the                     2007 = 23.3%
                                         subsidized regime of Seguro                       2008 = 26.6%
                                         Popular
Increase the enrollment of               No. of indigenous entitled and
indigenous people entitled to be         enrolled in the subsidized regime of    2005 = 3,500,000/13,851,503 = 25%
enrolled in the subsidized regime of     Seguro Popular/No. of indigenous        2006 = 3,700,000/13,851,503 = 27%
Seguro Popular                           entitle to be enrolled in the           2007 = 4,000,000/13,851,503 = 29%
                                         subsidized regime of Seguro             2008 = 4,200,000/13,851,503 = 30%
                                         Popular
Increase the number of health            No. of health facilities (by type of
facilities accredited with SPSS that     facility) included in the PMIE and          2005 = 915/5000 = 18.3%
guarantee the access of people           accredited with the SPSS/No. of             2006 = 1200/5000 = 24%
entitled to be enrolled into the         facilities (by type of facility)            2007 = 1500/5000 = 30%
subsidized regime of Seguro              included in the PMIE34                      2008 = 1800/5000 = 35%
Popular to the insurance's benefit
package
                                         No. of health facilities (by type of        2004 = 620/5000 = 12.4%
                                         facility) included in the PMIE and          2005 = 1527/5000 = 30.5%
                                         evaluated for accreditation with the         2006 = 2000/5000 = 40%
                                         SPSS/No. of health facilities (by            2007 = 2800/5000 = 56%
                                         type of facility) included in the            2008 = 3200/5000 = 64%
                                         PMIE
                                                             Part B
Increase the number of federal           No. of federal entities that have a                  2005 = 3
entities35 that have a established       established REPSS that operate with                  2006 = 7
REPSS that operate with a financial      a financial management system that                  2007 = 12
management system that allows the        allows the strategic purchase of                    2008 = 16
strategic purchase of hospital care      hospital care
Increase the proportion of staff that    No. of staff recruited and contracted
is recruited and contracted under        under innovative HR management                      2005 = 0%
innovative models for human              models in Highly Specialized                       2006 = 58%
resource management in Highly            Hospitals/Total number of staff                    2007 = 90%
Specialized Hospitals                    contracted in Highly Specialized                   2008 = 100%
                                         Hospitals
Adoption of innovative information       Average number of modules
systems in the five Highly               implemented in the five Highly                      2005 = 0%
Specialized Hospitals                    Specialized Hospitals/Total number                  2006 = 0%
                                         of modules to be implemented in                    2007 = 20%
                                         Highly Specialized Hospitals (20)                  2008 = 80%
Improve access of individuals            Number of medicines prescribed

             34
                PMIE: Investment Plan for Infrastructure and Equipment to ensure universal access of poor people
             enrolled or to be enrolled in the subsidized regime of Seguro Popular to the insurance's benefit package by
             2010.
             35
                There are 31 federal states in the country plus the Federal District.


                                                                   97
           OBJECTIVES                             INDICATORS                          TARGETS
enrolled in the subsidized regime of   and supplied to individuals enrolled          2005 = 85%
Seguro Popular to essential            in the subsidized regime of Seguro            2006 = 90%
medicines                              Popular/Number of medicines                   2007 = 95%
                                       prescribed to individuals enrolled in         2008 = 100%
                                       the subsidized regime of Seguro
                                       Popular
                                                          Part C
SSA monitors progress in the           Progress in restructuring SES is               2005 = NO
structural reforms of the State        monitored in all states and an annual       2006 = YES or NO
Health Systems                         report prepared and disseminated            2007 = YES or NO
                                                                                   2008 = YES or NO
SSA monitors and evaluates the         ·   System designed by June 2007
efficiency, effectiveness of           ·   M&E system populated by               June 2007: YES or NO
FOROSS including impact on                 December 2007                       December 2007: YES or NO
access of priority populations to      ·   First M&E report disseminated         June 2008: YES or NO
services of Seguro Popular's benefit       by June 2008
package
SS monitors the health status of       Number of states that report the           2007 = 6 states report
indigenous populations                 health status of their population by      2008 = 15 states report
                                       ethnicity and native language




                                                                  98
              Annex 15: Revised Project Monitoring Indicators Following December 18, 2009
                       36
              Revision

  OBJECTIVES                   INDICATORS                         TARGETS                    Achieved
                                                            Part A
Increase the              No. of individuals entitled
enrollment of             and enrolled in the                     2005 = 26%                 2005 = 26%
individuals entitled      subsidized regime of                    2006 = 32%               2006 = 35.19%
to be enrolled in         Seguro Popular/No. of                   2007 = 46%               2007 = 49.32%
the subsidized            individuals entitled to be              2008 = 60%               2008 = 61.68%
regime of Seguro          enrolled in the subsidized              2009 = 65%                2009 = 69.80
Popular                   regime of Seguro Popular
Increase the              No. of indigenous entitled
enrollment of             and enrolled in the                    2005 = 6.1%                2005 = 6.1%
indigenous people         subsidized regime of                    2006 = 27%               2006 = 10.8%
entitled to be            Seguro Popular/No. of                   2007 = 29%               2007 = 15.0%
enrolled in the           indigenous people                       2008 = 30%               2008 = 17.9%
subsidized regime                                                2009 = 30.6%              2009 = 21.3%
of Seguro Popular
Increase the              No. of indigenous entitled
enrollment of             and enrolled in the
indigenous people         subsidized regime of                    2005=>0.3                 2005 = 0.30
enrolled in the           Seguro Popular/No. of                   2006=>1.0                 2006 = 0.31
subsidized regime         indigenous people / No. of              2007=>1.0                 2007 = 0.30
of Seguro Popular         individuals entitled and                2008=>1.0                 2008 = 0.29
with respect to           enrolled in the subsidized              2009=>1.0                 2009 = 0.30
entitled                  regime of Seguro
individuals               Popular/No. of
                          individuals entitled to be
                          enrolled in the subsidized
                          regime of Seguro Popular
Increase the              No. of health facilities               2005 = 10.7%              2005 = 10.7%
number of health          accredited with the                    2006 = 15.0%              2006 = 16.8%
facilities accredited     SPSS/No. of facilities X               2007 = 25.0%              2007 = 35.2%
with SPSS that            100                                    2008 = 40.0%              2008 = 51.1%
guarantee the                                                    2009 = 60.0%               2009 = 62.4
access of people          No. of health facilities                2005 = 0%                 2005 = 0%
entitled to be            financed, concluded and                 2006 = 10%               2006 = 13.8%
enrolled into the         accredited with                         2007 = 15%               2007 = 26.2%
subsidized regime         PROCEDES/No. of                         2008 = 20%               2008 = 35.1%
of Seguro Popular         health facilities financed              2009 = 38%               2009 = 38.6%
to the insurance's        and concluded with
benefit package           PROCEDESX100

                                                            Part B
Increase the              No. of federal entities
number of federal         that have a established
entities37 that have      REPSS that operate with                 2005 = 0/32               2005 = 0/32
a established             a financial management                  2006 = 7/32               2006 = 0/32
REPSS that                system that allows the                 2007 = 12/32               2007 = 1/32

              36
                   Objectives, Indicators or Targets modified by this are shown in bold.
              37
                   There are 31 federal states in the country plus the Federal District.


                                                                     99
  OBJECTIVES                   INDICATORS                        TARGETS                            Achieved
operate with a           strategic purchase of                  2008 = 16/32                       2008 = 1/32
financial                hospital care/No. of                   2009 = 16/32                       2009 = 1/32
management               federal entities
system that allows
the strategic
purchase
Increase the             Number of
number of                deconcentrated or                      2005 = 4/32                        2005 = 4/32
deconcentrated or        decentralized or REPSS                 2006 = 5/32                        2006 = 5/32
decentralized and        dependent of the State                 2007 = 6/32                        2007 = 8/32
REPSS                    MoH and independent of                 2008 = 7/32                        2008 = 8.32
                         the OPD SESAS/No. of                   2009 = 8/32                        2009 = 8/32
                         federal entities
Increase the             Number of state                        2005 = 27/32                      2005 = 27/32
number of                MoHs/Number of federal                 2006 = 28/32                      2006 = 28/32
constituted state        entities                               2007 = 29/32                      2007 = 29/32
MoHs                                                            2008 = 30/32                      2008 = 29/32
                                                                2009 = 30/32                      2009 = 30/32
Increase the             No. of staff recruited and
proportion of staff      contracted under                         2005 = 0%                         2005 = 0%
that is recruited and    innovative HR                           2006 = 58%                         2006 = 0%
contracted under         management models in                    2007 = 90%                         2007 = 0%
innovative models        Highly Specialized                     2008 = 100%                         2008 = 0%
for human resource       Hospitals/Total number of
management in            staff contracted in Highly
Highly Specialized       Specialized Hospitals
Hospitals
Adoption of              Average number of
innovative               modules implemented in
information              the five Highly Specialized             2005 = 0%                          2005 = 0%
systems in the five      Hospitals/Total number of               2006 = 0%                          2006 = 0%
Highly Specialized       modules to be                          2007 = 20%                          2007 = 0%
Hospitals                implemented in Highly                  2008 = 80%                          2008 = 0%
                         Specialized Hospitals (20)
Improve access of        Number of patients with
individuals              prescriptions fully and                2005 = 85%                         2005 = 85%
enrolled in the          timely filled/Total                    2006 = 86%                        2006 = 82.4%
subsidized regime        number of patients                     2007 = 87%                        2007 = 87.5%
of Seguro Popular        surveyed                               2008 = 88%                        2008 = 87.2%
to essential                                                    2009 = 89%                        2009 = 87.7%
medicines
included in the
CAUSES38
                                                           Part C
SSA monitors             Progress in restructuring               2005 = NO                         2005 = NO
progress in the          SES is monitored in all            2006 = YES or NO                       2006 = NO
structural reforms       states and an annual report        2007 = YES or NO                       2007 = NO
of the State Health      prepared and disseminated          2008 = YES or NO                       2008 = NO
Systems                                                     2009 = YES or NO                2009 = Partially achieved*
SSA monitors and         Evaluation should be
evaluates the            completed before the          December 2009: YES or NO
efficiency,              closing date of the

              38
                   Essential Health Services Catalogue (Catalogo Unico de Servicios Esenciales de Salud).


                                                                   100
  OBJECTIVES              INDICATORS             TARGETS                     Achieved
effectiveness of     Project
FOROSS through
the evaluation of
the Master Plan
for Infrastructure
(PMI)
SS monitors the      General Directorate of      2005 = 2/10
health status of     Health Information          2006 = 3/10
indigenous           subsystems implemented      2007 = 4/10
populations          that compile                2008 = 8/10
                     disaggregated               2009 = 10/10
                     information on
                     indigenous
                     population/Total number
                     of General Directorates
                     of Health Information
                     subsystems implemented

          · Balance score card to monitor progress in organizational restructuring towards the
          separation of functions was developed and questionnaire applied in 2008.




                                                   101
Annex 16: Chronology of Implementation Experience

The Third Basic Health Care Project was approved by the Board on June 21, 2001,
signed on March 10, 2002 and became effective on November 11, 2002. Its objectives
and design built upon on successful predecessor project. However, since becoming
effective, the Project suffered implementation delays for two main reasons.


First, the ambitious reform program that the Government introduced in 2002/2003
departed fundamentally from past sector priorities; moreover, the reform and the
Project's objectives became incongruent. Consequently, budget allocations for activities
eligible for financing under the Project decreased substantially.


Second, as an exception to Mexico's general policy, loan proceeds of the earlier PAC
Project had been incremental to general budget transfers from the Federal Government to
the states. However, this exception had not been granted for the Project with the result
that loan resources became available only to reimburse budgeted items earmarked for
external, loan, funding. Thus, state governments faced weaker incentives to participate
under the Project and none to comply with the Bank's fiduciary requirements that
presented requirements over and above the national norms. As a result, by June 2003,
less than six months after becoming effective, the Project's Implementation Progress was
already rated as Unsatisfactory, only US$9 million had been disbursed from the loan
account, and the possibility of a loan amendment was already being discussed.


On September 13, 2004, the Government and the Bank signed a first amendment of the
Loan Agreement that restructured the Project, modified the its Project Description (see
Annex 12), retrofitted financial and administrative procedures under a Sector Wide
Approach (SWAp) and provided for the retroactive disbursement for state level health
subprojects. Under the SWAp, Government, State and Bank funds were to be
commingled to finance subprojects executed according to unified standards that reflected,
with few exceptions, the Government's norms and laws. However, the first amendment
did not succeed in facilitating or accelerating implementation. The amended procurement
provisions inadvertently impeded the execution of sub-projects as they did not
successfully unify Government and Bank requirements. Moreover, while an attempt had
been made to modify the Project's description to embrace the new SPSS reform, the
amendment did not adequately align the Project's objectives with reform priorities.


In April 2005, more than two years after the loan became effective, the loan had
disbursed only about $32 million and the Project was then rated Unsatisfactory for
Implementation Progress, and also for its prospects for achieving its Development
Objectives. The Government had assigned budgets of approximately $80 million and


                                          102
$300 million in FY2004 and FY2005, respectively, for the implementation of
subprojects, under the assumption that these would be eligible for financing once the
Loan Agreement amendment became effective. These amounts were transferred to the
states, and subprojects were carried out; however, the Bank in the end was unable to
reimburse the related expenditures since the Loan Amendment had not introduced the
necessary changes to the Project's objectives and procurement provisions. In part as a
result of its co-responsibility for delays in preparing the first project restructuring, which
in the end did not permit Bank disbursement against project expenditures, the Bank
agreed to waive commitment fees under the Loan during FY06.


In an untiring effort to get the Project on track, the Government and the Bank agreed on a
two-step process: the Bank would process a quick amendment that would permit
disbursement of expenditures that were to become eligible under the Project's first
restructuring, and at the same time, work with the Government on a comprehensive
restructuring to the Project which would make its design fully compatible with the
Government new sector priorities centering on the SPSS. As a result, the second
amendment to the Loan Agreement was prepared to resolve legal barriers that were
impeding the reimbursement of eligible expenditures incurred by the Government
between March 1, 2003 and December 31, 2004. This second amendment became
effective on June 16, 2005, and allowed the reimbursement of approximately $50 million.
At the same time, the Bank began intensive efforts to prepare the Project's second
restructuring that would align its objectives and activities with the SPSS reform priorities
and resolve barriers to execute the majority of the Project's activities under SWAp
arrangements.

In the process of appraising the restructuring, it became apparent that the Project's
original design and preparation had not complied fully with the Bank's safeguard
policies. The original Project was classified as environmental category B and the Bank
had concluded that the changes that were being proposed would not result in a change of
the environmental classification. However, the supplemental assessment prepared in the
context of the Project's restructuring revealed that the Project's Operational Manual was
missing the required provisions to ensure compliance with the safeguard policies
triggered by the Project. The Government therefore prepared an Environmental
Management Framework, an Indigenous Peoples' Development Plan39, and Resettlement
Framework and successfully integrated these Frameworks and Plans into the Operational
Manual. Since the approval of subprojects executed by states under Components 1 and 2
of the restructured Project required compliance with the procedures set out in the
Operational Manual, compliance with all safeguard policies would be ensured for future
activities under the restructured project. However, it was not clear, at the time, that
activities already implemented had followed those procedures, and hence complied with
Bank safeguard policies. To address this, as part of the restructuring, the Government
prepared Terms of Reference for a social and environmental safeguards audit to assess

39
     The Project was approved in June 2001, hence OP 4.20 applied.


                                                    103
compliance with the relevant safeguard policies in past and ongoing project activities and
the loan amendment processed to reflect the Project's second restructuring included a
dated covenant that both required completion of this audit by November 15, 2006 and
committed the Government to develop and implement a remedial plan, based on the
findings and recommendations of the safeguards audit, to repair and compensate for any
damage that may have resulted from safeguards-related omissions in the Project's
original Operational Manual.


The loan amendment reflecting the Project's second restructuring was signed on August
15, 2006 and project implementation began improving. The restructuring permitted the
reimbursement of approximately US$160 million of expenditures that had been incurred
in 2005 and 2006 to accelerate the use of loan funds and balance the SSA's virtual budget
deficit. Reimbursed activities fell mostly under the restructure Project's Part A, and the
corresponding development objective of improving the access of poor people to the
Seguro Popular's benefit package was then considered satisfactory. Ratings for both
Development Objectives and Implementation Performance were finally upgraded to
Moderately Satisfactory. Bank supervision was working with SSA to foster state demand
for activities under Part B, and had provided direct technical assistance for the
development of a system for monitoring and evaluation for institutional reforms at the
state level.



Following national elections in 2006, the Administration that took office in December of
that year reconfirmed the priority it assigned to the Health Sector Program. By mid-
2007, Bank supervision was reporting that the Project was likely to achieve most of its
Development Objectives, with shortcomings limited to Parts A and B, and therefore
agreed to expand the scope of activities to ensure that progress was made under all of the
Project's components. Loan disbursements had picked up considerably---by mid-
December 2007 US$220 had been disbursed---but were still slower than expected given
the challenges with procurement described in Section 2.4. They were also affected by
delays in signing Coordination Agreements between the federal and state governments
due to the need for ratification of these pre-negotiated agreements by the new
Administration.


The Bank intensified supervision dramatically. Several supervision missions took place
between January and April 2008, to carry out an in-depth review of the Project, and
found that progress towards its Development Objectives, including the majority of project
indicators and project implementation were Moderately Satisfactory. Shortcomings were
reported for Part B as progress was being hampered by substantial weaknesses in the
regulatory framework, as well as the lack of incentives. Despite this, there had been
promising developments, supported by the Project. Some ten states formed the National
Commission for the Restructuring of State Health Services and had started to cooperate
in the reform efforts. Some states had developed critical pathways for reform and
launched system-wide campaigns to sensitize and train stakeholders. Two states had


                                           104
already created autonomous purchasing agencies. The Project had taken on a central role
in sustaining the momentum in the Government's Health Reform Program. As a result,
with almost US$250 of the loan disbursed and almost the entirety of the loan amount
committed, the Government requested that the Bank extend the Loan's Closing Date by
one year to December 31, 2009 in order to continue financing technical assistance to the
states with the small uncommitted loan amount remaining (less than US$10 million).


The reorganization of the state health systems was critical for advancing the
implementation of Seguro Popular and hence for the integration and efficiency of the
health system. The Government also requested that the Bank begin preparing a follow-on
operation in support of the Seguro Popular. At around the same time, the Bank was
proposing to introduce some modifications to the project indicators that would reflect
changes in policy priorities following the change in Administration and correct some
minor problems that had been overlooked in the second restructuring. Important
improvements had been made to the health management information system and the SSA
and Bank prepared a proposal to refine and enhance the monitoring indicators that would
allow a more profound evaluation of the program and provide baseline information for a
proposed follow-on project (Annex 15).


In April 2009, the Bank agreed to support Mexico in responding to the influenza
epidemic both through a proposed new stand-alone operation and through a restructuring
of the Project to provide the then remaining loan funds (approximately US$25 million
remaining in the Designated Account) as an immediate financial assistance to purchase
vaccines, pharmaceuticals and medical equipment and supplies. The second order project
restructuring was agreed and the SSA presented the respective procurement plan that
would require higher management approval since the procurement involved retroactive
financing of goods purchased under direct contracting. In the end, the Bank did not
approve procurement by direct contracting, and the Bank worked with the SSA to
identify alternative expenditures under the Project that would be eligible for financing
under the Loan, which had been fully disbursed by its Closing Date.


In all, important targets for Part A of the restructured Project had been surpassed, and the
component's performance rating was upgraded to Satisfactory. The rating for Part B
remained as Moderately Unsatisfactory since several targets originally established, that in
retrospect were overly ambitious, were expected to be missed. The rating for Part C was
maintained as Moderately Satisfactory. In any event, the reform momentum was being
sustained and many states were by project completion in the process of developing goals
and critical pathways to advance the decentralization process, separate financing from
service provision, introduce new financing mechanisms and strengthen the states'
Ministries of Health as stewards of health systems. More importantly, the Bank had
agreed to continue to support the Seguro Popular under a new project, with financing
under a loan approved by the Bank's Board in January 2010 that would continue the


                                            105
cooperation in supporting states, and the Government in general, with this important
reform effort.




                                        106
Annex 17: Calculation for Outcome Rating for Formally Revised Project
(As per ICR Guidelines, Appendix A)

              Calculation for Outcome Rating for Formally Revised Projects40



                                    Against            Against          Overall        Comments
                                    Original           Revised
                                     PDOs               PDOs
       1.       Rating            Unsatisfactory      Moderately                         Moderate
                                                      Satisfactory                    Improvement
                                                                                       after Formal
                                                                                      Restructuring
                                                                                        on July 11,
                                                                                           2006
       2.       Rating                   2                  4
                Value41
       3.       Weight (%            $84.25m           $265.75m                       This reflects
                disbursed                                                             disbursement
                before/after           24%                76%             100%        cutoff as of
                PDO                                                                   July 11, 2006
                change)
       4.       Weighted                0.48              3.04            3.52
                value (2X3)
       5.       Final Value                                            Moderately     The rating of
                (rounded)                                              Satisfactory   3.52,
                                                                                      rounded,
                                                                                      comes out as
                                                                                      MS




40
     See Appendix B to ICR Guidelines for Instructions and Examples.
41
     HS=6; S=5; MS=4; MU=3; U=2; HU=1.


                                                   107
Annex 18: Value-Added Activities supported by the World Bank in Mexico'
Health Sector in the context of the Third Basic Health Care Project


  AREA                        VALUE ADDED
  Functional integration of   Technical cooperation (ongoing since 2007)
  the health system
                              The Bank has developed a tool to assess the readiness of health
                              systems to effectively separate the financing and health service
                              delivery functions. It has also carried out diagnostics for IMSS,
                              SSA and ISSSTE. As a result of this there are standardized
                              diagnostics that will help define common areas for functional
                              integration.

                              IMSS diagnostic
                              ISSSTE diagnostic
                              SSA diagnostic (State of Mexico and Nuevo León)

                              Health Leadership Forum (13-14 December, 2007)

                              The Bank co-hosted the organization of a Leadership Forum that
                              served to gather and sensitize staff from the State Health Systems
                              (SES), IMSS, ISSSTE and other public and private institutions on
                              the advancement on the functional integration of the Mexican
                              health system. Support was given through the recruitment and
                              financing of an international consultant with extensive experience
                              in functional integration who led the forum presenting international
                              experience as options for the way forward for the functional
                              integration of the health sector in Mexico. This forum has led the
                              way for the creation of the Commission for Organization
                              Restructuring of the State Health Systems (SES) that has been
                              essential to bringing the topic to the General Health Council for
                              greater visibility.
  Separation of functions     Meeting of the Commission for Organization Restructuring of the
                              State Health Systems, SES (23 and 24 June 2008).

                              The Bank has provided financial support and provided inputs for
                              the agenda of the meeting. In addition the Bank presented, drawing
                              on its international experience, the main challenges and the
                              pathway of the process of separation of functions. The presentation
                              covered the following topics: objectives of the separation of
                              functions, conceptual framework, horizontal and vertical
                              institutional arrangements, regulation and obstacles.
                              The meeting created a space for technical discussions of the
                              separation of functions.


                                          108
AREA   VALUE ADDED
       Workshop for the development of TORs for advancing in the
       restructuring of health services February 12, 2009)

       The Bank hosted and led a workshop that enabled staff from the
       State Health Systems (SES) to understand better the phases and
       sequence of the process of separation of functions and have a clear
       idea of how to develop good TORs for TA related to the
       restructuring process. The people enabled staff from States Health
       Systems to have a clearer idea of how to materialize their ideas of
       separation of functions in concrete technical assistance.


       RAPID ASSESSMENT TOOL TO EVALUATE PROGRESS IN
       THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE SPSS (ONGOING SINCE
       2007)

       The Bank developed a Rapid Assessment Tool to evaluate progress
       in the implementation of the SPSS and the restructuring of the
       State Health Systems (SES). The tool was presented to the staff of
       State Health Systems and REPSS (Regimenes Estatales de
       Protección Social en Salud) during a workshop hosted by the
       Bank. The workshop helped to refine indicators and databases
       developed and encouraged the discussion between the federal
       Ministry of State Health authorities on the main existing obstacles
       for monitoring the implementation of the Social Protection System
       for Health (SPSS).
       Through this meeting staff from states was able to identify existing
       gaps and obstacles for the implementation and monitoring of the
       SPSS.

       Hospital management workshop (June 2006)

       The Bank financed and led a workshop on hospital management.
       The workshop exposed staff from the Ministry of Health and state
       health authorities to various international models and experiences
       of management of tertiary level hospitals (Brazil, Canada, France,
       Spain and Brazil). The topics covered included: hospital
       governance, management of quality, strategic purchasing of
       equipment, pharmaceuticals, biological products, integration with
       other components of the health care system and human resources
       management.
       The workshop raised awareness among participants in the efficient
       use of available resources and of the challenges of managing
       hospitals delivering high complex services.



                   109
AREA                  VALUE ADDED
Social and            Safeguards audit (ongoing progress review)
environmental
safeguards            The Bank carried out a social and environmental safeguards audit
                      for PROCEDES. The audit has made it possible to enhance the
                      inclusion of environmental considerations, and particularly that of
                      health care waste management, into health care facilities in the
                      states. It has also prompted closer coordination of the different
                      Federal agencies responsible for health care waste management.
                      The Bank's safeguards team has provided specific social,
                      indigenous and environmental guidelines to the Needs Certificate
                      and Technical File, both required for any medical infrastructure
                      construction. These inputs are also being considered for the
                      development of the sector wide Infrastructure Master Plan.
                      The safeguards audit, through the setting of common objectives
                      was able to convene important actors to establish an integrated
                      work strategy.

Strengthening of      Technical cooperation (ongoing)
procurement process
                      The Bank through PROCEDES has promoted the adoption of
                      technical specifications for medical equipment developed by the
                      SSA (CENETEC) in the procurement of medical equipment. This
                      practice has led to more transparency in the procurement process
                      and better acquisition of medical equipment in terms of quality and
                      pertinence.
                      Procurement Workshops ( 2007-2008)

                      The Bank organized a series of workshops (6) attended by health
                      staff from all the 32 Mexican states. The workshops had the
                      objectives to train state officials on the use of standard bidding
                      documents agreed upon by the Secretaría de Función Pública, IDB
                      and WB and the promotion of good procurement practices. These
                      events stimulated procurement process practices in terms of
                      transparency, efficiency and economy in the procurement process.

                      Procurement ex-post reviews (2005-2008)

                      The Bank commissioned ex-post reviews of the project
                      procurement processes. Among other things, the results of the post
                      reviews showed that the annual budgeting process mandated by
                      federal law results in the fragmentation of processes for larger civil
                      works that leads to delays, impedes the quality of civil works, and
                      increases costs. These findings encouraged the discussions
                      between Ministries of Administrative Development (Función
                      Publica), SSA and Finance to find a solution not only for the


                                  110
AREA   VALUE ADDED
       Project but all health infrastructure investment financed with
       federal funds.
       Special procurement reviews ( 2006-2007)

       The Bank commissioned two special reviews with the objective to
       determine the compatibility between the Bank and country's
       procurement guidelines in order to establish a list of processes
       subject for Bank disbursements.

       These exercises allowed the government to increase the level of
       project disbursements.




                  111
