Document of
The World Bank
FILE  COPY                        FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2387-MLI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF MALI
FOR AN
OFFICE DU NIGER
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE/ENGINEERING PROJECT
September 2T, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit           -     Mali Franc (MF)
US$1                    -     MF 440
MF 1                    -     US$0.0022727
MF 1 million            -     US$2,273
Weights and Measures
1 hectare (ha)          -     2.47 acres
1 metric ton (t) :      -     2.205 lbs
Fiscal Year
Government: January 1 - December 31
Office du Niger: January 1 - December 31
Abbreviations
GERDAT  -  Groupement d'Etudes et de Recherches pour le Developpement
de I'Agronomie Tropicale
IDA     -  International Development Association
IER     -  Institut d'Economie Rurale
IRAT    -  Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales
OPAM    -  Office des Produits Agricoles du Mali
PPF     -  Project Preparation Facility
SCAER   -  Societe de Credit Agricole et d'Equipement Rural



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALI
OFFICE DU NIGER - Technical Assistance/Engineering Credit
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Republic of Mali
Beneficiary:        Office du Niger
Amount:             US$4.5 million
Terms:               Standard
Project
Description:        The project comprises a three-year program of technical
assistance and a pilot program of rehabilitation works.
Technical assistance would consist of 5 engineers and 1
management consultant to strengthen key services of the
Office du Niger (i.e. Technical Studies, Works, and
Accounting) and to prepare the plans required for the
appraisal of a comprehensive infrastructure rehabilita-
tion project within two years, as well as short-term
consultancy services for special studies. The pilot
program would carry out urgent repairs on the irrigation
infrastructures; it would also aim at establishing the
most cost-effective methods of on-farm works to be
used in a subsequent large-scale rehabilitation project.
Other project components include support for agricultural
research and trial programs, an aerial photographic
survey, a socio-economic study of the settler population,
an audit of the Office du Niger accounts, and training
scholarships for Malian engineers. US$20,000 provided
under the Project Preparation Facility will be refinanced
by the Credit.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs: 1/                                        Us$1,000
7                     Local        Foreign        Total
Salaries, Allowances and Travel
for Technical Assistants and
Consultants                                    300          1,100         1,400
Civil Works Equipment                           100          1,900         2,000
Spare Parts and Workshop Tools                    5            110            115
Miscellaneous Instruments; Vehicles               5            110            115
Civil works operating costs
(including Local Staff)                         115            225           340
Farm Equipment Rice Research                      5             70             75
Pilot Project Fodder Production                  60            165           225
Aerial Photographic Survey                       20            165            185
Socio-econ. Study of Settlers                    35             40            75
Audit                                             5             45             50
Training Scholarships                             -             25            25
Proj. Prep. Facility (refinanced)                 -             20            20
Expected Price Increases                         75            525           600
Total                               725          4,500         5,225
Financing Plan:      The proposed Credit of US$4.5 million would finance 86%
of total project cost net of taxes, or the equivalent of
100% of estimated foreign exchange costs. The Govern-
ment would contribute the equivalent of local costs.
1/   Project costs do not include taxes since Government has indicated
its intention to exempt the project from all import duties and
other taxes.



- iii -
Estimated
Disbursements:                                          US$1,000
FY 79    FY80    FY81    FY82
Annual                  2,000    1,500       600      400
Cumulative              2,000    3,500   4,100   4,500
Staff Project        Given the pilot and technical assistance nature of the
Report:             activities to be undertaken under the proposed project, a
separate staff project report was not prepared.
Map:                 IBRD 13412.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALI FOR AN OFFICE DU NIGER
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE/ENGINEERING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit for the equivalent of US$4.5 million on standard IDA terms to the
Republic of Mali to help finance a proposed Office du Niger Technical
Assistance/Engineering project.
PART I: THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled an "Economic Memorandum on Mali" (1134a-MLI) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on January 5, 1978. Its conclusions
are reflected in the following paragraphs.
3.        With a population of about 6.3 million and a per capita GNP of $103
in 1976, Mali is one of the poorest countries of Africa and among the 29
least developed countries identified by the United Nations. It is handicapped
by serious obstacles to development.  The extreme variability of rainfall
causes sharp fluctuations in crop and livestock production. Access to foreign
markets is made difficult by its landlocked position and the long distances -
more than 1000 km - to the nearest seaports, Abidijan and Dakar. Development
is also constrained by the2substantial internal distances (the country covers
an area of 1.24 million km ) and by the shortage of skilled manpower and the
narrow domestic market for industrial products. About 90% of the population
depends for a livelihood on crop farming, animal husbandry, forestry and
fishing. Exports consist almost entirely of agricultural commodities and
livestock. The relative contribution of the primary sector to GDP declined
from 43% in 1972 to 37% in 1977.
4.        Over the fifteen years following independence economic growth has
barely kept ahead of the growth of population. During the 1960s GDP in real
terms, increased at an average annual rate of 2.8%. During the drought of
the early seventies, GDP declined and Mali's problems were further aggravated
by international inflation, excessive credit expansion and growing budget
and balance of payments deficits. The Government has initiated action to
redress major financial imbalances through credit restraint, through some
reduction of the subsidy element in the prices of essential consumer goods,
fertilizers and agricultural equipment, and through improved tax collection.
Good crop seasons in 1975, 1976 and 1977 facilitated the implementation of
these measures. Though the country's growth potential is significant, serious
structural problems remain. In particular, problems have been exacerbated by
a poor harvest in 1977/78, brought about by a return of drought conditions in
1977.



-2-
The Drought Years: 1972-1974
5.        All economic sectors were in varying degrees affected by the drought
of 1972-1974, and the recovery of these sectors is following different pat-
terns. The full extent of loss of human life resulting from the drought
is not known but it was particularly severe among nomadic groups and especially
the young and elderly. The cattle population, estimated at 5.5 million head in
1971, declined by 15 to 20%.
6.        In an effort to keep essential supplies at a sufficient level and
retail prices for basic goods low, especially in urban centers, the government
resorted to large imports of cereals, only partly financed by external aid,
and to consumption subsidies. Thus cereal imports shot up from 64,000 tons
in 1972 to 235,000 tons in 1974, and the resource gap widened to nearly
one-third of GDP in 1974. To finance losses incurred by state enterprises
in charge of imports and sales of subsidized goods, growing amounts of bank
credit were used. The GDP deflator, reflecting subsidization through offi-
cially controlled prices, increased at an annual rate of only around 5-6%
between 1970 and 1974, although prices in the open market had risen more
steeply after the onset of the drought. Because supplies of exports were
affected by the drought, export receipts did not increase as much as the
favorable world prices would have permitted and the policy of price contain-
ment and subsidization translated into very large external deficits. These
years, apart from imposing appalling human suffering on important segments of
the Malian population, left an unfortunate legacy on Mali's public finances.
Uneven Recovery: 1975-1977
7.        Normal rainfall resumed in 1975 and primary production--cereals,
as well as cotton and groundnuts--increased by more than 22% and total real
GDP by an estimated 12.7%. Recovery of physical production, however, was
accompanied by a sharp rise in the GDP deflator of about 18% in 1975 owing to
a substantial reduction in Government subsidies and increases in the official
producer prices of the major crops - ranging from 33 to 60%. While the
resource gap was reduced it remained high, representing about 20% of GDP and
foreign assets declined further to minus MF 88 billion (US$184 million).
Public dissaving continued to increase as growth of revenues lagged behind
rapidly rising expenditures, particularly expenditure on personnel. The wage
bill increased rapidly because of cost of living adjustments and the policy of
government to serve as employer of last resort of nationals who complete
secondary or higher education. Current revenues did increase significantly as
a result of efforts to improve tax collection, but not enough to keep pace
with rapidly growing expenditures. The current budget deficit widened from
5.1 billion MF in 1972 to 10.5 billion MF in 1975, or about 36% of total
current revenues.
8.        In 1976, real growth of GDP continued though at the more moderate
pace of about 5%. In 1977 the situation continued to improve, largely as a
result of a good harvest, and because of continued growth in the secondary



- 3 -
sectors, so that GDP grew by about 7% in that year. However, a drought-
induced downturn in agricultural production in 1978 may mean a zero or nega-
tive growth rate in that year.
9.        Credit expansion was reduced sharply from 1975 levels, with an
overall increase in outstanding indebtedness of the economy to deposit banks
amounting to about 20% in 1976, as compared with 47% growth rate in 1975.
However, it must be recognized that much of what is included under "credit
to the economy" in effect finances operating losses of public enterprises.
(When substantial improvements have taken place, such as in 1976/77, they
have largely been attributable to the export earnings of SOMIEX, the state
export monopoly.) At the beginning of 1975 the Central Bank discount rate
was raised from 3.5 to 6.0% with corresponding increases in the whole set of
borrowing and lending rates of deposit banks. And a new banking law, provid-
ing for legal minimum cash reserve and liquidity ratios has recently been
promulgated. This took place within the framework of a new monetary agreement
with France in mid-1977. This agreement aims at bringing about the conditions
requisite for Mali's membership in the West Africa Monetary Union by 1981,
imposing a very restrictive credit policy on the operations of the Central
Bank, notably in establishing more stringent conditions on rediscount facili-
ties, thereby precluding the financing of operating losses of state enter-
prises, one of the most persistent drains on Mali's economy.
10.       The balance of payments deficit in 1976 is provisionally estimated
to have declined by US$21 million to US$33.6 million. As in the past much of
the deficit was largely financed through the "Operations Account" with the
French Treasury. The improvement in the balance of payments is attributable
essentially to higher volume and prices of cash crop exports, exports of
foodgrains, some debt rescheduling and larger capital inflows and higher
transfer receipts. Despite this, Mali's net foreign assets have somewhat
further decreased, and at the end of 1976 were practically minus MF 98 billion
(US$205 million). The overall budget deficit for 1976 and 1977 was still
uncomfortably large (MF 10 billion in 1976, MF 9 billion in 1977); for 1978 a
MF 5 billion is aimed at by the Government. Given particularly that export
earnings are likely to fall in 1978, this improvement does not appear likely.
Foreign capital and debt
11.       Public investment is mainly financed by foreign aid.  During most
of the sixties the USSR and the People's Republic of China were the most
important aid donors. At the end of 1975, they held in roughly equal propor-
tions nearly 57% of Mali's external public debt disbursed and outstanding.
Gross disbursements (grants and loans) from DAC sources increased from US$24
million in 1969 to US$108 million in 1974. Roughly 60% came from bilateral
sources (mainly France, United States, Germany and Canada). Since the early
seventies the amount of public aid received by Mali has increased very rapidly
and grants account for most of the increase. The average annual gross inflow
of aid was less than US$20 million in early 1970-71, reached US$50 million



- 4 -
during the first years of the droiught (1972-73), peaked at US$112 million in
1974 and has decreased only marginally since then. Four-fifths of total aid
since 1970 has been in the form of grants.
12.       Mali's external public debt outstanding at the end of 1975 (ex-
cluding drawings on the Operations Account) was US$471.0 million, including an
undisbursed amount of US$144.0 million. IDA's share in the total amount
disbursed and outstanding was 18.6%. Repayments of principal and interest due
in 1975 would have claimed more than a quarter of foreign exchange earnings,
but actual debt service payments have been small (2.8% in 1974, 3.1% in 1975)
owing to the rescheduling since 1970 of Chinese, Russian and some other debts.
However, projections indicate that the actual debt service ratio may go up to
about 19% by 1980 unless some further rescheduling of debt takes place. Mali
received five stand-by credits from the IMF between 1964 and 1971 which have
been repaid.  Apart from the stand-by credits Mali drew SDR 5.0 million under
the 1974 oil facility and obtained another credit of SDR 3.99 million (in
March 1976) under the 1975 oil facility. In addition, Mali borrowed $4.6
million from the IMF trust fund facility in January 1978.
Development prospects
13.       The return of more normal weather conditions in 1975 strengthened
the economy's short run position, at least through 1977. However, the poor
harvest of 1977/78 may represent a set-back in Mali's development prospects
(especially if the drought continues during the current year) and may retard
necessary improvements in Mali's economic management. In particular, over the
medium and long term, the government must address two sets of interrelated
objectives. The first is to correct the profound financial imbalances that
have developed over the years, especially since the early seventies; the
second is to accelerate the pace of economic growth against a background of
minimal improvement in per capita income since 1960.
14.       The government began in 1975 to tackle some of its financial prob-
lems and has been relatively successful in readjusting some key prices to
more realistic levels:' Thus, incentives to agricultural production are
stronger, consumer prices more closely reflect economic costs, the burden
of subsidies has been somewhat alleviated and credit expansion has slowed
down. Nonetheless much more remains to be done in this area, especially
since official prices to producers and consumers have failed to keep pace
with rising costs. Reform of public enterprises is being undertaken but is
unavoidably a very gradual task and much remains to be done, particularly in
the area of cereals marketing. The budget is still basically unbalanced but
the government is now seriously reconsidering its employment policy with a
view to make it more selective so as to check the growth of current expendi-
ture; yet this is clearly a longer-term project. Any reconstitution of
external reserves will take some time, and in the process the Government
should progressively wean itself from using the French-financed operations
account to finance current deficits.



- 5 -
15.       Prospects for real long-term growth are probably better than in
most other Sahelian countries. Agriculture has considerable potential for
expansion both in the South where rainfed agriculture meets relatively favor-
able conditions and in the vast inland delta of the Niger river. The river
also offers much potential for power development, particularly for industry.
Planned investment in new capacity for cotton seed oil extraction, cotton
textiles for export, and in sugar production, together with increasing crop
and livestock production, will eventually strengthen the balance of payments.
Mineral resources (iron ore, phosphates) remain at present unexploited but
may offer interesting longer term development possibilities.
16.       The Five-Year Social and Economic Development Plan (1974-1978) gave
high priority to agriculture, water and power development, industries process-
ing agricultural materials, and road transport. The pattern of investment
was well conceived, but the overall size of the investment program, most
lately estimated at MF 826 billion (about US$1.8 billion), is proving to be
over-ambitious. Although MF 427 billion of this total was expected to be
realized during the plan period, at the end of 1976, total investments real-
ized amounted to only MF 122 billion. The problem is more one of implementa-
tion than financing; with continuing delays being encountered in project
preparation and execution, particularly in the beginning. Thus it is likely
that the overall implementation of the plan will be delayed for several years,
although no new terminal date has been set by the Mali government. Project
financing, on the other hand, is reasonably well advanced, with MF 359 billion
having been received or firmly committed, and with preliminary agreements
obtained on another MF 100 billion. With regard to investments being under-
taken under the revised plan (revisions having been made in 1976 and 1977),
priority is currently being given to food crops, while in the longer run,
greater emphasis is expected to be placed on export crops, animal husbandry,
minor irrigation works and more efficient manufacturing activities.
17.       The prospects for the Malian economy have improved following the
substantial increase in output over 1975-1977 and the stabilization measures
taken by the Government. Nevertheless, sustained and viable growth in the
longer run depends crucially on investments and policy measures that will
strengthen the economy's export base, particularly in cash crops. Mali's
capacity to finance new investment, however, is severely constrained by the
limited savings potential resulting from the extremely low per capita income
level, a situation reflected in the government's budget and further com-
plicated by serious financial difficulties particularly in the public enter-
prise sector. Borrowing on conventional terms would add considerably to the
burden of servicing an already sizeable external debt. External aid, accord-
ingly, should be on soft terms and should finance, besides foreign exchange
outlays, a significant proportion of local currency costs.
PART II - WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALI
18.       The proposed Credit would be the Association's sixteenth operation
in Mali, which would bring total commitments of IDA funds to US$148.7 million.



- 6 -
US$70.3 million had been disbursed as of July 31, 1978. Of the fifteen credits
already approved, six have been directed to transport infrastructure, where
inadequate facilities have hampered the country's development; six to agricul-
ture; two to education and one to telecommunications. Agriculture represents
the largest share (44%) of our past commitments followed by transportation
(43%). With the exception of the Integrated Rural Development Project (Credit
491-MLI) and the Livestock Project (Credit 538-MLI), experience with ongoing
operations has been satisfactory. A summary statement of these credits as well
as notes on the execution of ongoing projects are set out in Annex II.
19.       The Bank Group and other external agencies have financed some ten
major agricultural development projects which geographically cover most
of the country's cultivable area and benefit the majority of farm families,
or about 90% of Mali's population. Initial Bank Group operations in this
sector have assisted Mali in developing rice production for domestic con-
sumption in the Niger flood plains. Subsequent projects financed by the
Bank Group have helped to develop groundnuts, cotton, kenaf, rainfed cereals
and livestock production, while at the same time to improve human health con-
ditions, farmers' education and training of young farmers and rural artisans.
In addition three of the six projects financed in the transportation sector
are directly related to the rural sector.
20.       Agriculture and livestock will continue to provide the main devel-
opment possibilities for improving the economic situation of Mali's largely
rural population; semi-autonomous state agencies ("Operations de Developpe-
ment") are the main channel for external investment in these sectors. Because
of the droughts in the 1968-74 period, these state agencies have broadened
their activities to include food crops and livestock to permit farmers greater
self-sufficiency. Increasingly, the Operations de Developpement are being
used by the Government as vehicles for delivery of social services, spe-
cifically functional literacy for adult farmers and preventive health care at
the village level.
21.       In the future the main objectives of Bank Group lending are:  (a)
to promote agricultural development so as to increase cash crop and livestock
production, particularly for export, to increase and stabilize food crop
production, to achieve a redistribution of income in favor of agricultural
producers, to help the country attain some degree of food self-sufficiency
as well as generate adequate supplies of agricultural materials for processing
industries and exports; (b) to strengthen infrastructure facilities; and (c)
to mobilize resources from other donors through co-financing. These overall
objectives are in line with the priorities established in the Government's
Five-Year Development Plan. We will also continue to advise Government on
policy issues and options through our economic and sector work. The Govern-
ment has recently asked that the Bank examine the activities of the Office of
Price Stabilization and that the Bank provide assistance in formulating
policies for employment generation. The Government has also requested Bank
assistance in the health sector.



- 7 -
22.       For the three fiscal years 1979-81, about half of IDA's lending
to Mali will go to the rural sector. In addition to the proposed Technical
Assistance/Engineering Project, preparation is under way for a second phase
of the Integrated Rural Development Project (Credit 491-MLI) which would
continue to assist in developing the production of groundnuts, Mali's second
foreign exchange earner; a forestry project would aim at increasing the supply
of fuel and building wood to Bamako and at making the first step towards pro-
tecting the environment against the effects of deforestation; finally, the
project proposed in this report is intended to lead to an Office du Niger
Rehabilitation Project, which would aim at rehabilitation of the existing
irrigation network, an intensification of rice production, further strengthen-
ing of management, and preparation for longer term expansion and crop diversi-
fication in the Office du Niger.
23.       As for infrastructure, we plan to contribute to the financing of a
Fourth Highway Project, which would include road reconstruction and contin-
uation of the highway maintenance program initiated under earlier projects.
A Fourth Railways Project and a Second Telecommunications Project are also
possible candidates under consideration for this three-year program. Re-
garding the industrial sector a Small/Medium Scale Enterprises and Artisans
Project would provide for financial and technical assistance to small and
medium size enterprises and to artisans and for a pilot program to re-
habilitate a few public enterprises. Finally, an Urban Project under prep-
aration for Bamako and three secondary towns (Gao, Kayes and Mopti) would
aim at providing a basic package of urban services, improving the management
of local Government services and laying the basis for longer term urban
growth.
PART III. THE RURAL SECTOR
A. Production Base
Land and Water
24.       Close to 90% of Mali's population lives in rural areas, most of them
in regions having a rainfall of more than 500-600 mm annually or along the
Niger River, or as cattle-rearing nomads. Although less than a quarter of the
country receives more than 500 mm of rain annually, because of Mali's size,
the per capita endowment of land suitable for crop production or pasture is
more favorable than for other Sahelian countries.
25.       In addition, Mali has considerable irrigation potential along the
Niger river. Flood rice is grown in the vast plains of the interior delta
of the Niger, which is entirely located in Mali. Flood rice cultivation is
a hybrid between rainfed and irrigated agriculture; it depends on adequate
rainfall during the early phases of the growing cycle, and on timely and
sufficient flooding during the second phase. It is a unique and low-cost



- 8 -
production system, the development of which is being assisted through projects
financed by the European Development Fund and the Association (First and
Second Mopti Rice Projects, Credits 277-MLI and 753-MLI). The system's draw-
back is the high degree of risk due to weather, which limits the scope for
intensification. The Office du Niger (Section E below) is the only major
irrigation scheme designed to ensure full water-control.
Farming Systems
26.       Some 2 million ha are estimated to be under cultivation in Mali of
which more than 90% is in rainfed agriculture and close to 10% under irriga-
tion or flooding. Of the 450,000 farmers, 80% have 5 ha or less. Differences
in holdings are moderate and largely reflect traditional authority and family
size. Land tenure still follows the traditional system whereby land is
allocated by village chiefs for use, but without recognition of individual
ownership rights. Food crops occupy close to 90% of the land under rainfed
cultivation while the remainder is devoted to cotton and groundnuts. In most
areas, land reserves are still sufficient to enable fields to lie fallow, thus
ensuring restitution of soil fertility. Animal traction is more widespread in
Mali than in any other Sahelian country.
27.       Except for ploughs and oxen, farm equipment in rainfed farming is
elementary, in particular among traditional farmers who are not covered by
one or the other of the agricultural development projects; fertilizer use is
increasing, mainly through the efforts of these projects, and focusses on
cotton and groundnuts. Of the nearly 200,000 ha under some kind of irriga-
tion, about half are cultivated traditionally while the remainder consists
of controlled flooding schemes (para. 34) and the irrigation schemes managed
by the Office du Niger.
Transport Infrastructure
28.       Mali is linked with the port of Dakar by rail (1,200 km), and with
the port of Abidjan by road (1,200 km) as well as by a combined road and rail
route. The internal road network is adequate in the center of the country
(although in need of repair) but poor in the West and the East. Technical
and organizational weaknesses of the transportation system cause delays in
the supply of agricultural inputs and hamper the timely evacuation of exports
to the ports.
B. Institutions
29.       Agriculture is the responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Develop-
ment. Since 1969, the Ministry has delegated important functions to the
Operations de Developpement, institutions in charge of agricultural develop-
ment in specific regions and which enjoy a considerable amount of financial
and managerial autonomy. They distribute inputs to farmers and provide exten-
sion services, training and credit as well as marketing services for export
crops and part of the food crops. These operations may be crop-specific, as



-- 9 -
in the case of rice or cattle, or dezl with all major crops grown in a region.
Several Operations de Developpement are concerned with irrigated crops,
primarily rice, for instance the Operation Riz Segou (financed by the European
Development Fund) and the Operation Riz Mopti (financed by IDA). The Office
du Niger, which manages irrigation schemes in the Eastern part of the country,
is a state enterprise which enjoys even larger degree of administrative and
financial autonomy than the Operations de Developpement.
30.        Marketing of cereals is the responsibility of OPAM (Office des
Produits Agricoles du Mali) which has a monopoly on domestic and foreign
cereal trade. However, OPAM is not able to enforce its monopoly in the
domestic market. Private traders are officially banned from wholesaling
cereals but have been tolerated recently 'ke-ause attempts to eliminate them
have failed. OPAM buys rice from the Office du Niger and the Operations
according to price schedules established annually in a negotiation process
between the rice producing entities and Government agencies.
31.        Supply of farm inputs and farm equipment is the responsibility of
SCAER (Societe de Credit Agricole et d'Equipement Rural). Both annual inputs
and equipment are sold at subsidized prices, the subsidy being financed
mainly from levies on cotton and groundnuts exports. As indicated by its
name, SCAER also provides agricultural credit for the purchase of farm
equipment, but only to farmers covered by the activities of Operations de
Developpement. The steep rise in the price of farm implements over the last
few years forced SCAER to end subsidization of most farm equipment in 1976
and to reduce subsidies on annual inputs such as fertilizer. Because of
SCAER's difficulties in carrying out the frnrctions assigned to it, Govern-
ment envisages transferring responsibility for the supply of inputs and farm
equipment to the appropriate Operations de Developpment.
32.        Agricultural research in Mali is coordinated by the Institut
d'Economie Rurale (IER) of the Ministry of Rural Development. Most agri-
cultural research is carried out by French research institutes which form
the GERDAT. Rice research at the Kogoni station, within the Office du Niger
area, is carried out competently.
C. Agricultural Strategy
33.        The Government of Mali has decided to give! increased attention
to the promotion of food crops in order to achieve self-sufficiency not only
in normal rainfall years but also in dry vyars. The current Five-Year Plan
(1974-1978) reflects the Government's determination to prevent a recurrence
of the food shortages experienced in 1972/73-1974/75. Food crops take first
place in public investment. The emphasis on protect:ing producers and con-
sumers against climatic hazards has resulted in a strong bias towards
irrigated agriculture, i.e., rice production. Not less than 85% of total
allocations for food production projects are set aside for rice. Other
objectives of the current Five Year Plan are to increase production of agri-
cultural raw materials for export and domestic processing and to reconstitute
the livestock herd which suffered heavily during the drought years.
34.        The Government agricultural development objectives in recent years
have largely centered on the following activities:



- 10 -
- production of paddy is being expanded within the framework
of the Operations Riz at Segou and Mopti, the latter
assisted by the Association (Credit 277-MLI); for both of
these projects, based on controlled flooding, follow-up
projects are underway with financing provided by the
European Development Fund (Segou) and IDA (Credit 753-MLI);
there is also some small scale development components in
the IDA-financed Mali-Sud project and in the Gao area under
the Drought Relief Fund project;
- production of rainfed cereals is promoted through two new
schemes in the Dogon area and the Kaarta region as well
as within the framework of two integrated projects aiming
at the simultaneous development of cotton and cereals
(Mali-Sud - Credit 669-MLI) and groundnuts and cereals
(Operation Arachides et Cultures Vivrieres - Credit 491-
MLI);
- the livestock subsector is supported by a number of proj-
ects (including the IDA Credit 538-MlI), which principally
emphasize range management; and
- in the Office du Niger, a second sugar factory (15,000 t)
was constructed with assistance from the People's Republic
of China.
A number of other projects listed in the present Five-Year Plan are not being
carried out because of lack of finance or because preparation is not suffi-
ciently advanced; among these are the Office du Niger's projects which aim at
the consolidation and expansion of rice production and at crop diversification
(see Section E below).
D.   Recent Trends in Crop Production
35.       During the drought years of the early seventies (up to and includ-
ing 1973/74), Mali suffered severe losses in agricultural production, in
particular cereals (both coarse grains and paddy) and livestock. Crop produc-
tion increased substantially in the following three years as a result of good
rainfall and higher producer prices for both cash and food crops. Total
rainfall was above average in 1974/75, average in 1975/76 and about average,
but with an unfavorable distribution, in 1976/77. Production of cereals,
including paddy, is estimated to have been 1.15 million tons in 1974/75 and
1.2 million in 1975/76 and 1976/77. Cotton and groundnut crops in 1975/76
reached the unprecedented level of 103,000 and 200,000 tons, respectively.
Cotton production in 1976/77 maintained the preceding year's level in spite of
less favorable weather conditions while groundnut production fell by some 15%
as a consequence of the decreasing attractiveness of the official producer
price.
36.       Paddy production in particular has increased steeply in the post-
drought years as the consequence of three factors:



- 11 -
-    some 55,000 ha of polders have been developed by the Operation
Riz Segou and Operation Riz Mopti; these polders, vulnerable
to low river water levels, came into full production for the
first time in the post-drought year 1974/75;
-    the Office du Niger has become more efficient;
-    finally, the 1974 increase in the producer price of rice from
MF 25/kg to MF 40/kg provided a strong incentive to produce for
2-3 years until this increase was eroded by general inflation
and the particularly steep increase in prices of agricultural
equipment. (The producer price of paddy was raised to MF45/kg in
1977 and to MF 50/kg in May 1978 but these increases only partially
offset the increase in private market prices which was particularly
steep in 1978.)
In 1977/78, rainfall and flood levels were again unsatisfactory. This led to
shortages of millet and sorghum and the paddy harvest is also well below the
level of the last three years; only the Office du Niger has, as in the earlier
drought years, remained untouched by these climatic influences and produced
close to 90,000 tons of paddy.
37.       The drought years and, again, the disappointing results of the
1977/78 campaign have underlined the importance of strengthening the Office
du Niger as a drought-proof production system capable of ensuring essential
minimum requirements of cereals even in years of adverse weather conditions.
It is true that production by controlled flooding in the Niger flood plains
can be developed at much lower cost per ha, but this advantage is offset by
the vulnerability of the system to rain and flood deficiencies. While irriga-
tion with full water control is costly to develop, this disadvantage is much
reduced in the Office du Niger by the fact that the basic irrigation infra-
structure (dam, main canals) exists, which makes for much lower costs of
additions to it.
38.       The correct policy for Mali would be to aim at a balanced develop-
ment of both irrigation systems: as drought-proof production increases, Mali
can afford to also expand production in the flood plains; conversely, as the
relative share of rice production in the flood plains increases, there is
need for a parallel strengthening of the drought-proof production base.
The system of controlled flooding having received considerably more emphasis
over the last decade than full irrigation, a compensating effort appears
to be warranted now on the side of the latter.
E.   The Office du Niger
39.       The Office du Niger, which was created as early as 1932, is the
largest productive enterprise in the country. Its irrigation system consists
of a barrage on the Niger river which raises the water level by some 5 meters,
a feeder (or headreach) canal upstream of the barrage and two main irrigation



- 12 -
carnlC -1hichi w.rith their secondary and tertiary canals, serve 53,000 ha of
cultivable land, of which about 42,000 ha are presently cultivated (39,000 ha
under rice, 2,700 ha under sugarcane). Total permanent staff is 2,850;
seasonal labor (sugarcane) about 4,000. There are about 4,500 farm families,
most of them with ox-drawn equipment, cultivating on average some 8-9 ha.
Gradual reduction of the size of holdings is underway and would be pursued
more vigorously parallel to the envisaged rehabilitation of infrastructures.
Paddy production was about 90,000 t in 1977/78, and sugar production 19,000 t,
following the opening of the second Chinese-built sugar mill in Siribala. The
Office du Niger operates 4 rice-mills (capacity 65,000 t of paddy), an alcohol
distillery, and 2 cattle fattening stations. Gross sales are expected to be
close to US$20 million in 1978. Except for Chinese technical assistance to
the two sugar mills, the Office du Niger is run entirely by Malians who cope
effectively with day to day operations but need to strengthen available mana-
gerial and commercial skills.
40.       The Office du Niger enjoys a considerable degree of managerial and
financial independence. It obtains its revenue mainly from the sale of sugar,
rice, and their respective by-products, all at prices negotiated with Govern-
ment and other state agencies and laid down in the so-called baremes (price
schedules); a further important revenue source is the levies paid by farmers
for the use of irrigated land (400 kg of paddy/ha or US$40/ha at prevailing
producer prices). Unlike most other state enterprises or parastatal agencies
in Mali, the Office du Niger has been able to operate without Government
subsidies. However, it has not published a balance sheet since the early
sixties. Problems related to the valuation of assets after the transition
of ownership from France to Mali are the main reason for this, but accounting
staff is also inadequate. A balance sheet and a profit and loss account are
scheduled to be prepared for 1978.
Recent Developments
41.       The Office du Niger initially produced rice and cotton; sugar pro-
duction began in 1965. In 1970, cotton cultivation was abandoned, mainly for
two reasons:
-    persistent drainage problems had led to low yields, high
indebtedness of farmers and consequent widespread despondency
among Office du Niger farmers;
-    Government's wish to regain self-sufficiency in rice led to
the conversion of the cotton areas into rice fields.
Between 1968/69 and 1977/78, the area under rice cultivation increased from
less than 30,000 ha to nearly 40,000 ha; yields increased from 1.55 t/ha to
2.25 t/ha, and total paddy production doubled from 46,000 t to 90,000 t.
The farming population of the Office du Niger, which had declined in the
sixties, rose from less than 30,000 in 1968/69 to more than 50,000 in 1977/78.



- 13 -
42.       The recovery of the Offic.e du Niger, in particular since 1971, can
be attributed to the following factors:
-    the transfer of important areas previously cultivated directly
by management ("en regie") to smallholders; the area under
rice cultivated directly by the Office du Niger decreased from
more than 10,000 ha in 1970 to a mere 600 ha;
-    termination of cotton production which hacL become unrewarding
due to technical problems (para 41);
-    improvement of some perimeters through levelling operations;
-    the impact of the drought years of the early seventies, which
brought an important inflow of new settlers;
-    the incentive provided by the producer price increase of 1974; and
-    better management.
Development Objectives
43.       The following are the Office du Niger's development objectives, as
laid down in the Five-Year plan (1974-78), and which comprise consolidation
and rehabilitation as well as an expansion in area:
-    the repair of the Markala barrage;
-    the realignment of the entrance to the headreach canal, the
deepening of the headreach canal and of the two main irriga-
tion canals (i.e. Canal du Sahel and Canal de Macina), and
the reinforcement of the dikes of these canals;
-    the improvement of the secondary irrigation and drainage
canal system;
-    the rehabilitation of some 15,000 ha, covered by the
existing water supply system, which have been abandoned
because of poor irrigation or drainage conditions;
-    the general improvement of some 35,000 ha of rice fields,
in particular through land levelling; and
-    tye construction of a third main irrigation canal of 55
m /sec capacity, the Canal de Costes, which would open up
a new area for rice and sugarcane cultivation and permit
the replacement of pump irrigation in the sugar estates by
gravity irrigation.



- 14 -
44.       Due to lack of finance, none of these objectives had been achieved
by the end of 1977. The People's Republic of China has agreed, however, to
repair the Markala dam and the irrigation canals branching from the Macina
canal, which serves about 20-25% of the cultivable area. These works were
repeatedly delayed and are now scheduled to begin in late 1978.
Development Priorities
45.       The Office du Niger has made substantial progress in pulling itself
out of the dismal situation which prevailed in the late sixties; however,
there are many areas in which performance can be substantially improved. The
overall paddy yields (2.25 t/ha) are still low for a system with full water-
control. Until yields have been increased to a level of approximately 3.5
t/ha, it will be difficult to advocate and justify a major expansion of the
network. Also, the basic irrigation infrastructure has been insufficiently
maintained and needs to be overhauled. Therefore, it was agreed with Govern-
ment that:
(a) for a period of about 8 years, rehabilitation of infrastruc-
ture and intensification of production should have priority
in development; and that
(b) these efforts should concentrate on rice production, which is
the backbone of the system.
46.       The above infrastructure Rehabilitation Program, which was defined
in cooperation with Malian authorities, would consist of two main components:
(a) rehabilitation of the entire irrigation and drainage network
of the Canal du Sahel system (which serves 75-80% of the
Office du Niger area); i.e. main canal, primary and secondary
canals, and structures;
(b) improvement of tertiary canals and on-farm development, in par-
ticular land-levelling, on some 35,000 ha.
In addition, the program would include a Master Plan study that would analyse
(i) the various options for a subsequent expansion in area, (ii) the economic
and technical aspects of crop diversification, agricultural research and
trial activities that would prepare the ground for crop diversification, and
(iii) development needs in the social sector (health, education, farmers'
participation).
Assistance Needs
47.       Implementation of this Rehabilitation Program would require about
8 years. It could not be executed, however, without prior strengthening of
key sections of the Office du Niger's organization and operations;



- 15 -
- the Bureau of Technical Studies has been heavily understaffed since
the early sixties when new developments were phased out; as a re-
sult, few of the plans, designs, and cost estimates required for the
appraisal and subsequent implementation of the Rehabilitation Project
are presently available, nor could they be produced by this Bureau
without substantial technical assistance;
- the cost of the Rehabilitation Program depends on the methods to be
employed, in particular for on-farm development; therefore, different
methods and types of equipment should first be tested on a reduced
scale;
- finally, the general administration needs to be strengthened in order
to enable management to control the Office du Niger's operations which
are becomingly increasingly complex.
Therefore, it has been agreed with Malian authorities that the Rehabilitation
Program will be preceded by a Technical Assistance/Engineering Project, which
would extend over 3 years and pave the way for a first Rehabilitation Project.
The latter could be appraised about two years after the beginning of the
Technical Assistance/Engineering Project.
IV. THE PROJECT
48.        The project was prepared by a mission which visited Mali in November/
December, 1977, and was finalized in discussions with Malian authorities in May
1978. Given the pilot and technical assistance nature of the activities to be
undertaken under the proposed project, a separate staff project report was not
prepared. Annex III contains supplementary project data. Negotiations were
held in August 1978. The Malian delegation was led by Commandant Issa Ongoiba,
Director-General of the Office du Niger.
General Description
49.        The proposed project is a preparatory step for the rehabilitation
of the irrigation infrastructure of the Office du Niger. The infrastructure
and some 35,000 ha of rice-fields are scheduled to be improved between 1981
and 1988, and the proposed project would serve:
-    to strengthen technical and administrative services of the
Office du Niger;
-    to prepare plans, cost estimates and other documents
required for implementation of the rehabilitation project;
-    to test the most cost-effective methods of carrying out
the proposed rehabilitation works by means of experimental
land levelling and other on-farm works over an area not
exceeding 1,500 ha;



- 16 -
to carrv out some urgent repairs of sections of canals and
arains; and
-    to lay the basis for future crop diversification through
support for agricultural research (including rice research)
and pilot programs.
The proposed project would begin in late 1978 and extend over three years.
Its components are described below.
Technical Assistance
50.       The project would provide the services of the following technical
assistants:
-    three engineers for the Bureau d'Etudes Generales, which
is the Bureau of Technical Studies of the Office du Niger,
for periods varying between 12 and 30 months (with a total
of 60 man-months); they would prepare the plans and cost
estimates for the rehabilitation project in cooperation with
the three Malian engineers which the Government will second
to this Bureau not later than October 31, 1978. (Section
3.02(b) of the draft Credit Agreement).
-    two engineers for the Works Department of the Office du
Niger for 18 months each; one would assist in carrying out
and monitoring a pilot program of on-farm development works;
the other would act as technical inspector of the equipment
to be provided under the project as well as of existing equip-
ment;
-    a management consultant to be attached to the Office of the
Director General for 24 months; who would design and implement
improved accounting and management information systems.
The technical assistants would be advisers of their respective heads of
Department but would report directly to the Director General of the Office
du Niger. All engineers would preferably be recruited through a single firm
of consulting engineers and would have at least 10 years experience in their
respective fields (Section 3.02(a) of the draft Credit Agreement). The
management consultant would likewise be recruited through a major consult-
ing firm. The main advantage would be that technical assistants in the
field could (in the form of short-term consultancy assignments) draw on the
specialized knowledge available in such firms. A total of 30 man-months
of short-term consultancies in various fields of engineering, hydrology,
pedology, agriculture, management, and training has been provided for under
the project. Total technical assistance would amount to 156 man-months and
would comprise salaries, allowances and travel expense.
51.       Terms of reference for the technical assistants are satisfactory to
the Association. Short lists of reputed and experienced consulting firms
in the field of engineering and management have been drawn up by the Office



- 17 -
du Niger and have been approved by the Association. These firms were invited
in mid-June 1978 to submit proposals (Section 3.02(a) of the draft Credit
Agreement). To ensure that technical studies and the pilot program of civil
works can be started without delay, the Office du Niger has given assurances
that certain topographical surveys will be executed by November 30, 1978
(Section 3.05 of the draft Credit Agreement).
Civil Works
52.       The project would include civil works for:
-    an experimental program of land-levelling and other on-
farm works on an area not exceeding 1,500 ha in order to
establish the most cost-effective methods and the most
suitable equipment to be used in a subsequent large-scale
rehabilitation project; and
-    the repair and strengthening of critical points of the
irrigation infrastructures, pending their general over-
haul in a subsequent rehabilitation project.
Civil works equipment required for the execution of these civil works will be
financed under the proposed project; specifications of equipment and tender
documents have been prepared with the assistance of consultants financed
under the Project Preparation Facility (US$20,000), and tenders were called
in May 1978. (The advance provided under the Project Preparation Facility
will be refinanced under the proposed Technical Assistance/Engineering
Credit). The Office du Niger has given assurances that some of its own civil
works equipment pool will be put at the disposal of the teams which will
execute the works defined in this paragraph (Section 3.04 of the draft Credit
Agreement).
53.       For the civil works described in para. 52, the Government would
also finance equipment operating costs including local staff, i.e. essentially
fuel costs and equipment maintenance.
54.       To make maximum use of existing equipment, a stock of spare parts
as well as workshop tools would also be procured under the Credit. Some
minor equipment and instruments would be needed for topographical works,
hydrological measurements, etc. Vehicles would be provided for the technical
assistants.
Support for Agricultural Research and Pilot Programs
55.       The project would provide finance for some agricultural equipment to
strengthen the work of the rice research station at Kogoni, located in the
Office du Niger. The project would also finance a pilot program of irrigated
fodder production on 3 experimental plots of 20 ha each. Assistance would
comprise land preparation including minor infrastructure (fences, sheds
etc.), operating expenditure and supervision by the Station du Sahel, a
livestock research station located in the Office du Niger. A study of comr
mercial and organizational problems of the Office du Niger feedlots will be



- 18 -
carried out in order to pave the way for an early reopening of these installa-
tions, which were temporarily closed in 1977. Finally, a hydrological survey
will be financed for the Mema area, where the Office du Niger hopes to resume
irrigated cotton cultivation. The feedlot study and the hydrological survey
have been included under the short-term consultancies mentioned in para 50.
Other Components
56.       In addition to these main components, the project would provide
finance for:
-    an aerial photographic survey of the entire Office du
Niger area, including evaluation of the photos;
-    a socio-economic study of the Office du Niger settler popula-
tion; this study is to provide guidance to the Office du
Niger management for the restructuring of farms which will
accompany the improvement of infrastructure and rice-fields
scheduled for the 1980s;
-    an audit of the Office du Niger accounts for the year 1978 by
an international firm of auditors acceptable to the Associa-
tion; since no accounts have been prepared for more than a
decade, the services of the auditing firm would include as-
sistance in setting up a system of accounts. Terms of refer-
ence and a short list of auditing firms have been approved by
the Association, and invitations to firms went out in June 1978.
Training
57.       The project would provide for short-term scholarships to Malian
engineers of the Office du Niger staff to study other irrigation projects in
Africa. In addition, the project would contain an important element of
on-the-job training for the Malian engineers assigned by Government to the
Bureau of Technical Studies (para. 50) and for the teams of the Works Depart-
ment which will, with the technical assistance provided, carry out the
experimental program of on-farm development.
58.       The project would provide an opportunity to assess further training
needs of Office du Niger staff in the fields of civil works, agricultural
extension, administration and accounting. Some short-term consultancies would
be used to draw up training programs. A subsequent rehabilitation project
would address itself to satisfying any identified training needs.
Costs and Financing
59.       The total project cost is estimated at US$5.2 million (net of
taxes), 1/ of which 86% is expected to be foreign exchange. Estimated cost
I/   Project costs do not include taxes since Government has indicated its
intention to exempt the project from all import duties and other taxes.



- 19 -
per man-month of technical assistants and consultants, including allowances
and travel, varies between US$7,600 and US$9,600, with an average of US$8,900
per month. No physical contingencies have been entered for civil works
equipment, as the items to be purchased have already been determined in detail
during preparation financed under the PPF (para. 52). Price contingencies
amount to only 11% of project base cost because the time distribution of
expenditure is heavily biased to the first year and contracts for equipment
and technical assistance are scheduled to be passed as early as autumn 1978.
The proposed Credit of US$4.5 million would finance 86% of total project cost,
which corresponds to 100% of the estimated foreign exchange costs.  Government
will finance the equivalent of the local cost component.
Retroactive Financing
60.       Retroactive financing up to US$200,000 is proposed under the
project to cover a 10 percent down payment for civil works equipment, spare
parts and workshop tools, which is likely to be paid in early September. This
is important to start work around September which is the beginning of the dry
season.
61.       The financing plan below shows the proposed contributions of the
Association and of Government by expenditure:



- 20 -
US$ 1,000     
Estimated Costs:                           Government       IDA         Total
Salaries, allowances
and travel for technical
assistants and consultants                    -          1,400        1,400
Civil Works Equipments                         260         1,740        2,000
Spare Parts and Workshop tools                  15           100          115
Miscellaneous instruments; vehicles             15           100          115
Civil works operating costs
(incl. Local Staff)                          340            -           340
Farm Equipment Rice Research                    10            65           75
Pilot Project Fodder Production                 30           195          225
Aerial Photographic Survey                      -            185          185
Socio-econ. Study of Settlers                   -             75           75
Audit                                                         50           5n
Training Scholarships                           -             25           25
Proj. Prep. Facility (refinanced)               -             20           20
Expected Price Increases                        55           545          600
Total                                    725         4,500        5,225
(Percentage)                                 (14)          (86)       (100)
Procurement
62.       Civil works equipment is being procured by international competitive
bidding (US$2,000,000); a tender was prepared and launched in May 1978 in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Miscellaneous instruments and vehicles
(US$115,000) and farm-equipment for the rice research station (US$75,000),
spare parts, and workshop tools (US$115,000) will be procured by competitive
bidding in accordance with local procedures acceptable to the Association if
contracts exceed US$10,000. For contracts under US$10,000, direct purchasing
based on several quotations would be acceptable. The total value of such
contracts should not exceed US$100,000, however (see Schedule 3 BI of the
draft Credit Agreement). Civil works for the fodder plant pilot project will
be executed by force account, and equipment required for this pilot project
will be procured by competitive bidding, in accordance with local procedures
acceptable to the Association.



- 21 -
63.       International firms providing engineering and management services
and auditing were invited, in June 1978, to submit proposals. The proposed
terms of reference of consultants and the short lists prepared by the Office
du Niger are satisfactory to the Association. Early action was taken in these
matters in order to make it possible for the project to start in the dry
season 1978/79. Services for the execution of the aerial photographic survey
(US$185,000) would be procured through direct negotiations with at least two
firms (see Schedule 3 B2 of the draft Credit Agreement). The socio-economic
study (US$75,000) would be executed by the Institut d' Economie Rural (IER)
under terms of reference to be agreed upon between the Government and the
Association by December 31, 1978 (Section 3.03 of draft Credit Agreement).
Disbursement
64.       The Credit would be disbursed against:
-    87% of expenditures for construction equipment, spare
parts and tools, equipment and vehicles, rice research
farm equipment, and the fodder plant pilot project;
-    100% of the cost of: consultants' services for engineering
and management, the aerial photographic survey, the
socio-economic study, of one audit of accounts of the
Office du Niger and the training scholarships;
Disbursements will be fully documented except for works done by force account
for the fodder plant pilot project, and for the socio-economic study; in those
two cases disbursements will be made against a certificate of expenditure, the
documentation of which is not submitted for review, but is retained by the
Borrower and available for inspection by the Bank during the course of a
supervision mission.
Benefits and Risks
65.       The Project would increase the technical and managerial capacity of
the Office du Niger and ensure that the planned rehabilitation works are
prepared according to standards required for external financing. At the same
time, technical staff would be trained to execute a Rehabilitation Project in
a cost-effective manner. For the Association the Technical Assistance/
Engineering Project would provide the occasion to observe the Office du
Niger's performance in various fields, assess assistance and training require-
ments for an ensuing Rehabilitation Project, and decide whether and when such
a project can be appraised. Finally, it is hoped that strengthening the
Office du Niger organization and thereby increasing its absorptive capacity
would encourage other sources of external assistance to co-finance the Rehabil-
itation Project.
66.       A preliminary review indicates that the rate of return of the infra-
structure Rehabilitation Program, which the proposed Technical Assistance/
Engineering Credit will help prepare would be about 14%. Total cost of the



- 22 -
civil works required is estimated at US$43 million (in 1978 prices). The
eventual increase in annual paddy production, estimated at 60,000 tons, would
considerably increase the proportion of drought-proof rice production in Mali;
the program would increase the income of the settler population of 4,500
families, and permit the settling of a further 2,000 families.
67.       There is no significant risk involved in this project except that
the Technical Assistance/Engineering Credit may not lead to the envisaged
Rehabilitation Project in the event of unsatisfactory performance of the
Office du Niger. This risk is slight, however, given the sizable potential
of the Office du Niger and the commitment of its staff.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Mali
and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for
in Article V: Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
70.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
September 27, 1978



ANNEX I
Page 1
TABLE 3A
MALI                - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND.AREA.ITHOU KM21                 --------------)---  ------- ------
---------------                                 MALI                                 REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL     1240.0                                     , MOST RECENT                    CENTRAL AFRICAN
AGRIC.     417.2                      .1960       1970   ESTIMATE          NIGER           EMPIRE        SENEGAL**
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     40.0*     70.0*                        100.0*      170.0*      270.0*
POPULATION.AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)            4.1       5.0        5.8                4.0         1.6         4.4
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SOUARE KM.                        3.0       4.0        5.0                3.0         3.0        22.0
PER SO. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       11.0       12.D       14.0               22.0        27.0        55.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE I/THM.. AV)         50.1      49.5       50.1               52.3        45.4        47.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU.AV)          32.4      27.8       25.9               25.7        26.4        24.4
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU).    123.0       120.0         ..                  ..
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH IYRS)       34.7      37.2       38.1               38.5        39.0        40.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.B       3.3        3.3                3.5         2.9         3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (Y)
TOTAL                                 1.9       2.2        2.5                2.8         2,2         2.6
URBAN                                 2.8       4.3        4.5                6.3         7.2         6.0
URBAN POPULATION (K OF TOTAL)           9.9       12.1      13.4                8.2        30.1        29.0
AGE.STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       42.2      49.1         ..               4'4.5       42.1        41.2
15 TO R4 YEARS                       54.5      49.3         ..               52.6        54.8        54.9
65 YEARS AND OVER                     3.3       1.6         *                 2.9         3.1         3.9
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.8        1.0        ..                0.9         0.8         0.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.8/-a   0.9/a                          0.0/a       0.9/a       1.2/a
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)           ..         ..        ..
USERS (l OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..         ..        ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         2300.0    2900.Q    3200.0              1900.0       820.0      1600.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (K)         94.0      91.0        88.7              91.0        91.0        73.0
UNEMPLOYED (K OF LABOR FORCE)            ..         ..        ..                  ..         ..         7.0
INCOME. OISTRIBUTION
K OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         ..        ..                 ..
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         ..        ..                 ..
LOWEST  20$ OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..         ..        ..                 ..
LOWEST  40$ OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..        ..         ..
DISTRIBUTION OF. LAND-OWNERSHIP
______________________________
K OWNED BY TOP 10X OF.OWNERS             ..         ..        ..                 ..
K OWNED BY SMALLEST 10X OWNERS           ..         ..         ..                ..
HEALTH. AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            39000.0 /b 41490.0   37570,0 /a         58260.0   38330.0    16640.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        4650.0 i 3860.0    280.0a ,b           7040.0      1280.0     2610.0/b
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          1490.0/C d1390.0/b  1380.0              2230.0       460.0      810.0/c
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (X OF REQUIREMENTS)         90.0      88.0       75.0               83.0        96.0       91.0
PROTEIN (GkAMS PER DAY)             66.0       69.0       64.0               7 .0       48.0        64.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           ..      23,0/C       ,,               24.0/b     22.0        28.0/d
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4              ..         ..        ..                 ..
EDUCATION
AUJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        7.0      20.0       22.0               14.0       69.0        43.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      2.0       3.0        3.0                1.0        5.0        10.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVELI             12.0      12.0       12.0               13.0       10T12       13.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(Y OF SECONDARY)                    15.o/e    40.0       25.0                 3.D       12.0         9.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (Y)                 5.0         ..      10.0                 ..          ..       10.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM fUR3AN)                 ..        ..         ..                 ..
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER IX)                        ..        ..         ..                 ...
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY.
(I OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   ..        ..         ..
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (K)                     ..        ..         ..                 ..         .
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          2.0      12.0      13.0                36.0       30.0        69.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)          2.0         2.3      3.0                 1.0        4.0         9.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)            4.0      11.0      17.0                10.0       29.0        73.0
NEWSPBINT.(KG/YR PER CAP)                ..        ..       0.02                 ..          ..        C.1
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



C                     -'Cv      -,  'C           "    C-   ft ft       C-C'"OC--                    'C 'C  'C'C       Cr    'CC'
[C    -   C-        ft5Cft flC'C'C'CC      ftC 3CCCCftftft   C-C-C-ftC                 CC'C'ftftC'C'C2ftC                                   I                  'C
-  j C'ftft                                             ftft CCC CCCCR CCCRftftCCC'   ftft('CCC -c                                 I                 C
CC.  'C    .a  CCCftC          '    -,  C'Cftftft      CCCC'C'CCCCCIC C'-  C-CCC'C-CCC
CftCC             RCC,C'Ift ft CC                 ftC,ftC,,,''                                       'ft CC                              C-
fCC                     L                                             -'-   *                                 -
22. 2w>  -                                                  CCC2                                                    C'Cft:                                       C-  <C-                                 ft
C-             I           -  C  CC         CICftCC        CCC                C  C       'C                      'C'C'  C""'
CCC-C 'C" CCC  jC ft 
I   3"'  C"CC             3CCCCCCCC  CC-ft              -'C"'   C"'ft ft-0C"CROIC    Cft'rft  'C                   I"        I
- OftIl                   -3:ij3z:z:-::-                                                                                                      "  ft  C
C  CCC'CCIC'    ft'-ft                        ftc            '-   <C'  -,                                                     I
4AftCCIf                                   ft*C            'ft   ,CftftC"CftC"
ftftCC       C''C                               ft"C-ft        C-   ftCC       'C                ft80                                 Co                        ftC    ft
"''C  ft"ft  C-CROft                                     ftCft&ftqifr;              -ICCThC                                                                                       ftft,  C'
3flCCCOftft:oo         'ftC'   ftC   CftftO   'C ft  CtC  Cft"Cb,'CCftft                                                                                                       ft  ft
- -                         C  CC'ftCC"'CftftC  ftI C" C--CC
C'-I"CCft         ftCCCZ   ft-ft  C-  CSCft  CC C-CC-    Cftt  -'
Co    C-C-C  'ft    C               ftC'ftft  C CCCR      ftftC CC   C'ftft  ft     ft  ft                                             [                                      -  CCC   ft
ft         ftC-ftC"C   'C   ftftft  'I        -CC
ftft,ft   C'C"'C             IC"'CC    "C   ft'C'"'C    -lIft  R         CCftCC                                                         Jo    lola
ft             CC  -' ftOCCC-CC               ft'   """'"   --                CftC-Cft<ftftC<:a.                                     C                                                            ftCC
C7*-                                         ftC   C' C-      -           CCCCCV           C
CCR   -             ft'CC'C  ft      C    'CO   C-  ft-C    ft  ftCC'C-                                                                         C-                 C'Cft
ft     C'  CCCCCftCCC-C'C            CC   CCC'C   ,               Ci  8  cI'c-o   C"CftC-3ft
ft"ftft    ft C            - -   CC        C-ftftftCftCft 0C",,                                                                ft   ft  C'  CC   IC
ftftCC',ftCCCC  -            ft C  C'CC       C          ft'ftCC   IC-    C    ftftft  C                                                                        C
C   C  CC   C-CC'ftCC            ft           8            ft'CC-ft  RftO  Co          C-  -
2'"23t?CC'fl                        C'C   CORO       Oft  i'l  ftC  *C              CftCftIft                                                                                    -CCC
-CCC   CCft  'Rft'  ftft ".ft          -   C'        ft                                                                  IC  ICR   "'C
C- CC 8 - "
-  ' CCC    ftCCCC  CCft     -'      CCCC   CC',  ftft    -                  -
8                ICC  ft  'i C'CoC  ft'        -'C
ft-CC  ft                           IC          -
I                                                                                                                                                 C     C         i  '&A
CC      ft                      CC'    0         ft  -    C           "'C        C  C-ft'   C-C                                                                  CC   '0          C  C-C
ftt'  C  ,ftftft.  C-ft  -    ftCCft'                                               ft -C    ft'-CC-C"-C         C -C  CC      C"
a g                                   CCft   C                                                                                                    '
A                          J  C0a0o*C3n-C'CC                                                                                     ''                         - C -C C-C                                     C
C                                    CC      CC     C                                    CftCCCCC C'                                                                                 'ft  ICC    CC
C-  'CC-C   C-CO   ftC         CC            C-                    CC"ft   C'C-    C-C-
'C                                                                                     CC     CftC
CC'     ft  'ft       C'CCCft ftftftCft       C-                  *    C   CC'  3            ftftC'  ft,'"C                                   ft                CCC    C"  C'
C  ft                                                C-ftftC       C        C                ft                  ft    ft    ft              ft    ftft'C  C'
C-   CCC                               "              CRC-Cft    CC-ftftft C                                C  C                    CC-                 C',,         0                C  CC'    C    C
ftCftC-ftCftft C- aft ft'C ft ft ft ft C
-<       C-    -        ft  ftC                  C  'C   C'  ftftft   CCC  C         C-ftft  C-   C-  Cft""         C-  -    C                C                          -   "  'C    -   RCC-  Cftft  C-    -
ftC 'C ftC ftCftft C *ft CC CC a ft ftC C C C ftC-CC ft
'CC ftft CftC C- CC C' C-'ft'C C ftC' CC-"n or ft ft CC C 't  C C'
ft  Cft  ftC CC-                       C'ftCCCCftCCft'Cft'Cftft'                                          ft C-  -            '                        CC   C C                      C RCC  C  C
CCC      ft    CC    ft  ft                      C  CCC"C    CCC   CCC           CCCC'C'C             CCC'ftCC                ft
-   C  C-                                     ICCftCftCCCft0ftftCCCC2CC0'oftC,    ft3   C                                                   ft                Rft  C C                      C C   ft  C
$ft C- CCCCft -C- C 'ft 0 ftft -Iftoft or- a - CC ' CC- C- C. C- ftftft'C ft
CC    ft.  C"    -  C'  -'    ft C,    C  I  ft ft     C-   0                ft      CC    CC                     ft    ft   C'        C   CVV     CCC     C'    ft
C'                                                                                                          "C                ft           CC                       1
C'      -    C'      CCft-I                   C- CCC  CCC"C    CC-CC              ft 'ftClftftCCCft                   a                           'C          ft              IC-        ft ft   ft ft   C'
CC-ftft                                90   CC   CR           CCC         CC-    C-                                         -            CC'    C"  0'                 CC    - CC  C
ft     C'                              ft 'CC  ft           --
ft    C     -                                    C  C'                  BC-          CCC-                      -                                        CCC     CCC'                   ft   C  C'   C-
ftCCoftft        8                                            ICCC         ft  C    CC'                                                                                      CCCCC         CC
'8     H            CCft    ft  ft  CI    ft     ftC'  "'ft   Co    C-
CC'  'II  'C  "C  ",'i  ftIR   C  CC'  ""C                                           CC            CCft    C   C                 C  C-CC   "C
8""                                           ft                             CC'  ft  ''C   -            ft  ft                      9           ftC'    C'  C-                 C-   ftC         C'
'RCa   C-                  CICOft'    Cft"C                ft  CCCR  CC         ftC-C             C    Co             8
-      CCCCC                                          ftCC        -          CCCo       ft               ft                                       9'                                 CC-ft  ""    C
ft   C                    C                   -     -C               0     ft   ft                                                                                       C'  C-C-C   C-        ft
ft  'C                                                                                                                   a           ftC'         C-                CC
'1                                             C   ft  "'    C'  a
a           CC       C   C   ft   ft   ftC
C-    C'    C-                    Cft   C'
'CC                           ft  C-C-CC  ft
ft   C  C-   C     ft               C'                                         ft
jC-    a    1    C  C-        CC-      I                                 C       'C                   CCftOjC                            ftC'CC
ft   ftCCCCRRCC  C 9          ftC'C' C ftftftftC- CCCftCftCCCCC-                         C'CCC- C-C  C' ftCC C                        C     C   C
ftftCC     C    ftCCftftft                   CCRC-          ftCCCftftftC--IC             C  CftCCCC        CftCC C C-Ca ft
ftCftftC Co     C'  CCftCCCC                  C'CC'ft ft  CC  CCftC   CCC   ftftCftftCCoCCftC'CCaftC,ftCftC                                     "''C    -I  C
C-                      CC C-cC  ftftCCft  0C'C-C   C'CRC-'ftCCC'CCCC'CftCCC'"CC'ft'CC"CC'CC''                                  C     C  ft
CC  CCC  ftftftftftft                                           ftftft"CC-  CftC'  C- CCftftCCC-,CftCC.C
CftCft'Ctft C'C-ICft CC'                                      ftO'ftftftft C  CR-IC   C'CCRCCCR   CCC CC-CCC   CC-CCCC                           v'e
C''CCCRC            ftCCCCft                                    $CC'ft8  'C  CC-C    CU                    C- ftC-CCCCCCCC'ft CC   0             CC    C  C
ftftftCftft C    ""Cft  ftftC-                 C-ft CC      C                        ft"CC-'ft  CCRCCC'                             IC
ftCC'  CCCCC   -CCftCCftC   C                  CoC          C  CCRCft    CC  ft  C-ft   CCCC  ftCftC"' CC   CC                               C-""    CC                    C-  C'CC-
CftCCCCftftftC               ft'C-' C-CCCo  -IC   CC,'    C    *IC-CO  ft -C ftCCftftC   Cft         ft
CC   ft      Cft'CftCftCC            I     C     CC'RCC-Cft  C             F             l ft  Cftft C  ft  CC' CCCCC C           I        C-C-    C'
CCoC-CC         C  C'CR  CC   CftCCCC-C-CC           C-C  CC-         CCC    CC-CCC CC-Cl ft                           C-ft   ft  C'                ft  CCC
CCC'        'C    C-I  IC                  C-C'CCCI C CC'C                CCRCCOftC            CCC ICC  CCCCCC'ft                          C-C CCCCC  C'C-3CCbftft    ftft  "CCftft  C  C   C  C  CCC
CCC                   CC-aft            I,CCC          C-ICC"Cft2' CC                 CCC  C   CCC                     C-ft     C  C                  C  ftftC-
C-ft   C                          ft CCC-  'ftC                          CR C Co  ft'C'CCC, ft                         'C   -C  -C
C CC-C-IR                              CCC                   8ZbC98                  CCCCRCCCC
Co   ft  ftft          CCCCC               K   CCC  CCCC-                     - CC-C'    RRCCC'CR           CCCC   C'C         CC                  a     a  a  C-    a        C
LiiC-L;,Kjj ftftCCtCx:;IzCC -CCCCCCC
ft  CCCCCR                                   CCC-'C             CCC  ftC           CCCC'C   C                                         C  C
C'  ftCC     C-ft                           --CC-ICC                               C-8CftC 'C ft  -CCC                                                       'C  ft 0CC
Co'IC-CCCCCCC-CC                                           CCCC-RftC'C
ft   CC  Re                   CCC-'ftCCftftC-C                                ft'1CC   CC-  C C-CCCCCCCC                        ft   ft  ft
ft  C'                                                   ft 'RICCRCC                  C      C--IRCC C
ftCCRC                  ft C    ftftCftCftft C           ft,C-    C   CC  C-ft    C  C-Iftft    ft C'
*C-CftCC,  CC"CoC-I-ftftC   '8CC CCCCC   CCC
ftft                                                                 Cft"CCCC,'  CCC CCC-IC
ft   CC-ft        ftftCCftCftftftCCoCC-Cft'CCCC    ftCC C CCCo                  CCCCCRftC  ftC        C'CC'ft"  CC  ftCCC  ft                      "''
CC'  CRC          C  -ICCC-C-  ftC'ft    RCCCC    CC'I   C ftftftftC'          CoCoft  fta    ftC-C    ft-CC  C-C  ftCftC,"                       IC   IC' IC-  C    ,a    ft,C'  CCC'
C      CC-'                 C                    8     ftftftftftCC
8  C-C                          CC-                      - ftftftCdCoCa'ftE         ft32CCC'8888CCCft a:"'                                                                                      ft
CC'ftC"C    CCC  ft-ICC'        CC  fttCC                    C-  CCft  'IC-ft  C C          Co'3  C                '1  ftCftft  C      CCC                      CC   CC  CC                 "  ftC
ftbftftft8                  'CR   ft 'ft-I  C" ftC'ft             C                    ft  C ftft-    CCCCo                     C      C  C-  ft    C      C
C'ftCj   -:   ftC-C                                                                                   ftft-Cftft  -CC"-
C-CCCCCC C Oft ft ft'C 5CC CC8'S CC ""-C" ft C C C' C' C' C'
CC    Rft ft Rft   "C  Cft       C    -  RCC-'C   ftCftCCCCCftC   CCCC                             CC   CC  o-                8'
ftCC                      ft3     t8       CC-C-CR         CCC        ftC-Co    CCCC-  ft  ft   *CCCft  -IftC1                            C     C
C'0C  'CC'ft 4     C      CC      CC'   ftCCft C     CftC'I.   ftCC C-
223 CC CIC ft 8 CoC- 3- 'CI ft CCCCftC CCftCC C' C' C'
ftftftft                                                                                   CC   'CC-
CISC
CC         I3               ft  -                     C      CC   CC                                  9CRb I  aft           C-C  ft8                    C     C'
CC                C                                                ft'                   ftC      ft  ft-CC  C           ftCft                     Co   Co
CC'CC            C   *                           CCC                    ft    C  ftC-C  CC      CoCI  C         C-Ca-I
CC   ft  ft       ftCC-C           ft                       C    CC-CRC          ftC        ft'3C   CCC'  C-CC-C-'CC-Cft   C C-ftC-C                            R     ft                    C    CC
C - -CC- ftIC CCC ftCC ftftCft --88W ft-IC CftC C CCC ftC CCCC C C-ft ft C-
-   CC                       *CC-Iftft   'C              ftftftftft CC   C CCCCCC   ftftftC                              ft   C-                                        C-     'CC-
tCft, ft CC.CC ft'3C-C - ft
ftft     C                        C-C-C        C- 'C    I'CCCC2CCC-RRIft - ft   ftCC''                           C      'C
ft 'ft  ftCCC     ft  ftC   C-C                      ftft-ft'ft                   ft' C      CCC ft RCCCoCftft  ft '  CC-C                         ft   ft                     ft   CCo
C'ft    II     C-CC       CCCR                               ftftftCC-CCCR                             -                                                  ft   ft
E'  - ''' a 88 :8 C5C  ftC  flftft C-C' C-
ftft CCC-'I aft ftft ft ftb  f'ftft'Cft '
RC   CCCC          C    -    C-                      ICIC-   g,ftft;                 ft        ft-CC-CC-CC
ftC
ft.      ftC  CCft   3C-                                                     CCIR
CRft                       ''                                                        C-C                            C                                  C     C
ftS!1ft,ft VI'8 CC-C
CC   CCC                    :                       Rft2ft   ftS'ft                                                          ftj
ft-C-C         ftft   ftC         ftCftCftft
Cftft                        ;t  :                   C-C                               : :I.8:ISftft
Lft*b     C    ft  C- C- ftItC-CRftRC        C-CC-
KCIR            'ftC   CC   -                   RC"C"'                    ftCo                          -CRC-C
BC     ft-IC      C- Corn  R0              ft  7'                   CftC       Oft    - CC ftftftCft     ft  Rb      b*'C   C                     C     ft
C                  $ -CC                                                        CRC'8CCC'3'gi    CCC
CC   C--   CCC  ftftftC-                                    C- I                'Ift'            *'ftCftCftC    C-
'R  8' C   '8 Co
CCo    CC   Cft  bftft          Co  Co  'CCC                 CC   1gft'Ift
-8- ftftC            a C                        ,-aCftftftC                                Itft8'8  ;;.::xg    . "                                                             ft  'C-
ft C'Coft C ft CC C .- SCR"ftftfl bftCC 'ft Co ft bftC"ft C C'I-Ift 'Cftft ft
ft  CCoftft                                                                        ft  C-ftft'ftft
              2              1.   CCC(Cj3   Zr:?              -  a  'i!.ft::   V!CC' 'I  CC-CC
C-                                                                              C'               Cft   ft  C' <'C
Co  C-CCCR       -  C    ftC                       ft  -    ft                                                           C.
ft  ftC         C-   ftft                      'C       'C   CCR,                   IC  C-  CC       ICftftC         ft
C-ftft                  ft                                   9CC                    CC       CC   C  C-CC
CC-ft                 C         ft  'C
U C



ANNEX r
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1976                                      ANNUAL RATE CF GROWB'E (%, constant prices)
US$ Min.       %                           1969-76        1976
GDP at Market Prices a/          602.5       100.0                           4.3            4.8
Gross Domestic Investment a/    111.7         18.5                           4.9            7.0
Gross Domestic Saving a/           46.4        7.7                               b/           .b/
Current Account Balance          -8o.6       -13.9
Exports of Goods, NFS c!         121.6        2C.2                          19.0 d/        46.4 d/
Imports of Goods, NFS c!         219.1        31.0                          15.1 d/        -2.4 a!
OUTPUT LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975
Value Added
uss Mln.    __L
Agriculture                         230.8         38.3
Industry and Construction            99.8        16.6
Services                            272.0        45.1
Unallocated                           _-           -
602.6       100.0
GVND.?.PlENT FITTANCE
General Government
(Billion MF)            % of GDP
1975          1976      1973-75
Current Receipts                      36.7           12.7      11.7
Current Expenditure                   44.5           15.5      15.6
Current Surplus                       -7-8          - 2.7     - 3.9
Capital Expenditure  f/                2.3            0.7 v.4
External Assistance  L/                6.2            2.2        3.8
MONEY, CRE10IT AND PRICES
9,71     1972      1973     1974      1975    1976    1977 h/
(Billions of Mali Francs)
Money  and Quasi Money                      31.2      35.0      39.1     57.7    68.3      78.8    93.5
Credit to Government                        40.5      41.1     43.1      46.o    45.2      45.5    46.3
Credit to Economy                           27.7      34.1     43.3      69.7   102.2    122.6   123.1
Credit to State Enterprises                 18.1      20.6     28.4      46.6    68.7      86.o    73.1
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP           18.7      19.8      21.4     29.5    26.4      27.4    n.a.
Annual percentage changes:
GDP deflator                                 5.1       1.4       5.8      6.2    17.6        6.1    n.a.
Credit to Government                         0.7       0.7      4.9       6.7    -1.7       0.1      1.8
Credit to Economy                           18.4      23.1      27.0     61.0    46.6      20.0      0.0
of which:
Credit to State Enterprises                 20.7      13.8      37.9     64.1    47.4      25.2   -15.0
NOTE:All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
1/   Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.  "Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed workers seekingtheir first job.
not applicable
a/   Staff estimates for 1973, 1974, 1975 and 1976.
b/   Trend growth rate is not significant; domestic savings were negative in 1973, 1974 and 1975.
c/ Includes estimates of unrecorded trade.
d/   At current prices.
e    Staff estimates.
f/   Excluding capital expenditures financed out of foreign aid which do not figure in the budget.
,/  vxternsl official budget grants.
hi   Estimates.
June 30, 1978



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                       MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1972-76)
1972   197    1974   1975   1976                                    US$ Min.    %
(US$ million)
Merchandise Exports FOB 2/        45.0   52.3   64.0   71.9   94.4        Cotton                         30-3     37.4
Import of Goods FOB               63.4  106.2  129.1  131.3  111.3        Live Animals                  14.3      17.7
Net Imports NFS                   21.2   27-8   79-0   84.4   63.0        Groundnuts and Products        12.1     14.9
Merchandise Imports c.i.f.        78.5  126.4  179.0  175.9  154.2        Fish (dried and smoked)         2.0      2.5
All other Goods               22.3      27.5
Food                              22.6   65.6  101.7   44.1   25.1
(Cereals)                        ( 6.5) (36.8) (72.8) (14.0) ( .. )    Total Recorded Exports           81.0    100.0
Petroleum Products                 8.1   11.0   15.8   23.3   2Z.0        Unrecorded Exports 3/         18.9
Other Merchandise                 47,8   49.8   61.5  108-5  107.1
Resource Gap 9/                  -28.2  -70.3 -129.7 -113.6 - 65.3        Total Merchandise Exports    89.9
Investment Income Payments (net) -5.4   _7.6   -8.5  -21.7  -16,5        EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 197 5
Net Private Transfers 6/          11.3    7.6   10.0   19.6   15.9
Net Official Transfers            21.0   48.7  100.2   82.1   35.8                                                US$ Mln.
Official Capital (net)            12.1   11.0   16.6   22.2   36.4
SDR Allocation                     2.6      -      -       -     -        Public Debt, Disbursed and Outstanding  327.0
Use of IMF Oil Facility            -        -     4.6    1.2    4.8       Public Debt, Undisbursed                  L4h  D_
Errors and Ommissions (net)       -5.6    8.5    0.4   -3.7       -       Total Public Debt Outstanding 4/          471.0
Change in Reser es (increase -)   5.2   23.3   30.1   60.7   33.1                                      5/
Net Negative Reserves (end of                                             DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1975
period) 7/                       -7,.4 -106.4 -128.7 -205.1 -215.2                                                   %
Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed               3.1
IBED/IDA LENDING, OCTOBER 31, 1976
IBRD        IDA
(Miliion UffvT
Outstanding and Disbursed        -          51.5
Undisbursed                      -          44.5
Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed  -           96.0
RATE OF EXCHANGE 8/
1971:  US$1  = MF 555.42
1972:  US.tl  = HF 504.42
1973:  US$1  = MF 445 40
1974:  US$1  = mF 480.99
1975:  US$1  = MF 428.64
1976:  US$1  = MF 477.96
1/ Preliminary
2/  Excluding unrecorded trade.
3/  Livestock, fish foodgrains (estimated).
/ Includes US$29.2 million principal in arrears;
excludes US$2.1 million interest in arrears.
5/  Ratio  of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services.
T Includes workers' remittances.
7/ Net foreign assets of the banking system.
/  Period averages.
9/ Including unrecorded trade.
June 30, 1978



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALI
A. Statement of IDA Credits as at July 31, 1978
(US$ million)
Credit                                                Amount  (less cancellations)
Number    Year    Borrower             Purpose          IDA         Undisbursed
Five Credits fully disbursed                            34.0               -
277-MLI   1972    Republic of Mali  Rice
Development      9.5 /1           0.4
321-MLI   1972    Repubilc of Mali  Communi-
cations          3.6              0.8
383-MLI   1973    Republic of Mali  Highway Re-
habilitation   17.8 /2            5.4
420-MLI   1973    Republic of Mali  Education            5.0             1.3
538-MLI   1975    Republic of Mali  Livestock
Project         13.3              8.5
599-MLI   1976    Republic of Mali  Third
Highway         10.0              5.7
669-MLI   1976    Republic of Mali  Mali-Sud
Agricultural   15.5              14.0
713-MLI   1977    Republic of Mali  Railway III    10.5                 10.4
733-MLI   1977    Republic of Mali  Education II   10.0                  9.5
753-MLI   1977    Republic of Mali  Mopti Rice II  15.0                 14.4
144.2            70.4
of which has been repaid             0.2
Total now held by IDA*                                144.0
Total undisbursed                                                       70.4
*    Prior to exchange adjustment.
1/   Including a Supplementary Credit of $2.6 million made in 1975.
2/   Including a Supplementary Credit of $8.3 million made in 1975.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Statement of IFC Investment as at May 31, 1978
(US$ million)
Loan                                                Amount  (less cancellations)
Number    Year    Borrower            Purpose        of Loan      Undisbursed
403-MLI   1978    Sada Diallo         Bleach and       0.6              0.6
Plastic
Product
C. Projects in Execution 1/
Credit 277-MLI       Mopti Rice Development Project.  US$9.5 million Credit of
January 6, 1972 (as amended on April 11, 1975); Effective
Date: June 26, 1972; Closing Date: May 31, 1978 extended
to December 31, 1978.
Development in the first two years was hampered by the droughts of
1972/73 and 1973/74 which brought very low flood levels. In the following
three years development of irrigable areas, of yields, total production and
marketed production followed revised appraisal estimates fairly closely, but
the project experienced another year of exceptionally low flood levels and
deficient rains in 1977/78. In addition, there was a serious attack by
weaver-birds. Figures for total production are not available but marketed
production fell from close to 9,000 tons in 1976/77 to nearly 4,000 tons in
1977/78. On June 30, 1978, 95% of the Credit have been disbursed. Arrange-
ments have been made for a smooth transition to the Second Mopti Rice Project.
Credit 321-MLI       Telecommunications Project.  US$3.6 million Credit of
June 28, 1972; Effective Date: April 4, 1973; Closing
Date: July 1, 1976 extended to June 30, 1979.
Following substantial cost overruns and because of lack of finan-
cial resources available in the country, the credit agreement was amended
in 1976 to the effect that the project will be executed in two phases. The
implementation of the first phase is progressing satisfactorily and comple-
tion of the main project components is expected for the end of 1978. The
second phase could be part of a future investment program. The Government
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
appointed a new General Manager who now has the situation well in hand and
seems to have the full support of both the Government and the staff. The
new trend is encouraging for the fulfillment of the institution-building
objectives of the project. Financial performance which has been deteriorating
since 1975 because of stagnating revenues resulting from saturation of the
Bamako exchange is expected to improve as capacity increases on commissioning
of IDA and Algerian-financed investments.
Credit 383-MLI      Second Highway Project.  US$17.8 million Credit of
May 23, 1973 (as amended on June 12, 1975); Effective
Date: September 12, 1973; Closing Date: July 15, 1977
extended to July 15, 1979.
The project consists of (a) reconstruction of the Faladie-Segou
(222 km) and Bamako-Bougouni (167 km) roads; (b) procurement of highway
equipment; (c) technical assistance to DPW; (d) preinvestment studies for
the Bamako-Kolokani road; and (e) a study of the trucking industry. Recon-
struction of the Bamako-Bougouni road, which was to be financed by USAID,
was limited to reconstruction of a bridge and access roads because the bids
were too high. Available USAID funds were used to procure additional highway
equipment and spare parts. All project components, except for reconstruction
of the Faladie-Segou road which is expected to be completed by June 1979, have
been completed.
Credit 420-MLI      First Education Project.  US$5.0 million Credit of
July 11, 1973; Effective Date: November 15, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project implementation is about two years behind schedule due to
design and construction delays and a cost overrun that led to a reduction
in the scope of the project. Training for specialized teachers and head-
masters for science and technology has been instituted and the project's
Technical/Vocational Institute is operating. The preinvestment study of
basic education is delayed and expected to be ready during 1978. The proj-
ect is well managed and is expected to be completed towards the end of 1979
about one year behind schedule.
Credit 491-MLI      Integrated Rural Development Project.  US$8.0 million
Credit of July 1, 1974; Effective Date: December 9, 1974;
Closing Date: September 30, 1978.
Over the past year, OACV the agency carrying out the project has
obtained worse results than in the preceding years, namely in increasing
the adoption rates of improved cultivation methods by farmers. The area
sown under groundnuts has actually decreased, reflecting in addition to the
decrease in efficiency of the extension services, adverse climatic conditions
and lack of incentive for farmers to grow groundnuts. The project is nearing
completion, and the Bank has been approached for a second project. This sec-
ond project is now in preparation and would include a number of radical
changes, such as: higher producer prices, reorganization of OACV and strength-
ening of its extension services.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit 538-MLI       Livestock Project.  US$13.3 million Credit of
April 11, 1975; Effective Date: July 24, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The project is a broad-based effort to improve livestock production
in Mali's fifth region and includes the management of a grazing scheme, rein-
forcement of animal health services, development of stock watering facilities,
livestock markets, an abattoir and a trial station as well as a training and
functional literacy program and the preparation of a follow-up project. Overall
progress in project implementation is disappointing. The grazing scheme has not
yet been inaugurated, the veterinary service has been neglected and cost over-
runs have created doubt as to whether the objectives of the project can be
fully met. Actions are however proposed to imporve management, which if
successful could still redress the present situation. Government is falling
behind in its contributions to project costs.
Credit 599-MLI       Third Highway Project.  US$10.0 million Credit of
January 9, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project comprises (a) betterment of 1,000 km of feeder roads
by force account; (b) execution of backlog maintenance on 944 km of paved
roads by force account, including procurement of highway equipment; (c) pro-
curement of spare parts and equipment for workshops and the training center;
and (d) technical assistance and consulting services for (i) the training
center, (ii) a transport plan study, and (iii) the detailed engineering for
the Bamako-Bougouni road (167 km). Construction of 1,000 km of feeder roads
is proceeding at a rate of about 200 km per year, or about 60% of the output
estimated at appraisal. The backlog maintenance program started in April
1976, but full output is not expected until October 1978, when all equipment
will be in place. All spare parts and equipment for the workshops and the
training center have been delivered. The training center had three Malian
instructors as of October 1977, and courses are expected to proceed regularly
in 1978. The transport plan study began in April 1977 with the participation
of Malian specialists. Detailed engineering for the Bamako-Bougouni road
will be ready by end-July 1978 and will serve as a basis for the proposed
Fourth Highway Project.
Credit 669-MLI       Mali-Sud Agricultural Project.  US$15.5 million Credit
of December 23, 1976; Effective Date: September 13, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Although the project was signed year-end 1976, it did not become
effective until September 1977, due essentially to administrative reasons.
For this reason capital investments and a number of specific project activ-
ities were delayed about one year. Project activities in 1977 were limited
to technical assistance and training. It is too early to assess project
results.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit 713-MILI      Third Railway Prolect.  US$10.5 million Credit of
June 10, 1977; Effective Date: November 22, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Though a three month delay in effectiveness caused some slippage in
the start up of the Project, Government and the Railway are doing their best
to make up for the lost time. Some minor contracts have already been signed
and the bidding process for awarding contracts for the rest of the equipment
and civil works under the Project is well underway. Consultants for the
project's training and technical assistance components have been selected.
The efficiency shown by the Railway in implementing preliminary measures leads
us to believe that the Project will be implemented smoothly. Contracts
already signed and quotations received (about 40% of the estimated Project
cost) remain within appraisal estimates. Thanks to strict financial austerity,
the Railway achieved a better than expected financial performance in 1977.
Credit 733-MLI       Second Education Project.  US$10.0 million Credit of
September 30, 1977; Effective Date: January 30, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The Credit became effective on January 30, 1978. Physical imple-
mentation is delayed by an average of six months, due to staffing difficulties
of the Project Unit. Educational studies and curriculum development work is
under way. The project is well managed.
Credit 753-MLI       Mopti Rice II Project.  US$15.0 million Credit of
December 8, 1977; Effective Date: May 15, 1978;
Closing Date: November 30, 1983.
The Second Mopti Rice project which started on June 1, consists of
an extension of the irrigated area of the first Mopti Rice project and of
supplementary investments designed to consolidate the first project and
increase its flooding security. Project management has invited proposals
from consultants and has launched tenders for maintenance equipment and for
the civil works to be carried out under the project.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
MALI
OFFICE DU NIGER - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE/ENGINEERING CREDIT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Letter from Government requesting Bank assistance for the Office du
Niger: March 25, 1977
(b) First Bank mission to establish contacts: May 1977
(c) Identification/Preparation mission: November/December 1977
(d) Discussion of the identification report and the proposed project
with Malian authorities: May/June 1978
(e) Date of completion of negotiations: August 31, 1978
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: 60 days after signature
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
The Bank would assist the Office du Niger in the evaluation of bids
for civil works equipment and of proposals for consulting engineers.
A first supervision mission is tentatively scheduled for December
1978 to draw up concrete work programs.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) The Government will second, not later than October 31, 1978,
three Malian engineers to the Bureau of Technical studies of
the Office du Niger (para. 50);
(b) The technical advisers to be recruited for the project, would
have at least 10 years of experience in their respective fields
(para. 50);
(c) To ensure that technical studies and the pilot program of civil
works can be started without delay, the Office du Niger has
given assurances that certain topographical surveys will be
executed by November 30, 1978 (para. 51);



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(d) The Office du Niger has given assurances that certain
items of its own civil works equipment pool will be put
at the disposal of the teams which will execute the works
defined in para. 52 (para. 52); and
(e) The terms of reference for the socio-economic study which would
be executed by IER in cooperation with the Office du Niger
will be agreed upon between the Government and the Association
by December 31, 1978 (para. 63).






IBRD 13412
f_-'i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~            w'
JJ  &  3 E} E } g fi S E i3 {IE &
i-- tt 11 q X ia . ' 51~
L z z ;,, 8 l 3 N 3 S 2 | g t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ L



