CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 854 MLI
Development Credit Agreement
(Technical Assistance and Engineering Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF MALI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated October 30, 1978


﻿CDIT NUMER 654 MLI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 30, 1978, between the REPUBLIC OF
MALI (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVEL-
OPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) by letter addressed by the Association to the Minister
of Finance and of Commerce of the Borrower on February 13, 1978
the Association granted an advance to the Borrower of $20,000
for the preparation of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement;
(C) pursuant to the terms of said advance the amount thereof
is to be refunded to the Association out of the proceeds of the
Credit pro-7ided for in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth, and "Office" means the Office du Niger.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to four million five hundred thousand dollars ($4,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of this
Section and of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and
the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal
amount of the advance referred to in the preamble to this Agree-
ment withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay any
unpaid charges thereon. Any unwithdrawn balance of the authorized
amount of such advance shall automatically be cancelled on
the same date.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1982
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on April 1 and October 1 in each year.


﻿-3-
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 1
and October 1 commencing April 1, 1989, and ending October 1,
2028, each installment to and including the installment payable
on October 1, 1998, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through the Office with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and agri-
cultural practices. and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall, by November 30, 1978 or such
later date as may be agreeable to the Association, employ engi-
neering and management consultants, whose qualifications, experi-
ence and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory
to the Association, as set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b) Not later than October 31, 1978 the Borrower shall
assign to the Bureau d'Etudes Generales of the Office three
Malien engineers to work with the engineering consultants referred
to in paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 3.03. The population study included in Part D of
the Project shall be conducted under terms of reference satisfac-
tory to the Association, a proposal for which shall be furnished
to the Association no later than December 31, 1978.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause the Office to allocate
to the teams carrying out the works included in the Project three
tractors, one water tank truck and one trailer truck, all to be
maintained in good repair.


﻿-4-
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause the Office to carry
out the preparatory surveys and studies described in Schedule 5 to
this Agreement by November 30, 1978.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to


﻿-5-
be derived frcm it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Office
to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Office to: (i) have its
accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Associa-
tion such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of the Office and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause the Office to take
out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other
provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that the Statuts of the Office
approved by Decree No. 108/PG-RM of December 21, 1971 shall have
been amended or supplemented in such a manner as to threaten the
ability of the Office to carry out the Project.


﻿-6-
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof namely, that the event specified
in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of 30 days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date November 30, 1978 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date fifteen
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances et du Commerce
Koulouba
Republic of Mali
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINIFINANCES                       972559
Koulouba


﻿-7-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Bamako,
Republic of Mali, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MALI
By Is/ Amadou Baba Diarra
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is! Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿W8 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Construction equipment,       1,940,000       87%
spare parts, workshop
tools, micellaneous
instruments, vehicles
(2) Consultants' services         1,400,000       100%
for engineering and
management
(3) Farm equipment for              65,000        87%
rice research
(4) Fodder plant pilot             195,000        87%
project
(5) Aerial photographic             185,000       100%
survey
(6) Socio-economic study            75,000        100%
(7) Audit of accounts of            50,000        100%
the Office
(8) Training scholarships            25,000       100%
(9) Refunding of advance             20,000       100% of amount
for Project prepara-                         outstanding at
tion                                         Effective Date
(10) Unallocated                    545,000
TOTAL         4,500,000


﻿- 9 -
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals
in amounts not to exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of
$200,000 may be made in respect of Category (1) on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
September 1, 1978.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to


﻿10
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associ-
ation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to prepare for the rehabilitation
of the Office's irrigation infrastructure, which rehabilitation
is scheduled for 1981-1988, by: (i) strengthening the technical
and administrative capabilities of the Office; (ii) preparing
the designs necessary to carry out a rehabilitation project; (iii)
testing methods for cost-effectiveness; and (iv) supporting
agricultural research and pilot programs. The Project includes the
following:
Part A:   (i) the carrying out of an experimental program of
land-levelling and other on-farm works on about 1,500 ha
in order to establish the most cost-effective methods
and the most suitable equipment to be used in a subse-
quent large-scale rehabilitation project; (2) the
repairing and strengthening of critical points of the
irrigation infrastructure, in particular dikes of main
canals, pending their general overhaul in a subsequent
rehabilitation project; (3) the procurement of equip-
ment for the foregoing and of spare parts, maintenance
equipment and tools for existing Office equipment; (4)
the carrying out of topographical works, hydrological
measurements, etc and the procurement of miscellaneous
instruments and equipment therefor; and (5) the pro-
curement of vehicles.
Part B:   Strengthening the Bureau of Technical Studies of the
Office as well as its Works Department, through the
employment of additional engineers, as specified in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and strengthening the
overall operations of the Office through the employment
of a management consultant to design improved accounting
and management information systems and of other consul-
tants, as specified in such Schedule; conducting a study
ot the accounts of the Office and an audit of such
ac.ounts for 1978.
Part C:   Support for agricultural research and trial programs
through:
(i) procurement of equipment for the Rice Research
Station at Kogoni;


﻿- 12 -
(ii) execution of a pilot program of irrigated fodder
production at the village level on 3 areas of about
20 ha each;
(iii) execution of a hydrological survey in the Mema
area proposed for irrigated cotton production;
and
(iv) a study required for the reopening of the feedlots
of the Office.
Part D:   Carrying out an aerial photographic survey of the
entire area served by the Office and a socio-economic
study of its population, the latter with the assistance
of the Institut d'Economie Rural of the Ministry of
Rural Development.
Part E:   Training of engineers through study of irrigation
schemes outside Mali.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1982.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Equipment for the Rice Research Station, miscellaneous
instruments, vehicles, spare parts for existing equipment and


﻿- 14 -
tools shall be procured on the basis of competitive bidding
advertized locally according to the procedures acceptable to the
Association, unless the estimated value thereof, after grouping,
is less than the equivalent of $10,000, in which case negotiated
purchases may be made, up to a total of $100,000.
2.   The contract for the aerial survey included in Part D of
the Project shall be awarded on the basis of competitive quotes
from at least two offerors.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $10,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to


﻿- 15
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 4
Consultants
1.   Engineers: (a) Three engineers will be employed to strengthen
the Bureau of Technical Studies of the Office for periods from 12
to 30 months; their terms of reference will include assistance in
the preparation of plans and cost estimates for a rehabilitation
project.
(b) Two engineers would support the Works Department of the
Office for 18 months each; one would assist in carrying out and
monitoring a pilot program of on-farm development; and the other
would act as technical inspector of the equipment to be provided
under the Project, as well as of existing equipment.
2.   Management: One management consultant would be attached to
the Office of the Director General of the Office for 24 months; he
would design and implement an improved accounting and management
information system.
3.   Short-term Consultancies: These would be arranged, as
required, in agreement between the Association and the Office, in
various cields, such as engineering, hydrology, pedology, agricul-
ture, management and others.


﻿17 -
SCHEDULE 5
Preparatory Surveys and Studies
1.   Selection of four pilot zones (one of 500 ha at Molodo,
one of 250 ha at Niono, one of 250 ha at N'Debougou, and one of
500 ha at Kouroumari).
2.   Collection of detailed information on urgent repairs and
reinforcements to be carried out for individual irrigation and
drainage canals; this information is to be gathered from the staff
of the works department and of the extension service, and to be
ranked in works of first, second, and third priority.
3.   Preparation of longitudinal profiles of the two dikes of the
Canal du Sahel and the Fala de Molodo on their entire lengths, and
of a first set of cross profiles for the most degraded sections,
which are to be rehabilitated in 1979.
4.   For the sections of the main supply canal, the primary
and secondary canals which are in urgent need of repair (and in
particular for the sections which service the pilot zones to be
rehabilitated in 1979 (item below), cross profiles will be estab-
lished.
5.   For the two pilot zones to be rehabilitated in 1979 (about
750 ha), plans will be established at a scale of 1:2,000 with
contour lines every 10 cm on the basis of reference points derived
from 20 m. grids.


