Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMFICIAL USE ONLY
Rbot No 11836
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1176-SE)
APRIL 30, 1993
Agriculture Operations Division
Sahelian Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS
BAME           ISRA's Department of Macro-Economic Analysis
CNRA           National Center for Agronomic Research
(Centre national de la recherche agronomique)
GOS            Government of Senegal
IEMVT          French Institute of Livestock and Veterinary
Medicine (Institut d'6levage et de medecine
veterinaire)
IRAT           French Agronomic Research Institute
(Institut de Recherches agronomiques tropicales
et des cultures vivrieres)
ISRA           Senegalese Agricultural Research Institute
(Institut senegalais de recherches agricoles)
LNERV          Senegalese Livestock Research Institute
(Laboratoire national de l'elevage et des
recherches veterinaires)
STC            ISRA's  Board  of  Governors'  Scientific  and
Technical Committee
UNIFTSTD       United  Nations  Interim  Fund  on  Science  and
Technology for Development
USAID          United   States   Agency   for   International
Development
FISCAL YEAR
ISRA           January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICLIL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
April 30, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Senegal
Agricultural Research Project (Credit 11 76-SE)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report on
Senegal - Agricultural Research Project (Credit 11 76-SE)" prepared by the Africa Regional
Office. The Borrower did not provide Part II.
After a poor performance in the early years, project implementation improved.
The project outcome is rated as satisfactory. A long term program to strengthen the
national research system (ISRA) has been initiated, and a follow-on project has been
financed to continue the process. Much remains to be done. The most serious concern is
the funding of operating costs. Unless an effective mechanism to secure such funding is
established, sustainability is in jeopardy.
The Project Completion Report provides an accurate record and a useful
analysis of project implementation and lessons learnt.
The project will be audited, most likely in conjunction with the subsequent
research project.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribLition and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Credit 1176-SE)
Table of Contents
Preface .................................................... i
Evaluation  Summary ....................................... iii
I.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE                              . .   1
A.    Project  Identity ................................. 1
B.    Background ....................................... 1
C.    Project  Objectives  and Description ............... 3
D.    Project  Design  and Organization .................. 5
E.    Project  Implementation ........................... 6
F.    Project Results .................................. 7
G.    Project  Sustainability ........................... 9
H.    IDA  Performance ................................. 11
I.    Lessons Learned ................................. 12
J.    Borrower Performance ............................ 15
K.    Project Relationship ............................ 16
L.    Relations with  Cofinanciers ..................... 16
M.    Consulting  Services ............................. 16
N.    Project Documentation and Data .................. 16
II.   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ........... 18
III.  STATISTICAL INFORMATION .............................         .              19
ANNEXES
- Annex  1 - Participants  in Completion Mission.......
- Annex  2 - References...............................
MAP
IBRD 14941
This report is based on the findings of a project completion
mission carried out in Senegal from October 17 to October 27,
1990,  by  Ms.  Jann  Masterson,  Operations  Analyst,  AF5AG.    Ms.
Katherine Marshall is the Department Director, and Mr. Salah
Darghouth, the Managing Division Chief.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Credit 1176-SE)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the
Agricultural Research Project in Senegal, for which Credit 1176-
SE in the amount of SDR 17.0 million (US$19.5 million
equivalent) was approved on September 8, 1981. The credit was
closed on December 31, 1989, eighteen months behind schedule.
It was fully disbursed, and the last disbursement was on May 22,
1990.
The PCR was prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division
of the Africa Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary,
Parts I and III). The Borrower was requested by the Association
to prepare Part II, but a reply has not been received.
Preparation of this PCR was started during a completion
mission of the project in October 1990, and is based, inter
alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Development Credit and
Project Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between
the Bank and the Borrower; internal Bank memoranda, and
independent evaluation studies of the project (see Annex 2,
References).






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Credit 1176-SE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives
i)        The overall goal of the project was to strengthen
Senegal's agricultural research capability by improving the
relevance and impact of Senegal's national research effort in
crop and livestock development, decentralizing research efforts
and strengthening the linkages between research, extension and
agricultural activity. The project sought to make research more
problem-oriented and relevant to farmers.
Implementation Experience
ii)       Implementation experience was mixed, with very poor
implementation up until the 1985 in-depth review mission, and
significantly improved performance thereafter.   The project was
implemented by ISRA, the Senegalese Agricultural Research
Institute.    The main  factors responsible  for the variance
between planned and actual implementation were: (a) lengthy
delays between Board approval and credit effectiveness; (b) lack
of a coherent recruitment policy to meet ISRA's skills-mix
requirements; (c) lack of a comprehensive staff development plan
designed to meet ISRA's skills-mix needs through either training
or retraining; (d) ISRA's inadequate financial management and
chronic lack of liquidity, which resulted in inadequate funding
of research programs; (e) inadequate general management by both
the tutelary ministry and ISRA;   (f) uncontrolled growth of
staff  (from 600 staff at appraisal to  1573  in 1985);  (g)
inadequate salary scales for scientific staff and inadequate
performance review criteria; and (h) ISRA's legal statutes and
organizational structure, which impeded project performance. In
1984 the project was rated a "problem project," and a major
supervision mission was fielded which recommended a technical
action plan to improve the situation.   Both ISRA and Government
implemented most of the actions recommended by the mission, and
project performance improved dramatically in the years that
followed the 1985 mission.



-iv -
Results
iii)     The  Project  achieved  its  primary  objective  of
strengthening ISRA's research capability, although there were
some shortfalls in specific appraisal targets.   Fewer staff
received training than originally planned, and the civil works
program was scaled down in order to use the savings to fund
ISRA's operating costs.  Not all research programs planned at
appraisal could be implemented due to lack of research staff
with the appropriate skills-mix and insufficient research
operating  funds.    Although  research  was  decentralized  to
stations other than Bambey, most research staff continued to be
based at Bambey, leaving some facilities built by the Project
unoccupied.   Decentralization, although a laudable objective,
did not result in any corresponding savings in operating costs
as no effort was made to downsize Bambey.
iv)       Despite the difficulties encountered throughout the
early years of project supervision, the overall achievements of
the project are far from negligible (para 14). The management
of Senegalese research is now entirely under national directors,
and the number of Senegalese scientists has increased from 30 to
117. Virtually all of ISRA's scientific staff have been trained
in micro-computers and are computer literate.   BAME, a policy
analysis research unit created under the project with USAID
funding, has produced impressive results in the collection of
original   data   required   for   sectoral   analysis.        The
decentralization of ISRA's research and the introduction of
specialized teams in production-system research in three agro-
ecological  zones  has  produced  valuable  information  for
researchers at the station level and has resulted in broader and
more  field oriented research programs.    ISRA research has
generated many valuable varieties and useful technologies for
the  agricultural  sector.        Crop  research  is  no  longer
concentrated  solely  at  the  Bambey  station,  but  has  been
decentralized to other stations.  The Project financed a major
construction  program  which  built,  renovated  and  equipped
research stations and laboratories in the various agro-
ecological zones. In 1989 ISRA produced its first annual report
detailing its scientific and administrative achievements during
the year. ISRA's research planning and programming capacity was
improved.
Sustainability
v)        A minimum fifteen year time frame is necessary in
order to allow ISRA to: (a) generate food and export crop
technology that can produce new income streams and employment
for farmers, herders and fishermen in different agro-ecological
zones; (b) develop a community of Senegalese scientists that can



v 
manage ISRA, produce new technology, and replace the bulk of the
expatriates; (c) secure financing for its research. During the
Agricultural Research Project, researchers paid relatively
little attention to linkages with extension, possibly because
extension at that time was handled by a multitude of regional
development agencies and not by a single national extension
service. At the end of the Agricultural Research Project, IDA
approved a follow-up project to: build on the strong
infrastructural and human resource base established under the
first project, assist Government with the consolidation of its
research effort with emphasis on research programs expected to
yield results in the short-term and improve linkages with
extension through more frequent contacts with the national
extension service (para 16).   ISRA, although strengthened by
the project, remains an institution sorely dependent on donors'
and Government's financial contributions, as is evidenced by the
fact that in the transition years when IDA and other donors were
preparing follow-up projects, many of ISRA's research activities
came to a virtual standstill due to lack of funds.
FindinQs and Lessons Learned
vi)       Lessons derived from implementation of the project
include the following (para 18).
(a)  The "misuse" of the master plan as a blue-print for
project design led to an overambitious project.
Although master plans have proven to be excellent
tools in many countries for defining and prioritizing
research objectives, they are too crude a tool to
serve as a basis for recruitment policy/manpower
development plans (number of scientists by discipline)
and to define an infrastructure investment program
(number of offices, size of laboratories, etc.).
Moreover, most master plans are outdated the day that
they are printed.
(b)  A coherent recruitment policy to meet ISRA's skills-
mix requirements and a comprehensive staff development
program tailored to ISRA's long-term need for trained
staff (both administrative and scientific) should have
been in place before project start-up.
(c)  A working accounting and financial management system
should have been in place before effectiveness,
followed by a project launch workshop to introduce a
new  executing  agency  to  IDA  disbursement  and
procurement procedures and institutional reforms with
respect to research program design, implementation,
monitoring and evaluation.



-vi-
(d) The long-term commitment of Government and donors to
provide adequate and timely research operating funds
is essential to ensure satisfactory results. Over the
last decade, in Senegal, as in many other countries,
donors have financed virtually all investments in
hardware (buildings and equipment) and incremental
recurrent research operating costs.   Over the same
time horizon, Government has focussed its research
spending on building up the core of indigenous
scientific  staff.    As  a  result,  non-incremental
research operating expenditures generated by donor
funded activities, but not financed by them, are now
seriously  underfunded.    The  Special  Program  for
African Agricultural Research (SPAAR) has proposed the
use of consolidated program budgeting ("research
funds") to alleviate perennial problem of the chronic
under-funding of operating expenditures, management
and  maintenance,   and  provide  a  mechanism  for
governments   to   coordinate   donors   around   the
implementation of a National Agricultural Research
Master Plan. The use of an integrated sector approach
to research, where all research operating costs are
considered as a capital good -- a development
expenditure with long term results, as opposed to
short term -- and the introduction of time-bound
contractual arrangements for research funding, based
on accountability for research relevance, would
require  a  long-term  commitment  by  donors  and
government.    Significant  conditionality  should be
attached to our future lending operations, such as
annual   agreements   on  research   objectives   and
financing, combined with a reasonable and realistic
share of public resources for the agricultural sector
as a whole to be destined for investments in research.
(e) The effective use of the in-depth review mission in
1985 (before the mid-term review became a standard
feature of project implementation) and follow-up by
subsequent supervision missions was a major factor in
improved project implementation after 1985.
(f) Two innovative concepts that worked well under this
Project were the Consultative Group on Agricultural
Research in Senegal and ISRA's Scientific and
Technical Committee (STC), which was strengthened by
the addition of four independent scientists of
international repute. Although the STC took some time
to become fully operational, it is now functioning and
has an impact (committee reports were available and
its comments were taken into account by individual
scientists). The Consultative Group was an informal



- vii -
forum of all donors which met at least once a year to
exchange views with Government on the progress of the
Project, performance, impact of the Project on
agricultural development, and other matters related to
the Project. This Group should evolve into a
partnership between Government and donors where
binding decisions would be taken with respect to the
funding and the sustainability of the entire national
agricultural research system.
(g)  There was a tendency for most supervision missions to
focus on investment components such as civil works,
training and financial management, leaving the
supervision of the research program content to the
independent technical oversight committee (ISRA's
Scientific and Technical Committee).        The Africa
Region at present is staffed with only a few research
specialists, and it would be difficult, if not
impossible, for them to supervise each of the Region's
research projects. Possible solutions are: posting
more research staff to the field to supervise research
programs in several countries, relying more on other
donors for research expertise, using specialized
research consultants, or creating, during the project
design phase, a mechanism such as the technical
oversight committee and closely monitoring its
performance. Supervision plans in the SARs of future
research projects should indicate how research program
supervision will be handled.
(h)  The use of an on-site consultant architect/planner
greatly facilitated the execution of the civil works
construction program, and would probably be advisable
in any project financing a major construction
component.






- 1 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(CREDIT 1176-SE)
I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Prolect Identity
Name                  : Agricultural Research Project
Credit Number         : 1176-SE
RVP Unit              : Africa Region
Country               : Senegal
Sector                : Agriculture
Subsector             : Agricultural Research
B. Background
1.        Senegal has a relatively long history of agricultural
research, beginning in Bambey in 1921, when a research station
was established to produce improved varieties of groundnuts and
to study cultivation methods.   In 1933,  this research was
expanded to include food crops grown in association with
groundnuts: millet, sorghum, and cowpeas. In 1936, a chemistry
laboratory was established, and soil fertility investigations
began.     In  1938,  Bambey became  the Federal  station  for
agronomic research in French West Africa. When Senegal became
independent in 1960, Bambey became the Centre National de la
Recherche Agronomique  (CNRA).   By bilateral agreement,  the
administration was placed in the hands of the French research
organization, Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales et
des Cultures Vivrieres (IRAT). In 1975, the Institut Sen6galais
de Recherches Agricoles (ISRA) was created and IRAT continued to
assist in staffing with financial support from the French
Government.
2.        ISRA's research on millet, sorghum, groundnuts, maize,
cotton, cowpeas and soybeans was carried out by CNRA, which
conducted research nationwide. At the Bambey station there were
also research programs on soil and water management, soil
fertility, plant protection, farming systems, and studies of
techniques for transferring technology, as well as studies on
agricultural machinery, post-harvest technology, seed production
and animal husbandry.   Bambey served as the national crop
research institute, with research at Fanaye and Djibelor limited
largely to rice. Crop research in the past had several major



flaws: (i) it was concentrated in one research station at
Bambey, in an area with low potential for production increase;
(ii) it had poor linkages with agricultural extension and hence
research results were seldom successfully passed on to farmers;
(iii) it was primarily oriented towards plant breeding rather
than   addressing   existing   farmer   constraints   through
interdisciplinary constraint analysis; (iv) it was organized
along disciplines at the expense of coherent and consistent
research  programming  and  coordination;  and  (v)  it  was
concentrated at research stations with little on-farm research.
3.        Animal research began in 1935 with the establishment
of a laboratory for veterinary research at Hann near Dakar.
This research station, like Bambey, had a federal responsibility
for all of French West Africa until Senegalese independence in
1960, when it became the Laboratoire National de l'Elevage et
des Recherches V6terinaires (LNERV). The French organization,
Institut d'Elevage et de M6decine V6terinaire des Pays Tropicaux
(IEMVT), continued to assist LNERV by the secondment of expert
staff. In 1975, LNERV was integrated into ISRA's organization.
Research was mostly related to animal health (virology,
bacteriology, helminthology, entomology, and protozoology). The
production of vaccines for several countries in West Africa was,
and continues to be, a major activity. Some attention was also
given to animal nutrition, genetics, physiology and agrostology.
Research  efforts  focussed  on  animal  health  and  breed
improvement, with little emphasis on production constraints
faced by pastoralists in Senegal's grazing areas.
4.        In 1978, the Government of Senegal decided to reorient
its agricultural research effort to improve its efficiency and
make it more farmer oriented so that research would contribute
to the success of Government's investment policies in the rural
sector.  Research was to become more problem oriented -- that
is, more responsive and applicable to the real constraints faced
by agricultural/livestock producers -- and communications
between research workers and extension staff of the development
agencies and the Ministry of Rural Development were to be
improved. The four main issues to be addressed were:
(a) Past research had concentrated on groundnuts and
cereal production from rainfed agriculture. Research
knowledge of irrigated agriculture was much less
developed.
(b) Agricultural research had always been concentrated at
one main station (Bambey), in a low rainfall area.
Decentralization of research was necessary to spread
efforts to areas with a higher rainfall and production
potential.
(c) Output from rainfed farming was stagnating, and there



was a need to define improvements in farming systems
to take into account farmer constraints and the
farmers' capacity to adopt new technical packages.
(d) Diseases and insect attacks were beginning to be
serious constraints in agricultural production.
Moreover, several institutional and socioeconomic problems
plagued the agricultural sector.   Issues concerning general
price policy, marketing, agricultural credit and farmer debts,
input distribution and the general organization of the rural
sector were threatening to disrupt agricultural production.
Government recognized the importance of these factors in
producers' decision-making and sought to effect a general reform
of the rural sector, of which the Agricultural Research Project
was an integral part, with the wider institutional problems
being addressed under the Structural Adjustment Operation.
C. Project Obiectives and Description
5.        The overall goal of the project was to strengthen
Senegal's agricultural research capability by improving the
relevance and impact of Senegal's national research effort in
crop and livestock development, decentralizing research efforts
and strengthening the linkages between research, extension and
agricultural  activity.    Making  agricultural  research  more
relevant to producer needs was an important element in the
Government's plans to improve the overall performance in the
agricultural sector as part of its structural adjustment
program. A major project objective was to address directly the
needs and problems of farmers through improved communications
between research workers and extension personnel.
6.        The Project, as the first phase of a long-term program
of support to strengthen agricultural research capability, aimed
to establish and implement over a six year period:
-    five production systems programs (at Fanaye for the
Senegal River Valley, at Nioro du Rip for the South
Groundnut Basin, at Djibelor for the Lower Casamance
Zone, at Dahra for the Sylvo-Pastoral Zone, and at
Kolda for the Upper Casamance Zone.)   All of the
production    systems    programs    were    mixed
agriculture/livestock systems: emphasis at the Fanaye
Station would be on irrigated agriculture,  at the
Nioro du Rip Station on rainfed agriculture, at
Djibelor on various techniques for rice production,
and at the Kolda and Dahra Stations on livestock
production systems.
-    six nationally coordinated multidisciplinary commodity
programs on groundnuts, cowpeas, millet, sorghum,



- 4-
maize and rice.
7.        In particular, the Project included:
(a)  establishment  within   ISRA  of  an  Agricultural
Production (Farming) Systems Department, including a
Central Systems Analysis Group, and a Support Research
Section;
(b) staffing and operation of a Commodity Research
Department;
(c) establishment within ISRA of a Support Services
Department, responsible for the operation of all
research stations and central laboratories, and
including the creation of the following new units:
Manpower Development and Training, Technical Support,
Documentation and Publications, and Data Processing
and Statistics;
(d) strengthening of ISRA's headquarters through the
establishment of a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, an
Internal Auditing and Budgetary Control Unit, and a
Macro-Economics Research Unit;
(e) employment of 88 scientists for a total of 550 staff-
years of which 240 staff-years of expatriates;
(f) employment of about 184 other scientific staff (senior
and junior technicians), 384 support staff and 44
headquarters staff;
(g) training of Senegalese scientists through 48 M.Sc. and
15 PhD fellowships and 20 management training
fellowships;
(h)  providing   for  120  staff-months  of   short-term
consultancies by visiting scientists;
(i) development and rehabilitation of six research
stations including: 106 houses on the stations and in
the cities of Richard Toll and Kaolack; about 6,000 m2
of laboratories, office space, breeders' work and
preparation rooms, screen houses, and farm buildings;
and about 5,400 m2 of cattle and sheep pens;
(j)  development  of  a  100  ha  experimental  irrigation
perimeter   at  Fanaye,   and  construction   of  a
Documentation and Publications Center at St. Louis;
and
(k) procurement of three mobile research units, farm



implements, 11 trucks, 20 tractors, 27 tillers, 205
vehicles and 105 motorbikes, office and laboratory
equipment, furniture, small farm equipment and
research supplies.
D. Project Design and Organization
8.        In  1978,  following  a  Bank  preparation  mission,
Government requested the help of the International Agricultural
Development Agency (IADS), a US-based agency funded by the
Rockefeller Foundation, to prepare, in collaboration with ISRA,
a master plan to improve the national agricultural research
system. Senegal was one of the first countries in Sub-Saharan
Africa to prepare a master plan for agricultural research. Both
Government and the Bank considered ISRA's master plan too
grandiose a wish list, and requested IADS to prepare a scaled-
down version acceptable to Government.  This scaled-down plan
was the basis for the preparation and subsequent appraisal of
the  project.     The  plan  had  three  main  proposals:  (i)
reorganization of ISRA and regionalization of agricultural
research; (ii) national coordination of multi-disciplinary
commodity programs integrating them into improved production
systems;  and  (iii)  establishment  of  priorities  for  the
regionalization of the above-mentioned programs. Specifically,
the plan proposed that research work be concentrated in four of
the seven agro-ecological zones in the country as follows: (i)
the Senegal River Valley for irrigated agriculture; (ii) the
Sahel Region for animal production systems research: (iii) the
Central Region including the central and southern parts of the
Groundnut Basin; and (iv) the Casamance Region in the higher
rainfall areas in the South.  This plan was submitted to the
Government and the Association early in 1979, reviewed and found
generally acceptable. Following this agreement ISRA prepared a
more detailed proposal for a first phase implementation of the
plan.  After further refinement, the plan became the basis of
the appraisal for the first project which took place late in
1979.
9.        The Project as prepared and appraised, based on the
master plan,   was a highly ambitious one, aiming at a broad
reorganization and rationalization of ISRA and its operations.
In retrospect, as the first free-standing agricultural research
project in the Africa Region, it was probably over-ambitious to
seek to achieve, during a six year project: the reorganization
of ISRA, the introduction of 5 productions systems programs, a
massive training program, a major construction program and
improved financial management, all in the first phase of a long-
term program.  The use of the master plan as a blueprint for
project design (e.g., to determine the number of scientists
required by discipline and the number of offices, laboratories,
size of stations) was the root cause for the over-ambitious
design.



10.       The total project cost was estimated at US$106.1
million, of which IDA financed US$19.5 million; the Government,
US$32.9 million; France, US$35.3 million equivalent; USAID
US$16.3 million equivalent; and UNIFSTD and ICRISAT/WARDA,
US$2.1 million.   It is, however, misleading to describe the
project as a US$106 million project. In fact, there were several
albeit complementary projects aimed at assisting ISRA to build
up its research potential, each project (and each donor) with
different priorities, different procedures and a different time
frame.   France financed mainly technical assistance (about 40
researchers during the project) and some specific research
programs; USAID financed some civil works (under two distinct
projects) and some specific research programs, training and
technical assistance through a contract with Michigan State
University; and IDA financed commodity and livestock research
programs,  civil works, equipment, technical assistance,  some
training, and, although this had not originally been planned, a
large part of ISRA's overheads.
E. Prolect Implementation
11.       The  project  was  appraised  in  November  1979  and
approved in September 1981.   It became effective in June 1983,
almost twenty-one months after Board approval. This delay was
caused primarily by ISRA's inability to produce a 3 year work-
program and budget satisfactory to IDA and Government's failure
to open a revolving fund for ISRA with an initial deposit of
CFAF  30  million  (about  US$108,000  equivalent).        ISRA's
financial management problems became apparent even before credit
effectiveness, following the receipt of a severely qualified
audit.   The question of whether ISRA had the administrative
capacity both to comply with the various conditions for
effectiveness and to manage the research project does not appear
to have received adequate attention in project design. ISRA was
described as a "well-organized and efficient research institute"
in the President's Report (para 36). Nonetheless, the common
theme in all the supervision reports was that ISRA's
organizational structure, administrative rules and procedures
were prejudicial to project implementation and to the stated
objective of strengthening the research management system.
Perhaps the single most constraint to the operational
effectiveness of ISRA was its limited capacity to manage its
financial resources.   A repeated criticism in the early Bank
supervision reports (1982-1984) was the lack of a comprehensive
accounting system and rational method for research programming
and budgeting at ISRA.
12.       In 1984 the Project was classified a "problem project"
due to inadequate management and Government's refusal to
implement the reorganization specified in the Development Credit



- 7 -
Agreement. An in-depth review mission took place in 1985. The
mission proposed a six-month technical action plan to correct
ISRA's problems, which was transmitted to the President of
Senegal and accepted by him in principle. In the two years that
followed the in-depth review mission, ISRA and Government
implemented most of the recommendations of the review mission:
tutelary responsibility for ISRA was transferred from the
Ministry of Scientific and Technological Research to the
Ministry of Rural Development; ISRA's Director General and
several senior staff were replaced; major and painful staff
reductions were made (staff was reduced to under 1000 in early
1987); the organization chart suggested by the review mission
was put into place; general and budget accounting systems were
set up by technical assistance recruited under the project, and
financial management and accounting improved to the extent that
in 1986 for the first time, the auditors were able to certify
ISRA's accounts, and in 1987 adequate funds for inputs and
research activities were available when needed.   Unfortunately
the improvements in accounting and financial management were not
sustained, because not enough local staff were trained by the
expatriate technical assistant, and several competent local
staff that had been trained left ISRA for higher paying jobs in
the private sector.  During the transition period between the
end of the first project and effectiveness of the second
project, ISRA's accounting and financial management once again
slid into disarray, with the result that in 1992 USAID is
financing  consultants  to  redesign  ISRA's  budgeting  and
accounting system.
13.       Critical Variances in Project Implementation.   The
main factors responsible for the variance between planned and
actual implementation were: (a) lengthy delays between Board
approval and credit effectiveness; (b) lack of a coherent
recruitment policy to meet ISRA's skills-mix requirements; (c)
lack of a comprehensive staff development plan designed to meet
ISRA's skills-mix needs through either training or retraining;
(d) ISRA's inadequate financial management and chronic lack of
liquidity, which resulted in inadequate funding of research
programs; (e) inadequate overall management by both the tutelary
ministry and by ISRA's management; (f) uncontrolled growth of
(primarily administrative) staff between appraisal and the 5th
supervision mission in 1985 (ISRA staff increased from 600 staff
at appraisal to 1573 staff in 1985);  (g) inadequate salary
scales for scientific staff and inadequate performance review
criteria; and (h) ISRA's legal statutes and organizational
structure, which impeded project performance.
F. Project Results
14.       The  Project  achieved  its  primary  objective  of
strengthening ISRA's research capability, although there were



shortfalls in specific appraisal targets such as number of staff
trained and number of research programs  implemented.   The
construction program was scaled down in order to use savings to
fund  ISRA's  operating  costs.       Despite  the  difficulties
encountered throughout the early years of project supervision,
the overall achievements of the project are far from negligible.
(a) The management of Senegalese research is now entirely
under national directors, and the number of Senegalese
scientists  has  increased  from  30  to  117.    This
increase in Senegalese scientific staff has made ISRA
a truly Senegalese research institute, and is a good
indication that, in the future, national research
efforts will be oriented more towards national
priorities  and  local  factors.    The project made
important contributions to the development of human
resources, although the numbers trained and level
(only MSc training; no PhD training) of training were
below the original appraisal targets.   Twenty-one
candidates obtained MSc degrees; of these, 18 returned
to ISRA, which is a very high retention rate.
(b) Virtually all of ISRA's scientific staff have been
trained in micro-computers and have become computer
literate. This is a major achievement for an African
research institution. What is now needed is a general
updating of ISRA's computer hardware, most of which
does not have adequate memory to run SAS, the most
common statistical package.
(c) The creation of BAME (Department of Macro-Economic
Analysis), a policy analysis research unit, has had
highly beneficial results as concerns collection of
original data required for sectoral analysis, and the
reports prepared by BAME have a great value because
they are based on primary data and not on recycled
secondary data. These reports have received favorable
attention  from  Government  and  from  the  donor
community.
(d) The decentralization of ISRA's research and the
introduction of specialized teams in production-system
research in three agro-ecological zones has produced
valuable information for researchers at the station
level and has resulted in broader and more field-
oriented research programs of greater relevance to the
farmer.
(e) ISRA research has already generated many valuable
varieties and useful technologies for the agricultural
sector  (Table 6, Project Results).   In the major
agricultural zones, rainy seasons have become shorter



(by 10 to 20 days) and drier (average of 200 mm less
rainfall) in the last two decades. The groundnut and
small grain (millet and sorghum) plant breeders have
succeeded in developing short cycle drought resistant
varieties with acceptable yields and quality. Some of
these varieties are already being extensively used by
farmers, including a disease-resistant groundnut
variety now widely planted in the northern part of the
groundnut basin.  A technical package (minikit) for
cowpeas has been developed and extended to farmers.
The variety and technical package now being used by
cotton farmers in eastern Senegal enables good yields
to be obtained. ISRA has produced a practical manual
on vegetable cultivation, primarily directed at
extension agents, which has been widely diffused under
the ongoing Agricultural Services Project. Veterinary
research has developed an effective program of disease
control and appropriate vaccines are being produced.
The population mapping program of fisheries research
has provided the base for improved management and
exploitation of fish stocks.   Forestry research has
identified suitable species for different agro-
ecological zones. The farming systems research teams
have, in their definition of the most important
technical constraints, provided a strong foundation
for effective research during the next phase of ISRA's
development.
(f) Crop research is no longer concentrated solely at the
Bambey station, but has been decentralized to other
stations. The Project financed a major construction
program which built, renovated and equipped research
stations and their laboratories in the various agro-
ecological zones.
(g) In 1989, ISRA produced its first annual report
detailing   its   scientific   and   administrative
achievements during the year.
(h) ISRA's research planning and programming capacity was
improved so that at the end of the project ISRA was
able to prepare a priority research Master Plan for
the next five years, which served as the basis for the
appraisal of the IDA follow-up project.
G. Project Sustainabilitv
15.       The 1985 in-depth review mission adopted a 15 year
time frame (1985-2000) as a realistic time frame for ISRA to:
(a) generate food and export crop technology that can
produce new income streams and employment for farmers,



- 10 -
herders, and fishermen in different agro-ecological
zones of the country;
(b) develop a community of Senegalese scientists that can
manage ISRA, produce new technology, and replace the
bulk of the expatriates;
(c) secure financing for its research.
The issues involved in the 1985-2000 time period are as follows:
(a)  The first issue is the period of time that it will
take to develop new technology. Over the past three to
four decades, experience in developing countries has
shown that it takes about ten years, on the average,
to produce a new plant variety that has been farmer
tested and is ready for diffusion by extension agents.
One of the weaknesses of the Agricultural Research
Project was that researchers paid relatively little
attention to linkages with extension, possibly because
extension at that time was handled by a multitude of
regional development agencies and research contracts
had to be negotiated separately with each one. One of
the aims of the Project was to develop Senegalese
capacity to screen and borrow technology from the
global research system and to adapt the technology
through applied research to local agro-ecological
zones. Unfortunately, throughout the Project, five of
ISRA's six commodity research programs lacked full-
time senior breeders.   There is a need for a donor
commitment to strengthen ISRA's commodity research
programs through the addition of senior breeders and
a vigorous training program to fill the vacancies in
the department; donor assistance will be required to
assist the Crop Production Department for another
decade.
(b) The next issue is the time that it will take to
develop human capital to replace expatriates and
improve the management and productivity of the
organization. This process will also require 10 to 15
years.   Although ISRA made excellent progress in
increasing its Senegalese staff from 30 to 117 during
the project period, the bulk of ISRA scientists are
35-40 years of age and have limited experience in
research. Donor assistance will be required for most
of the 1990's to help ISRA upgrade its staff through
overseas and on-the-job training.
16.       A  follow-up project to the Agricultural  Research
Project  was  approved  in  FY90  to:    build  on  the  strong
infrastructural and human resource base put in place under the



- 11 -
Agricultural Research Project, assist Government with the
consolidation of its research effort, with emphasis on research
programs expected to yield results in the short term, and
improve linkages with extension through more frequent contacts
with farmers and with the national extension service, financed
under the on-going IDA Agricultural Services Project (Cr. 2108-
SE).   The on-going Second Agricultural Research Project (Cr.
2107-SE) is assisting ISRA with its programming, management and
financing of priority research programs, as identified within
its Master Plan (Plan Quinquennal), and will therefore make a
critical contribution to the effective utilization of the
capital  invested  during  the  first  research  project.    The
financial and environmental fragility of Senegal's agricultural
sector requires carefully focussed research, if the contribution
of the agricultural sector to the economy is to be maintained.
The Government is unlikely to be able to support the costs of
its agricultural research without continued financial assistance
from IDA and other donors. Indeed, during the transition period
between the first and second IDA project and follow-up projects
of several other donors, research activity at ISRA came to a
virtual standstill due to lack of funds to finance research
operating costs. The shortage of recurrent operating funds led
to serious under-funding of recurrent station operating and
maintenance   costs,   thereby   increasing   the   need   for
infrastructure rehabilitation.
H. IDA Performance
17.       IDA staff contributed to the success of the project
through  close  and  supportive  working  relationships  and
professional advice. Throughout the project the Bank invested
considerable staff and consultant resources in the Project, from
preparation onwards. The appraisal team was well-staffed, with
a variety of disciplines represented, including agricultural and
livestock    research    specialists,    an    architect,    an
architect/planner, an economist, and 2 financial analysts.  A
major failure of IDA during appraisal was the failure to realize
ISRA's inadequacies in financial and administrative management
and incorporate corrective measures before project start-up.
Bank supervision was more than adequate, and the missions were
well-timed with appropriate skill mix.   The project received
considerably more than the customary 12 sw of supervision: 23 sw
in FY83, 14 in FY84, 60 in FY85, 35 in FY86, 17 in FY87, and 16
in FY88. Despite IDA's repeated refusals to provide a special
account for ISRA from the credit funds (a refusal due primarily
to the inadequacies of ISRA's accounting system), IDA made every
effort to make funds available to ISRA.  The original project
did not include financing for operating costs; however, IDA
liberally interpreted category 3 "Small equipment and research
supplies" and prepared a list of acceptable operating costs
which ISRA could fund under this category.



- 12 -
I. Lessons Learned
18.       For future projects the following lessons learned from
implementation of this project may be of value:
(a)  The "misuse" of the master plan as a blue-print for
project design led to an overambitious project.
Although master plans have proven to be excellent
tools in many countries for defining and prioritizing
research objectives, they are too crude a tool to
serve as a basis for recruitment policy/manpower
development plans (number of scientists by discipline)
and to define an infrastructure investment program
(number of offices, size of laboratories, etc.).
Moreover, most master plans are outdated the day that
they are printed.
(b)  A coherent recruitment policy to meet ISRA's skills-
mix requirements and a comprehensive staff development
program tailored to ISRA's long-term need for trained
staff   with   the   appropriate   skills-mix   (both
administrative and scientific) should have been
established prior to project start-up.   Retraining
needs should also have been defined in function of
ISRA's  skills-mix  requirements.       Although  ISRA
recruited excessive numbers of staff during the
project period, several of its research programs
lacked key staff with the required specializations.
(c)  A working accounting and financial management system
should have been in place before effectiveness,
followed by a project launch workshop to introduce a
new executing agency to disbursement and procurement
procedures, as well as to institutional reforms with
respect to research program design, implementation,
monitoring  and  evaluation.    One  of  the  reasons
frequently given for ISRA's lack of liquidity was its
inability to prepare disbursement requests in a timely
manner.
(d)  The long-term commitment of Government and donors to
provide adequate and timely research operating funds
is essential to ensure satisfactory results.   At
numerous times during the project, ISRA had no funds
to finance research supplies and research operating
costs. During the transition period between the end
of the project and the effectiveness of the second
project, ISRA's activities ground virtually to a
standstill due to lack of funds.   Over the last
decade, in Senegal, as in many other countries, donors
have financed virtually all investments in hardware



- 13 -
(buildings and equipment) and incremental recurrent
research operating costs. Over the same time horizon,
the Government of Senegal has focussed its research
spending on salaries to build up the core of
indigenous  scientific  staff.    As  a result,  non-
incremental research operating expenditures generated
by donor funded activities, but not financed by them,
are now seriously underfunded.   The Special Program
for African Agricultural Research (SPAAR) has proposed
the use of consolidated program budgeting ("research
funds") to alleviate the perennial problem of the
chronic under-funding of operating expenditures,
management and maintenance, and provide a mechanism
for governments to coordinate donors around the
implementation of a National Agricultural Research
Master Plan instead of a series of enclave projects.
The use of an integrated sector approach to research,
where all research operating costs are considered as
a capital good -- a development expenditure with long-
term results, as opposed to short-term -- and the
introduction of time-bound contractual arrangements
for research funding, based on accountability for
research  relevance,  would  require  a  long-term
commitment by donors and government.   Significant
conditionality should be attached to our future
lending operations, such as annual agreements on
research objectives and financing, combined with a
reasonable and realistic share of public resources for
the agricultural sector as a whole to be designated
for investments in research.
(e)  Two innovative concepts which worked well under this
project were the Consultative Group on Agricultural
Research in Senegal and ISRA's Scientific and
Technical Committee (STC).
(i) The Consultative Group on Agricultural Research
in Senegal was established as an informal forum
for all donors to agree on research concepts and
financial support to Senegal.   This Group met at
least once a year to exchange views with
Government on the progress of the Project,
performance of Borrower obligations, impact of
the Project on agricultural development, and
other matters related to the objectives of the
Project.   Despite organizational  difficulties
this Group kept all donors informed of project
progress and enabled the donors to work closely
together.    When  serious  problems  arose  in
1984/1985, the major donors unanimously supported
the recommendations of the 1985 IDA review
mission and urged Government to implement the



- 14 -
technical action plan promptly. It is unlikely
that such a donor consensus could have been
achieved   without   the   mechanism   of   the
Consultative Group, and unlikely that Government
would have implemented the recommendations so
promptly had the donors not presented a united
front. However, the Consultative Group was never
in a position to help ISRA to secure adequate
funding for research operating expenditures --
and thus had no bite. This Group should evolve
into a partnership between Government and donors
where binding decisions could be taken with
respect to the funding and the sustainability of
the entire national agricultural research system.
(ii) ISRA's  Board  of  Governors  Scientific  and
Technical Committee, was strengthened under the
Project with four independent scientists of
international repute as advisors.   The STC met
once a year to review research programs and
budgets before they were finalized and to review
research results.   The Project also financed an
annual visit by the independent researchers to
visit the research stations and review the
research   programs   in   their   areas   of
specialization. Although the STC took some time
to  become  fully  operational,   it  is  now
functioning and has an impact (the most recent
supervision mission of the follow-up project
found that committee reports were available and
were   taken   into   account   by   individual
scientists).
(f) The effective use of the in-depth review mission in
1985 and follow-up by subsequent supervision missions
resulted    in   significantly    improved   project
implementation.   The decision to field a major in-
depth review mission (before the mid-term review
became a standard feature of project implementation),
the utilization of an achievable six month technical
action plan, backed by the threat of suspension, and
the  willingness  of  Bank  management  to  devote
considerable staff/consultant resources (60 sw in
FY85) was a major factor in improved project
implementation.
(g) There was a tendency for most supervision missions to
focus on investment components such as civil works,
training, and strengthening of management, leaving the
supervision of the research program content to the
independent technical oversight committee (ISRA's
Scientific and Technical Committee). As an example,



- 15 -
most supervision reports do not mention progress (or
lack of it) in improving the linkages between research
and extension and making research more relevant to
farmers, although this was a stated objective of the
project. Moreover, the technical action plan of the
1985 review mission recommended changes in the
research program (for example, strengthening the crop
production research programs), but although most
recommendations of the technical action plan were
closely  monitored   (financial  management,   ISRA's
reorganization, etc.), this recommendation does not
seem to have received any follow-up in subsequent
supervision reports. The Africa Region at present is
staffed with only a few research specialists, and it
would be difficult, if not impossible, for them to
supervise each of the Region's research projects.
Possible solutions are: posting more research staff to
the field to supervise research programs in several
countries, relying more on other donors for research
expertise, using specialized research consultants, or
creating, during the project design phase, a mechanism
such as the technical oversight committee and closely
monitoring its performance. Supervision plans in the
SARs of future research projects should indicate how
research program supervision will be handled.
(h)  The use of an on-site consultant architect/planner in
a project with a significant civil works component,
and the regular supervision by IDA or consultant
architects greatly facilitated the execution of the
civil works construction program.
J.   Borrower Performance
19.       Borrower performance changed drastically over the
course of the project.   It quickly became apparent to early
supervision missions that ISRA, and its tutelary ministry, had
not followed the agreed principles concerning its organization,
and, moreover, that ISRA's financial situation deteriorated
rapidly to the point of paralysis because of lack of budgetary
control, inadequate accounts and accounting procedures and
incapacity to prepare disbursement requests in time.    ISRA's
overdraft with the Treasury increased from 265 million CFAF in
1979 to almost 8 billion in 1989.   At the time of the 1985
review mission, the mission leader indicated that both ISRA and
Government had breached most of the covenants of the Development
Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement. Nonetheless,
following the 1985 review mission, both ISRA and Government took
significant steps to improve their performance: reducing ISRA's
staff, revising ISRA's statutes and organization chart, and
improving financial and accounting management.   Substantial
improvement was achieved within one year, and by the end of the



- 16 -
project, ISRA and Government were in compliance with most of the
legal covenants.
K.   Prolect Relationship
20.       IDA staff and officials of the Borrower involved in
the implementation of the project enjoyed an amiable and
professional working relationship after the 1985 in-depth review
mission. Prior to this mission, there were difficulties between
the tutelary ministry and IDA staff, but these were resolved
when the tutelary responsibility was transferred to the Ministry
of Rural Development, and ISRA and the Borrower began to make
serious efforts to comply with legal covenants and to implement
the technical action plan recommended by the review mission.
L.   Relations with Cofinanciers
21.       Relations with cofinanciers (France, USAID, UNIFSTD,
ICRISAT/WARDA) were cordial, despite some minor disagreements
over the course of the project. A major contributing factor to
the good relations was the formation of a Consultative Group on
Agricultural Research in Senegal, composed of all the donors.
The Consultative Group met annually as an informal forum for all
donors to agree on research concepts and financial support to
Senegal and to exchange views with GOS on the progress of the
Project, performance of Borrower obligations, impact of the
Project on agricultural development, and other matters related
to the objectives of the Project.
M.   Consulting Services
22.       The  Project  financed  consulting  services  of  a
Management Controller, Accountant, Researcher, Architect/Planner
and a Procurement Specialist. Most contracts were of three to
four years' duration. Performance by the consultants was mixed.
The Accountant set up general and budgetary accounting systems
and trained ISRA staff to use them.   He frequently visited
research stations to assist staff in preparing and submitting
accounts.   However,  once his contract was over,  the system
collapsed.   The Architect/Planner remained under contract for
six years and was responsible for setting up and managing the
Technical Support Bureau and supervising the execution of works,
maintenance of infrastructure, and programming and budgeting of
civil works.   He was the focal point in liaising with the
consulting firms executing the works, as ISRA had no architect
on staff. The Management Controller implemented the management
improvements recommended by the 1985 review mission and assisted
ISRA in setting up a Management Control Unit.
N.   Project Documentation and Data
23.       There  is  a  plethora  of  documentation  in  the



- 17 -
correspondence files at the Africa Information Center, but no
project progress reports, and no audit reports after 1987.
Supervision documentation is massive; indeed the mission report
of the in-depth review mission is almost book-length. The legal
agreements seemed adequate for the project.   The problem lay
more with IDA, which did not always insist that Government and
ISRA respect the legal agreements. For example, as a matter of
expediency, IDA initially accepted ISRA's revised statutes,
despite the fact that they deviated significantly from what had
been negotiated and incorporated in the DCA.



- 18 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Credit 1176-SE)
II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
IDA requested the Borrower to comment on Parts I and III of
the PCR, but did not receive any comments.



- 19 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
PART m. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans and IDA Credits
Loan/Credit
No./               FY of
Title              Approval        Purpos                                   Comments
Agricultural Credit   69             Provide Credit for       Completed.     Production objectives
(L.584-SE)                           simple inputs, such as   Closed 6/76    were not achieved
Cr. 140-SE)                          seed, fertilizer and                    because of severe
animal traction                         drought and an
equipment and                           inappropriate price ratio
strengthening of                        between groundnuts and
Government                              fertilizers. The reform
organization in charge                  of the input distribution
of input distribution and               and marketing
groundnut marketing,                    organization failed
and of the extension                    because of insufficient
services.                               Government support,
poor performance by
consultants, and
inadequate IDA
supervision.
Casamance Rice        71             Improve 2000 ha of       Completed.     The project was
(Cr.252-SE)                          swamp rice through       Closed 6/77    successful due to yields
water control schemes,                  substantially above
clearing of 9,500 ha for                appraisal estimates,
agricultural production,                higher prices, and lower
agricultural credit and                 input costs. The project
infrastructure                          deviated in several
aspects from the
appraisal design because
suggested technical
improvements were
inadequately tested, and
exceptional climatic
conditions required
changes in cropping
patterns.



- 20 -
Terres Neuves          71             Resettlement of 300       Completed      The project was
Resettlement                          families from the         Closed 3/78    successful and reached a
(Cr.254-SE)                           Groundnut Basin to                       larger number of the
unexploited land in                      rural population than
Eastern Senegal,                         anticipated at appraisal.
provision of basic                       Average yield and
facilities and services to               farmer incomes also
250 established farmers                  exceeded appraisal
in the project area to                   projections; Extension
improve production of                    efforts did not focus on
groundnuts, cotton and                   some apparent
sorghum.                                 production problems.
73            Provide credit to farmer    Completed.    The agricultural credit
Agric. Credit II                      cooperatives for the      Closed 12/78   component was highly
(Cr. 404-SE)                          purchase of animal                       successful. However,
drawn farming                            the project failed in its
implements,                              institution building
strengthening                            efforts and was unable to
SODEVA's extension                       prevent the collapse of
service, and ONCAD's                     ONCAD, the
input distribution and                   disintegration of the
marketing service.                       cooperatives and of the
entire marketing and
credit system.
Sine Saloum Agric.     75             Increase groundnut,       Completed.     The project did not
Development.                          cereals and livestock     Closed 6/83    succeed in intensification
(L 1113-SE;                           output and yields                        techniques and the
Cr.549-SE)                            through improved                         project was redesigned
extension efforts to                     after 3 years to focus on
promote more intensive                   testing institutional
production techniques                    changes in input supply
and supply of                            marketing, and credit
equipment and inputs on                  and promoting simplified
credit.                                  technical recom-
endations. No such tests
were carried out. The
major lessons from this
project concern the
danger of poor selection
of technological
packages and the
difficulties inherent
when the realization of
production objectives is
dependent on insti-
tutional and policy
objectives which
Government did not
fully support.



- 21 -
Terres Neuves II       75             Resettlement of 450       Completed.      The project was a
Resettlement                          families in new villages  Closed 6/80     successful settlement
Project                               and 150 families in                      project, with farmers'
(Cr.578-SE)                           existing villages, and                   incomes reaching a level
providing physical and                   double that envisaged at
social infrastructure                    appraisal. However, the
services.                                technological package
introduced under the
project was only
partially adopted by
farmers because
Government price and
marketing policies
favored groundnuts,
sorghum and millet
instead of maize and
cotton. One of the main
lessons learned is that
the acceptability of
technical packages,
including cropping
patterns, depends not
only on their technical
soundness, but also on
the market forces and
the adequacy of the
marketing infrastructure.
Eastern Senegal        76             To increase beef          Completed.      Overall project
Livestock                             production for local      Closed 9/83    implementation was
(Cr.633-SE)                           consumption, improve                     highly satisfactory.
use of the country's                     Good progress was made
pastoral resources and                   in promoting pastoralist
agricultural by-                         associations with 25-year
products, and to                         leases over communal
increase the standard of                 pastures; an effective
living of some 30,000                    system for supplying
livestock owners in                      veterinary inputs was put
Eastern Senegal.                         in place; the functional
literacy program was
very successful.



- 22 -
Sedhiou II             76             Increase yields and       Completed.     Results fell short of
(Cr.647-SE)                           farmers' productivity by    Closed 6/81  expectations due to
promoting intensive                      institutional
production techniques                    shortcomings, such as
and animal traction.                     lack of administrative
and financial autonomy,
inefficiency of extension
services, lax credit
eligibility and repayment
policy, an overly
generous input subsidy
policy which placed a
heavy burden on already
constrained public
finances.
Debi-Lampsar           78             Develop irrigation on     Completed.     The originally designated
Irrigation                            1100 ha at Debi and on    Closed 3/86    net area for irrigation
(Cr.775-SE)                           2200 ha at Lampsar                       could not be fully
through (a) civil works                  developed because of
such as levelling,                       excessively saline and
earthworks, pumping                      sandy soils, and
stations; (b) assisting                  production of tomatoes
farmers to grow and                      had to be abandoned for
increase yields of paddy                 the same reason.
and tomatoes; (c)
farming research
appropriate to small
farm irrigation in the
delta, (d) preparing a
development plan for
irrigation resources in
the River basin; (e)
strengthening SAED.
Small Rural            80             To encourage local        Completed.      Subproject performance
Operations                            initiatives and thereby   Closed 12/87   was uneven, as was the
(Cr. 991-SE)                          broaden popular                          attainment of project
participation in                         objectives. Capital
investment decisions in                  Replacement Accounts to
the rural sector, and to                 provide for replacement
undertake only those                     of medium term assets
small rural projects that                had mixed-success.
were manifestly in the                   Performance was judged
interest of the                          sufficiently satisfactory
beneficiaries. To                        with regard to other
render small groups of                   objectives - i.e.,
producers creditworthy                   encouragement of
in the judgement of the                  producer groups,
local banking system,                    reinforcement of the
and to strengthen                        national project
Senegalese capacity to                   preparation capability,
and stimulation of



- 23 -
identify and prepare                    interest in this sort of
small rural projects.                   activity in the population
- to justify a follow on
project.
Forestry Project      81             Establishment of 2000    Completed.      After two years, the
(Cr. 1103-SE)                        ha of state-managed tree    Closed 12/89   project was reoriented
plantations; creation of                away from the pure
1500 ha of rural family                 production objectives
& 1,500 ha of rural                     toward the reconstitution
community plantations;                  and protection of the
improve management                      natural vegetative cover
and productivity of                     in the forest reserves of
10,000 ha of natural                    the project area.
forests; applied forestry
research; strengthening
the planning and
management capacity of
the Forestry
Department.
Eastern Senegal       84             Strengthening            Completed.      All investment
(Cr. 1406-SE)                        SODEFITEX's              Closed 6/91     components were
management capacity;                    completed. Extension,
crop development;                       research and functional
improving crop                          literacy worked well.
processing and storage                  However, there were
facilities; assistance to               serious issues related to
ABPs; upgrading and                     the viability of
construction of about                   SODEFITEX, and the
800 km of feeder roads,                 cotton sector in view of
construction of tube                    the collapse of world
wells and rehabilitation                cotton prices.
and construction of                     SODEFITEX's cotton
open wells; renovation                  cost price is well above
of village health posts;                the world market price,
strengthening of applied                and Government has no
agricultural research                   funds to subsidize the
with emphasis on                        cotton sector, or even to
linkage with extension                  reimburse SODEFlTEX
and livestock production                for services to the
in both the Northern                    farming community
and Southern project                    outside the cotton sector.
areas.



- 24 -
Irrigation Technical  86             The financial and        Completed.      Aside from the
Assistance                          institutional             Closed 12/88   implementation of the
(Cr. 1632-SE)                        rehabilitation of SAED                   studies planned, the
(as well as the physical                project had several
rehabilitation of the                   problems. Planned
infrastructure managed                  maintenance work was
by SAED), so that                       delayed because
SAED could implement                    disbursements were
its disengagement from                  suspended on several
production related                      occasions. SAED's
activities and become a                 financial rehabilitation
viable institution,                     was not achieved,
capable of designing                    despite large additional
and managing the                        funding from the
further development of                  French. SAED's cash
private irrigated                       flow situation was still
agriculture in the                      critical at the end of the
valley.                                 project. The expected
restructuring of SAED
and reduction of
personnel did not take
place.
Irrigation IV         88             Modernization and        Ongoing        Rehabilitation works in
(Cr. 1855 - SE)                      expansion of the                        Boundoum started in
Boundoum, Dagana and                    July 90, are proceeding
Thiagar Perimeters to                   on schedule, are
about 7,000 ha;                         adequately executed by a
restructuring of SAED,                  competent contractor and
particularly in respect                 supervised by an
of planning,                            experienced consultant.
development,                            Major maintenance
accounting and training;                works have been
developing a credit                     completed in Thilene,
network; training of                    Pont Gendarme and
farmers and staff;                      Kassak-Sud perimeters
provision of                            where farmers have
maintenance equipment                   successfully taken
and spare parts;                        overall activities
agricultural research,                  previously done by
reforestation and health                SAED. O&M activities
programs as well as                     have also been
studies on diversifying                 transferred to farmers in
irrigation development.                 Thiagar and Nianga.



- 25 -
Second                 90             Adaptive research         Ongoing         ISRA has greatly
Agricultural                          involving the testing of                 improved its scientific
Research                              technologies developed                    management and internal
(Cr. 2107-SE)                         during the first project;                 organization through a
applied research                         major restructuring.
targeted at major                        However, these initial
technical problems,                      reforms will prove very
development of an                        fragile if the financial
applied research                         and human resource
program of natural                       management systems are
resources management,                    not improved. Such
strengthening of                         improvements should
linkages between                         lead to further
research and extension;                  institutional reforms to
strengthening of                         make the system
administrative and                       accountable for research
financial management of                  results.
ISRA; financial support
to establish a
commercial production
company to manage
ISRA's revenue earning
activities.
Agricultural           90             To improve agricultural    Ongoing        The extension
Services (Cr.2108-                    services to farmers and                   component is off to a
SE)                                   herders and thus                          good start; the extension
increase their incomes.                  management unit is fully
To gradually harmonize                   staffed; work schedules,
the extension approach,                  regular in-service
reshape extension into a                 training of staff, closer
polyvalent service                       research/extension
capable of addressing                    linkages and monitoring
farmers' and herders'                    procedures have been
main activities, improve                 put into place but need
the linkages between                     to be closely supervised.
extension and research                   Progress in internalizing
and strengthen producer                  extension management
organizations.                           principles varies between
the different executing
agencies. The major
problem is lack of
counterpart funding.



- 26 -
2. Project Timetable
Item                Date Planned      Date Revised      Actual Date
Identification                                          1/26/1978
Preparation         4/79                                4/79
Appraisal Mission   11/79                               11/12-11/30/1979
Credit Negotiations   11/80                             2/23-3/3/1981 1/
Board Approval      12/80                               9/8/1981 2/
Credit Signature    10/81                               3/12/1982 3/
Credit Effectiveness   12/81          7/12/1982         6/3/1983 4/
10/31/1982
5/31/1983
Credit Completion    12/31/1987                         12/31/1988 5/
Credit Closing     6/30/1988                            12/31/1989 6/
1/    Negotiations delayed due to delays in preparing the architectural studies and plans for
the construction program.
2/    Board approval delayed when one co-financier withdrew, leaving a financing gap.
IDA agreed to increase its share of financing to cover the gap.
3/    Credit signing delayed due to delays in preparation of tendering and bid evaluation
documents for civil works component.
4/    Effectiveness delayed (21 months), primarily due to ISRA's inability to produce a
three year budget and work program satisfactory to IDA, and Government's
reluctance to open a revolving fund for ISRA with an initial allocation of CFAF 30
million.
5/    The one year completion delay was due to late start-up. The construction program
was completed in December 1988.
6/    The closing date was delayed by roughly the same amount of time as the effectiveness
delay.



- 27 -
3. Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(U.S. $1000)
IDA FY                     Appraisal                                 Actual as %
and Ouarter         Estimate             Actu.al              of Estimated
1981 1                       100
2                        100
3                       550
4                       550
1982 1                      1,000
2                      1,000
3                      2,075
4                      3,150
1983 1                      4,725
2                      6,300
3                      8,375
4                      10,450                 92                 0.9  %
1984 1                     12,525                  92                 0.7  %
2                      14,600                 98                 0.7  %
3                      15,275                 98                 0.6  %
4                      15,950               1,990                12   %
1985 1                     16,450               2,120                 13   %
2                      16,950              3,170                 19   %
3                      17,400              3,690                 21   %
4                      17,850              4,260                 24   %
1986 1                     18,075               5,060                28   %
2                      18,300              6,210                 34   %
3                      18,525              7,410                 39   %
4                      18,750              8,060                 43   %
1987 1                     18,938               9,050                48   %
2                      19,126              9,560                 50   %
3                      19,313              10,490                54   %
4                      19,500              11,410                59   %



- 28 -
IDA FY                     Appraisal                                 Actual as %
and Ouarter                Estimate             Actual               of Estimated
1988 1                                          12,290               63   %
2                                          13,340                68   %
3                                          14,840                76   %
4                                          15,880                81   %
1989 1                                          16,890                87   %
2                                          17,660                91   %
3                                          18,190                93   %
4                                          19,220                99   %
1990 1                                          19,460               100   %
2                                          19,880               102   %
3                                          20,130               103   %
4                                          20,220 1/            104   %
Closing Date:              December 31, 1989
Date of Final Disbursement:  May 22, 1990
1/    The actual dollar amount (US$20.2 million equivalent) differed from the appraisal
estimate (US$19.5 million equivalent) due to fluctuations in the exchange rate of SDR
and dollars. The SDR amount was unchanged.



- 29 -
4. Proiect Implementation I/
Appraisal                                 Actual (or
Indicators      Estimate                                   PCR Estimate)
Indicator 1     6 Nationally coordinated multidisciplinary  6 programs were implemented, but not always
commodity programs on: groundnuts,        adequately staffed and provided with
cowpeas, millet, sorghum and rice.        adequate operating funds.
Indicator 2     Establishment of 5 production systems      3 production systems programs were established at
programs at: Fanaye for the Senegal River    Djibelor for the lower Casamnance Zone, at Kaslack
Valley, at Nioro du Rip for the South     for the Groundnut Basin, and at St. Louis for the
Groundnut Basin; at Djibelor for the lower   Senegal River Valley.
Casamance Zone; at Dahra for the Sylvo
Pastoral zone; and at Kolda for the Upper
Casamance Zone.
Indicator 3     Building construction and station          Construction was done at 6 research stations, but was
development at six research stations, and  scaled down midway through the project in order to
development of a 100 ha experimental      use savings to finance operating costs.
irrigation perimeter at Fanaye.
Indicator 4     Training of Senegalese scientists through 48   21 MSc were trained. It was necessary to reduce the
M.Sc and 15 Ph.D fellowships and 20       original target, or spread M.Sc training over a longer
management fellowships.                   period of time, because of the disruptive effects of
trying to do it all within a 6 year project.
1/    No specific indicators were identified at appraisal, listed as such and monitored
throughout project supervision. The key indicators listed in the following table have
been extrapolated from the project description and implementation chart in the SAR.



- 30 -
5. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs (USS million)
Items                           Appraisal Estimate    Actual Estimate 1/
Civil Works and Site Development       16.1                 10.8
Vehicles and Equipment                 6.9                   8.7
Other Capital Costs                    2.9                   1.6
Senegalese Scientists and Technicians  11.8                 11.6
Expatriate Scientists and Consultants  34.4                 33.5
Support Staff                          16.1                 13.9
Training Costs                         4.3                   4.6
Audit                                  0.4                    0 2/
Other Operating Costs                  11.8                 21.1
Refunding PPF Advance                   1.4                 __0
106.1                106.8
1/    Actual estimate reflects the actual amount of the items financed by IDA plus the
estimated cost for items financed by other donors. Other donors financed their own
individual projects as part of the overall joint effort to strengthen ISRA, but ISRA did
not have records of the amounts financed by other donors.
2/    Audits were included under the actual amounts for Expatriate Scientists and
Consultants.



- 31 -
B. Project Financing (US$ million)
Source    Expenditure Categories           Planned      Actual      % Financed
IDA       Civil Works, Site Development     9.3           5.6
Equipment, Vehicles              0.5           1.4
Equipment, Supplies I/            1.3          9.2
Consultants' Services            4.2           2.9
Training                          0.3          0.1
Refunding PPF Advance             1.0          1.0
Unallocated                     .12 9
19.5         20.2        19 %
Co-financing Institutions
USAID                                       16.3         16.3        15 %
UNIFSTD                                      1.0          1.0         1 %
France                                      35.3         35.3        33 %
ICRISAT/WARDA                                1.1          1.1        31 %
Domestic
Government of Senegal                      32.9         32.9         1 %
TOTAL                           106.1         106.8       100 %
1/        Included small farm equipment and research supplies, fertilizers, laboratory
products, seeds, pesticides, fuel/gas/lubricants, electricity, office supplies for
researchers, maintenance and repairs, documentation, transportation, and
miscellaneous operating costs. Excluded were local staff salaries, office rent and
taxes.



6. Project Results
INFORMATION                                     PRODUCTS AVAILABLE FOR USE BY FARMERS
A. CROP
Commodity               Research                Available for Extension           Technology                                Product Details
Mittet       Identification & biology of        Advice on control and             Plant husbandry recomnendations.          Varieties: SOUNA 3, GAN 8203 (H7 06)
pests and pathogens.               dev. of pest/disease              Fertilization.                            8351, 8501, IBV 8001, 8004, IBNV 8401
warning systems.                 Storage.
Sorghum      Identification of pests            Pest detection in field.          Plant husbandry recommendations.          Varieties: CE90, CE 145-66,
(insect and other) and                                              Storage.                                   612 AX 6829, 612 AX 73200
mitdews.                                                             Varieties tolerant to mildew.             612 AX 7514
Maize        Pest Identification                Pest detection in field.          Fertilization.                            Varieties: Hybrid HVB 1 & 2,
Storage.                                  Composites (early) CP76, Variety UP", Synthetic C.
Irrigated   Locust & grasshopper control.    Dose & frequency of                 Plant husbandry recommendations.           Varieties: IKP & JAYA
Rice         Agronomic value of Azolla.         application of
Furadan (multi-purpose
pesticide).
Rainfed      Integrated pest control.           Identification of                 Varieties.                                Varieties: Di 12519, DJ684D                                   N)
Rice         Varieties 4 mineral                pests and diseases.               Plant husbandry recomnendations.          IRAT 10, IRAT 133
nutrition.
Cowpea       Detailed anatysis of att           Reptacement of CB6 by 821.        Plant husbandry recommendations.          Varieties: Basbey 21 (short cycle)
charact. of std. cv. C86           Spraying program vs.pests.        Phytosanitary treatments.                 58.57, Ndiambour, Hougne (med.cycle)
with new cv.B21.                   Warning system vs. pests          Intercropping recommendations.            Collection of rhizobium strains
Biologicat controt vs. storage   and diseases.                       Storage.
weevils.
Groundnut   Genetic mteriat resistant to    Forecast system for main              Post-harvest protection                   Cottection of rhizobiua strains.
disease and drought (shorter       diseases.                         & storage.                                Basic seed of imp. cvs available for
seasons).                          Post-harvest recommendations.  Dev. of shelling &                           national seed service (oil & confect.)
Seed treatment.                  threshing equipment.
Fertilization.
Rotation cereals/groundciuts.
Cotton       Anatysis of genetic materiat.    cv resistant to bacteriat           Formuita of NPKSB (8-10-27-5-1) fert.    Variety L299-10 to replace IRMA 96-97.
Knroledge of insect pest            leaf spot.                       Herbicide treat. (Cotodon/paraquat).
profite.                           Pest controL program.             Pyrethroids spray program (ULV).
Anatysis of cotton farming
systems.
Fruit        Inventory of pests & diseases.   Pest & disease identification. Spraying programs.                             Varieties: Citrus 19 selected cvs.
Crops                                                                                                                       Mango 9 selected cvs.
Vegetables  Agronomy and pest control.          Training and extension.           Pest and disease control.                 selected cvs. of onion, potato, tomato,
Cultural recommendations.                 sweet potato, cassava, gombo, jaxstu, etc.
Cultural notes.   Publication of Horticultural Manual.
Forage       Plant habit & productivity         Development of seed farms.        Dev. of different forage systems          Avail. of seed: Panicum maximum K1078
Crops        of diff. forage crops in diff.                                       for stock feeding in different areas.   cowpea and sorghui
areas of Senegal.                                                                                              Woody forage legumes (eg Leucaena).



6. Project Results
INFORMATION                                     PRODUCTS AVAILABLE FOR USE BY FARMERS
B. FORESTRY
Commodity              Research                 Available for Extension          Technology                                 Product Details
Local app   Species performance & habits.    Recom. of app. for diff.zones.Planting techniques.                             Seed: Acacia raddiana-senegal-albida,
Vegetative propagation.            Inventory of natural forests.  Direct seeding for few app.                  balanites.
Symbiosis identification.                                                                                      Production: volume table - Acacia seyal.
Exotic app  Species performance & habits.    Zonalisation of diff. app.          Nursery & plantation techniques.           Production: volume table for task.
Symbiosis identification.
Eucalyptus  Study: app performance in           Choice of species and sources. Nursery & plantation techniques.             Selected seed: E. camaldulensis.
diff. zones.                       Zonalisation.                    Manag. of E. holosericea                   E teriticernia, E. jansenit.
Setection of sources of                                             pLantations.                               Production: votume tables.
E. camaldulensis.
C. LIVESTOCK
Commodity              Research                 Available for Extension          Technology                                 Product Details
Sheep &      Genetic potential.                 Selection system.                management of breeding.                    Management of improved breeding stock.                       LO
Goats        Breeding.                                                                                                      Poul, Jalienke & Toubabir.
Productivity parameters.
Dairy        Identification of production       Transfer of results to           Technical/economic prodn. follow-up.    Imported stock & semen (Al).
problems.                          producers.                       Tech. recoma. for estab. of dairy          Foodstuffs.
Performance analysis of                                             units.
local stock.                                                        Production of foodstuffs.
Dairy technology.
Beef cattle Genetic potential.                  Selection system.                                                           Diffusion of imp. breeding stock.
Breeding.                                                                                                      Gobra and Ndama.
Productivity parameters.
Feeding      Eval. of sources of natural        Conservation & utiliz. of        Manag. systems natural pastures.           Feeding rations by species & manage.
forage.                            pastures.  Pasture management  Feeding systems for traditional              Molasses-urea blocks (MELUR).
Ident. crop & agro-indust.by-    & regeneration.                    semi-int. & intensive livestock
products.                          Availability & nutritive value.management.
Nutrition physiology.              Inventory of natural pastures.
Proposed management systems.
Pathology   Knowledge of pathogenic complex. Support to develop. projects.  Integrated disease control.                     Vaccine production (32 types).
Speciatized knowledge rel. to    Diagnostic services.               Specialized pest/disease control,
intensification.                   Efficiency of diff.              (ticks, tsetse flies, etc.)
Effects of pathogens on            pharmaceuticals.
productivity.
Technical & Economic data.



- 34 -
7. Status of Covenants
Credit
Agreement      Brief Description of Covenants              Compliance        Remarks
Section
3.01 (a)          Borrower shall cause ISRA to perform in       Partially.
accordance with Project Agreement and shall
not take any action which would prevent such
performance.
Borrower shall make proceeds of the credit    Yes
3.01 (b)          available to ISRA on a non-refundable grant
basis.
3.01 (c) (i)      Borrower shall make necessary budgetary       Partially         Borrower seldom made
allocations, on the basis of annual project                     adequate budgetary allocations,
budget forecasts, which shall have priority                    forcing ISRA to run up an
over any other research activities in the                       overdraft with the Treasury.
agriculture and livestock sectors.                              A budget accounting system
was not introduced until the
1985 supervision mission.
Allocations to research
programs were made on an
ad-hoc basis.
3/01 (c) (ii)     Borrower shall open a "caisse d'avance" in the   Partially      The initial deposit was made,
amount of 30,000,000 CFAF and replenish it                      but it was never replenished.
as necessary.
3.02              Borrower shall convene a meeting with the     Yes
Consultative Group to exchange views on the
progress of the Project.
3.03              Not less than once per year, Borrower shall   No                There was never a systematic
convene a meeting of the Consultative Group                    review of ISRA's training
to review the staff training requirements of                   requirements.
ISRA.
3.04              Borrower shall ensure that water and          Done
electricity services are extended to the sites
under Part C of the Project in Kolda, Nioro du
Rip, Kaolack and Richard Toll.



- 35 -
Project
Agreement         Brief Description of Covenants               Compliance      Remarks
Section-
ISRA shall carry out the project with due    Partially        1985 Supervision mission felt
2.01             diligence and efficiency and in conformity with               that ISRA had not used
appropriate administrative, scientific,                       appropriate administrative and
agricultural, engineering and financial                       financial practices.
practices.                                                    Performance improved
following implementation of
corrective action plan proposed
by this mission.
2.02 (a)         ISRA shall employ following key staff with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to
IDA.
(i)       A managing director, a chief of internal     Partially         On at least one occasion a new
auditing and budgetary control unit, an                       Managing Director was
administrative and financial director, an agent               appointed withoutconsultation
comptable particulier and a senior research                   with IDA.
planning and evaluation officer as chief of the
M&E Unit.
(ii)        The head of ISRA's Production Systems and    Yes
Rural Technological Transfer Research
Department assisted by a senior agronomist
acting as support research liaison officer and a
systems analysis specialist, a farming systems
specialist, an animal production systems
specialist, a systems sociologist and a
production systems economist constituting a
central systems analysis group;
(iii)     The head of ISRA's Commodity Research         Yes             Project coordinator and head of
Department, assisted by a senior agronomist.                  Department were not
satisfactory to IDA in 1985.



- 36 -
(iv)        For ISRA's Support Services Department, the    Partially          The architect/planner and
head of the Dept, an architect/planner, a                        Chief of Data Processing were
statistician/biometrist in charge of the data                    satisfactory
processing and statistics unit and a project
coordinator.
(b)            ISRA shall ensure that each key staff           Yes
mentioned in (a) is appointed for a period of at
least 3 years.
2.03              ISRA shall employ the following consultants
satisfactory to IDA:
(a)             four independent scientists of international    Yes
repute to assist ISRA's scientific and Technical
Committee;
(b)             Architectural consultants to assist the Technical   Yes
Support Unit in supervision of civil works.
(c)             Independent auditors to assist ISRA in          Partially         Cost accounting still not in
preparation of a proposal for a cost accounting                  place. First unqualified audit
system and to audit ISRA's accounts and assist                   report was in 1986. After TA
the internal auditing of budgetary control unit.                 and national accounting staff
left, accounting again
deteriorated.
Section 2.04      For each of the research programs, ISRA
shall:
(a)             Employ and maintain in position a subject       No
matter specialist in agricultural extension with
qualifications satisfactory to IDA.
(b)              Enter into agreements, satisfactory to the     Partially
Association, with the relevant regional
development agencies for the secondment of
such specialist.
Section 2.05      Within six months from date of this             Yes
Agreement, ISRA shall establish at its
headquarters a monitoring and evaluation unit.
Section 2.06      Procurement shall be governed by the            Yes
provisions in the schedule to the agreement.



- 37 -
Section 2.07     ISRA shall cause all services financed out of  Yes
the Credit to be used exclusively for the
project.
Section 2.08 (a)  ISRA shall furnish to IDA the plans,        Yes
specifications, reports, contact documents and
work and procurement schedules.
(b)       ISRA shall maintain adequate records and     Partially        This was not being complied
procedures.                                                   with at the time of the 5th
Supervision mission in 1985,
but subsequently an action
program was put in place to
improve ISRA's administrative
and financial management.
(c)       ISRA shall introduce no later than June 30,  No               No quarterly reports received.
1982, a project reporting system including
quarterly, progress reports and actual scientific
reports, and a project monitoring and
evaluation system.
d         ISRA shall prepare a completion report.      No               The person who began the
completion report left ISRA
and due to considerable staff
turnover in administration and
finance, there was no one who
had been involved with the
first project.
(e)       ISRA shall enable IDA representatives to     Yes
examine all plants, installations, etc.
(f)       Upon award by ISRA of any contract, financed   Yes
out of the credit, the Association may publish
a description, name and nationality of the
awardee, and price



- 38 -
Section 2.09 (a)   Three months before end of its fiscal year,  Yes
ISRA shall exchange views with Borrower and
Consultative Group on progress of the Project,
performance of Borrower's obligations under
the Credit Agreement, performance of ISRA's
obligations under the Project Agreement, the
effectiveness of its reorganized structure and
management, the impact of the Project on
Agricultural development in Senegal, and
ISRA's annual work programs & budgets.
(b)       ISRA shall promptly inform IDA of any        Yes
condition which interferes with progress of the
project.
Section 3.01     ISRA shall take out insurance with responsible   Partially     Complied with at a very late
insurers.                                                     date
Section 3.02     In event of transfer of its headquarters, ISRA  Yes
shall maintain the liaison office in Dakar.
Section 3.03     Each year ISRA shall prepare a proposal for  Partially         Until the recommendations of
its annual work programs, and a draft budget                  the 5th supervision mission
which shows a breakdown by research                           were implemented after 1985,
programs as well as a list of items to be                     ISRA was unable to produce
procured in the coming year.                                  budgets and work programs.
3.03 (b)         Not less than four months prior to end of its  Partially       These were always produced
fiscal year, ISRA shall furnish these proposals               with great difficulty and did
to its Scientific & Technical Committee and                   not always allow STC and CG
Consultative Group for exchange of views and                  adequate time for review.
separately to IDA for its approval.
3.03 (c)         Following such agreement, ISRA shall submit   Partially       It was very difficult for ISRA
proposals to its Board of Directors for review                to link the work program and
and shall carry out the work program in                       budget and until very late in
accordance with the budget.                                   the project, ISRA had no
means to monitor budget
execution.
(d)       First proposals shall pertain to the period July    Yes       Had to be prepared with
1, 1982, to December 1, 1982 and shall be                     substantial IDA input.
furnished to IDA not later than April 30,
1982.



- 39 -
Section 3.04 (a)   ISRA shall prepare a proposal for a cost                      Still not done by the time of
accounting system, suitable for its operations,                the 5th Supervision Mission in
and shall furnish the proposal to its Steering                 1985. A budgetary and
Committee and to the Consultative Group for                    general accounting system was
exchange of views and separately to the                        put in place, but not a cost
Association for its Agreement by April 30,                     accounting system.
1982.
(b)       Following such agreement, ISRA shall furnish    No              ISRA eventually implemented
the proposal to its Board of Directors for                     budgetary and general
approval and start implementing the approved                   accounting in 1986.
cost accounting system by July 1, 1982
Section 3.05     Not less than once per year, ISRA and its     No
Scientific and Technical Committee shall
review with the Consultative Group the staff
training requirements of ISRA.
Section 4.01     ISRA shall maintain records adequate to reflect  Partially      1985 SPN mission indicated
in accordance with consistently maintained                     that ISRA was not in
appropriate accounting practices its operations                compliance. After the action
and financial condition.                                       plan was put into effect, ISRA
did improve its accounting and
financial management.
Section 4.02 a    ISRA shall: (i) have its accounts and financial    Partially   All audits were qualified until
statements and the Project Account for each                    1986. Last audit received was
fiscal year audited; (ii) furnish the audit to the             for 1987.
Association not later than six months after the
end of each fiscal year.
B:SENPCRP3



8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
FY78     FY79      FY80     FY81      FY82     FY83      FY84     FY85      FY86     FY87      FY88     FY89     FY90      FY91     FY92    Total
Preparation       2.0      6.3       8.9      0.1                                                                                                              17.3
Appraisat                           64.4     14.7                                                                                                              79.1
Negotiations                                 13.4       4.0                                                                                                    17.4
thru Board
Supervision                                             8.2     23.3      14.4     59.7      35.2     17.4      15.9      7.9       3.6      0.6              186.2
CoupLetion                                                                                                                                   2.4      2.2       4.6
Other                      1.8       6.3      9.2       2.3       1.1      0.2      0.3       1.6      0.7                                                     23.5
(LOP, PAD)
TOTAL        2.0       8.1      79.6     37.4      14.5     24.4      14.6     60.0      36.8     18.1      15.9      7.9      3.6       3.0      2.2    328.1
Average SPN sw per year:                                                 18.62
Average SPI sw per year during implementation years (FY83-FY89)          24.83
0s



8. Use of Bank Resources
B. Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of                 Month/   No. of   Days in  Specializations                             ----------------------  Type of
Project Cycle            Year     Persons  Field    Represented (a)                             Status (b)   Trend (c)  Problems (d)
Identification          1-2/78        2         5    AGR (2)                                         N/A          N/A    N/A
Preparation              5-6/78        2        5    AGR (2)                                          N/A          N/A    N/A
Preparation              9-10/78       1       10    AGR                                              N/A         N/A    N/A
Preparation              4/79          1        1    AGR                                              N/A         N/A    N/A
Pre-Appraisal            9/79          1       12    AGR                                              N/A         N/A    N/A
Appraisal                11/79         9       19    AGR, ECN, FNA (2), LVS (C), AGRE (C) (2)         N/A          N/A    N/A
ARC (C) (2)
Post-Appraisal           4/80          1        4    AGR
Post-Appraisal           9/80          2        4    AGR
Post-Appraisal           10.80        2         2    AGR,ARC
Supervision               1/82         1        3    FNA                                              N/A         N/A    N/A
Supervision               6/82         1        7    AGR                                              N/A         N/A    N/A
Supervision 1             9/82        4        12    AGR, FNA, ARC, LVS                                3            1     D
Effect. Follow-up        12/82        2         3    AGR, LVS                                         N/A         N/A    N/A
Effect. Follow-up         3/83        3        15    AGR, FNA, LVS                                     2            2
Supervision 2             7/83         1        9    LVS                                               2           2      M, F
Supervision 3             3/84        2         7    LVS, FNA                                          2           2      N
Supervision Follow-up   6/84           1        4    LVS                                               3           3      M, F
Supervision 4            10/84        3        15    LVS, FNA, ARC (C)                                 3           3      N                                                          X>
Supervision 5             3/85         7       17    LVS, LVS (C), FNA, AGRE (C) (3), ARC (C)          3           3      N, P, F
Supervision 6             9/85        3        11    DDC, LVS, FNA                                     3          N/A    F, M, Di
Supervision 7            11/85        4        11    DDC, LVS, FNA, ARC (C)                            3          N/A    F, Di
Supervision 8           2-3/86        5        11    FNA, LVS (2), ARC (C), AGRE (C)                   3          N/A    F, Dl
Supervision 9           5-7/86        2         5    LVS, FNA                                          3          N/A    F, DI
Supervision Follow-up  10/86          2         8    LVS, FNA                                         N/A         N/A    N/A
Supervision FolLow-up  12/86          1         6    DDC                                              N/A         N/A    N/A
Suqpervision 10           1/87        1         8    FNA                                               2          N/A    F, M, DI
Supervision 11           6/87          1       11    FNA                                               2          N/A    Di
Supervision Follow-up   7/87           1        9    ARC                                              N/A         N/A    N/A
Supervision 12           1-2/88        1       19    FNA                                               2          N/A    Dl
Supervision 13           1-2/89        1        5    FNA                                               2          N/A    Dl
Supervision 14          9-10/89        1        9    FNA                                               3          N/A    Di
Completion               10/90         1              o                                               N/A          N/A    N/A
(a) Specializations:
AGR  = Agronomist, Agriculturist                      (C)  = Consultant
AGRE - AgriculturaL Research Specialist               DDC  = Deputy Division Chief
ARC  = Architect                                      FNA  = Financial Analyst
(b) Status:                                           (c) Trend:
1 = Problem-free or minor problems.                   1 = improving.
2 = Moderate problems.                                2 = Stationary.
3 = Major problems.                                   3 = Deteriorating.
N/A a Not applicable (No 590 produced).
(d) Types of Problems:
Di - Devetopment Impact       P = Potitical
F = Financial.               N/A = Not applicable (No 590 produced).
M = Manageriat.



- 42 -
ANNEX 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Cr. 1176-SE)
Participants in Completion Mission
Institut National de Recherches Agricoles (ISRA)
Dr. Mohamadou El Habib Ly, Director General
Mr. Ndiage Dieng, Secretary General
Mr. Souleymane Gueye, Management Controller
Mr. Cheick Badiane, former Management Controller
Mr. Pierre Diene, Accountant (Agent Comptable Particulier, ACP)
Mme. Aminata Thiam Ndoye, Programming and Training Unit (UPF)
Mr. Louis Sene, Chief of General Administration and Human
Resources (SARH)
Mr. Ibrahima Mbaye, former SARH, Management Control Department
Mr. Mbaye Ndoye, Technical Adviser Responsible for Research
Mr. Ndiaga Mbaye, former Deputy Director General, CORAF
Coordinator
Mr. Bara Diop, Documentalist, UNIVAL
Mr. Mamadou Sidibe, Researcher at the Department of Systems
Research and Agricultural Economics
Mr. Limamondaye Cisse, Director of Plant Research (DRPV)
International Development Association
Ms. Jann Masterson, Operations Analyst, AF5AG



- 43 -
ANNEX 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(CR. 1176-SE)
References
Byrnes, Kerry J. "Case Study No. 5, Senegal Agricultural Research and
Planning Project (685-0223)," CDIE Working Paper No. 112, Center for
Development Information and Evaluation, Agency for International
Development, Washington, D.C.
Eicher, Carl K. "A Mid-Term Assessment of the Senegal Agricultural
Research Project: Lessons for Donors." May 1985.
Institut Sen6galais de Recherches Agricoles. Catalogue des publications
de la recherche agricole s6n6aalaise. June 1990.
Institut Senegalais de Recherches Agricoles. "Premier projet de
recherches agricoles: volet constructions, 1981-1988."
Institut Senegalais de Recherches Agricoles. Rapport annuel 1989.
Institut Senegalais de Recherches Agricoles. Rapport annuel 1990.
Jammeh, Sidi and Lele, Uma. "Building Agricultural Research Capacity in
Senegal (Analysis of the Evolution of Agricultural Research and the
Phase I Senegal Agricultural Research Project, 1982-1988)."   June 1988.
Pickering, Donald, editor. African Aaricultural Research and
Technological Development, Proceedings of a High-Level Meeting in
Feldafing, Federal Republic of Germany. September 24-27. 1987. June
1988.
Pritchard, Anthony J. Lending by the World Bank for Agricultural
Research, A Review of the Years 1981 throuah 1987. World Bank Technical
Paper No. 118. May 1990.
Sihm, Poul. "Fifth Supervision Mission, Project Review." June 1985.
Special Program for African Agricultural Research (SPAAR). "Guidelines
for Strengthening National Agricultural Resarch Systems in Sub-Saharan
Africa." May 1987.
USAID. "Mid-Term Threshold Evaluation of the Senegal Agricultural
Research and Planning Project (685-0223)."   September 1985.






Sr EG  \~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-.2~~~~~~~~J  t~~~~~~~ta.                Soc.gO/          ~           ~           ~           ~          ~           ~          ~          ~         ~         IRD144
GOStSt .Z ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U                                                                                                                                                                     ARH18
AUOIf .TAIAA  !-U
0'    Th5 SW Oat boatoe,a,.oo, tO. ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~      ~     &~dT.1
A      a   ak  tf aooat a
0   . a.,ao  ft.-a.sa
UmWwt to atooO,t,aattsohad~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......
Ta. O.na~.tataoa and and e
Va   / Toh.   4,,   -W,. a,.                                                                                      A 
Wom    r. a OtOf  ofv11 tO4                        -*-                                  L 0    i
"unat   O   hea sttso
a.actaoo at utO o,sta,.a40ar
*  Research Stations     MOoo,4o.I.                            M
O      Other Reseorch Locations   "00 
Ecological Zones                      Jo
70 -   Isohyets in mnm
00o--  Coys of RoinB
Population Density/ Km'                           
5 -20                             \O0                                                                                                                                         E Nd.,bG ki-'ANL\d
20 - 50                                 7           0Ol              0
> 50 
Posed Roads                                                                                                                                                                               N           
---  Gravel Roads
--- Paved Rcads undier Ccnstrvction 
Roil.oys                                                                                    -                        /           
F     Ferries              ~1pK.k 
P,oAircortl Bo.ndcries                Fgono
- - Internotianal Boundaories        N             'Ct,.~,                                   os
In.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6



