Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HLE    COPY                                 Report No. 3073-SEa
SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
August 19, 1981
West Africa Region
Third Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:             CFA franc  (CFAF)
US$1.00       :            CFAF 270
CFAF 1,000   :             US$3.70
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg) :          2.20 pounds
1 metric ton (T):          0.98 long tons
1 hectare (ha)  :          2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km):          0.62 miles
ABBREVIATIONS
BNDS         Banque Nationale de Developpement du Senegal
(National Development Bank)
CGIAR        Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research
CDH          Centre de Developpement Horticole
(Horticultural Research Center)
CEP          Centre d'Etablissements Publiques
(Para-Public Sector Expenditure Control and Accounting
Authority)
CIM9YT       Centro Internacional de Mejoramiento de Maiz y Trigo
(International Maize and Wheat Research Center)
CILSS        Comite Inter-Etat de Lutte Contre la Secheresse Sahelienne
(Sahelian Drought Intergovernmental Committee)
CNRA         Centre National de Recherche Agricole, Bambey
(National Agricultural Research Center)
CNRF         Centre National de Recherches Forestieres
(National Forestry Research Center)
CRODT        Centre de Recherches Oceanographiques de Dakar-Thiaroye
(Oceanographic Research Center of Dakar-Thiaroye)
CTFT         Centre Technique Forestier Tropical
(Tropical Forest Research Center)
DGPA         Direction Generale de la Production Agricole
(Agricultural Production Department)
FAO          Food and Agriculture Organization
FED          Fonds Europeen de Developpement
(European Development Fund)
GOS          Government of Senegal
IADS         International Agricultural Development Service
IARC's       International Agricultural Research Centers
ICRISAT      International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-
Arid Tropics
IDRC         International Development Research Center
IEMVT        Institut d'Elevage et de Medecine Veterinaire pour les
Pays Tropicaux
(Animal Production and Health Research Institute for
Tropical Countries)



- ii -              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IFDC         International Fertilizer Development Center
IITA         International Institute of Tropical Agriculture
ILCA         International Livestock Center for Africa
INDR         Institut National de Developpement Rural
(National Rural Development College)
IRAT         Institut de Recherche Agronomique Tropicale et des
Cultures Vivrieres
(Research Institute for Tropical Agriculture)
IRRI         International Rice Research Institute
ISRA         Institut Senegalais de Recherches Agricoles
(Senegalese Agricultural Research Institute)
LNRV         Laboratoire National de la Recherche Veterinaire
(National Animal Health Research Laboratory)
MDR          Ministere du Developpement Rural
(Ministry of Rural Development)
OMVS         Organisation pour la Mise en Valeur du Fleuve Senegal
(Senegal Valley Development Board)
ONCAD        Office National pour la Cooperation et l'Assistance au
Developpement
(National Cooperative Organization)
ORSTOM       Office de Recherche Scientifique et Technique Outre-Mer
(Foreign Science and Technology Research Institute)
PAPEM        Point d'Appui pour Experimentations Multiples
(Large Scale Experimental Test Areas)
PPA (F)      Bank Project Preparation Advance (Facility)
RDA          Regional Development Agency
SAED         Societe dnAmenagement et d'Exploitation des Terres du Delta
du Fleuve Senegal
(Senegal River Valley Development Agency)
SAFGRAD      Semi-Arid Foodgrain and Development Program of the Organization
for African Unity
SERST        Secretariat d'Etat a la Recherche Scientifique et Technique
(Ministry of Science and Technology)
SODEFITEX    Societe pour le Developpement des Fibres Textiles
(Cotton Development Agency)
SODESP       Societe pour le Developpement de l'Elevage de la zone sylvo-
pastorale (Sylvo-pastoral Livestock Authority)
SODEVA       Societe de Developpement et de Vulgarisation Agricole
(Groundnut Basin Extension Agency)
SOMIVAC      Societe de Mise en Valeur Agricole de la Casamance
(Casamance Development Agency)
SONAR        Societe Nationale d'Approvisionnement Rural
(National Agricultural Inputs Distribution Agency)
SONED        Societe Nationale d'Etudes pour le Developpement
(National Consulting Company)
STN          Societe des Terres Neuves
(Land Settlement Agency)
TSU          Technical Services Unit
UNIFSTD      United Nations Interim Fund on Science and
Technology for Development
This document has a restricted distribution and may bc uscd by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



- iii -
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
WARDA        West Africa Rice Development Association
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Senegal:                     July 1 - June 30
ISRA                                       July 1 - June 30
(beginning 1982)                           (January 1-December 31)



SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. BACKGROUND ..........       ...................................    1
A.  Project Background ....................                      1
B.  The Rural Sector .....................                       2
C.  Sector Issues and Strategy .........................         4
D.  Structure and Current Status of Agricultural
Research       ................................            6
E.  Current Status of Agricultural Education
and Extension   ................................           9
Il. THE PROJECT ............................................ il
A.  The Proposed National Agricultural Research
Strategy ..........................    il
Reorganization    ............. .............   12
Consultative Group on Agricultural Research
in Senegal ..............................   12
Research-Extension Linkage .........................   12
B.  The Project Area ..............................   13
C. Summary Project Description    .             .15
D.  Detailed Features ...................................   16
Production Systems Research Programs ..         ............  16
Commodity Research Programs ........... .............   20
Support Services .................       ..................   22
Strengthening of ISRA Headquarters ................    .   23
Staffing    ..................... ......................   23
Training    ..................... ......................   24                       r
Visiting Scientists ............. .. .................   26
Research Station Development and Civil Works .......  26
Furniture, Equipment and Vehicles ......... .........   26
E.  Implementation Schedule ............ .. ..............   26
III. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING .............................   28
A.  Cost Estimates .....................................   28
B.  Proposed Financing .................................   30
C.  Financial Arrangements and Budgetary Implications           31
D.  Procurement and Disbursement .......................   32
E.  Accounts and Audit .................................   33
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .......        .....................   34
A.  General Management          .............                   .......   34
B.  Research Station Management ........................   35
C.  Civil Works ................ ...............   36
D.  Monitoring and Evaluation   ..........................   36
This report is based on the findings of an IDA mission which visited Senegal
in November/December 1979 comprising Messrs. Jan Weijenberg, Joseph Baah-
Dwomoh, Bernard Dussert and Mrs. Muriel Brathwaite (Bank), Messrs. Robert
Etheredge, Asrat Felleke, Serge Gilly, Robert S. Temple and Bill C. Wright
(consultants).



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
V.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS .............................   36
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED WITH THE BORROWER,
CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..........................   41
TABLES IN MAIN TEXT
2.1 Research Staff Requirements
2.2 Civil Works and Equipment Requirements
3.1 Summary Project Costs
3.2 Proposed Project Financing
ANNEXES
1. Responsibilities and Qualifications of Key Personnel
2. Outline of Duties of the Technical Services Unit and the
Executive Architects
3. Research Staff Requirements by Discipline and Program (PY6)
4. Supporting Tables
(i) Project Costs by Year and Type of Expenditure
(ii) Project Costs by Year and Research Program
(iii) Project Costs by Year and Organizational Unit
(iv) Project Cash Flow
(v) Proposed IDA Financing by Year and Type of Expenditure
(vi) Proposed Financing from France by Year and Type of Expenditure
(vii) Proposed Financing from UN Science and Technology Fund by Year
and Type of Expenditure
(viii) Proposed Financing from USAID by Year and Type of Expenditure
(ix) Proposed Financing from USAID through FAO/CILSS by Year
and Type of Expenditure
(x) Proposed Other Financing (WARDA, ICRISAT) by Year and Type
of Expenditure
(xi) Proposed Financing from Senegal by Year and Type of Expenditure
(xii) ISRA Balance Sheets
(xiii) IDA Disbursement Schedule
(xiv) Incremental Project Costs
(xv) Estimated Rates of Return to Agricultural Research Expenditures
(xvi) Research Expenditures in West Africa (1975)
5. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
CHARTS
1. IBRD No. 21580    ISRA Organization Chart
2. IBRD No. 21578    Research Center Organization Chart
3. IBRD No. 21579    Implementation Schedule
MAP
1. IBRD No. 14941    Agro-Ecological Zones, Political and
Administrative Boundaries
Research Station Location



SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.01      The Government of Senegal (GOS) has decided to focus its agricul-
tural research more closely on the problems of the farmer, by reorienting the
work of the Institut Senegalais de Recherches Agricoles (ISRA). In early
1978, following Bank preparatory missions, GOS requested the help of the
International Agricultural Development Service (IADS), a US based agency
funded by the Rockefeller Foundation, to work in collaboration with ISRA in
preparing a Master Plan (strategy for development) for improving the national
agricultural research system. The services of IADS international team were
financed out of the ongoing Sine Saloum Agricultural Development Project
(Credit 549-SE), following agreement between GOS and the Association.
1.02      The Master Plan was submitted to the Government and the Association
in January/February 1979, reviewed, and found generally acceptable. The Plan
made three main proposals: (i) reorganization of ISRA and regionalization of
agricultural research; (ii) national coordination of multidisciplinary commo-
dity programs integrating them into improved production systems; and (iii)
establishment of priorities for the regionalization of the above-mentioned
programs. Specifically, the Plan proposed that research work be concentrated
in four of the seven agro-ecological zones in the country as follows:  (i) the
Senegal River Valley for irrigated agriculture; (ii) the Sahel Region for
animal production systems research; (iii) the Central Region including the
central and southern parts of the Groundnut Basin; and (iv) the Casamance
Region in the higher rainfall areas in the South.
1.03      Following this general agreement, ISRA prepared more detailed propo-
sals for a first phase implementation of the Master Plan. Since priorities
still needed to be selected taking into account potentially available resour-
ces, the Bank offered further assistance towards the preparation of a research
project based on ISRAMs proposals. In early March 1979, GOS requested IADS
to review and evaluate the ISRA proposals, and prepare the final project
preparation document. Subsequently, a US$500,000 advance was granted under
the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) to help finance preparation costs
including IADS services and preliminary architectural and engineering designs
for research station buildings and land development. By end August, 1979,
IADS presented its final report to Senegal. In September a Bank mission
discussed the report with Senegalese authorities, and reached agreement in
principle on the proposal. An appraisal mission visited Senegal in November/
December 1979. Upon completion of the preliminary designs, negotiations were
held in Washington in early March 1981. Subsequently, the PPF advance was
increased to US$1,000,000 to help finance the preparation of tender documents
and the bid evaluation.



-2-
B. The Rural Sector
1.04      General.  Senegal, which covers an area of about 200,000 km2 in
West Africa, lies in the Sudano-Sahelian Zone. Its population as of mid-1979
was estimated at 5.5 million and growing at 2.7% annually. About 75% of the
population live in rural areas and although rural-urban migration has been
quite high, the rural population continues to grow. Of the rural population,
nearly 60% live in the Central Groundnut Basin, which covers about 25% of the
country's land area. Pressure on the land in this area is becoming serious
and hence there has been a gradual movement of people, encouraged by the
Government, from the basin to the less populated areas of Eastern Senegal.
The Gross National Product (GNP) was estimated at US$430 per capita in 1979,
with a negative real per capita rate of growth of 1.3% per annum over the
period 1970 to 1979. In contrast to this average per capita income for the
country, agricultural sector income was about US$190 per capita in 1979.
Agricultural and food production generally stagnated between 1960 and 1979,
partly as a result of a series of droughts starting in the late 1960s, partly
because agricultural technology extended did not produce the desired results
and also because the available technology is gradually becoming obsolete.
Thus, despite increasing investment in the rural sector, Senegal has not been
able to improve crop production, and continued food imports are increasing the
pressure on foreign exchange reserves.
1.05      Importance of Agriculture for the Economy.  The agricultural sector
is central to Senegal's economy.  Despite poor soils and erratic rainfall,
which make agricultural production risky, the rural sector employs over 75%
of the labor force.  In recent years, some 30-35% of GDP and 60% of export
value has originated in the sector.  Within the sector, about 78% of output
has come from crops and livestock products, 15% from fishing and 7% from
forestry products. Basic food crops produced are millet, sorghum, rice, maize
and cowpeas; the main cash crops are groundnuts and cotton. Almost 95% of
rural output is produced by small-scale farm units from rainfed agriculture;
however, there exists much diversity in farm size, labor availability,
ownership of agricultural capital, productivity and revenues.
1.06      Over the past decade groundnuts and millet/sorghum have taken up
close to 90% of the cultivated area (47% and 42%, respectively). Between 1974
and 1977 major export commodities have been groundnut products (75% of agri-
cultural exports), fish products (14%), and cotton products (7%). On the
import side, since 1974, food imports have made up 20-30% of total merchandise
imports; of the total, rice has accounted for about 35%, wheat 13%, sugar
products 26%, and fruits and milk products 9% each.
1.07      The yields of those crops to which considerable research commitment
has been made in the past, groundnuts for example and to a lesser extent
millet, compare reasonably well with international norms, especially on those
farmer fields where better crop husbandry is practiced. However, because
of the constraints inherent in the existing farming systems the majority
of farmers do not attain these yields. Research on these constraints is
urgently needed. For the food crops, yields lag behind those in other



- 3 -
countries and cereal deficits in Senegal are a recurrent feature of the
economy. Regular cereal imports averaged about 370,000 tons in 1976/77 and
1977/78 with rice accounting for 246,000 tons. Additional imports (as food
aid) are often made, averaging 40,000 tons in good weather years and over
200,000 tons in bad years.l/ Rice has become an increasingly important food
grain in Senegal. With the rapid urbanization in the country, the demand for
rice has been rising. In 1974-79 an average of 75% of the rice consumed in
Senegal was imported, contributing significantly to the cereal deficit. Thus,
even with an annual rate of growth of 6.3% in cereal production and growth of
demand of 3.4% per annum, the cereal deficit would be about 283,000 tons by
1985.
1.08      Livestock production is important in all regions of Senegal.  In
1977, the country had about 2.5 million cattle and 2.8 million small ruminants.
The annual off-take is quite low (10% for cattle and 25% for sheep and goats),
due mainly to high death rates of young animals, low rates of fecundity from
poor nutrition, inadequate disease control, and imperfect management practices.
Despite the size of the livestock population, meat consumption per capita is
,quite low--6-10 kg/capita overall, with 10-15 kg/capita for Dakar.
1.09      Because of agriculture's importance to the economy, Government has
been increasing its investment in the sector.  Efforts to develop agriculture
have been directed toward: (a) increasing groundnut and millet production
through the Programme Agricole; (b) promoting livestock development in the
semi-arid zone; (c) encouraging migration to less heavily populated areas;
and (d) seeking to develop the country s irrigation potential especially in
the Senegal River Basin. Irrigated agriculture, for which the potential in
the Senegal River Valley is over 200,000 ha, would reduce reliance on imported
foodgrains, mainly rice. Vegetable production could also become important with
irrigation. However, costs for full water control irrigation schemes are
excessively high. Farming systems would need to be adapted to low cost irri-
gation and research would be a necessary prerequisite for such development.
Though the potential for diversifying agricultural production appears limited,
there is a considerable potential for increasing cereal production in the
irrigated perimeters, which can substitute for imports, and for livestock
production through improvement in management practices to increase meat
consumption.
1.10      Institutions in the Sector.  Responsibility for the development of
the sector lies primarily with the Ministry of Rural Development. However,
several other ministries, including Water, Forestry and Inland Fisheries,
Human Affairs, Public Works and Water, and Science and Technology (SERST)
have specific responsibilities for rural development. These ministries are
responsible for general policy, with the execution of the Government's
agricultural program entrusted to five semi-autonomous Regional Development
Agencies (RDAs)--each assigned to a particular ecological zone where it does
extension work--and with all agricultural research entrusted to ISRA.
1/   For example, additional cereal imports of 247,000 tons were made in
1977/78 consisting of 36,000 tons of millet and sorghum, 21,000 tons of
maize and 190,000 tons of other food aid.



- 4 -
1.11      In addition to the technical agencies, the National Development
Bank (BNDS) assists agricultural development projects by providing short and
medium term credits to farmer cooperatives for the purchase of inputs. Until
recently, the credits were channelled through the National Cooperative Organi-
zation (ONCAD) which was also responsible for marketing of agricultural
products and credit reimbursement as well as cooperative development. ONCAD
having been dissolved in September 1980, Government has created a new agency
(SONAR), responsible for the supply of agricultural inputs to the coopera-
tives; the distribution of agricultural credit is still being studied. In the
past few years questions have been raised about the effectiveness and inter-
vention roles of the technical and financial agencies. Though the proposed
project would not work through the agencies, their efficient performance is
important for the rapid dissemination of benefits from the improvement of
research. Through this project and others, the Bank is seeking to improve
the performance of the agencies and to have Government clearly define the
roles to be played by each of them in rural development.
C. Sector Issues and Strategy
1.12      There are at present four main issues in the sector that the project
is designed to tackle. First, past research has concentrated on groundnuts and
cereal production from rainfed agriculture. There is therefore virtually no
research knowledge of production from irrigated agriculture in the country.
But objectives of increasing home grown food and reducing food imports would
depend increasingly on developing Senegal's irrigation potential. Future
strategy then would involve new research efforts on problems of irrigated
production as well as suitable farming systems under irrigation.  Second,
agrieultural research has always been concentrated at one main station (Bambey)
in a lower rainfall area (700 mm).  Through decentralization of research
proposed under the Project, efforts would spread to areas with higher rainfall
and therefore with higher production potential. Third, output from rainfed
farming is stagnating. The issue is the need to define improvements in
farming systems that take into account farmer constraints and the farmers'
capacity to adopt new packages. Without research it may be difficult to have
any new message to extend in the next decade. Fourth, diseases and insect
attacks are beginning to be serious in agricultural production. The strategy
is to have researchers work on these problems as soon as they develop so as to
avoid possible catastrophes. Finally, several institutional and socioeconomic
problems plague the agricultural sector. Issues concerning general price
policy, marketing, agricultural credit and farmer debts, input distribution,
and the general organization of the rural sector are threatening to disrupt
agricultural production. Government recognizes the importance of these
factors in farmers' decision making and is undertaking a general reform of the
rural sector, of which this project is an integral part. The wider institu-
tional problems are being addressed under the recently effective Structural
Adjustment Lending Operation.



-5-
1.13      Previous Bank Group Involvement.  Bank Group lending for the
rural sector has amounted to US$98.5 million, 89% from IDA, for 14 operations
as follows: (a) three projects for engineering and construction of polders
and large irrigation perimeters in the Senegal River Delta were financed by
Credits 350-SE (US$4.5 million, 1973), S-18-SE (US$1 million, 1975), and
775-SE (US$20 million, 1978); (b) two projects for agricultural credit
financed by Loan 584-SE (US$3.5 million) and Credit 140-SE (US$6.0 million)
in 1969, and by Credit 404-SE (US$8.2 million, 1973); (c) two projects for
development of rice cultivation in the southern Casamance Region under
Credits 252-SE (US$3.7 million, 1971), and 647-SE (US$6.3 million, 1976); (d)
two projects for settlement of farm f amilies in the thinly-populated Eastern
Senegal Region under Credits 254-SE (US$1.4 million, 1971), and 578-SE
(US$2.0 million, 1975); (e) the Sine Saloum Agricultural Development Project
to intensify and diversify cropping in the southern Groundaut Basin financed
by Loan 1113-SE (US$7 million) and Credit 549-SE (US$7 million) in 1975; (f)
a livestock development project in Eastern Senegal Region financed by Credit
633-SE (US$4.6 million, 1976); (g) an emergency drought relief program under
Credit 446-SE (US$3.0 million, 1973); (h) a rural development fund project
under Credit 991-SE (US$11.0 million, 1980); and (i) a forestry project under
Credit 1103-SE (US$9.3 million, 1981).
1.14      Performance Evaluation.  Project performance in general has been
patchy, with management effectiveness deteriorating, and expected benefits
increasingly unrealized. Project Performance Audit Reports have been issued
for five projects: First Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 584-SE and Credit
140-SE); First Casamance Rice Project (Credit 252-SE); Terres Neuves I Reset-
tlement Project (Credit 254-SE); Drought Relief Project (Credit 446-SE); Sene-
gal River Polder Project (Credit 350-SE); and Second Agricultural Credit Pro-
ject (Credit 404-SE). A Project Completion Report has been issued for Terres
Neuves II Resettlement and Eastern Senegal Technical Assistance Project (Credit
578-SE). The main shortcomings mentioned in the Project Performance Audit
Reports for these projects concern (i) the quality of engineering design and
supervision of construction of project works; (ii) marketing, unremunerative
prices and input distribution; and (iii) the need to investigate more thor-
oughly the social aspects involved in project planning and execution. Although
these lessons are not all relevant to the proposed Project, during appraisal
and follow-up missions particular attention was paid to measures to ensure
sound engineering preparation and supervision of construction.
1.15      Sector Lending Strategy.  Future Bank Group investments in the rural
sector would continue to give priority to rainfed agriculture in the well-
watered southern one-third of the country and to irrigation along the Senegal
River.  Since results from existing projects have not been as good as antici-
pated, future investments in follow-up projects would include appropriate
measures to help the Government to improve performance such as: decentraliz-
ing executive authority, promoting farmers  organizations, and providing more
practical staff training. Investment opportunities will also be explored in
livestock, forestry and fishing, particularly where the Bank has a contribu-
tion to make by way of new technology and/or improved institutions.



- 6 -
D. Structure and Current Status of Agricultural Research
1.16      Crop Research.  Senegal has a relatively long history of agricul-
tural research, beginning in Bambey in 1921 when a research station was
established to produce improved varieties of groundnuts and to study cultiva-
tion methods. In 1933 this research was expanded to include food crops grown
in association with groundnuts: millet, sorghum, and cowpeas. Later, in
1936, a chemistry laboratory was established, and soil pedology investigations
began. In 1938, Bambey became the Federal station for agronomic research in
French West Africa. When Senegal became independent in 1960, Bambey became
the Centre National de la Recherche Agronomique (CNRA). By bilateral agreement,
the administration was placed in the hands of the French research organization,
Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales et des Cultures Vivrieres
(IRAT). In 1975 ISRA was created and IRAT continued to assist in staffing
with financial support from the French Government.
1.17      ISRAs research on millet, sorghum, groundnuts, maize, cotton,
cowpeas, and soybeans is carried out by CNRA, which conducts research nation-
wide. At the Bambey station (and other locations) there are also research
programs on soil and water management, soil fertility, plant protection,
farming systems, and studies of techniques for transferring technology.
Additionally, there are studies on agricultural machinery, post-harvest
technology, seed production and introduction, and animal husbandry. In the
past Bambey has served, de facto, as the national crop research institute.
Research at Fanaye and Djibelor has been confined largely to rice although
some limited research with other crops is going on at Fanaye. Crop research
in the past has had several major flaws:  (i) it was concentrated in one
research station at Bambey in an area with low potential for production
increase; (ii) it had poor links with agricultural extension, oriented towards
plant breeding rather than addressing existing farmer constraints; (iii) it
was organized along disciplines, preventing well oriented research programming
and coordination; and (iv) it was concentrated on research stations with
little research done on farmers' fields.
1.18      Animal Research.  Animal research began in 1935 with the estab-
lishment of a laboratory for veterinary research at Hann near Dakar. This
research station, like Bambey, had a federal responsibility for all of
French West Africa until Senegalese independence in 1960 when it became
the Laboratoire National de l'Elevage et des Recherches Veterinaires (LNERV).
The French organization, Institut d'Elevage et de Medicine Veterinaire des
Pays Tropicaux (IEMVT), continued to assist LNERV by the secondment of expert
staff. In 1975, LNERV was integrated into ISRA's organization.
1.19      Animal research has been concentrated at LNERV and its substation
at Sangalkam. Research has mostly been related to animal health (virology,
bacteriology, helminthology, entomology and protozoology). The production of
vaccines (for several countries in West Africa) is a large activity at LNERV.
Some attention has been given to animal nutrition, genetics, physiology and
agrostology, especially at Sangalkam and at the Animal Production Research
Centers at Dahra and Kolda. Some research on work oxen has been carried out



- 7 -
at Bambey where the "Bambey breed" was created by crossing the Peul Zebu with
the N'Dama. Other cattle breed development work in Senegal includes the
crossbreeding of the Montbeliard and Pakistani breeds for milk production at
Sangalkam; the introduction of the Guzerat breed (zebu) from Brazil and
subsequent selection for adaptation at the Dahra station where a selection
program on the Gobra (zebu from Senegal) has been simultaneously carried on;
and the genetic improvement of the N-Dama breed at Kolda. Sheep improvement
research has been carried on at Dahra with the Touabir breed and at Kolda with
the Djallonke breed. Both stations have included research on nutrition
requirements of sheep and animal health control programs. Concentrating on
veterinary research and breed improvement has prevented research on production
constraints faced by pastoralists in Senegal's grazing areas.
1.20      Other Research Activities.  Oceanographic research in Senegal dates
from 1961, when the Office de Recherche Scientifique et Technique Outre-Mer
(ORSTOM) began research in oceanography in Senegal with the creation of the
Centre de Recherche Oceanographique de Dakar-Thiaroye (CRODT). Later, CRODT
was transferred to ISRA. Oceanographic research has been confined mainly to
population and ecological studies with the goal of developing the country's
fishing industry and at the same time protecting Senegal's oceans and rivers
from being depleted by over-fishing. Forestry Research was initiated in 1965
with the creation of the Centre National des Recherches Forestieres (CNRF)
whose management remained with the Centre Technique Forestier Tropical (CTFT)
until ISRA came into being in 1975. Much of the forestry research has
focussed on forest conservation and reafforestation. The Centre du Develop-
pement Horticole (CDH), has been the most recent addition to the research
organizations managed by ISRA. The research programs included in the proposed
project do not include research on oceanography, forestry and horticulture
because the necessary research effort is expected to be undertaken in separate
projects, already funded or under preparation.
1.21      Structure.  In 1973 the Government created the Delegation Generale a
la Recherche Scientifique et Technique (DGRST) with broad responsibility for
nearly all research in a wide range of sectors. In 1979 the organization
was upgraded and became the Secretariat d'Etat a la Recherche Scientifique et
Technique (SERST). The Minister for Science and Technology, who heads SERST,
reports directly to the Minister of Higher Education. ISRA, including all
horticultural, agricultural (including on-farm post-harvest technology),
livestock, forestry and oceanographic research, is directly responsible to
SERST. The Institut de Technologie Alimentaire (ITA), responsible for food
and nutrition research (including off-farm post-harvest technology), is
separate from ISRA but also responsible to SERST.
1.22      ISRA has a Managing Director and a Board of Governors with 18 voting
members and five consulting members whose president is appointed by the Prime
Minister.   Two committees assist the Managing Director in his task: the Steer-
ing Committee, which is concerned with financial and administrative oversight;
and the Scientific and Technical Committee, which oversees the plans and pro-
gress of ISRA's research operations (see para 1.30). Currently, ISRA has seven
scientific departments: agronomy and bioclimatology, agricultural economics
and sociology, forestry and hydrobiology, veterinary medicine and animal
science, oceanography, agricultural machinery and equipment, and soil science.



- 8 -
1.23      ISRA Manpower.  The number and distribution of ISRA scientific
staff, including management staff, in January 1979 was as follows:
Location            Number of         Location               Number of
of Institute          Scientists      of-Institute              Scientists
Senegal River Valley      13          ISRA Headquarters             5
Dahra                      2          LNERV (Dakar-Hann)           16
Bambey                    41          CRODT (Dakar-Thiaroye)       14
Sine Saloum               il          CNRF (Bambey)                 1
Djibelor                  10          CDH (Dakar-Cambarene)        il
Kolda                      2
Total      125
Out of a total of 97 scientists in agriculture and livestock research 57 are
attached to CNRA at Bambey and LNERV at Hann. Eight research stations have
no scientific level resident staff. About 26% of the total scientific staff
are Senegalese. Foreign scientists in ISRA are supplied mostly by French
assistance organizations under bilateral agreements. There are only five
scientific staff at ISRA Headquarters, and it is clear that this staff is too
small to adequately supervise an expanded national research system.
1.24      ISRA Present Funding.  Budgeted agricultural research expenditures
in Senegal totalled about CFAF 4.39 billion 1/ (US$16.3 million) in 1979/80,
to which Senegal contributes about CFAF 1.32 billion (US$4.9 million), 0.9% of
the value of its agricultural production. France has continued to finance
most of the agricultural research work in the form of expert staff from IRAT
and IEMVT, but has gradually been reducing its share of capital and operating
costs; recently French participation has remained constant in real terms and
without the proposed project there would be little scope for any new research
ventures. Of ISRA-s total 1979/80 budget of CFAF 4,387 million (US$16.3
million), 70% represents agriculture and livestock research relevant to the
project, i.e., CFAF 3,045 million (US$11.3 million). Of the latter amount,
40% or CFAF 1,225 million (US$4.5 million) is financed by France and 17% or CFAF
502 million (US$1.9 million) by other donors, leaving CFAF 1,318 million
(US$4.9 million) or 43% to be funded by Senegal. The other donors are: IDRC
through WARDA, with CFAF 159 million (US$0.6 million); UNDP through ICRISAT,
with CFAF 124 million (US$0.5 million); USAID through the Casamance Integrated
Development Project, with CFAF 146 million (US$0.5 million); and FAO/CILSS,
wîth CFAF 73 million (US$0.3 million). Foreign donors are also funding parts
of ISRA's budget not directly relevant to the Project: Belgium is supporting
ISRA's horticultural research (CDH) through FAO, and West Germany ISRA's
forestry research (CNRF). A detailed analysis of ISRA-s 1979/80 budget and
present research funding is in Working Paper No. 5. ISRA's last available
balance sheets are at Annex 4, Table (xii), showing that its ongoing opera-
tions are sufficiently funded with a working capital of about CFAF 450 million.
1/   This figure represents only expenditures on ISRA, for all types of
agricultural research. It includes all ISRA expenditures financed
by external sources, mostly as grants in the form of technical assis-
tance. The latter is normally excluded from the official ISRA budget.



- 9-
Present annual operating costs amount to CFAF 11.7 million (US$43,300) per
research worker, of which a large share (59%) is for auxiliary and support
staff, a situation that is common to all public and para-public enterprises
in Senegal.
E. Current Status of Agricultural Education and Extension
1.25      Technical Training.  Technical training in agriculture is offered at
a number of institutes.  The National School for Rural Officers (Ecole Natio-
nale des Cadres Ruraux, ENCR) at Bambey accepts students with a secondary
degree for a four-year study progam that leads to careers in crop farming,
animal production, agricultural engineering, water and forestry resources, and
fisheries. This school, which has a capacity of 150 students, supplies many
of ISRA's junior and senior technicians. They have a good background to
fulfill the positions offered by ISRA. Other technical schools in various
parts of the country offer training in agriculture, horticulture, livestock
and veterinary medicine, and fisheries.
1.26      Higher Education.  To date, all Senegalese agriculturists have been
trained at overseas universities where training programs are not usually
oriented to Senegal's needs. A National College of Agriculture (Institut
National de Developpement Rural - INDR) is now being established under the
Third Education Project (Cr. 908-SE). The college will have 200 students,
with 40 graduates per year, and be located in Thies, about 70 km from Dakar.
Students will be recruited at the baccalaureate level for a five-year program--
a first preparatory year at the Department of Science of the University of
Dakar, followed by four years at the INDR. The first two years will be used
to strengthen the students' science background and-provide basic training in
agriculture. From the third year onward main specializations will be offered
in general agronomy, animal production, and irrigation agronomy. Optional
courses will also be available in forestry, horticulture, and agro-industrial
sciences. The training program will be practical and oriented toward the
needs of the RDAs, which will employ many of the graduates. In 1979 the
first group of students was admitted to this program.
1.27      The Ecole Inter-Etats des Sciences et Medicine Veterinaires de
Dakar of the University of Dakar was founded in 1968 and graduated its first
class in 1974. The school is a regional facility which can accept students
from 14 African francophone countries. Students having completed a bacca-
laureat du second degre or equivalent are considered for admission. The
coursework includes one preveterinary year of basic sciences and mathematics
followed by four years of classroom instruction in veterinary medicine.
After successful completion of the coursework, students are allowed to
continue for one year in a thesis program after which they are awarded the
degree Docteur Veterinaire d'Etat. The program, although intensive, does not
provide in-depth speciality training nor does it allow extensive exposure to
research methodology (other than the non-coursework thesis year). Therefore,
graduates wishing to pursue a career in research usually require additional,
post-graduate training. The school is currently graduating four to five



- 10 -
Senegalese veterinarians each year. Beginning in 1981, the number of Senega-
lese graduates will double, making available additional candidates for
graduate studies. Graduates of the veterinary school would be excellent
candidates to pursue further studies in the fields of animal health, animal
husbandry, forage agronomy, or other related fields required for production
systems research teams.
1.28      Coordination with Agricultural Extension.  Currently the extension
functions in Senegal are the responsibility of several Regional Development
Agencies, covering most of the country.  These RDAs are:  SODEVA in the
groundnut basin, SODEFITEX in Eastern Senegal, SOMIVAC in Casamance, SAED in
the Senegal River Valley, and SODESP, an agency responsible for promoting
livestock production in the sylvo-pastoral zone. Some of these agencies were
originally organized to promote a specific enterprise (SODEFITEX for cotton
production, for example), but recently they have been given overall res-
ponsibility for rural development in the general sense in their region.
These development agencies are in varying stages of evolution, from fairly
mature to recently born and, consequently, their ability to function in tne
extension role varies considerably. Although the development agencies are
under the Agricultural Production Department (DGPA) of the Ministry of Rural
Development, they each have their own Board of Management and Director, and
they each receive a large share of their funding from external sources.  Thus
the agencies, to varying levels, operate with some degree of autonomy.
1.29      Within the Ministry of Rural Development two organizations provide
extension services to some extent. The Department of Livestock and Animal
Industries has a responsibility for national livestock health programs.
This department has a number of veterinarians, livestock officers, and
veterinary assistants in seven regions (200 veterinary posts). It is respon-
sible for free vaccinations, supervision of meat and milk processing opera-
tions, and animal production aspects, but its work is almost entirely oriented
toward veterinary medicine. The Centre d-Expansion Rurale Polyvalent (CER) in
the Ministry of Rural Development operates in 27 departments, and 93 arron-
dissements in all eight regions and has a staff of about 270. These teams do
not focus solely on agriculture but work in all aspects of rural development.
1.30      Although considerable efforts have been made to create an effective
interchange between the extension services of the RDAs and the research
organization, this linkage needs to be improved and strengthened further.
One of the reasons for thé lack of communication between ISRA and the RDAs is
that the agencies are fairly new organizations and their roles and modes of
operations are still evolving. Another reason is that the RDAs operate with
a large degree of autonomy and there is no central coordinating body that
defines a strategy and prepares guidelines for all the agencies on the exten-
sion approach, input supply, cost recovery, and farmer participation and
organization.  In mid-1979 a research-liaison officer was appointed in the
Ministry of Rural Development to serve as a link between the RDAs and ISRA.
This officer, a former research scientist, has the responsibility for keeping
ISRA informed of research needs as perceived by the RDAs. The Scientific
and Technical Committee (para. 1.22) in which the RDAs are represented, is
another vehicle to make research needs known. At the lower levels, however,
contact between research workers and extension agents is minimal; present
research is therefore not responsive to farmers needs and constraints.



- il -
II. THE PROJECT
A. The Proposed National Agricultural Research Strategy
2.01      The Government of Senegal has decided to reorient its agricultural
research effort to improve its efficiency by reducing major flaws discussed
in paras 1.17 and 1.19, so that research would contribute to the success of
Government's investment policies in the rural sector discussed in para 1.09.
Research is to be made more problem oriented --that is, more responsive and
more applicable to the real constraints of the agricultural producer--and
communications between research workers and the development and extension
staff of the development agencies and the Ministry of Rural Development are
to be intensified. Decentralization will be pursued by strengthening regional
research efforts through the establishment of nationally coordinated multi-
disciplinary research teams on priority commodities and regional agricultural
production systems. Following publication of the IADS Masterplan (para 1.01),
it was decided to limit a first phase project to the agriculture and livestock
subsectors, and within these sectors to priority foodgrain and cash crop
commodities and priority regions for farming systems research. To reach these
broad objectives the project would:
(i) strengthen the organization and operation of ISRA, integrate
research and development for crops and livestock, and be responsive
to needs of the different farming systems and ecological areas of
Senegal;
(ii)  replace the existing fragmented disciplinary research approach by a
coordinated multidisciplinary team approach along commodity problem
area lines (including crop production systems);
(iii)  introduce farming systems research programs (including associated
research centers and station networks) for the four priority regions;
(iv) establish long-term manpower planning and training for professional
and technical staff, and improve personnel management policies and
procedures;
(v) strengthen research on production economics, marketing, and human
resources;
(vi) strengthen capabilities for evaluation and application of new
technology, including more effective linkages with extension; and
(vii) strengthen Jinkages with external technical assistance organizations,
including the international agricultural research centers (IARC's).
GOS officially endorsed the above research philosophy and the proposed re-
organization of ISRA in its letter to the Association dated June 13, 1980.



- 12 -
Reorganization
2.02      ISRA's existing seven scientific departments would be reorganized
and reduced to six in the first phase: commodity research, produiction
systems research, livestock support research, forestry, oceanography and
support services (Chart IBRD no.21580). All support research on crop pro-
duction would be an integral part of the new Production Systems Department.
The present Veterinary Medicine and Animal Science Department would only
partially be integrated in the Production Systems Department, and the re-
mainder would be regrouped and do support research for the latter. Central
laboratories and research stations would be regrouped in a new Support
Services Department that would also be responsible for training and manpower
development; publications, documentation and library services; construction
maintenance and purchase; and data processing and statistics. ISRA General
Management would be reinforced through the creation of (i) an Internal
Auditing and Budgetary Control Unit, (ii) a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit,
and (iii) a Macro-Economics Unit.
Consultative Group on Agricultural Research in Senegal
2.03      To assure the desired coordination in implementation and financing
of the overall research effort a consultative group on agricultural research
in Senegal would be established as an informal forum for all donors to agree
on research concepts and financial support to Senegal. The Group would meet
at least once a year three months before the end of each fiscal year to
exchange views with GOS on progress of the Project, performance of Borrower
obligations, impact of the Project on agricultural development, and other
matters related to the objectives of the Project.  Efforts would be made to
link the Group's meetings with the annual internal and external research
program reviews.  The Group would be convened by SERST and be provided with
an agenda and all relevent documents well in advance (para 4.04). A first
donors meeting was held in September 1980, where participants agreed to
consult each other and to meet annually to coordinate their efforts. The
Board of Governors' Scientific and Technical Committee would review the
research programs before they are finalized (para 2.27).  Under the project
this committee would be strengthened with four independent scientists of
international repute in an advisory role whose terms of reference and com-
position would be acceptable to IDA. ISRA's budgets are annually reviewed by
the Steering Committee (paras 4.04 and 4.05). The research programs and
budgets would be presented to IDA for review and approval.
Research-Extension Linkage
2.04      To assure an effective transfer of technology to the smallholder
farmer, each of the production systems teams would have a Subject Matter
Specialist in agricultural extension. He would be responsible for execution
of all research done with the farmers on their fields, the research group
being responsible for data collection and analysis, and he would be respon-
sible for training and guiding extension staff in applying newly developed
technology. Through both functions he would relay farmers' problems and con-
straints to research. To assure the closest possible link with the extension



- 13 -
services, he would be the only member of the multidisciplinary production
systems teams who would have a staff function with regional RDA management, to
whom he would be seconded under an agreement signed between ISRA and the RDA
concerned. Details of the responsibilities and qualifications of the Subject
Matter Specialist are at Annex 1.
B. The Project Area
2.05      Senegal is a country with great variations in climate, population
density and agriculture (see Map IBRD no. 14941). Mean monthly temperatures
range from 180 to 310 C.  The mean annual rainfall varies from a low of
350 mm in the extreme North to over 1,600 mm at the border with Guinea-Bissau.
Most of the country is semi-arid with the annual rainfall averaging between
400 and 600 mm, concentrated in the three-month period of July, August and
September. In the Casamance, the rainy season may last for five months.
Unfortunately, droughts are common and in years of abnormally low rainfall
crop yields are markedly depressed. The country can be divided into six agro-
ecological zones: the Senegal River Valley, the Sahelian Region, the North
Coast and Cap Vert Region, the Central Region, the Eastern Region and the
Casamance. As a first phase, the project would cover four of these Regions
with the following rainfall patterns:
Region            Senegal          Sahel            Central              Casamance
Zone            River Valley  Sylvo-Pastoral   North   South        Upper         Lower
Precipitation    350-650         350-600        600-800  800-1000  1100-1400  1400-1700
(mm)
Days of Rain       20-40          20-40          40-55    55-70       70-80       80-100
2.06      The Senegal River Valley.  The Senegal River flows along the
northern border of the country for a distance of over 600 km. From its source
in the high-rainfall areas of the Republic of Guinea, it flows through Western
Mali and enters Senegal above Bakel. It is the richest source of irrigation
water in Senegal and could be developed to supply water to 200,000 ha in
Senegal alone. Currently, about 17,400 ha are irrigated in the delta and the
valley, of which only 10,600 ha are under full water control. There are great
seasonal variations in temperature for a region located well within the
tropics. At Podor, for example, the mean minimum temperature in January is
about 130C, while the mean maximum in June is about 400C. The diurnal
variations are great, often being as much as 200C. In the delta and
upstream for several hundred kilometers, the rainfall is low (350-450 mm), but
it tends to increase as the river curves to the south, being about 600 mm at
Matam and a little higher at Bakel. Because of the low rainfall, the Senegal
River Region is sparsely populated. However, most of the people live in the
valley itself and, within this narrow belt, population density may reach
80/km2.  The soils of the valley are alluvial and fine textured, with clay



- 14 -
contents going up to 70-80%. They are particularly suited for rice production,
but other crops can be grown during the cool, dry months from November through
February. There are serious problems in farmers' fields with irrigation
practices, weed and bird control, insect damage and general cultural methods.
2.07      The Sylvo-Pastoral Zone occupies some 60,000 km2 of the north-
eastern portion of the Sahel region and is the most important livestock
producing area of Senegal. The most northerly portion extends to the Senegal
River Valley near Dagana, and it is bordered by Mauritania on the east. The
Sylvo-Pastoral Zone lies between the 450 mm and 600 mm isohyets, but on an 80%
probability basis it receives considerably less rain than this. Due to low
and erratic annual rainfall it has low agricutural potential. It is the most
sparsely populated region of Senegal, containing less than 5/km2. The sparse
population, relatively low rainfall, and poor communications will hold back
this area for some time. Now, the most important industry is cattle raising,
for which the principal production problems are low reproductivity rates, high
calf mortality and slow growth and maturation combined with highly variable
feed supply (rainfed pastures). As is true for most of Senegal, the soils are
sandy and infertile. This region also has extensive areas of land with
laterite near the surface which reduces soil productivity.
2.08      The Central Region.  This ecological region includes much of the
so-called "Groundnut Basin" and extends from the 600 mm isohyet in the North
to the northern border of The Gambia in the South where average annual
rainfall reaches 1,000 mm. The rainy season lasts for about 100 days with
40 to 70 rainy days. Throughout this region soils are sandy, containing low
amounts of clay (3-7%) and organic matter (less than 1%). Thus they have a
low capacity for holding water and plant nutrients.  In the far north-eastern
corner of the region, population density is low, less than 5/km2, and
livestock raising is the most important agricultural enterprise. The North-
West (Thies and Diourbel Provinces) has the highest population density of all
of rural Senegal with up to 80/km2. Here, crops such as groundnuts and
millet are more important than animals. The zone south of Kaolack is
distinctly different in that a greater variety of crops, such as sorghum,
maize, cotton and tobacco can be grown. Limited studies of ground water
supplies indicate that agriculture in the Central Region will continue to
rely heavily on rainfall.  Throughout this region, even when farming is
heavily crop-oriented, cattle, sheep and goat raising is of considerable
importance. Overall production of both groundnuts and cereals has been
stagnating lately.
2.09      The Casamance.  This region, lying between the border of The
Gambia and that of Guinea-Bissau, is favored with annual rainfall of 1,000-
1,700 mm. The rainy season lasts for 120 to 150 days, as compared with about
90 to 100 days in the rest of the country. Temperatures are less variable
than farther north, and the natural vegetation is typical of the semi-humid
tropics. The area of the Casamance region is about 28,000 km2, and the
population is about 720,000. The average population density is 22/km2.
However, it is not evenly distributed, being denser in the west than in the
east. Four types of rice culture are practiced in the Casamance, as follows:



- 15 -
1.   Mangrove swamp rice, where problems of saline water and highly acid
soils prevail.
2.   Lowland rice grown in the valleys, flooded with fresh water.
3.   Rainfed rice where the water table is high throughout the growing
season, sometimes flooding the rice for short periods.
4.   Upland rice on the plateaus.
Because of the higher rainfall and longer wet season, there are many possi-
bilities for diversifying agriculture in the Casamance region. Among the more
important crops now being grown besides rice, are groundnuts, cotton, maize,
cassava, sorghum, and millet. In addition, tropical fruits and vegetables and
oil palms are grown and the amounts could be greatly expanded. There are
excellent opportunities to improve pastures for livestock and to grow forage
crops that can be cut, dried, and fed to livestock during the dry season. The
presence of trypanosomiasis in this region limits the productivity of the
livestock sector. Two distinctly different zones can be distinguished: (i)
the Upper Casamance with a population of less than 20/km2, a higher propor-
tion of plateau soils and less rainfall; and (ii) the Lower Casamance with a
population density exceeding 20/km2, higher rainfall and more rice cultiva-
tion. Animals are more important in the Upper Casamance than crops. Rice is
the most important crop in the Lower Casamance.
C. Summary Project Description
2.10      The Project, as a first phase of a long term program of support to
strengthen agricultural research capability, would establish and implement
over a six year period:
-  five production systems programs (para 2.12):  at Fanaye for the Senegal
River Valley; at Nioro du Rip for the South Groundnut Basin; at Djibelor
for the Lower Casamance Zone; at Dahra for the Sylvo-Pastoral Zone; and
at Kolda for the Upper Casamance Zone. All of the production systems
programs would be mixed agriculture/livestock systems: emphasis at the
Fanaye Station would be on irrigated agriculture, at the Nioro du Rip
Station on rainfed agriculture, at Djibelor on various techniques for
rice production, and at the Kolda and Dahra Stations on livestock
production systems.
-  six nationally coordinated multidisciplinary commodity programs on:
groundnuts, cowpeas, millet, sorghum, maize and rice (para. 2.20);
2.11      In particular the Project would include:
(a) establishment within ISRA of an Agricultural Production Systems
Department (para 2.02), including a Central Systems Analysis Group
(para 2.18), and a Support Research Section (para 2.19).



- 16 -
(b)  staffing and operation of a Commodity Research Department (para
2.20);
(c) establishment within ISRA of a Support Services Department (para
2.27), responsible for the operation of all research stations and
central laboratories, and including the following units to be newly
established: Manpower Development and Training, Technical Support,
Documentation and Publications, and Data Processing and Statistics;
(d) strengthening of ISRA-s headquarters through the establishment of a
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, an Internal Auditing and Budgetary
Control Unit, and a Macro-Economics Research Unit (para 2.28);
(e) employment of 88 scientists for a total of 550 man-years of which
240 man-years of expatriates (para 2.29);
(f) employment of about 184 other scientific staff (senior and junior
technicians), 384 support staff and 44 Headquarters staff (para 2.29);
(g) training of Senegalese scientists through 48 M.Sc. and 15 Ph.D.
fellowships and 20 management training fellowships (para 2.31);
(h) providing for 120 man-months of short-term consultancies by visiting
scientists (para 2.32);
(i) development and rehabilitation of six research stations (para 2.33),
including: 106 houses on the stations and in the cities of Richard
Toll and Kaolack; about 6,000 m2 of laboratories, office space,
breeders  work and preparation rooms, screen houses, and farm build-
ings; and about 5,400 m2 of cattle and sheep pens;
(j) development of a 100 ha experimental irrigation perimeter at Fanaye,
and construction of a Documentation and Publications Center at St.
Louis (para 2.33); and
(k)  3 mobile research units, farm implements, 11 trucks, 20 tractors, 27
tillers, 205 vehicles and 105 motorbikes, office and laboratory
equipment, furniture, small farm equipment and research supplies
(para 2.34).
D. Detailed Features
Production Systems Research Programs (IBRD Chart 21580)
2.12      Production systems research would be guided by farmer constraints
identified in the field and subsequently quantified to ascertain that
further research to eliminate or limit the constraint would be justified.
Each systems research program would therefore consist at any given time of
three components:



- 17 -
(i) identifying and quantifying technical, economic and social con-
straints through the study of existing production systems;
(ii)  research on farmers' fields and on station towards solution of these
constraints; and
(iii)  testing of the solutions on farmers' fields.
The identification component would include the monitoring of constraints to
the introduction of new technology. The starting point for each research team
would be already existing and quantified constraints in the various regions.
Each team would consist of a general agronomist, a livestock specialist, an
agricultural economist, a rural sociologist, and a Subject Matter Specialist
on agricultural extension (para 2.04). Other specialists would be added as
necessary to address specific farmer constraints. To solve particular prob-
lems, the teams would request for short periods the assistance of members of
the commodity research groups, scientists working in support research, or
highly specialized external consultants.
2.13      The Senegal River Valley.  Research would focus on irrigated
farming whereby rice would be the backbone of the production system. The
combination of rice growing with other crops and animal production would have
a high priority. One such crop is wheat, now 100% imported, that could be
grown in this region during the cold season with irrigation. Other important
aspects of the program would be: weed and bird control, soil preparation
techniques on the heavy clay soils prevalent in the area, and agricultural
mechanization (both motorized and with animal traction), fertilizer research
on farmers' fields, field irrigation methods, drainage for salinity control,
and the social and economic implications of large irrigation schemes versus
small scale irrigation perimeters.  Although the principal focus would be on
irrigated agriculture, the traditional systems will continue to exist for
many years until they are replaced by irrigation. Some farming systems
research will necessarily have to be directed at the improvement of those
traditional systems. A weed-agronomist and an agricultural engineer would be
added to the basic team to study existing weed control and agricultural
mechanization problems.
2.14      The Sylvo-Pastoral Zone.  Research would be directed towards
improving the traditional enterprise of livestock production. The principal
production problems are low reproduction rates, high mortality in the newborn,
and slow growth and maturation. Research concerning the primary productivity
of rangeland would involve the development of techniques for the restoration
of degraded range, prevention of further degradation, and improvement by
animal management and plant manipulation. The efforts of Societe de Developpe-
ment de l'Elevage dans la Zone Sylvo-Pastorale (SODESP) in the region have
already produced information and data which would be of great value to the
systems team in the initial stages. Although the principal study and research
would be in the field, facilities are available at the Dahra station to
conduct controlled experiments on improving range management and dry season
forages. The present cattle herd and sheep flock at the Dahra station would
be used for necessary experimentation on constraints identified in the field,



- 18 -
but would mainly be used to produce improved breeding stock for livestock
producers in the area, an operation that would be self-financing. The systems
team would be based at Dahra but would be mobile in its research, following
groups of pastoralists during their migrations, and would work closely with
SODESP.
2.15      The Sine Saloum.  The systems research team would attempt to intro-
duce innovations to the present systems in the Sine Saloum Region, building on
experience obtained in the experimental units, a first attempt at systems
research in Senegal. To increase animal production, crop by-products and resi-
dues would be utilized to the maximum extent for livestock feed. In the area
around Kaolack, insects and diseases affecting both animals and plants are
more serious than farther north. The system team would devise techniques for
protecting crops and livestock from insects and livestock from diseases.
Animal draught power is important in the area, consequently increasing the
potential of animals in an integrated crop/livestock system. Other important
aspects of the program would include: inter-cropping, fertilizer research on
farmers  fields; the use of rock phosphate as a cheap fertilizer; soil prepa-
ration and minimum tillage techniques; soil and water conservation techniques;
on-farm post-harvest technology for millet, sorghum and maize; adaptation of
farm implements and machinery for localized application of fertilizer and
intercropping; and on-farm seed storage.
2.16      The Upper Casamance.  Systems research in the Upper Casamance would
primarily be concerned with problems of livestock development. In contrast to
the Sylvo-Pastoral Zone this area has relatively good agricultural potential.
West of Kolda the land is increasingly used for farming, whereas to the east
the land is largely undeveloped open forest used for grazing. Thus, Kolda is
conveniently located for studying livestock production integrated with agricul-
ture as well as open grazing and pasture programs. The goals of the research
would be to improve milk and meat production by cattle and small ruminants and
to conserve the rangeland resource. Research conducted at the center itself
would have applications for both range production systems and integrated
crop/livestock systems. It would include cotton research 1/ as an integral
part of the farming system. Off-station research would apply initially to
range production but, as agricultural production increases in the vicinity of
Kolda, it would eventually encompass pasture development and integrated crop/
livestock systems. Only cattle and small ruminants would be studied initially
but swine and poultry production at the village level could be added in the
future. Trypanosomiasis is a major constraint to increased animal production
in the area, but there are strains of cattle (N'Dama), sheep (DJallonke), and
goats (Guinean) which are somewhat tolerant (depending on nutritional and
other disease status). The N'Dama herd and flocks of tolerant sheep presently
at the station would be used for on-station research and for supplying breeding
stock to producers within the region and to breeders outside of Senegal who
require trypano-tolerant animals; this would be a self-financing operation.
1/   A commodity program on cotton research would in the future be established
on the Sintiou Malem Station in Eastern Senegal Region, the center of
the cotton growing area.



- 19 -
2.17      The Lower Casamance.  The systems research team based at Djibelor
would concentrate on rice-based agriculture. This area is strikingly dif-
ferent from the Senegal River Valley and, as such, requires its own farming
systems research team. The problems of rice production under mangrove swamp
conditions, as irrigated paddy, and as an upland crop will require a con-
certed research effort.  It is felt that the findings of the Kolda and Nioro
du Rip-based farming systems teams will be applicable to upland farming areas
of middle Casamance. It appears reasonable, then, for the Djibelor farming
systems team to concentrate on rice-based farming systems, and also to work
on diversified small scale agriculture where livestock (some trypanotolerant
cattle, sheep and goats), especially pigs and chickens, may have special
importance.
2.18      The Central Systems Analysis Group, a staff unit in the Production
Systems Department, would be responsible for overall planning and supervi-
sion of the systems research. The group-s principal expertise will be in
systems analysis techniques so as to be able to identify scientifically, the
main constraints to increasing production in the individual production
systems and to evaluate research priorities across the various systems,
taking into account the,economic cost/benefit of the research and its socio-
logical aspects (chances of acceptance of results of the research, possible
repercussions on traditions and sociological structure etc.). The composition
of the Central Systems Analysis Group would include: (a) a Systems Analysis
Specialist - an agriculturist trained in systems modeling utilizing mathe-
matical and computer techniques; (b) a Farming Systems Specialist - an
agronomist with training and experience in the systems approach to research
and in working with multidisciplinary research teams; (c) an Animal Production
Systems Specialist - an animal scientist with training and experience in the
systems approach to research and in working with multidisciplinary research
teams; (d) a Systems Sociologist - a sociologist with training in the systems
approach and capable of trying to quantify the social aspects of systems of
agricultural production for inclusion of such parameters into models so that
priorities of research can be determined; (e) a Production Systems Economist -
specialist in farm management economics who has training and experience in
systems research. One of the members would act as the group coordinator.
2.19      Support Research.  The farming systems research program would be
the point where research results from a number of disciplines and subject
matter areas would be brought together and molded into a workable, viable
farming system. Information about crops, soils, water, fertilizers,
herbicides, insecticides, agricultural equipment, farm management economics,
and many other factors would be required by those scientists researching and
manipulating the farming system. Obviously it will not be possible to have
every one of these subject matter areas represented on a farming systems
research team; the number of scientists needed would be prohibitive. It is
equally obvious that the farming systems research teams would need the support
of research in fields such as soil fertility, bioclimatology, weed control,
and agricultural engineering. In addition to responding to research requests
from the field research teams (both systems research and commodity research
teams), scientists in the support research groups would conduct research
programs in their own area of expertise aimed at developing recommended



- 20 -
practices to feed into the agricultural production systems programs. The
support research groups are envisaged for the most part, at Bambey (crop
research) and at Dakar-Hann (animal production and health research). However,
in certain cases support research would be carried out at the base site of the
field research teams especially if the research was felt to be site specific.
To assure a close coordination with the production systems and commodity
research teams, a senior agronomist would be appointed as Support Research
Liaison Officer under the Head of the Production Systems Department. The Head
of the Livestock Support Research Department would have similar responsibili-
ties for animal production and health support research.
Commodity Research Programs
2.20      Commodity research would primarily consist of multidisciplinary
breeding programs with a strong emphasis on disease and insect resistance and
moderate fertilizer requirements. To assure a close coordination between the
various programs and with the production systems and support research teams,
the Head of the Commodity Research Department would be assisted by a Senior
Agronomist in a staff function. He would also be responsible for preparing
guidelines for program preparation and implementation and assist the depart-
ment head in supervising the quality of the research.
2.21      The Millet Research Program.  Basically the millet improvement
program would have for its goal the production of millet varieties that are
adapted to the different millet-growing areas, are high-yielding, have
adequate resistance to prevalent diseases (and, if possible, insects), and
have superior grain quality. This program would include plant breeders,
plant physiologists, plant pathologists, and entomologists, and would have
access to grain quality evaluation tests through cooperation of the Food
Technology Institute (ITA). The coordinator would be located in Bambey and
all of the actual crossing or hybridization would be carried out there.
Selecting from segregating germ plasm and testing of varieties for yield and
resistance to local diseases and pests would be done at several other research
stations, at Large Scale Experimental Test Areas (PAPEMs), and in farmers
fields by the production systems research teams. Louga, Nioro du Rip, and
Kolda would be the important locations for selection.
2.22      The Sorghum Research Program.  In general the proposed research
program is a continuation of (i) introducing and screening of new germ plasm
from various regions of the world for entry into Senegalese yield trials,
(ii) creation of variability by crossing and selection with assistance from
pathologists and entomologists, and (iii) simultaneous testing for grain
quality and market acceptablility, in cooperation with ITA. Two basic
changes in the current program would be to: (a) end the separation of
sorghum breeding as two programs and continue these under one research
coordinator, and (b) move the principal research from Bambey to Nioro du Rip
since sorghum performs better in higher rainfall areas, as compared to
millet. It is visualized that all the screening, crossing and hybridization
would be done at Nioro du Rip. Selection for yield, adaptability, and
resistance to insects and diseases would be carried out at Fanaye and Kolda
(Sefa), at PAPEM's and on farmers fields in the sorghum growing regions.



- 21 -
2.23      The Maize Research Program.  Since the most important maize producing
regions are the relatively high rainfall areas surrounding The Gambia, maize
research would shift from Bambey, where maize is an unimportant crop, to
Nioro du Rip. The principal goal of the maize program would be to identify
or create varieties that are well adapted, high yielding, disease and insect
resistant, and which have acceptable quality for consumption as green ears
and dry grain. Research would continue to concentrate on producing synthetic
varieties, not hybrids, and emphasizing short cycle plants. The initial
introduction and testing of germ plasm and all the hybridization would be done
at Nioro du Rip. Further varietal yield testing, selection, and scoring for
disease and insect resistance would be done at Darou, Sintiou Malem, Kolda
(Sefa), Bambey, at Fanaye under irrigation, at several PAPEMs, and in farmers'
fields by the production systems teams.  An immediate problem to farmers in
Senegal is the milling since maize does not pound as easily as other cereals.
The post-harvest technologist in the support research group, in cooperation
with the maize improvement team and the Food Technology Institute (ITA), would
continue research on storage and processing for food preparation.
2.24      The Rice Research Program.  The proposed research program would
strengthen and fortify existing rice research programs. Because the two major
rice producing areas of Senegal are widely separated and are situated in
different ecological zones, two distinct groups of researchers would work as
one team on a national rice research program under one coordinator. Initially,
the main thrust of the research by these groups would be the development of
fertilizer responsive varieties of high yield potential with superior resistance
to diseases, insects and birds, and with good grain quality. Soil fertility,
soil and water management, and cultural practices research would be handled
by the farming systems group at each of the locations.
2.25      The Cowpea Research Program.  The cowpea research program would
be strengthened through the formation of a multidisciplined team at Bambey,
supported by Senior Technicians stationed at Fanaye and Louga. This team
would work to develop high-yielding varieties suitable for intercropping as
well as single cropping, having adequate disease resistance, resistance to
some insects and control measures for others, and quality acceptable to
the consumers. This latter aspect would be through cooperation with ITA.
Rhizobium research would be included in the program. All introduction of
germ plasm and hybridization would be done at Bambey, with plant selection
and varietal testing being conducted at both Bambey and Nioro du Rip as well
as other experimental sites in the regions where cowpeas are grown.
2.26      The Groundnut Research Program.  The proposed research program is
essentially an extension of the current activities with heavier emphasis on
the breeding aspect. The principal work of the groundnut research team would
be toward introducing new germ plasm, creating new lines and testing them in
the field for adaptation to environment, resistance to disease and insects,
and quality of the nut, both for oil production and for eating quality.
Careful attention would be given to the aflatoxin problem: "What causes the
fungus to develop?"; "How may it be prevented?"; and "Are there sources of
resistance in the world collection of groundnut germ plasm?"; are questions
which should be answered. Agronomic research on cultural practices likely to



- 22 -
which should be answered. Agronomic research on cultural practices likely to
reduce aflatoxin and also rust infestation would be undertaken by the pro-
duction systems research team and the micro-biologist from the Support
Research Group in Bambey. A post-harvest technologist would be part of the
groundnut team to work on the aflatoxin problem in close collaboration with
ITA and the production systems teams. Plant physiological research would
attempt to discover ways of augmenting production, such as searching for
differential responses among lines to drought and selecting for tolerance to
drier conditions. Another aspect that would receive renewed emphasis under
the program would be rhizobium research.
Support Services
2.27      Under the Project all research stations and central laboratories
would be regrouped into one Support Services Department. This department would
further be strengthened with:
(a)  a Manpower Development and Training Unit.  This unit would identify,
recruit, train, and post the necessary Senegalese staff. The unit
would act as general coordinator for all staff training, both
outside and inside Senegal; its task would also include preparation
of the annual workshops. In shifting from a disciplinary to a
multidisciplinary approach and in developing national research
teams on a problem-oriented basis, it will be necessary to work out
carefully the scientific personnel requirements and to match these
requirements with training opportunities. A schedule would be set
up for the systematic development of agricultural research manpower,
including technicians. This schedule would include priorities for
those research disciplines most crucial to the acceleration of
development programs.
(b)  a Technical Support Unit (TSU).  Under the Project the function of
the TSU would be to (i) act as interlocutor between ISRA and the
Executive Architect, (ii) be responsible for project procurement,
and (iii) foresee contracting and supervison of all physical
facility maintenance. In the long range the TSU would initiate and
develop conceptual planning in the physical growth of research
stations. Terms of reference for the TSU are at Annex 2. The unit
would be located at ISRAs permanent liaison office in Dakar.
(c)  a Documentation and Publications Unit.  All the scientific, tech-
nical and annual ISRA reports and publications would be coordinated
and published through this unit. Further, the unit would be
responsible for the Central Library (15,000 volumes).
(d)  a Data Processing and Statistics Unit.  Analysis of routine experi-
ments would be left to research workers, but for complex experi-
ments involving interacting functions and mathematical models they
would need guidance on (i) experiment design (biometrics), (ii)
data collection and (iii) presentation for processing by computer.
The unit to be created under the Project would be manned by highly



- 23 -
qualified staff who would also assist forestry and oceanographic
research, not provided for under the proposed Project. The
CRODT computer would be used for processing under the first phase
of the Project.
Self-financing operations such as seed and vaccine production, and herd
improvement would also fall under the Support Services Department.
Strengthening of ISRA Headquarters
2.28      ISRA Headquarters would be strengthened through the establishment of:
(a) a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, to be headed by a Senior Research
Planning and Evaluation Advisor, who would be responsible for (i)
developing a uniform system within ISRA for effective planning,
direction, evaluation and overall management of research; (ii)
developing and operating a Project Monitoring and Evaluation System;
(iii) carrying out an annual internal review, and assisting in the
external review (para 2.03), of all ISRA research programs with
regard to their priority order, technical soundness and progress in
implementation; (iv) preparing quarterly progress reports and a
Project completion report according to guidelines to be agreed upon
with IDA; and (v) acting as secretariat to the Board of Governors'
Scientific and Technical Committee.
(b) an Internal Auditing and Budgetary Control Unit, to be headed by a
Senior Financial Analyst, who would be responsible for (i) introduc-
ing an effective cost accounting system that would allow budgeting
and budgetary control by program; (ii) internal auditing; and (iii)
managing ISRA's funding.
(c) a Macro-Economics Unit, responsible for agricultural policy
analysis, with 3 marketing specialists, 1 economist specialized in
price and income distribution analysis, and 1 economist specialized
in resource economics and investment analysis, which would do
research on agricultural policy, pricing, marketing and trade.
More specifically, the Unit would: (i) study the adequacy of
farmer and herdsmen incentives through income distribution studies,
periodic reviews of input and output pricing, and through historical
studies of elasticities; (ii) carry on marketing research on pos-
sible export crops (rice and confectionary groundnuts), domestic
crops (rice, maize, millet and sorghum), and possibilities for new
crops (spices, cashew nuts); and (iii) do research on the efficiency
of marketing channels and in particular target marketing margins.
Staffing
2.29      Under the Project a total of 88 scientists, 22 senior administra-
tors, 184 other scientific staff, and 407 administrative and support staff
would be employed in nine different locations (Table 2.1 and Annex 3); 17 of
them would be key staff:  ISRA's Managing Director (Project Manager); the



- 24 -
Chief of the Internal Auditing and Budgetary Control Unit; the Senior Research
Planning and Evaluation Advisor; the agent comptable particulier; the three
Department Heads of the Commodity Research, Production Systems Research and
Support Services Departments; the Senior Staff Agronomist in the Commodity
Research Department; the Systems Analysis Specialist, the Farming Systems
Specialist, the Animal Production Systems Specialist, the Systems Sociologist
and the Production Systems Economist in the Central Systems Analysis group;
the Support Research Liaison Officer; the Architect/Planner, chief of TSU; the
Statistician/Biometrist, chief of the Data Processing and Statistics Unit; and
the Project Coordinator. Assurances have been obtained from Government that
key Project staff would have qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA.
Detailed terms of reference are at Annex 1. Appointment of the following
staff would be a condition of Credit effectiveness: the Chief of the Internal
Auditing and Budgetary Control Unit; the Senior Research Planning and Evalua-
tion Advisor; the three Department Heads for the Commodity Research, Production
Systems Research and Support Services Departments; the Architect/Planner; and
the Project Coordinator. Assurances have been obtained during negotiations
that appointment of key staff would be for periods of at least three years to
assure the necessary continuity for successful implementation. Over the
Project period, appointment of staff, combined with necessary budget alloca-
tions for operating costs, for the 11 research programs of the Project
would have priority over staffing and budget allocations for any ongoing or
future research activities in agriculture and livestock research. An under-
standing has been reached with GOS during negotiations on the number of staff
appointments and budget allocations for the Project.
2.30      For 9 of the 17 key staff it is unlikely that suitable candidates
could be found within Senegal; 6 would be provided by French Technical Assis-
tance, 1 by USAID; and 2 would be recruited internationally (Architect/Planner
and Statistician/Biometrist). Other expatriate scientific staff would be
provided by French Technical Assistance, USAID and FAO/ CILSS; and 10 would be
recruited internationally. Final agreements on research staffing were
reached during the September 1980 donors meeting.
Training
2.31      Under the Project all research worker positions would be manned by
M.Sc. or Ph.D. level scientists. Initially, the majority of the research
workers would be expatriates. A total of 48 M.Sc. training fellowships have
been included, which would allow the majority of the scientific staff to be
Senegalese by the end of the project. However, to further improve research
staff quality, 15 Senegalese research workers would be sent for Ph.D. training
in PY5 and PY6. Their positions would continue to be manned by expatriates.
The Project only includes one to two years of this Ph.D. training program; GOS
would seek the balance of these requirements in due course. It is foreseen
that each Senegalese scientist returning from training would have a full year
overlap with his expatriate predecessor on the job. Funds have also been
included for training through workshops, seminars and conferences, both in
Senegal and overseas for an annual amount at base cost of US$1,900 per
Senegalese research worker. Finally, 20 fellowships of US$12,100 (at base
cost) each have been included for management training of senior administrative
and scientific staff. Training needs would be annually reviewed by ISRA
management, the Board of Governors Scientific and Technical Committee, and
the Consultative Group on Agricultural Research in Senegal.



- 25 -
Table 2.1: RESEARCH STAFF REQUIREMENTS
(1981 to 1986)
By Program:                    Research                  Man - Years
Positions    Senegalese    Expatriate    Total
PRODUCTION SYSTEMS
Systems Analysis Unit             5             10              25          35
Senegal River Valley              7             19              24           43
Sylvo-Pastoral Zone               6 3/4         24 1/2          19           43 1/2
South Central Region 1/           5             20              il           31
Upper Casamance                   8 1/4          28 1/2         22           50 1/2
Lower Casamance                   5              14             15           29
Subtotal                     37            116            116          232
COMMODITY RESEARCH
Millet                            5 3/4          27 3/4          7           34 3/4
Sorghum                           3             13               8          21
Maize                             3 1/2          13 1/2          8           21 1/2
Rice                              7              29             20           49
Cowpeas                           3 1/2         17               3           20
Groundnuts                        8 1/4         27 3/4          25           52 3/4
Subtotal                     31            128             71          199
SUPPORT RESEARCH                 20             68             51          119
TOTAL:                       88            312 2/         238 2/       550 2/
By Station:
Headquarters                     10             20              45           65
Dakar-Hann (IEMVT)                5              il             16           27
Fanaye                           13             44              36           80
Dahra                             6 3/4          24 1/2         19           43 1/2
Bambey                           19 1/2          97             30          127
Nioro du Rip                     15              57             34           91
Kolda                             8 1/4         28 1/2          22           50 1/2
Djibelor                         10 1/2          30             36           66
TOTAL:                       88            312 2/         238 2/       550 2/
1/   Sine Saloum Region.
2/   Senegalese scientists returning from training have one year overlap
(48 manyears) with expatriate scientists. Table does not take account
of the as yet unidentified M.Sc.staff who would be granted Ph.D. fellow-
ships during years 5 and 6 of the Project that would increase the number
of expatriate man-years by 34 and decrease the number of Senegalese
man-years by the same amount.



- 26 -
Visiting Scientists
2.32      The Project would provide US$1.1 million (base cost) for 120 man-
months of short-term consultancies by visiting scientists, of which 30 man-
months (US$0.3 million) would be used for assistance to ISRA's Scientific
and Technical Committee (para 2.03). The remainder - 90 man-months (US$0.8
million) - would be used for (i) specialized consultancies at the request
of the research teams, (ii) procurement assistance, and (iii) preparation
of a second phase project.
Research Station Development and Civil Works (Table 2.2)
2.33      The civil works program consists of the rehabilitation of existing
buildings on the six stations and includes new construction of 106 housing
units (of which 15 units in the cities of Richard Toll and Kaolack); 6,000 m2
of offices, laboratories and farm buildings; 5,400 m2 of cattle and sheep
pens; a 100 ha experimental irrigation perimeter at Fanaye; and a Documenta-
tion and Publications Center at the future site of ISRA-s headquarters in
St. Louis. Two thirds (11,700 m2) of all building construction (17,500 m2)
will be done at Fanaye and Nioro du Rip.
Furniture, Equipment, Vehicles, Small Farm Equipment and Research Supplies
2.34      Based on experience in Senegal and elsewhere office and laboratory
furniture is estimated at 8% of construction costs; office and laboratory
equipment at 25% of construction costs. For each housing unit an amount of
US$7,800 at base cost is included for furniture. For each station, tractors,
trucks and farm equipment (Table 2.2) would be provided under the Project.
Provisions have also been included for renewal of tractors and trucks every
five years. To promote off-station research and increase research efficiency,
the mobility of research staff should be assured. Therefore, 52 additional
vehicles and 38 additional motor bikes would be provided and existing vehicles
would be renewed over the first two years of the Project. Small farm equip-
ment and research supplies (fertilizers, pesticides, seeds, fuel and spare
parts) directly related to the agreed research programs, are estimated at an
average base cost of US$220,000 per year.
E. Implementation Schedule
2.35      The phasing of the main project activities is illustrated at IBRD
Chart 21579. The commodity research programs would start in PY1 since they
are a regrouping and strengthening of existing programs. The production
systems programs would start on a limited scale by mid PY1 with the transfer
of existing scientific staff. Additional scientific staff would arrive before
mid PY2 as a function of available housing. Civil works would be completed by
early PY3, and construction of houses would have priority over other buildings.
Although the various research programs would start as early as possible, their
total staffing requirements would only need to be met gradually (Annex 6, Page
6). ISRA at present employs about 600 staff, too many of whom are in auxiliary
and support functions (para 1.24). They would gradually be incorporated in
the Project activities. Therefore, auxiliary and support staff positions to
be manned under the Project would in principle be filled through internal



- 27 -
transfer only, no further recruitment of such staff being envisaged under the
Project. This has been confirmed during negotiations. Total staff would
increase to about 700 by PY6, mainly as a result of an increase in specialized
research staff, including senior and junior technicians.
Table 2.2 CIVIL WORKS AND EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS
(in m2 and units)
Centrall/   Field Services2/    Farm3/   Housing4/
Facilities        Centers        Buildings
----------------------M2 ----- -------- ------(units)
CIVIL WORKS
Fanaye               1,050              418          1,250      3,309 (30)
Dahra                   -                -              -       1,349 (13)
Bambey                 232               70             -           -
Nioro du Rip         1,064              338            870       3,390 (28)
Kolda                   -                -           5,5505/    1,736 (19)
Djibelor               120               -             350      1,840 (16)
TOTAL                2,466              826          8,020     11,624(106)
PYl      PY2       PY3      PY4       PY5      PY6       TOTAL 6/
EQUIPMENT       --------------------------units-----------------------
Trucks            1        6         2        -         1         1       11 (6)
Tractors          -        7        10        2         1         -       20 (12)
Tillers           -        6         5        4         6         6       27 (12)
Vehicles         15       61        30       19        55        25      205 (153)
Motorbikes       16       14        23        15       20        17      105 (67)
1/   Includes:  laboratories, research offices, administration, ancillary
support.
2/   Includes:  breeders  work and preparation rooms; seed storage; offices
for farm management, and mechanical and building maintenance engineers.
3/   Includes:  screenhouses; tractor, vehicle and equipment shelters; work-
shops; fertilizer and pesticide storage.
4/   Includes:  housing for research workers, and senior and junior techni-
cians; guest houses; recreation and infirmary; number of housing units
between brackets.
5/   Includes: 5,400 m2 of cattle and sheep pens, 1/3 covered, no solid
walls, only open fenced areas.
6/   Between brackets:  units to be renewed included in total.



- 28 -
III. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
3.01      Total Project costs, reflecting both ongoing and incremental
research activities, for the six year implementation period 1982-1987 are
estimated at CFAF 28.6 billion (US$106.1 million) with a foreign exchange
component of about 52%. Costs exclude direct taxes and import duties since
GOS has indicated that these would be waived. Base cost estimates reflect
January 1981 prices. Physical contingencies include 10% for all capital and
operating costs, but no provision for staff since numbers are clearly estab-
lished. Expected price increases for all project expenditures are compounded
at the following annual rates:
Project year          Foreign               Local
1981               9.0%                  10% (7% for local staff)
1982               8.5%                  10% (7% for local staff)
1983-1985             7.5%                  10% (7% for local staff)
1986               6.0%                  10% (7% for local staff)
Total expected price increases amount to 28% of total project costs or 39% of
base cost.  Costs are detailed at Annex 2, Tables 1, 2 and 3 and summarized
at Table 3.1.



- 29 -
Table 3.1 SUMMARY PROJECT COSTS
Share
of
Project                                                                      Total  Foreign
Component                  Local  Foreign Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Cost  Exchange
--(CFAF Billion)---   ----(US$ Million)----   (%)           (M)
Capital Costs
Civil Works and
Site Development       2.0      1.0    3.0       7.3    3.9   11.2       il        35
Vehicles and Equip-
ment                   0.1      1.2    1.3        0.5    4.3    4.8       4        89
Other Capital Costs       0.2     0.3    0.5        0.9    1.1    2.0        2       54
Subtotal                 2.3      2.5    4.8        8.7    9.3   18.0      17        52
Research Staff
Expenditures
Senegalese Scientists
and Technicians        2.2        -    2.2       8.2       -    8.2       8         -
Expatriate Scientists   1.4       5.1    6.5        5.0   18.9   23.9       22       79
Subtotal                  3.6     5.1    8.7       13.2   18.9   32.1      30        59
Operating Costs
Support Staff             2.5     0.5    3.0        9.3    1.9   11.2      10        17
Training Costs            0.2     0.6    0.8        0.6    2.4    3.0        3       80
Other Operating
Costs                  0.6      1.6    2.2       2.2    6.0    8.2        8        73
Subtotal                 3.3      2.7    6.0       12.1   10.3   22.4      21        46
Refunding PPA               0.2     0.1    0.3        0.6    0.4    1.0        1        35
Base Cost                   9.4    10.4   19.8       34.6   38.9   73.5       69       53
Physical Contin-
gencies                   0.4     0.4    0.8        1.5    1.5    3.0        3       49
Expected Price
Increases                 4.0     4.0    8.0       14.8   14.8   29.6       28       50
Total Project'Costs        13.8    14.8   28.6       50.9   55.2  106.1    100         52



- 30 -
B. Proposed Financing (Table 3.2)
3.02      It is proposed that an IDA credit of US$19.5 million be made to GOS
on standard terms to finance 19% of project cost. This would cover 71% of all
civil works, including all site-development and architect's fees and supervi-
sion of works; vehicles, equipment and research supplies (para 2.34); 2 key
expatriate staff (para 2.30); 10 expatriate research workers and visiting
scientists (paras 2.30 and 2.32); research management training (para 2.31);
and the annual audits (para 3.09). Out of a total external financing require-
ment of US$73.2 million, US$53.7 million have been committed by other donors.
France would continue its funding at the present annual level and contribute
US$35.3 million; part of these funds would be in the form of grants, part in
the form of technical assistance. Funds from France are expected to be
available by October 1981 for the first year of the Project. USAID would
contribute US$12.8 million through four different projects: (i) the OMVS
Agricultural Research Project, US$3.6 million; (ii) the Casamance Integrated
Development Project, US$2.2 million; (iii) the Senegal Agricultural Research
and Planning Project, US$4.3 million; and (iv) the PL480 Title III Project,
US$2.7 million. Project (i) is in an early stage of preparation and fulfill-
ment of conditions preceding initial disbursement of this USAID grant is a
condition of disbursement for works to be executed under the proposed IDA
credit at Richard Toll and the Station of Fanaye. The terms of projects (iii)
and (iv), for a total of US$7.0 million are to be defined between USAID and
GOS. Fulfillment of conditions preceding initial disbursement of these two
USAID grants is a condition of effectiveness. Agreements have been reached
with FAO/CILSS for a US$3.5 million grant for a Plant Protection Project as
part of a larger regional project, mainly financed by USAID. Further agree-
ments to make these funds available for the Project are a condition of effec-
tiveness. UNIFSTD has granted US$1.0 million, which would cover construction
and two years operating costs of the Documentation Center at St. Louis (paras
2.27 and 2.33), 7.5 man-months of independent consultants to strengthen ISRA-s
Scientific and Technical Committee (paras 2.03 and 2.32), and 13 management
training fellowships (para 2.31). Fulfillment of conditions preceding initial
disbursement of the UNIFSTD grant would be a condition of effectiveness. The
Association would act as Cooperating Agency for the UNIFSTD grant. WARDA and
ICRISAT would continue to fund expatriate scientific staff for US$1.1 million.
Total external financing would be US$73.2 million, or 69% of total costs,
covering 100% of foreign exchange costs (US$55.2 million) and 35% of local
costs. Government would contribute US$32.9 million which would finance
10% of all civil works, all local staff, initial expenses, 20% of research
supplies and 50% of operating costs. A formal commitment has been obtained
from GOS at negotiations that it would make the necessary annual budget
allocations to meet its contribution. The Financing Plan is detailed at Annex
4, Tables (v) through (xi). Assurances have been obtained at negotiations
that Government funding for the Project would have priority over other activi-
ties of ISRA.



- 31 -
Table 3.2 PROPOSED PROJECT FINANCING
USAID ICRISAT
Total    IDA   UNIFSTD  FRANCE  USAID   (FAO/   WARDA  GOS
CILSS)
-----------------------(US$ Million)----------------------
Civil Works and Site
Development */        12.5      8.7    0.1       -      2.2       0.1            1.4
Vehicles and
Equipment*/            5.3      0.2     -       3.4     1.3       0.4             -
Other Capital Costs*/   2.2       1.1     -        -       -         -       -     1.1
Senegal Scientists and
Technicians            8.2      -       -        -       -        0.1     -      8.1
Expatriate Scientist
and Consultants       23.9    2.7      0.1    15.6      3.2       1.5    0.8      -
Support Staff           11.2    0.7       -       1.7      -         -      -      8.8
Training Costs*/         3.3    0.1      0.2      1.6     1.3       0.1     -       -
Audit*/                  0.4    0.4            -       -        -        -          -
Other Operating
Costs*/                8.5      -      0.4      2.7     1.4       0.3     -      3.7
Refunding PPA            1.0    1.0       -        -       -         -      -       -
Contingencies (Price)  29.6    4.6       0.2    10.3      3.4       1.0    0.3    9.8
Total                  106.1   19.5      1.0    35.3    12.8        3.5    1.1   32.9
Percentage             100      19       1       33      12         3       1     31
*/   including physical contingencies
3.03      Cash availability is a major factor influencing the pace of project
implementation and consequently the rate of IDA credit disbursement. During
negotiations agreement has been reached that ISRA would open a project account
with an initial Government deposit of CFAF 30 million (US$111,000), which would
serve as a revolving fund (Caisse d'avance) to finance project expenditures.
This fund would be replenished by GOS promptly upon presentation by ISRA of
documentary evidence that payments from the fund have been used for the carrying
out of the project. Opening of the revolving fund with the initial deposit
would be conditions of effectivenes of the IDA credit.
C. Financial Arrangements and Budgetary Implications
3.04      The Project has been appraised on the basis of aggregate costs to
emphasize that IDA's lending, although mainly used for infrastructure, serves
to support entire research programs. The proposed research activities either
expand or reorient ISRA's present activities, but do not cover all of ISRA's



- 32 -
operations (para. 1.20). Ongoing activities related to the Project for
PYO are financed for CFAF 1,117 million (US$4.1 million) by GOS and CFAF 1,197
million (US$4.4 million) by other donors (Annex 4, Table xiv). To continue
funding these activities, GOS cash outlay would be CFAF 9,368 million (US$34.7
million) over the Project duration. "With" the Project, GOS participation in
current terms would decrease by CFAF 488 million (US$1.8 million). Total
annual project operating costs per research worker 1/ would increase from CFAF
11.7 million (US$43,300, para 1.24) to CFAF 13.2 million (US$49,900) in 1980
terms. Over the project period, total auxiliary and support staff costs would
decrease by 22%. With the decentralization of research, such a decrease would
be possible by internal staff transfers and better management. As a result,
GOS financing of local staff would gradually shift towards research staff
expenditures for Senegalese research workers returning from training. Govern-
ment participation in the project has been calculated with a view to maintain-
ing government's annual funding for research at about the present level, which
appears satisfactory in comparison with other countries. This presupposes
a continued support by the international community, as has been the case in
the past.
3.05      Total incremental project costs amount to CFAF 9,356 million
(US$34.7 million, Annex 4, Table (xiv)). Incremental costs comprise all
infrastructure investments, incremental expatriate scientific staff, training
costs, the annual audits and the operating costs of the Documentation and
Publications Unit. The overall participation of France in ISRA's activities
in currènt terms would increase slightly with CFAF 92.6 million (US$0.3
million) over the project period, but its funding would further shift from
operating costs to incremental expatriate research staff and equipment.
D. Procurement and Disbursement
3.06      Procurement of civil works to be financed by IDA for approximately
US$10.3 million would be through international competitive bidding in accord-
ance with IDA guidelines. Bidding documents would provide alternative tender-
ing for lots or for general contracts, because of the simplicity and rela-
tively small size of individual contracts for scattered jobs. Local competi-
tive bidding for civil works contracts up to US$100,000 would be allowed up to
an aggregate sum of US$1.0 million. Architectural designs, preparation of
bidding documents and supervision of works (total estimated cost US$1.7 mil-
lion) is being undertaken by an architectural firm acceptable to IDA. Inter-
nationally recruited staff (estimated cost US$4.4 million), auditors (esti-
mated cost US$0.7 million) and training fellowships (estimated cost US$0.4
million) would be obtained following procedures acceptable to IDA. Local
competitive bidding for contracts up to US$100,000 each would be allowed
for vehicles and equipment (estimated cost US$0.6 million), and for small farm
equipment and research supplies (estimated cost US$1.4 million). Contracts
for goods estimated to cost less than US$30,000 may be procured on the basis
of price quotations of at least three suppliers.
1/   Excluding training expenses, but including technicians.



- 33 -
3.07      All applications for IDA credit withdrawal would be fully documented
and a schedule of disbursements is at Annex 4, Table xiii. The proceeds of
the IDA Credit would be disbursed as follows:
Category I:    Civil Works, 86% of total expenditures (US$9.3 million);
Category II:   Vehicles and Equipment, 100% of foreign expenditure and
90% of local expenditures (US$0.5 million);
Category III:  Small Farm Equipment and Research Supplies, 100% of foreign
expenditures and 90% of local expenditures (US$1.3 million);
Category IV:   Expatriate Staff, Auditors and Architect's Fees, 100% of
total expenditures (US$4.2 million);
Category V:    Training, 100% of expenditures (US$0.3 million);
Category VI:   Refunding of the Project Preparation Advance (US$1.0 million);
Category VII:  Unallocated (US$2.9 million).
3.08      The Minister of Finance has confirmed by letter that goods and serv-
ices financed under the Project would be exempt from import taxes and duties.
E. Accounts and Audit
3.09      ISRA's Financial and Administrative Department would keep records
in accordance with sound accounting practices to reflect the Project's opera-
tional and financial position. The Internal Auditing and Budget Control Unit
would set up an effective budgeting and cost accounting system. All ISRA
accounts and financial statements would be audited annually. The auditor
would also assist the Internal Auditing and Budget Control Unit in preparing
a proposal for a cost accounting system by research program and by organiza-
tional unit. Such proposal would be furnished to ISRA's Steering Committee
and the Consultative Group for exchange of views, and separately to IDA for
its agreement by March 31, 1982. Following such agreement, ISRA would submit
the proposal to its Board of Governors for approval, upon which ISRA would
start implementation of the approved proposal by July 1, 1982. The first year
audited would be ISRA's fiscal year ending June 30, 1981 1/ and the audit
report would be submitted to IDA no later than March 31, 1982. During nego-
tiations assurances have been obtained from Government that:  (a) ISRA
accounts would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, who
would be appointed before Credit Effectiveness under terms of reference and
with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA; (b) the report of the
auditors would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of ISRA fiscal
year; and (c) the report of the auditors would be of such scope and in such
detail as IDA may reasonably request, including a statement as to whether or
not IDA funds had been used for their intended purpose.
1/   ISRAs fiscal year would change by January 1, 1982 from July 1-June 30
to January 1-December 31.



- 34 -
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. General Management
4.01      The General Manager of ISRA would have overall responsibility
for Project implementation. He would be assisted by two Board of Governors
Committees: (a) the Scientific and Technical Committee, and (b) the Steer-
ing Committee (para 2.02). His office would further be strengthened by the
establishment of three staff units: (a) the Internal Auditing and Budgetary
Control Unit, (b) the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, and (c) the Macro-
Economics Unit (para 2.28). Under the Project, he would delegate most of the
daily management to the three Department Heads for: (a) Commodity Research,
(b) Production Systems Research, and (c) Support Services. To assist the two
Research Department Heads in their task, two staff units would be established:
(a) the Commodity Research Staff Unit (para 2.20); and (b) the Central Systems
Analysis Group (para 2.18). Support Research would be managed by the Produc-
tion Systems Research Department (para 2.19). All research stations, central
laboratories and other support services described in para 2.27 would be
managed by the Head of the Support Services Department. Details of ISRAs
new organization are at IBRD Chart 21580.
4.02      Publication of an official decree establishing the reorganized ISRA
administrative structure would be a condition of effectiveness. Once a year
ISRA wouild review with the Consultative Group and IDA its new organizational
structure and management effectiveness and introduce appropriate changes in
structure, and in procedures and techniques, as required. GOS has decided to
transfer ISRA headquarters from Dakar to St. Louis. Assurances have been
obtained at negotiations that ISRA would maintain a permanent liaison office
in Dakar.
4.03      Research Programming and Coordination.  Because multidisciplinary
research needs careful programming and coordination, one scientist in each
research team would be appointed as program coordinator. His task would
be to prepare and present, in cooperation with his colleagues, the annual
research program, the program budget and the annual report. In addition, he
would be responsible for daily coordination of the work and budget control.
The program coordinators would be directly responsible to the Department
Heads. Detailed terms of reference for a research program coordinator are at
Annex 1. Each research department would have a staff unit of experienced
scientists that would prepare guidelines for research programming and assist
program coordinators in preparing their annual research programs and reports.
4.04      Research programs and budgets would be reviewed internally during
annual workshops organized and guided by the Senior Research Planning and
Evaluation Advisor and attended by all ISRA research staff. Subsequently,
the programs and budgets would be reviewed by the Scientific and Technical
Committee prior to presentation by ISRA's Managing Director to the Board of
Governors for approval. The meetings of the Consultative Group on Agricul-
tural Research in Senegal, to discuss the proposed programs and coordinate its
funding, would preferably coincide with the described internal and external
review process (para 2.03).



- 35 -
4.05      Assurances have been obtained at negotiations that (a) ISRA's
General Manager would introduce (i) by December 31, 1981, a Project reporting
system including quarterly progress reports and annual scientific reports,
and (ii) by January 31, 1982, a Project monitoring and evaluation system; both
systems to be proposed by ISRA's management and reviewed by IDA; (b) ISRA
management would prepare and forward not less than four months prior to the
end of ISRA's fiscal year its annual work program and budget, after internal
and external review (paras 2.03 and 4.04), to IDA for approval; and (c) ISRA
would, within six months of the Closing Date of the proposed credit, prepare a
project completion report. The draft annual budget would show a breakdown
by research program, as well as proposed lists of all vehicles, equipment
and research supplies to be acquired for the project in the following year.
The first budget would cover the period July 1, 1982 through December 21, 1982
and would be submitted to IDA for approval no later than March 31, 1982.
B. Research Station Management
4.06      The most important function of research station management is to
provide the best possible physical support to realize the full production
potential of the highly qualified scientists working on the station. This
function becomes even more important in coordinated multidisciplinary research
projects that are highly field oriented. The Research Station Management Unit
exists primarily to serve the needs of the research staff. Its responsibili-
ties would include: maintenance of buildings and grounds; equipment mainte-
nance and repair; operation and maintenance of irrigation and drainage
systems; soil preparation, cultural care, assistance in seeding and harvesting
experimental plots; the care of livestock; seed and feed production, and other
service duties prescribed by proper authority. Details on a typical structure
of a research station organization are at IBRD Chart No. 21578.
4.07      Depending on the size of the experiment station and the size and
the complexity of the research programs, the management unit would be headed
by either a Station Director or a Superintendent. A director would generally
be a trained scientist who would be assisted by a Technical Services Chief and
a Financial and Administrative Services Chief. The Research Staff Secretaries
Pool would also be his responsibility. In the case of the smaller stations -
Dahra and Kolda - a superintendent (Senior Technician level) would have
overall responsibility for farm management, assisted by a chief accountant;
the Research Program Coordinator attached to the station would act as Station
Director. The Station Director would be empowered to authorize the expendi-
tures of all funds provided for the general experiment station budget (general
farming operations, maintenance, etc.). It would be his responsibility to
ensure that funds budgeted for research in the coordinated research programs
at his station are distributed according to the official budget. Because the
budget for a coordinated program is prepared by the Project Scientists and
because these funds are allocated specifically to carry out the Project's
research programs, the director would not have the authority to shift these
to another program or project or prohibit their expenditure for properly
budgeted purposes. Details on a Station Director's required qualifications
and responsibilities are at Annex 1.



- 36 -
C. Civil Works
4.08      A firm of executive architects has been hired in agreement with IDA
to prepare the plans for building construction and site development, implemen-
tation schedules, bidding and contract documents, carry out bid analysis,
advise on the award of contracts and supervise construction. The TSU Chief
would supervise the executive architects and liaise closely with research
staff on building design. Detailed terms of reference for the executive
architects and the TSU are at Annex 2. ISRA would seek IDA approval of the
civil works component of the Project in four stages: (i) the master plan and
sketch drawings; (ii) preliminary design; (iii) final design and bidding docu-
ments; and (iv) bid evaluation and award. Preliminary designs and cost esti-
mates have been reviewed and approved at negotiations. Final designs, archi-
tect's confidential cost estimates and bidding documents have been reviewed
prior to Board presentation. Evidence has been received that official proce-
dures for the transfer of land rights for houses to be built in Kaolack and
Richard Toll have been undertaken. Assurances have been obtained at negotia-
tions that Government agencies and departments in charge of public utilities
would extend services on time as required to project sites in Kolda and Nioro
du Rip, and to the houses to be built in Kaolack and Richard Toll.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.09      The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit financed under the Project (para
2.30) would design and implement a monitoring and evaluation system. This
would provide a dual service: to ISRA's General Manager and the Department
Heads as a data collection, analysis and advisory system, and to GOS and
other Project financiers as a source of information for effective Project
supervision and impartial assessment of performance. Monitoring and evalua-
tion programs would be designed in close coordination with the strengthened
Scientific and Technical Committee of the Board of Governors (para 2.03).
The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would also be responsible for: (a)
preparing and guiding the annual internal and external research program and
budget reviews; (b) publication of ISRA's annual scientific reports by June
30th of each year; (c) preparation and publication of the quarterly Project
progress reports and a Project Completion Report (para 4.05); and (d) acting
as a secretariat to the Board of Governors' Scientific and Technical Committee.
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
5.01      General.  It is generally accepted that a strong national agricul-
tural research system integrated into the rural development process, with
problem-oriented research focussed on farmer's needs, can make an important
contribution towards improving the lot of the rural population through improv-
ing the quantity, quality and productivity of food, as well as cash crop



- 37-
production. To a large extent, however, only in extreme cases would private
entrepreneurs engage in agrieultural research, especially in developing
countries, since research results cannot often be marketed as private goods.
Thus it devolves on governments to invest in research to maintain and improve
growth in the agricultural sector. Government involvement is also necessary
to: (a) generate cooperation between researchers; (b) direct research to meet
national needs and objectives and in the appropriate direction; (c) meet the
large capital outlays which may prove excessive for the private sector; and
(d) create an effective institutional framework in which research forms part
of the crop production system, and to avoid the research effort being spread
too thinly between a multiplicity of ministries and institutes.
5.02      No attempt has been made in this report to quantify the ex-ante
economic rate of return of the project for several reasons:
(a) outcome from research activities is uncertain and attempts to
impute values to expected results would be highly subjective, and
speculative;
(b) research, in general, involves the development of human capital
and this in itself is beneficial, though direct output from the
pool of trained personnel may not be immediately apparent;
(c)  the time lag between investment and research findings as well
as between findings and adoption is uncertain. Adoption of
research findings, for example, is related to a variety of factors
which may not be directly linked to the research but dependent on
Government policy;
(d) the actual amounts expended on research and research-related
activities are difficult to estimate since they may include costs
of extension, training and development projects which may or may
not be directly related to the research project;
(e)  research sometimes may yield results not related to the purpose
of the initial research but which nonetheless are useful and add to
the pool of knowledge necessary for subsequent research efforts;
and
(f) the existence of a national research capability enhances the
possibility of adapting and disseminating technology developed by
IARC's; the benefits from such adaptation could be considerable
even though it is difficult to estimate ex-ante.
5.03      Despite the difficulty of an ex-ante estimation of the economic
rate of return ex-post calculations of rates of return on agricultural
research have been found to be high in all such studies completed (Annex 4,
Table (xv)). In virtually all cases the estimated internal rates of return
have been higher than the opportunity cost of capital and higher than the
rates of return estimated for most development projects in those countries.
Thus some crop programs in Latin America and Asia have been evaluated at



- 38 -
between 35% and 102%; applied research in LDCs has shown an average rate of
42%, and scientific research, 60%. Attainment of high economic rates of
return depends on research focus and careful monitoring and evaluation at
reasonable operating and maintenance costs.
5.04      The Senegal Agricultural Research Project.  In comparison to other
countries the level of commitment to agricultural research in Senegal is
relatively high (para 1.24). However much of the expenditure has been
concentrated on disciplinary research and a few commodities and therefore
possibilities exist for high pay-off by broadening the research program by
focussing on agricultural production systems and multidisciplinary commodity
research. The research approach has up to now been theoretical with ISRA
researching solutions to assumed farmer constraints.  The project therefore
seeks to re-orient research to be problem oriented and multidisciplinary with
actual farmer problems receiving highest priority in the project. The returns
of such an approach should be quite high since recommendations would be more
practical and should lead to higher farmer adoption rates.
5.05      Crop Production and Food Deficits.  Objectives of increasing home
grown food and reducing cereal imports (para 1.07) would depend increasingly
on developing Senegal's irrigation potential. Knowledge of problems asso-
ciated with irrigated agriculture in the country is scant and new research
efforts in this field are necessary. Thus, the concerted effort being made
to increase rice production in the Casamance and the Senegal River Valley,
through irrigation, shauld benefit from the proposed Research Project.
5.06      Livestock Subsector.  Very little production oriented research has
been done in Senegal on livestock. The potential for advance in this
subsector is great since the off-take per animal unit (cattle for example)
in Senegal is only about 20% of the level in some developed countries. The
potential exists to improve livestock trade with neighboring countries, and
this subsector could become an important source of foreign exchange. The
livestock programs under the project would help improve production.
5.07      Nutrition.  Indicators relating to life expectancy suggest that
Senegal has one of the lowest life expectancies at birth and one of the
highest child death rates in the world 1/. Though these are poor indicators
of nutritional standards, they do suggest malnutrition and inadequate diet
both among children and adults. Increased agricultural production as a result
of research should help improve the nutritional level of the population,
first, by making more food available in the rural areas, where inadequate diet
may be more common, and second, by reducing food costs relative to other items.
Increased livestock production due to research should also help augment the
protein intake of the population given that present meat consumption levels
are very low (6-10 kg/capita/annum).
1/   In rural areas mortality is 20% for children up to 1 year and 32%
for those 1 to 4 years.



- 39 
5.08       Smallholder Agriculture.  Over 95% of all farms in Senegal are
worked by small landholders.  Most of the farmers are poor and grow mainly
groundnuts (cotton and rice in some instances) for cash, and millet, maize
and rice for subsistence.  The period of the "soudure" from July to October,
just before harvest, is particularly food-short for many eamilies in subsis-
tence agriculture. By nature, most of the smallholder farmers are risk-averse,
but they are ready to adopt innovations if they are convinced that these will
increase their production.  Thus any new results that may come from the Project
will benefit small farmers who are the poorest section of Senegalese society.
5.09       Research and Extension.  The linkage between research and extension
has, at best, been tenuous. The feedhack element where extension provides
research with farmer reactions to recommendations bas been lacking since
limited organized means existed for this feedback.  Linkages between extension
and research exist only at the top echelons of the RDAs and ISRA. Thus the
linkage has been "top-down" rather than "bottom-up", and hence researched
constraints are not necessarily those faced by the farmer in practice. For
research results to be useful they need to be practical and adapted to individ-
ual farmer constraints so the farmer can easily adopt them, taking into
account the financial, material and labor means at his disposal. One major
benefit expected from the pro ject would be the direct link between research
and extension through the Subject Matter Specialists on the production systems
research teams.  Besides tbe research-extension linkage, new technical themes
which take into account farmer constraints need to be developed. Senegal has
a long history of research but technology has reached a level where new
breakthroughs are necessary. Intensification and other technical themes now
being extended for rainfed production have not yielded the desired results
because they do not necessarily address actual constraints faced by farmers.
Thus if new technology is not developed there would probably be no new themes
to extend in about a decade when farmers would have adopted the parts of
present technical packages suitable for their mode of production. In addition,
new problems emerge with continuous cropping of a given land area. Problems
of diseases, rust, insects and others could wipe out entire crops if research
does not come up with immediate and effective means to cope with them as soon
as these problems develop. Continued research on plant disease resistance as
well as other farmer constraints is therefore necessary to avoid possible
catastrophe. Thus both the commodity research and production systems researcb
components should produce results directly usable by extension agencies to
ensure, at least, maintenance of present production levels.
5.10       Socio-Economic Impact.  Several problems exist in Senegal involving
the impact of marketing procedures; credit; input distribution; pricing and
subsidy policies; and the general oranization of the rural sector on the adop-
tion of technical themes by farmers. These problems exist at the national
level and involve matters of general Government policy. Rational policies can
however only be made by Government if sufficient background data and material
exist to base decisions on.  The Macro-Economics Unit as well as the economists
and sociologists included in the production systems teams should be able to
gather and analyze enough data to make useful recommendations to Government on
general agricultural policies. It is expected that the Project would provide
necessary support to Government for devising its agricultural policy and
therefore encourage development of the sector.



- 40 -
5.11      Resettlement.  Government's policy of rural development includes
resettling farmers from the Central Groundnut Basin, where population pres-
sure is high to new lands. With the development of large areas under
irrigation along the thinly populated Senegal River Valley the scope for
resettlement would increase. Major research efforts are therefore needed to
make such resettlement programs successful, and the farming systems research
component of the Project in the Senegal River Valley should meet the chal-
lenge.
5.12      Regional Impact.  Since colonial days, Senegal has been a leading
center of agricultural research in Francophone West Africa.  Results from the
country's research have been diffused to other parts of the region. One
potential benefit of the Project is that any new breakthroughs in irrigated or
rainfed agriculture and livestock production would have a wide application.
Neighboring countries and possibly other African countries, especially those
in the sudano-sahelian zone could draw on the results produced through the
project, in particular, through coordination efforts such as the Semi-Arid
Food Grain and Development (SAFGRAD) programs of the Organization for African
Unity.
5.13      Risks.  The above discussion should not be taken to suggest that
all agricultural research that could be undertaken in Senegal would have a
high economic rate of return. A number of factors may affect the success of
the project and these include:
(a)  program segmentation, where given the multiplicity of co-finan-
ciers there is a possibility that their research interests may not
coincide and hence programs may be executed in fragments;
(b) the possibility that ISRA may be slower than expected in adopting a
complete reorganization that will shift research emphasis from the
present disciplinary research towards problem-oriented research
using multidisciplinary teams to tackle priority problems, and that
will decentralize research towards higher potential areas;
(c) the clear establishment of priority problems and the importance
of such problems in the sector as a whole, while avoiding individ-
ual scientist biases towards certain disciplines, which may require
only theoretical work;
(d)  the possibility that support research may deviate from the
problem-oriented approach proposed, and concentrate more on dis-
ciplinary research not related to the project if systems teams do
-not keep them informed or fail to identify priority problems;
(e) lack of sufficiently trained local staff and the time lag in
their training as well as possible unavailability of trained
French-speaking expatriates to carry out a true systems research
effort;



- 41 -
(f) the possibility that the linkage between research, extension and
agricultural development activities are not completely developed
and that Subject Matter Specialists might become more interested
in research at the expense of extension and development.
5.14      The major general risk then is that the various problems may bog
down the reorientation of research and hence, delay possible results. However,
GOS is fully committed to the project and a general consensus exists with ISRA
on the proposed research programs. Moreover, a number of measures have been
proposed in the project to ensure that the probability of any of the specific
risks becoming real is reduced to the minimum. The systems teams are to be
kept as small as possible, with a coordinator responsible for ensuring that
the research interests are focussed on solution of pressing problems. The
reorganization of the Project executing agency, ISRA, will ensure that all
agricultural research is organized around the systems philosophy. There will
be a Central Systems Analysis Group responsible for overall planning and
supervision of systems research. The multidisciplinary teams would focus
research on understanding how all significant factors relate and interrelate
within the production process and would set priorities as a team avoiding
individual biases.  Though the shift from the present discipline-oriented
research to a systems approach may not be fully welcomed by all,staff, the
fact that Senegal was probably the first country in Africa to start any form
of systems research should make it easier for present staff to adjust to the
new approach. The linkage of research to extension through the Subject Matter
Specialists should also have a high chance of success since they would be
seconded to the extension agencies and would have the responsibility for
training extension agents which would give them a unique insight into farmers'
practical problems. Annual review processes established for the project and
the Consultative Group for Agricultural Research in Senegal should ensure that
research is problem-oriented. Staff training is a major component of the
project, providing for the training of 48 M.Sc. s and 15 Ph.D's in training by
Year 6. The multiplicity of donors should make it possible to obtain enough
qualified expatriate staff to man the project for the first few years when
Senegalese staff are in training.  The project has therefore recognized the
existence of risks and designed procedures to minimize them. The expected
benefits should outweigh the costs and from the national perspective, even one
research component that is a major success could finance or justify the total
agricultural research effort for years, and those that may fail are part of
the cost to be borne by those that succeed. The important aspect is cost
minimization, which can be achieved, through careful design of the research
organization, staff development, constructively critical project evaluation,
ex-ante and ex-post program and project monitoring, and adequate funding; and
the project is designed to do all these.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED WITH THE BORROWER,
CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained from Government on the
following principal points:



- 42 -
(i) ISRA's Board of Governors Scientific and Technical Committee would
be strengthened with four independent scientists of international
repute in an advisory role on terms of reference and with qualifi-
cations and experience acceptable to IDA (para 2.03);
(ii)  at least three months before the end of each fiscal year, GOS, ISRA
and the Consultative Group on Agricultural Research in Senegal would
arrange to have an exchange of views on progress of the Project,
performance of Borrower obligations, impact of the project on
agricultural development and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit and the objectives of the Project (para 2.03 and 4.04);
(iii) Subject Matter Specialists in agricultural extension would be
recruited and seconded in staff functions to the regional managements
of each of the following RDA's: SAED, SODESP, SODEVA and SOMIVAC,
under terms of reference and with qualifications and experience
acceptable to IDA, and agreements for such secondment signed between
ISRA and each of the RDA's concerned (para 2.04);
(iv)  ISRA would maintain a permanent liaison office at Dakar, in the event
that its headquarters are transferred to St. Louis (para 2.27);
(v) the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, headed by the Senior
Research Planning and Evaluation Advisor would be established
within 6 months after the start of the Project (para 2.28);
(vi)  by December 31, 1981, ISRA management would propose a project
reporting system including quarterly progress reports and annual
scientific reports for review by IDA (para 2.28 and 4.05);
(vii)  ISRA would prepare a Project Completion Report according to guide-
lines to be agreed upon with IDA, within 6 months of the closing
date of the Credit (paras 2.28 and 4.05);
(viii)  Project staff would be appointed for periods of at least three years
and key Project staff would have qualifications and experience
acceptable to IDA (para 2.29);
(ix)  Staff training needs would be annually reviewed by ISRA management,
the Board of Governors' Scientific and Technical Committee, and the
Consultative Group on Agricultural Research in Senegal (para 2.31);
(x) Government would make the necessary annual budget allocations
to meet its financial commitments for the Project (para 3.02);
(xi)  the Project Revolving Fund (Caisse d'avance) would be replenished by
GOS upon presentation by ISRA of documentary evidence that payments
from the fund have been used for the carrying out of the project
(para 3.03);
(xii) (a) ISRA's accounts and the Project Revolving Fund would be audited
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (b) the report of the



- 43 -
auditors would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of
the ISRA fiscal year; (c) the report of the auditors would be of
such scope and in such detail as IDA may reasonably request, includ-
ing a statement as to whether or not IDA funds had been used for
their intended purpose; and (d) the first year audited would be
ISRA's fiscal year ending June 30, 1981, and the audit report would
be submitted to IDA no later than March 31, 1982 (para 3.09);
(xiii) the independent auditor would assist ISRA's Internal Auditing and
Budgetary Control Unit in preparing a cost accounting system by
research program and organizational unit, to be furnished to ISRA's
Steering Committee and the Consultative Group for exchange of views
and separately to IDA for its agreement by March 31, 1982; following
such agreement, ISRA would submit the proposal to its Board of
Governors for approval, and would start implementation by July 1,
1982 (3.09);
(xiv) once a year ISRA would review with the Consultative Group and IDA
its new organizational structure and management effectiveness,
and introduce appropriate changes in structure, and in procedures
and techniques as required (para 4.02);
(xv) annual workshops would be held for all ISRA research staff to review
the annual research work plan; such plan, including investment and
operating budgets by research program, and proposed lists of all
vehicles, equipment and research supplies to be acquired for the
project in the following year, would be presented to the Board of
Governors' Scientific and Technical Committee for comments prior to
presentation before March 31 of each year to IDA for review and
approval; the first budget would cover the period July 1, 1982
through December 31, 1982 and would be submitted to IDA for approval
no later than March 31, 1982 (paras 4.04 and 4.05);
(xvi) by January 31, 1982, ISRA Management would propose a Project
Monitoring System for review by IDA (paras 4.05 and 4.09); and
(xvii) Government agencies and departments in charge of public utilities
would extend services to Project sites in Kolda, Kaolack and Richard
Toll on time as required (para 4.08).
6.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(i) completion of a financing plan satisfactory to IDA up to December
31, 1984, for ISRA's operations and their costs (para 3.02);
(ii) official appointment of the three major Department Heads and of four
key project staff (the Chief of the Internal Auditing and Budgetary
Control Unit, the Senior Research Planning and Evaluation Advisor,
the Chief of the TSU, and the Project Coordinator) under terms of
reference and with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA
(paras 2.29 and 4.01);



- 44 -
(iii) the CILSS and UNIFSTD grants and the USAID grants for the Senegal
Agricultural Research and Planning Project, and the PL 480/Title
III Project, would be effective (para 3.02);
(iv) opening of a project account with an initial deposit by Government
of CFAF 30 million (US$111 thousand) which would serve as a revolving
fund (caisse d'avance) to finance project expenditures (para 3.03);
(v) appointment of independent auditors under terms of reference and
with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA (para 3.09); and
(vi) publication in the Official Gazette of a modification acceptable to
IDA of the decree establishing ISRA's administrative structure (para
4.02).
6.03      A condition of disbursement would be that no withdrawals would be
made from the IDA credit for expenditures for civil works at Fanaye and
Richard Toll until the USAID grant for the OMVS Agricultural Research Project
would be effective (para 3.02).
6.04      With the indicated assurances and conditions, the proposed project
is suitable for a Credit on standard terms of US$19.5 million equivalent to
the Government of Senegal.



-45 -                           AANNEX 1
Page 1
SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Responsibilities and Qualifications of Key Personnel
Project Manager (ISRA Managing Director)
1.        Under the Minister of Science and Technology and ISRA's Board of
Governors, the Managing Director would be responsible for project execution
and its technical, financial and economic success.  He would delegate day-to-
day management of project execution to his Department Heads, and he would be
supported in his task by four senior staff directly attached to his office:
(i) the Chief of the Internal Auditing and Budgetary Control Unit,
controleur de gestion;
(ii)  the Agent Comptable Particulier (ACP);
(iii)  the Financial and Administrative Director; and
(iv)  the Senior Research Planning and Evaluation Advisor.
He is further assisted by two Committees of ISRA's Board of Governors:
(i) the Scientific and Technical Committee, and
(ii) the Steering Committee.
2.        The Managing Director would be appointed for periods of at least
five years and he would be specifically responsible for:
(a) planning, managing and supervising all Project activities;
(b) preparing annual work programs and budgets;
(c) supervising all Project expenditures and handling its personnel matters;
(d) establishing a Project reporting system and preparing quarterly
progress and annual scientific reports;
(e) coordinating Project activities with the national policies in
the agricultural sector;
(f) coordinating Project activities with local and regional actions under-
taken in the agricultural sector;
(g) ensuring adherence to all covenants of the Credit Agreement;
(h) preparing a follow-up project.



- 46 -                          ANNEX 1
Page 2
3.        The qualification and experience of the Managing Director would be:
(a) a post-graduate degree in agriculture or veterinary science or a related
field;
(b) at least 3 years experience in a senior management position; preferably
in agricultural research;
(c) field experience as research worker;
(d) a proven ability to lead and coordinate the activities of a team and/or
different organizational units;
(e) general management skills should preferably include familiarity with
financing and budgeting procedures.
Chief, Internal Auditing and Budgetary Control Unit (controleur de gestion)
1.        Under the direction of ISRA's Managing Director he would be respon-
sible for:
(a) designing and implementing a detailed and effective cost accounting
system that would permit budgeting per research program and per organ-
izational unit;
(b) setting up detailed budgeting procedures for use by ISRA staff, and an
effective budgetary control system;
(c) review of budgets prior to their approval by ISRA management for presen-
tation to the Board of Governors;
(d) control of Project financial statements and ISRA's balance sheets
including consolidated and detailed annual budgets and quarterly cash
flow projections prepared by the Agent Comptable Particulier(ACP)
and the Financial and Administrative Director;
(e) designing and implementing sound financing and management controls
particularly with regard to fixed assets, accounts receivable, accounts
payable, inventories, stocks and receipts, equipment maintenance and
vehicle operating costs;
(f) supervising disbursement records for the various donors involved in
the Project and ISRA;
(g) supervising all procurement procedures;
(h) follow-up of auditor's recommendations; and
(i) training in technical and managerial matters all staff directly
under his orders and all other ISRA financial and accounting staff.



- 47 -                          ANNEX 1
Page 3
2.        The qualifications and experience of the Chief Internal Auditing
and Budgetary Control Unit would be:
(a) a university degree (or its equivalent) or membership in a recognized
professional body evidencing formal knowledge of modern accounting
theory and practice in accordance with generally accepted interna-
tional standards;
(b) at least seven years professional experience, preferably in a country
using the OCAM or French accounting plans and some of which in a
commercial enterprise;
(c) actual experience with internal auditing, cost accounting, budgetary
control and general management; and
(d) a good knowledge of the French language.
Senior Research Planning and Evaluation Advisor
1.        Under the direction of ISRA's Mianaging Director he would as head
of the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit be responsible for:
(a) planning, managing and supervising the Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit;
(b) acting as senior advisor to ISRA's Managing Director regarding the
development of national systems for research program planning,
coordination, budgeting, management and evaluation;
(c) setting up an information and data collecting system to monitor
Project progress in physical and financial terms, and preparing
Project reporting guidelines;
(d) analysing the data collected, including the non-quantifiable aspects
of the research effort, and reporting his findings and recommenda-
tions to ISRA's Managing Director and the Department Heads;
(e) in coordination with and with the collaboration of the Department
Heads and their Senior Staff, evaluating research results and devel-
oping a long term agricultural research strategy.;
(f) coordinating and preparing ISRA's annual scientific reports;
(g) preparing quarterly Project progress reports and the Project Comple-
tion Report; and
(h) training in technical and managerial matters all staff directly
under his orders.
2.        The qualifications and experience of the Senior Research Planning
and Evaluation Advisor would be:



-48 -
ANNEX L
Page 4
(a) a post-graduate degree in agriculture or veterinary science or a
related field;
(b) at least seven years experience in agricultural research management
and programming;
(c) actual experience with monitoring and evaluation of agricultural
research or agricultural development; and
(d) as good knowledge of the French language.
Head Commodity Research Department
1.        Under the direction of ISRA's Managing Director and assisted by a
Senior Staff Agronomist, he would manage the Commodity Research Department and
be responsible for:
(a) planning, supervising and managing all research activities of
his Department;
(b) preparing annual work programs and budgets for each of the research
programs carried out by his Department in close liaison with the
Senior Research Planning and Evaluation Advisor and the Chief of
the Internal Auditing and Budget Control Unit;
(c) supervising his Department's expenditures and handling all its
personnel matters;
(d) coordinating the activities of his Department with those of the
other Departments and in particular with the various functions of
the Support Services Department;
(e) preparing quarterly progress reports and annual scientific reports
for his Department in close liaison with the Senior Research
Planning and Evaluation Advisor; and
(f) training in technical and managerial matters all staff under his
orders.
2.        The qualifications and experience of the Head of the Commodity
Research Department would be
(a)  a post-graduate degree in agriculture or related field;
(b) at least five years experience in agricultural research;
(c) actual experience in agricultural research management and pro-
gramming;
(d) a proven ability to lead and coordinate the activities of multi-
disciplinary research teams; and



49 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5
(f) a good knowledge of the French language.
Senior Staff Agronomist, Commodity Research Department
1.        The Senior Agronomist would fill a staff position in the Commodity
Research Department and would, under the direction of its Head, be responsible
for:
(a) preparing guidelines for the progr=mming, planning and execution
of all research activities of the Department;
(b) coordinating and supervising the various research programs of the
Department;
(c)  coordinating the research activities of the Department with those of
the Agricultural Production Systems Department through close liaison
with the Central Systems Analysis Group and the Support Research
Liaison Officer;
(d)  coordinating the preparation of quarterly progress and annual scien-
tific reports according to guidelines from the Senior Research
Planning and Evaluation Advisor; and
(e) training in technical and managerial matters all staff of the Depart-
ment.
2.        The qualifications and experience of the Senior Staff Agronomist
would be:
(a)  a post-graduate degree in agriculture or related field;
(b) at least seven years experience in agricultural research, part of
which preferably as plant breeder;
(c) actual experience in agricultural research planning and programming;
and
(d) a good knowledge of the French language.
Commodity Research Program Coordinator
1.        Under the direction of the Head of the Commodity Research Department
a Commodity Research Program Coordinator would, apart from being an active
research worker himself, be responsible for:
(a) coordinating, managing and supervising all research activities of
his research team;
(b) coordinating program execution with the Senior Staff Agronomist;
(c)  coordinating support research for his research program with the
research workers in the Support Research Group;



- 50 -                          ANNEX 1
Page 6
(d) coordinating execution of all on-station research work with the
Station Directors;
(e) coordinating all laboratory services for his research program with
the Laboratory Chiefs;
(f)  preparing annual work programs and budgets, including all support
research needs, in coordination with his fellow research workers,
and in close liaison with and according to guidelines from the
Senior Staff Agronomist;
(g) supervising his teams' expenditures; and
(h) preparing quarterly progress reports and annual scientific reports
according to guidelines from the Senior Staff Agronomist; and
(i) training in technical and managerial matters all staff under his
supervision.
2.        The qualifications and experience of a Commodity Research Program
Coordinator would be:
(a)  a post-graduate degree in agriculture or related field;
(b) at least three years experience in agricultural research, preferably
in plant breeding;
(c) a keen interest and proven ability in research management and in
leading a multidisciplinary research team;
(d) a good knowledge of the French language.
Head Agricultural Production Systems Department
1.        Under the direction of ISRA's MIanaging Director and assisted by
the Central Systems Analysis Group and the Support Research Liaison Officer,
he would manage the Agricultural Production Systems Department and be res-
ponsible for:
(a) planning, supervising and managing all research activities of
his Department;
(b) preparing annual work programs and budgets for each of the research
programs carried out by his Department and the Support Research
Group, in close liaison with the Senior Research Planning and
Evaluation Advisor and the Chief of the Internal Auditing and
Budgetary Control Unit;
(c)  supervising his Department's expenditures and handling all its
personnel matters;



- 51 -
ANNEX 1
Page 7
(d) coordinating the activities of his Department with those of the
other Departments and in particular with the various functions of
the Support Services Department;
(e) preparing quarterly progress reports and annual scientific reports
for his Department, in close liaison with the Senior Research
Planning and Evaluation Advisor; and
(f) training in technical and management matters all staff under
his orders.
2.        The qualifications and experience of the Head of the Agricultural
Production Systems Department would be:
(a) a post-graduate degree in agriculture or veterinary science or a
related field;
(b) at least five years experience in agricultural research, part of
which preferably related to production systems research;
(c) actual experience in agricultural research management and programming;
(d) a proven ability to lead and coordinate the activities of multidis-
ciplinary research teams; and
(e) a good knowledge of the French language.
Senior Systems Analysis Specialist
1.        The Senior Systems Analysis Specialist would fill a staff position
in the Agricultural Production Systems Department's Central Systems Analysis
Group, preferably but not necessarily, as its Chief,*/ and under the direction
of the Department Head be responsible for:
(a) coordinating the preparation of guidelines for the programming,
planning and execution of all research activities of the Department;
(b) coordinating the various research activities of the Department;
(c) coordinating the research activities of the Department with those
of the Commodity Research Department through close liaison with
its Senior Staff Agronomist, with those of the Macro-Economics
Unit, and with those of the Livestock Support Research Development;
(d) constructing systems models based on inputs received from the Systems
Research Field Teams and utilizing mathematical and computerized
systems analysis techniques: (i) to establish research priorities,
*/ If another member of the Central Systems Analysis Group were its chief,
his duties and responsibilities would need to be amended.



- 52 -
ANNEX 1
Page 8
(ii) to evaluate research effectiveness, (iii) to analyse economic
benefits of research results, and (iv) to test farmer acceptance
of research innovations;
(e)  coordinating the preparation of progress and scientific reports
according to guidelines from the Senior Research Planning and
Evaluation Advisor; and
(f) training in technical and managerial matters all staff of the
Department.
2.        The qualifications and experience of the Senior Systems Analysis
Specialist would be:
(a) a post-graduate degree in agriculture, veterinary science, mathema-
tics, statistics, systems analysis or related field;
(b) at least seven years experience in agricultural research, part
of which preferably in agricultural production systems;
(c) a sound knowledge of, and at least three years experience in systems
modeling, utilizing mathematical and computerized systems analysis
techniques;
(d) general management skills, preferably including familiarity with
coordination of multidisciplinary research team activities; and
(e) a good knowledge of the French language.
Farming Systems Specialist
1.        Under the direction of the Head of the Agricultural Production
Systems Department and the Chief of the Central Systems Analysis Group, the
Farming Systems Specialist would be responsible for:
(a) studying the main agricultural production systems in Senegal and
working with the other members of the Central Systems Analysis
Group in preparing mathematical models of these systems;
(b)  coordinating and supervising all work done on farming systems
research in Senegal;
(c) preparing guidelines for the programming, planning and execution of
farming systems research;
(d) coordinating the Departments' farming systems research;
(e) coordinating the preparation of progress and scientific reports
on farming systems research according to guidelines from the Senior
Research Planning and Evaluation Advisor;



ANNEX 1
Page 9
(f) coordinating the farming systems research activities with the
extension services of the RDAs;
(g) coordinating between the Commodity Research Department and the
Agricultural Production Systems Field Teams for testing of new
varieties on farmers' fields;
(h) acting as senior advisor to the farming systems agronomists in the
Agricultural Production Systems Field Teams;
(i) training in technical and management matters all staff of the
Department.
2.        The qualifications and experience of the Farming Systems Specialist
would be:
(a)  a post-graduate degree in agriculture or related field;
(b) at least seven years experience in agricultural research, part of
which in farming systems research, and preferably some experience
in agricultural extension;
(c)  actual experience in multidisciplinary agricultural research
planning and programming; and
(d) a good knowledge of the French language.
Animal Production Systems Specialist
1.        Under the direction of the Head of the Agricultural Production
Systems Department and the Chief of the Central Systems Analysis Group, the
Animal Production Systems Specialist would be responsible for:
(a) studying the main agricultural production systems in Senegal and
working with the other members of the Central Systems Analysis
Group in preparing mathematical models of these systems;
(b) coordinating and supervising all work done on animal production
systems research in Senegal;
(c) preparing guidelines for the programming, planning and execution
of animal production systems research;
(d) coordinating the Departments' animal production systems research
with livestock support research through close liaison with the
Head of the Livestock Support Research Department;
(e) coordinating the preparation of progress and scientific reports on
animal production systems research according to guidelines from the
Senior Research Planning and Evaluation Advisor;



- 54 -                          ANNEX 1
Page 10
(f) coordinating the animal production systems research activities with
the extension services of the RDAs;
(g) acting as senior advisor to the animal production scientists in the
agricultural production systems field teams; and
(h) training in technical and managerial matters all staff of the
Department.
2.        The qualifications and experience of the Animal Production Systems
Specialist would be:
(a) a post-graduate degree in animal husbandry, veterinary science or
related field;
(b) at least seven years experience in animal husbandry or livestock
research, part of which in animal production systems research, and
preferably some experience in agricultural extension;
(c) actual experience in multidisciplinary agricultural research
planning and programming; and
(d) a good knowledge of the French language.
Systems Sociologist
1.        Under the direction of the Head of the Agricultural Production
Systems Department and the Chief of the Central Systems Analysis Group, the
Systems Sociologist would be responsible for:
(a)  studying the main agricultural production system in Senegal and
working with the other members of the Central Systems Analysis Group
in preparing mathematical models of these systems;
(b) coordinating and supervising all work done on rural sociology
research;
(c)  preparing guidelines for the programming, planning and execution of
rural sociology research;
(d) coordinating the rural sociology research activities with the
extension services of the RDAs;
(f) acting as senior advisor to the rural sociologists in the agricul-
tural production systems field teams; and
(g) training in technical and managerial matters all staff of the
Department.



- 55 -
ANNEX 1
Page 11
2.        The qualifications and experience of the Systems Sociologist
would be:
(a)  a post-graduate degree in rural sociology or related field;
(b) at least seven years experience in rural sociology research, part of
which in agricultural production systems research, and preferably
some experience in agricultural extension;
(c) actual experience in multidisciplinary research planning and program-
ming; and
(d) a good knowledge of the French language.
Agricultural Production Systems Economist
1.        Under the direction of the head of the Agricultural Production
Systems Department and the Chief of the Central Systems Analysis Group, the
Agricultural Production Systems Economist would be responsible for:
(a) studying the main agricultural production systems in Senegal and
working with the other members of the Central Systems Analysis Group
in preparing mathematical models of these systems;
(b) coordinating and supervising all work done in research in agricul-
tural economics;
(c) preparing guidelines for the programming, planning and execution of
research in agricultural economics;
(d) coordinating the Departments' research in agricultural economics
with research done by the Macro-Economics Unit on rural sector
management, marketing and price policy;
(e) coordinating the preparation of progress and scientific reports on
research in agricultural economics according to guidelines from the
Senior Research Planning and Evaluation Advisor;
(f) coordinating the research activities in agricultural economics
with the extension services of the RADAs;
(g) acting as senior advisor to the agricultural economists in the
agricultural production systems field teams; and
(h)  training in technical and managerial matters all staff of the
Department.
2.       The qualifications and experience of the Agricultural Production
Systems Economist would be:
(a)  a post-graduate degree in agricultural economics or related field;



- 56 -                         ANNEX 1
Page 12
(b) at least seven years experience in agricultural economics research,
part of which in agricultural production systems research, and
preferably some experience in agricultural extension;
(c) actual experience in multi-disciplinary research planning and
programming; and
(d) a good knowledge of the French language.
Support Research Liaison Officer */
1.        Under the direction of the Head of the Agricultural Production
Systems Department the Support Research Liaison Officer would be responsible
for:
(a) coordinating all support research related to crop production with
both the Agricultural Production Systems Field Teams and the Com-
modity Research Teams;
(b)  programming and budgeting the Support Research Groups' annual
activities, based on research needs expressed by the commodity and
production systems research teams (the Support Research Group would;
not have its own budget, since its activities would be incorporated
in the budgets of the commodity and production systems research
programs);
(c) planning, programming and budgeting any slack-time of support
research workers not accounted for under (b), in coordination with
the Senior Research Planning and Evaluation Advisor;
(d) supervising and managing all research activities of the Support
Research Group;
(e) supervising the Support Research Group's expenditures;
(f) coordinating preparation of quarterly and annual progress reports,
and annual scientific reports, according to guidelines from the
Senior Research Planning and Evaluation Advisor, for incorporation
in the production systems and commodity research teams' reports;
(g) acting as senior advisor to research workers working in support
research; and
(h) training in technical and managerial matters all staff of the
Support Research Group.
*/     The Head of the Livestock Support Research Department would have
similar responsibilities. His Department would not have a separate
budget since all activities of his Department would be part of the
research programs of the other Departments and therefore included
in their budgets.



ANNEX 1
Page 13
2.        The qualifications and experience of the support Research Liaison
Officer would be:
(a) a post-graduate degree in agriculture or veterinary science or
related field;
(b) at least seven years experience in agricultural research;
(c) general management skills, preferably including familiarity with
coordination of multi-disciplinary research team activities.
(d) a good knowledge of the Freanch language.
Systems Research Field Team Coordinator
1.         Under the supervision of the Head of the Agricultural Production
Systems Department, the Systems Research Field Team Coordinator would, apart
from being an active research worker himself, be responsible for:
(a) coordinating, managing and supervising all research activities
of his research team;
(b)  coordinating support research for his program with the research
workers in the Support Research Group and the Livestock Support
Research Department;
(c) coordinating all on-station research work with the Station Directors
or the Farm Managers in the case of Dahra and Kolda stations;
(d)  coordinating all laboratory services for his research program with
the Laboratory Chiefs;
(e) coordinating all on-farm research work with the Subject Matter
Specialist on Agricultural Extension and the regional or local
management of the RDAs;
(f)  coordinating execution of on-farm research for the commodity
research prograns in close liaison with the Commodity Research
Program Coordinators;
(g)  coordinating production systems research program execution with the
Central Systems Analysis Group;
(h)  preparing annual work programs and budgets, including all support
research needs, in coordination with his fellow research workers,
in close liaison with and according to guidelines from the Central
Systems Analysis Group;
(i) supervising his team's expenditures; and
(j) preparing quarterly progress reports and annual scientific reports
according to guidelines from the Central Systens Analysis Group.



- 58 -                         ANNEX 1
Page 14
(k) training in technical and managerial matters all staff under his
supervision.
2.        The qualifications and experience of the Systems Research Field Team
Coordinator would be:
(a) a post-graduate degree in agriculture, veterinary science or related
field;
(b) at least five years experience in agricultural research, and at
least one year experience or training in systems research;
(c) a keen interest and proven ability in research management and in
leading a multidisciplinary research team; and
(d) a good knowledge of the French language.
Subject Matter Specialist on Agricultural Extension
1.         Under the direction of the Systems Research Field Team Coordinator
and regional RDA management, to whom he would be seconded in a staff function
under an agreement signed between ISRA and the RDA concerned, the Subject
Matter Specialist on Agricultural Extension would be responsible for:
(a)  executing*/ all research done with the farmers on their fields for
the Systems Research Field Team, in close collaboration with the
extension services;
(b) executing*/ all on-farm testing for the commodity research programs,
in close collaboration with the initiators of such research and the
extension services;
(c) monitoring farmer response to on-farm research and testing;
(d) training and guiding on a regular basis local and regional extension
staff in applying newly developed technology;
(e)  setting up and supervising demonstration plots on farmers' fields
with the active collaboration of the extension services to demon-
strate the benefits of newly developed technology;
(f) monitoring farmer response and constraints to applying newly
developed technology, directly and through the extension staff;
(g) assisting in the systems research program design to assure that
farmer constraints receive the required priority attention;
(h)  preparing annual budgets for on-farm research in collaboration with
the initiators of such research;
*/ The Systems Research Field Team would be responsible for field data
collection and analysis.



- 59 -                         ANNEX 1
Page 15
(i) supervising on-farm research expenditures.
2.        The qualifications and experience of the Subject Matter Specialist
on Agricultural Extension would be:
(a) a post-graduate degree in agriculture, veterinary science or related
field;
(b) at least five years experience in both agricultural extension and
applied research;
(c) a proven ability in training;
(d) good working relationships and a proven ability in the management of
dispersed field trials and demonstration plots; and
(e) a good knowledge of the French language.
Head, Support Services Department
1..       Under the direction of ISRA's Managing Director he would manage the
Support Services Department and be responsible for:
(a) planning, supervising and managing all activities of his Department;
(b) preparing, based on needs expressed by the other Departments, annual
work programs and budgets for each of the activities of his Depart-
ment in close liaison with the' Chief of the Internal Auditing and
Budgetary Control Unit; direct allocatable costs would be included
in the budgets of the research programs concerned;
(c)  supervising his Department's expenditures and handling all its
personnel matters;
(d) coordinating the activities of his Department with those of all
the other Departments;
(e) preparing quarterly progress reports for his Department in close
liaison with the Senior Research Planning and Evaluation Advisor; and
(f) training in technical and management matters all staff under his
orders.
2.        The qualifications and experience of the Head of the Support
Services Department would be:
(a) a post-graduate degree in business administration, public admin-
istration or similar field;
(b) at least seven years experience in the management of a private or
public enterprise, or important research station;



- 60 -                          ANNEX 1
Page 16
(c) a proven ability to lead and coordinate the activities of a team
and/or different organizational units;
(d) general management skills should preferably include familiarity
with accounting, budgeting and procurement procedures; and
(e) a good knowledge of the French language.
Station Director */
1.       Under the direction of the Head of the Support Services Department,
and assisted by (i) a Technical Services Chief and (ii) a Financial and Admin-
istrative Services Chief, a Station Director would be responsible for:
(a) planning, managing and supervising all services delivered to the
research programs, to realize the full production potential of
the scientists working on his station;
(b) supervising all station expenditures within the limits established
in the budgets of each research program (he is not allowed to re-
allocate funds);
(c) handling all personnel matters for research station staff (excluding
research staff);
(d)  coordinating the available services on his station with the needs
expressed by the research workers through close liaison with the
Research Program Coordinators;
(e) supervising the Research Staff Secretaries Pool;
(f)  maintaining and repairing buildings, grounds and equipment;
(g) maintaining and operating irrigation and drainage systems;
(h) soil preparation, cultural care, assistance in seeding and harvesting
experimental plots, the care of livestock, seed and feed production,
and other service duties described by proper authority;
(i) preparing, based on needs expressed by the Research Program Coordi-
nators, annual work programs and budgets in close liaison with the
Department Head; directly allocatable costs would be included in the
.research programs concerned;
(j) preparing quarterly progress reports in close liaison with the
Department Head; and
(k) training in technical and management matters all staff under his
orders.
*/ A Laboratory Chief would have similar duties and responsibilities.



- 61 -
ANNEX 1
Page 17
2.        The qualifications and experiences of a Station Director would be:
(a) a post-graduate degree in agriculture, veterinary science or related
field;
(b)  at least five years experience in agricultural research;
(c) a proven ability to lead and coordinate the activities of large
numbers of staff;
(d) general management skills should preferably include familiarity
with farm management, and accounting and budgeting procedures; and
(e) a good knowledge of the French language.
Architect/Planner, Chief Technical Support Unit
1.        Under the direction of the Head of the Support Services Department
the Chief of the TSU would be responsible for:
(a) planning, managing and supervising all actions of the Technical
Support Unit as set forth in Annex 2;
(b) preparing annual work programs and budgets for (i) the execution of
works; (ii) the maintenance of buildings, grounds and irrigation
and drainage works; and (iii) procurement of goods;
(c) supervising all expenditures for the services listed under (b);
(d) establishing a reporting system for these services and preparing
quarterly progress reports following guidelines from the Chief of
the Internal Auditing and Budgetary Control Unit and the Senior
Research Planning and Evaluation Advisor, and in close liaison with
the Financial and Administrative Director;
(e)  coordinating the execution and maintenance of works and the procure-
ment of goods with the Station Directors and the Department Heads;
(f) planning future physical facilities as part of a follow-up project;
and
(g) training in technical and management matters all staff under
his orders.
2.       The qualifications and experience of the Chief of the Technical
Support Unit would be:
(a) a university degree or comparable level of education in civil
engineering, architecture or related field;



- 62 -                        ANNEX 1
Page 18
(b) at least five years experience in architectural or civil works
design;
(c) actual experience with the preparation of tender-documents, super-
vision of works and preferably some experience or training in the
procurement of goods, accounting, budgeting and general management
skills; and
(d) a good knowledge of the French language.
Statistician/Biometrist, Chief of the Data Processing and Statistics Unit
1.        Under the direction of the Head of the Support Services Department
the Chief of the Data Processing and Statistics Unit would be responsible
for:
(a) planning, managing and supervising all actions of his Unit;
(b) preparing annual work programs and budgets based on the needs of
the various research programs and in close coordination with the
Research Program Coordinators and Research Departments Senior Staff;
(c) screening, supervising and, where necessary, preparing all experi-
ment and test designs;
(d) supervising the statistical analysis and interpretation of all
research results;
(e) assisting the Central Systems Analysis Group in establishing its
systems models;
(f) supervising the writing of all computer programs;
(g) supervising the use of ISRA's computer facilities; and
(h) training in technical and managerial matters all scientific staff
and staff under his orders;
2.       The qualifications and experience of the Chief of the Data Processing
and Statistics Unit would be:
(a) a post-graduate degree in statistics, mathematics or related field;
(b) at least five years experience in experiment design and analysis
and;
(c) actual experience or training in general management skills; and;
(d)  a good knowledge of the French language.



ANNEX 2
- 63 -                          Page 1
SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
1. Outline of Duties of the Technical Services Unit
1.        As distinct from the architects and associated professionals whose
responsibilities are executive and who are legally responsible for health
and public safety, the TSU would represent ISRA on technical matters and
would be the locus of overall project coordination and liaison in respect to
civil works and equipment.
2.        The duties of the TSU would include:
(a) retaining professional services;
(b) representing ISRA in participation with the consultants
retained to prepare the development plan required for
each center;
(c) arranging for the review and approval of architectural and
engineering reports, plans, specifications, equipment lists
and other material;
(d) participating in the following:
(i) weekly meetings with the executive architects during
the design phase;
(ii) prequalification of contractors;
(iii) approval and supervision of bidding procedures;
(iv) adjudication and award of contracts; and
(v) monthly progress meetings with the contractors and
architects during the construction phase;
(e) preparing the pre-ordering schedule and procurement of
equipment and furniture to ensure timely delivery;
(f) securing import certificates, letters of credit, exoneration
of duties, taxes, etc. and advising shippers on methods of
transport to be used on imported goods;
(g) overseeing project progress, making weekly internal progress
reports and quarterly reports to be included in ISPA's
quarterly reports to the Association;
(h)  processing contractors' bills for payment by ISRA and sub-
sequent forwarding to the Association for disbursement; and



- 64 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
(i) preparing a commissioning program, and at the completion of
construction, participating with the executive architects
in advising ISRA on the acceptance of the completed buildings;
(j) providing administrative and technical management of contract
maintenance and rehabilitation programs for all physical
facilities in ISRA.
SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
2. Outline - Duties of the Executive Architects
1.        In close collaboration with the Liaison Officer of ISRA, the
Executive Architects (EA) will establish and manage a work program, uti-
lizing appropriate tools such as network analysis for all activities during
the design, tendering, construction and commissioning phases of project
development.
2.        The EA would have prime responsibility for design and ultimate
supervision of construction of a complete, functional, project which would
include architectural, engineering, site and research station development
components.
3.        The EA would employ a consulting firm or an individual consultant,
satisfactory to ISRA and the Bank, who would have experience in designing
irrigation and drainage systems, ditches, dikes, land preparation and farm
roads and who would be responsible to the architect for research station
development. The EA would be reimbursed for the actual expenses for which
prior approval should be sought from ISRA and the Bank. The EA should
include as a part of his fee an amount to cover his coordinatio-. and manage-
ment of these consulting services.
4.        The EA would employ at his own expense structural, mechanical or
other qualified engineers as required to carry out the project design
and implementation.
5.        Master plans (1/500) including schematic designs (1/200) will
be prepared by the EA for each of the six research centers proposed for
upgrading under the projects. These master plans would indicate existing
buildings, roads, fences, electrical distribution, water supply etc., and
any other features affecting the location of future construction or develop-
ment. Additionally, work proposed under this project would be identified
and shown to scale on the same master plan.
6.        An "Avant-Projet" including design development drawings (1/100)
and cost estimates would be prepared following masterplan preparation
and in accordance with architect's briefs furnished by the Association.



- 65 -                     ANNEX 2
Page 3
Variances in quantities of work or cost by more than 10% will be adequately
explained and justified. The "Avant-Projet'" will be approved by ISRA and
the Association before proceeding with subsequent phases of project develop-
ment. A full description of architect's work to be done will be included as
part of the contract with ISRA.
7.        A "Projet d'Execution" including detailed drawings (1/50) will be
prepared by the EA on the approved "Avant Projet" with revised, detailed,
cost estimates. These drawings will include floor plans, exterior elevations,
sections through buildings as required and would be accompanied by technical
specifications, materials, quantities and other information required to tender
the project by a schedule of unit prices based on an approximation of quanti-
ties of work to be done. Prior to call for bids all tender documents would be
presented to ISRA and the Association for approval.
8.        Following approval of the avant-projet, the EA would assist ISRA
by preparing formats and prequalifying international and local companies
interested in submitting bids on this project. These formats as well as the
prequalification procedure would be approved by ISRA and the Association.
The EA would evaluate the prequalification and make recommendations to ISRA
and the Association as to the results.
9.        In cooperation with the TSU, the EA will assist ISRA with:
(a) prequalification of contractors
(b) calling for bids
(c) interpretation of contract documents
(d) evaluation of bids
(e) adjudication
(f) award of contracts
10.       The EA would supervise construction of the project reinforced as
necessary by on-site clerks of the works.
11.       The EA would verify contractor's periodic payment requests and
certify that the work for which payment is requested had been satisfactorily
completed.
12.       Prepare change orders to the contract during the construction
phase.
13.       Prepare periodic reports, as required, outlining project status
and constraints in accordance with reporting needs and requirements of
ISRA and the Association.
14.       Make final inspection and accept the project as fulfilling the
terms and conditions of the agreement between ISRA and the contractors.



- 66 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
1. Research Staff Requirements by Discipline and Program (PY6)
PRODUCTION SYSTEMS DEPARTMENT
1  Department Head
Central Systems Analysis Group               Sine Saloum Team
1   Systems Analyst                          1  Agronomist
1   Farming Systems Specialist               1  Agricultural Economist
1  Animal Production Systems Specialist    1  Rural Sociologist
1   Systems Sociologist                      1  Animal Production Specialist
1  Production Systems Economist              1  Extension Specialist
5   Senior Technicians                       5   Senior Technicians
2   Junior Technicians                       5   Junior Technicians
Senegal River Team                           Upper Casamance Team
1    General Agronomist                      1  Animal Production Scientist
1   Animal Production Scientist              1  Abimal Health Scientist
1   Agronomist (weed control)                1/2 Animal Nutrition Scientist
1   Agricultural Economist                   3/4 Animal Genetics Scientist
1   Rural Sociologist                        1  Forasge Agronomist
1   Agricultural Engineer                    1  Crop Agronomist
1   Extension Specialist                     1  Agricultural Economist
7    Senior Technicians                      1  Rural Sociologist
7    Junior Technicians                      1   Extension Specialist
7   Senior Technicians
10 Junior Technicians
Sylvo-Pastoral Team                          Lower Casamance Team
1   Animal Production Scientist              1  Agronomist
1   Animal Health Scientist                  1  Agricultural Economist
1/2  Animal Nutrition Scientist              1  Rural Sociologist
1/4  Animal Genetics Scientist               1  Animal Production Scientist
1   Range Agronomist                         1   Extension Specialist
1   Agricultural Economist                   5   Senior Technicians
1   Rural Sociologist                        5   Junior Technicians
1    Extension Specialist
7    Senior Technicians
10  Junior Technicians



- 67 -                      ANNEX 3
Page 2
SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
1. Research Staff Requirements by Discipline and Program (PY6)
PRODUCTION SYSTEMS DEPARTMENT (continued)
Support Research (Crop Science - CNRA Bambey)
1    Support Research Liaison Officer
1   Microbiologist
i    Bio-Climatologist
1    Soil Scientist (Soil Physics)
1    Soil Scientist (Soîl Conservation)
1    Soil Scientist (Soil Fertility)
2    Agronomists (Weed Control, one at Djibelor)
1    Post-Harvest Technologist
1   Agricultural Engineer
I    Irrigation and Drainage Engineer (Fanaye)
10   Senior Technicians
10   Junior Technicians
LIVESTOCK SUPPORT RESEARCH DEPARTMENT (IEMVT Dakar-Hann)
i    Biochemist (Animal Nutrition)
i    Reproduction Physiologist
I   General Pathologist
1   Pathologist (Trypanosomiasis)
1    Epidemiologist
7    Senior Technicians
7    Senior Technicians
HEADQUARTERS
Macro-Economics Unit
3   Marketing Specialists
1    Economist (Price and Income Policy Analysis)
1    Economist (Resource Economics and Investment Analysis)
5    Senior Technicians
5    Junior Technicians



- 68 -                       ANNEX 3
Page 3
SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
1. Research Staff Requirements by Discipline and Program (PY6)
COMMODITY RESEARCH DEPARTMENT
1    Department Head (Agronomist)
1    Senior Agronomist Commodities
Fanaye   Bambey   Nioro du Rip   Djibelor   Total
Millet Team
Breeders         -         2             1           1/4       3 1/4
Pathologists    -          1             -            -        1
Entomologists   -         1/2            -            -        1/2
Physiologists   -          1             -            -        1
Senior
Technicians    -          3             1           1/4      4 1/4
Junior
Technicians    -          5             1           1/4      6 1/4
Sorghum Team
Breeders        1/2        -             1            -        1 1/2
Pathologists    -          -            1/2           -          1/2
Entomologists   -          -             1            -        1
Senior
Technicians   1/2         1             2            -       3 1/2
Junior
Technicians   1/2         -             2            -       2 1/2
Maize Team
Breeders        1/2        -             1           1/2       2
Pathologists    -          -            1/2           -        1/2
Entomologists   -          -             1            -        1
Senior
Technicians   1/2         -             2           1/2      3
Junior
Technicians   1/2         -             2           1/2      3



- 69 -                       ANNEX 3
Page 4
SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
1.  Research Staff Requirements by Discipline and Program (PY6)
COMMODITY RESEARCH DEPARTMENT
Fanaye   Bambey   Nioro du Rip   Djibelor   Total
Rice Team
Breeeders         2        -             -            1        3
Pathologists      1        -             -            2        3
Entomologists    1         -             -            1        2
Senior
Technicians      4        -             -            4       8
Junior
Technicians      4        -             -            4        8
Cowpea Team
Breeders          -        1             -            -        l
Pathologists      -        l                   -               1
Entomologists    -         1/2           -            -        1/2
Physiologists    -         1             -            -        1
Senior
Technicians      1        4                   -              6 l/
Junior
Technicians      1       4              -            -       6 1/
Groudnut Team
Breeders          -        l 1/2         1            1/4      2 3/4
Pathologists      -        l             -            -        1
Physiologists    -         1             -            -        1
Entomologists    -         -             l            -        1
Post-Harvest
Technologists   -         -             2            -       2
Senior
Technicians      -        4             3            1/4      7 1/4
Junior
Technicians      -        4             3            1/4      7 1/4
1/   One stationed in Louga.



-70 -                       ANNEX 3
Page 5
SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
2. Senior Administrative Staff
HEADQUARTERS
1    Managing Director
1    Deputy Managing Director
1    Chief Internal Auditing and Budgetary Control Unit
("Controleur de gestion")
1    Controller (Agent comptable particulier, ACP)
i    Administrative and Financial Services Manager
1    Chief Liaison Office (Dakar)
1    Senior Research Planning and Evaluation Adviser
1    Junior Research Planning and Evaluation Adviser
SUPPORT SERVICES DEPARTMENT
1    Department Head
4    Station Directors
2    Laboratory Chiefs
1    Chief Manpower Development and Training Unit
1    Architect/Planner, Chief TSU
1    Project Coordinator
I    Chief Documentation and Publications Unit
1    Statistician, Chief Data Processing and Statistics Unit
2    Department Heads (Commodity Programs and Production Systems)
TOTAL     22



ÆENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT / PROJET DE RECHERCHE AGRICOLE
Sta fng Pttern/ Répartition du Personnel
PY O        PY 1       PY 2      PY 3       PY 4       PY 5       PY 6
Année O    Année 1   Année 2   Année 3   Année 4   Année 5   Année 6
Research Staff                         107         217        240        255        304        300        291              1.   Personnel de Recherche
1-1  Scientists t47                                77 ag                  93        107        1013 El    Chercheurs
- Commodity Programs              (21)       (25)       (29)        (35)      (45)       (33)       (34)                         - Programmes par produits
- Production Systems              (13)        (31)      (37)        (38)      (41)       (49)       (40)                         - Systémes de production
- Support Research                (14)        (21)       (20)      (20)       (21)       (21)       (20)                         - Appui à la recherche
1-2  Senior Technicians                 24          65         71         73         92         92         92                   1.2   Techniciens confirmés (TS)
1-3  Junior Technicians                 24          64         72         78         94         94         94                   1.3   Techniciens débutants (ATS)
1-4  VSN                                il          il         il         il         il         il         il                   1.4   VSN
Support Staff  2                       292         338        354        369        408        425        428             2.   Personnel d'appui
2-1  Management-/                       35          1T       1-w         *l         -w        *m         -P7                    2.1   Direction Générale
2-2  Support Services                    7          23         29         32         32         32         32                   2.2   Services d'appui
2-3  Research Stations-                175         199        206        218        257        274        277                   2.3   Stations expérimentales 2/
2-4  Laboratories                       75          75         75         75         75         75         75                   2.4   Laboratoires
TOTAL PERMANENT STAFF                  399         555        594        624        712        725        719             3.   TOTAL PERSONNEL PERY4ANENT
of which: (VSN not included)                                                                                                    dont - (VSN non-compris)
- Scientiste                       48          77        86         93        107        103         94                         - Chercheurs
- Other Senior Staff              20          28         29         29         32         32         32                         - Autres cadres supérieurs
- Technical Staff for                                                                                                           - Techniciens affectés a la
Research                      48         129        143        151        186        186        186                             recherche
- Sunervisory Support Staff        31          32        34          34        34         34         34                         - Personnel d encadrement
- Other Support Staff            241         279        291        306        342.       359        362                         - Personnel d'exécution
0f  Expatriatea4-                                                                                                                         4/
Of which Ex 4atriate  /                 30          58         69         67         57         37         23             4.   Dont Expatriés-
-  Scientist Expatriates-/         27i                   -7          7         55         322                                   - Chercheur
-  Support Staff Expatriates        4         il         il          9          2          1          1                         - Personnel d'appui expatrié
/  Senegalese + Expatriates.                                                                                                   /   Sénégalais + Expatriés.
/  Including Liaison Office in Dakar (3 peraons) from PY 2 and thereafter.                                                          Bureau de liaison Dakar inclus (3 personnes) h partir
!  Including the Secretaries' pool for the Scientists.                                                                               de l'année 2.
VSN (French Young Professionals) not ineluded.                                                                              /   Pool secrétariat des chercheurs inclus.
/  Including the expatriate scientists replacing Senegalese on PhD training                                                   4/   VSN (Volontaires du Service National Actif) non inclus.
(5 in PY 4; 15 in PY 5; 15 in PY 6).                                                                                    5/   Incluant lea chercheurs exoatriés qui remplaceront les
Sénégalais en formation de Doctorat (5 en Année 4;
15 en Année 5; 15 en Année 6).



SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCII PROJECT / PROJET DE RECHERChE AGRICOLE
(i)/a/  Summary ef Project Cout Estimates by Type of Expenditure / Resumé des Coûits Previsionnels du Projet par Nature de Dé7enses
(CFAF '000 FCFA)
PY 1        PY 2         PY 3         PY Il        PY 5         PY 6       TOTAL
Année 1     Année 2      Année 3      Année 4      Année 5      Année 6
A.   Capital Cost                                               2,110,450   7,510,630       580,580     132,770      194,920      130,350   5,659,700       A.  Dépenses d'Investissements
1 - Initial Expenses                                        210,000        -            -            -            -           -          210,000           1 - Frais à Immobiliser
2 - Civil Works and Site Deve.opment                      1,416,500   1,715,900       155,300        8,0o0        3,000        6,000   3,304,700           2 - Génie Civil et Aménagements Fonciers
3 - Vehicles and Equipment                                  192,100      466,500      322,500       87,700      149,200      87,500   1,305,500            3 - Véhicules et Equipement
4 - S.all Equipment asd Research Supplias                   100,000      100,000       50,000       25,000       25,000      25,000      325,000           4 - Petits Equipements et Fournitures de Recherche
5 - Physical Contingencies (10%)                             191,850     228,230       52,780       12,070       17,720       11,850     514,500           5 - Imprévus Physiques (10%)
Research Staff Expenditures                               1,390,200   1,569,450   1,602,150   1,656,350   1,356,500   1,096,700   8,671,350           B.  Dépenses en Personnel de Recherche
1 - Senegalese Scientists                                    92,400       92,400      115,500      194,700      267,300     280,500   1,042,800            1- Chercheurs Sénégalais
2 - Senegalese Technicians                                  154,800      171,600      181,200      219,200      219,200     219,200   1,165,200            2 - Techniciens Sénégalais
3 - Expatriate Scientists                                 1,029,000   1,191,450   1,191,450   1,128,450         756,000     483,ooO   5,779,350            3 - Chercheurs Expatriées
4 - Visiting Scientists                                       48,000      48,000       48,000       48,ooo       48,oo0      48,000      288, 000          4 - Missioas d'Appui
5 - VSNA Expatriates .                                        66,o0o      66,o0o       66,000       66,o0o       66,000       66,o0o     396, 000          5 - VSNA V
C.  Oeerating Cuet                                              1,163,49u   i,l45,b25   1,144,95u   1,029.735        936,480      923,220   6,343,70        C.  Frais de Fonctionnement
1 - Local Su",ort St.f,                                      '46,250     '60,700      377,000      422,950      4',1,900    432,950   2,71,750             1 - Personnel d'Appui Local
2 - Expatriate Support Staff                                204,750      204,750      173,250       36,750       21,000      21,000      661,500           2 - Personnel d'Appui Expatrié
3 - Consumable Supplies                                     180, 000     180,000      180,000      200,000      180,000     180,000   1,100,000            3 - Matières Consommables
4 - Maintenance and Repairs                                 100,000      100,000      100,000      100,000      100,000     100,000      600,000           4 - Entretien et Réparations
5 - Documentation and Information                            50,000       30,000       30,000       30,000       30,000       30,000     200,000           5 - Documentation et Information
6 - Training Expenses                                       159,310      170,125      183,140      140,725       82,130      69,110      804,540           6 - Frais de Formation
7 - Audit                                                    17,500       17,500       17,500       17,500       17,500      17,500      105,000           7 - Audit
8 - Other Operating Costs                                    50,000       30,0 0       30,000       30,000       30,000       30,000     200,000           8 - Autres Frais de Fonctionnement
9 - Physical Contingencies (10% except for staff)            55,680       52,750       54,o60       51,810       43,950      42,660      300,910           9 - Imprévus Physiques (10% sauf suid le personnel)
SUBTOTAL  (A + B      + C) -/                                   4,664,140   5,225,905   3,327L680   2,818,855   2,487,900   2,150,270  20,674,750          SOUS-TOTAL  (A + B e C)
Provision for Price Increase -/                             844,800   1,447,200   1,263,750   1,345,800   1,524,450   1,545,900   7,971,900                Provision pour Ulsusse des Prix
TOTAL PROJECT OOST                                              5,508,940   6,673,105   4,591,430   4,164,655   4,012,350   3,696.170  28,646,650          CXOT TOTAL DU PROJET1
CFAF 000                                                        5,508,900   6,673,100   4,591,400   4,164,700   4,012,400   3,696,200  28,646,700          000 FCFA
I/  French Young Professionals (Volontaires du Service National Actif).                                                                                    1/  Volontaires du Service National Actif.
2/  Project Unit COsts   January 1981.                                                                                                                     2/  Coûts Unitaires du Projet: Janvier 1981.
2/  Civil Works, 9% annually. Equipment and expatriate staff, 9% in                                                                                        G/ Génie civil, 9% annuellement. Equipement et personnel
PY 1, 8% in PY 2 and 7% annually  thereafter.  Local expenses                                                                                              expatrié, 9% année 1, 8% année 2, puis 7% annuellement.
10,% annually.                                                                                                                                             Dépenses locales 10% annuellement.



SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT / PROJET DE REChERCHE AGRICOLE
(i) /b/ Project Cnet Estimates by Type of Expenditure / CoÛts Prévisionnels du Projet par Nature de Dépenses
(CFAF '000 FCFA)
PY 1        PY 2         PY 3         py 4         PY 5         PY 6       TOTAL
Année 1     Année 2      Année 3      Année 4      Année 5      Année 6
A.   Capital Cost                                               2,110,450   2,510,630      580,580      132,770      194,920      130,350   5,659,700      A.   Dépensen d'Investissements
1 - Initial Expensea                                        210,000        -            -            -            -           -          210,000           1 - Frais à Immobiliser
2 - Civil Works and Site Development                      1,416 500   1 715 900       l55 300        8,G00        3,000       6,GOG   3.304.               2 - Génie Civil et Aménagements Fonciers
2-1  Civil WrCa                                       1,02180   1t262'700          32,000       -            _            _        2,316,500               2-2  Génie Civil
2-2  Site Development                                   156,700      379,200      116,300       8,ooo        3,000        6,000      669,200               2-2  Aménagements Fenciers
2-3  Architectn and Supervision nf Works Fees           238,000       74,0o0        7,000       -            -            -          319,000               2-7  Honoraires d'Architectes et de Surveillance des Tamvux
3 - Vehiclen and Equipment                                  192 100      466,500      322 500       87 700     149,200       87 500   1,305,500            3 - Véhicules et Equipement
3-1  Vehicles                                            42,900      173,500       d3,000                  135,500                   547,500               3-1  Véhicules
3-2  Office Furniture and Laboratory                                                                                                                       3-2  Mobilier et Matériel de Bureau et Equipsent de
Equipment                                         37,600       76,600      76,600        -            -            -         190,800                       Laboratoire
3-3  House Furniture                                    110,500      100,000       43,600       -            -                       254,100               3-3  Mobilier d'Habitation
3-4  Agricultural Equipment                               1,100      111,4o0      107,300      41,700       13,700       20,900      296,100               3-4  Matériel Agricole
3-5  Workshop Equipment                                   -            5,000       12,000       -            -            -           17,000               3-5  Matériel d'Atelier                                      1
4 - Small Equipment and Research Supplies                   100,000      100,000       50,000       25,000      25,000       25,000      325,000           4 - Petits Equipement et Fournitures de Recherche
5 - Physical Contingencies (104)                            191,850      228,230       52,780       12,070      17,720       11,850      5]4,50o           5 - Imprévu Physiques (10%)
B.  Research Staff Expenditures                                1,390,200   1,569,450   1,602,150   1,656,350   1,356,500   1,096,700   8,671,350           B.   Dépenses en Personnel de Recherche
1 - Senegalese Scientiste                                    92 4oo       92,40G      115 500     194,700      267,300      28o,500   1,042,800            1 - Chercheurs Sénégalais
1-1  Commodity Programs                                               36,300       56,100      95,700       95,700       99,000      419,100               1-1  Progras  Produits
1-2  Production System Programs including                                                                                                                  1-2  Programmes Systèmes de Production,Recherche d'Appui
Support Research                                  56,100      56,loG       59,400       99,000      171,600      181,500     623,700                        Incluse
2 - Senegolese Technicians                                  154 8oo      171 Goo      181 200     219 200      219 200      219,200   1,165,200            2 - Techniciens Sénégalais
2-1  Commodity Programs                                  56,4a         56          6G40        7            77,60        77,600    'W,000                  2-1  Programmes Produits
2-2  Production System Programs including                                                                                                                  2-2  Programmes Systèmes de Production,Recherche d'Appui
Support Research                                  98,4oo     115,200      120,800      141,600      14h,6oo     14l1,60      759,200                        Incluse
3 - Expatriate Scientists                                 1,029,00   1,191 450   1 191 450   1 128 450        756 000      483 000   5,779,350            3 - Chercheurs Expatrie's
3-1  Commodity Programs                                 294,000      351,450      351,:5G     288,450 '8tBZ6o           ,          1,411,350               3-1  Programmes Produits
3-2  Production System Programs including                                                                                                                  3,-2  Programmes Systèmes de Prsduction,Recherche d'Appui
Support Research                                 735,000     84o,ooo      840,00o      735,000      378,0o0      105,000   3,633,000                        Incluse
3-3  PhD Training Replacement                             -            -            -         105,000      315,000      315,000      735,000               3-3  Remplacement Candidats au Doctorat
4 -          Siin   cientitst                                48 000       48 000       48 000       48 000      48 000       48 000      288 0004 
4    _                                         Visiting   Scientists 4 w wE X XE S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i-                    4 - missions d 'Appui
Conultants                                          32OG        3       ,ooo              7            783           3g8     ~ 71 0 ,-1  Consultante                                                             "I
4-2  Technicsl Advisory Committee                        12,000       12,000       12,000      12,000       12,000       12,000       72,000               4-2  Comité Technique Consultatif
5   VSNA Expatriates -/                                      66000        66,oo0       66,000       66,o        66,000       66,         396,000           5 - VSNA 1



TABLE (i) /b/
(CFAF '000 FCFA)
PY 1        PY 2        PY f3        PY 4        PY 5        PY (        S lOTAL
Année 1    Année 2      Année 3      Année 4     Année 5     Année 6
C.  Operating Cont                                           1,163,490   1,145,825   1,144,950   1,029,735       936,480     923,220   6,343,700      C.  Fraie de Fonctionnement
1 - Local Support Staff                                    346,259     360,700     377,000      422,950     431.900     432,950   2 371. z2           1 - Personnel r:Appui Local
1-1  Management                                        48,500      54,200       54,200        57,500     57,500      57,500     329,50 oo              1   Direction Génerale
1-2  Monitoring and Evaluation Unit                     4,650       4,650        4,650       4,650        4,650       4,650      27,900               1-2  Cellule de Suivi et d'Evaluation
1-3  Support Services                                  32,150      37,250       38,900      45,500       45,500      45,500     244,800               1- S ervices d'Appui
1-4  Research Stati nn.                               i4i,25e      144,900     159,550     189,000      197,950     igg,coo   i,03l,650               1-4  Station6Expérimentales
1-5  Laboratories                                      59,700      59,700       59,700      66,300       66,300      66,300     378,000               1-5  Laboratoires
-6  Temporary Monp o.er                                60,000      60,ooo       60,000      60,ooo       60,000      60,000     360,000               1-6  Main rl'Oeuvre Temporaire
2 - Exptriate Support Staff                               204 750      204 750     1 3,          36,750      21,000      21,000      661 500          2 - Personnel r Appui Expatrie'
2-1  Management and Evaluation Unit                    4                        '+2,000  ,  21,000       21,000      21,000        90                 7-1  Direction Gt nerale et Cellule d'Evaluation
2-2  Support Services -d Laboratories                  84,ooo      84 000       84,ooo       -            -           -         252,000               2-2  Services d'Appui et Laboratoires
2-3  Research Stations  5/                             78,750      78,750       47,250      15,750        -           -         220,500               2-3  Stations Expérimentales 5/
3 - Consumable Supplies                                   180,000            180,000 180,000   20000        180,000     18         1,100,000  o_ Matières Consommables
4 - Maintenance and Repaire                               100,000      100 000     100,000      100,000     100,000     10o,oo       600,000          4 - Entretien et Réparations
5 - Documentation and Information                           50,000      30,000      30,000       3           30,000      30,000      200,000          5 - Documentation et Information
6 - Training Expenses                                     159,310      170,125     183,140     140,725       82,130      69,110      8o4,s4           6 - Fraie de Formation
6-ioCommodity Programs                                 29,300      29,300       32,550       3,255        3,255       -          97,660               6-1  Programmes par Produits
6-2  Production Systems and Support Research          107,415     117,180      126,945      94,395        9,765       -         455,700               6-2  Systèmes de Production et Recherche d'Appui
6-3  PhD Training                                       -           -            -          16,280       48,825      48,825     113,930               6-3  Formation Doctorat
6-4  Training for Management Staff                     13,020      13,020       13,020      13,020        6,510       6,510      65,100               6-4  Formation du Personnel de Gestion
6-5  Other Training Expenees                            9,575       10,625      10,625      13,775       13,775      13,775      72,150               6-5  Autres fraie de formotion
7 - Audit                                                  17,500       17,500      17,500      17,500       17,500      17,500      105,000          7 - Audit
8 - Other Operating Conts                                  50,000        30,000       30,000      30,000                 30,000      200,000          8 - Autres Fraie de Fonctionnement
9 - Physical Contingencies (10% except for Staff)          55,680       52,750      54,o60      51,810       4           4,6         300,910          9 - Imprévus Physiques (10% sauf sur le personnel)
SUBTOTAL  (A   B   )/                                        4,664,140   5,225,905   3,327,680   2,818,855   2,487,900   2,150,270  20,674,750        SOUS-TOTAL  (A + B + C) L/
Provision for Price Increase                              844,800   1,447,200   1,263,750   1,345,800   1,524,450   1,545,900   7,971,900                 Provision pour Bousse des Prix Y
-  Os Capital Cnet                                        404,100      728,900     233,400       69,800     124,300      94,600   1,655,100               -  Sur len Dopensee  i'Tnmemtissenents
-  On Research Staff Expenditures                          237,400     409,600     573,800      744,400     766,150     717,300   3.448,650               -  Sur les Dépeseen en Personnel de Recherche
-  On Operating Cust                                       203,300     308,700     456,550      531,600     634,000     734,000   2,868,150               -  Sur les Fraie de Fonctionnement
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                            5,508,940   6,673,105   4,591.430   4,164,655   4,012,350   3,696,170  28,646.650       COÛT TOTAL DU PROJET
IFAiF 'COC                                                   5,508,900   6,673,100   4,591,400   4,164.700   4,012,400   3,696,200  28,646,700        000 FcFA
`/ French Young Profesuiosals (Volontaires du Service NSotionot Actif).                                                                               1/  Volontaires du Service National Actif.
'/  Project Unit CoOtm  January 1981.                                                                                                                2/ Coûtso Unitaires au Projet: Janvier 1981.
2/ Civil ,orks, 9% anuoally. Equipment and exratriate ntnff, q3% in PY 1, 31 in PY 2 and                                                              3/ Génie Civil, 9% annuellement. Equipement et Personnel Expatrie
7% annualiy thereafter.  Local expenses 103 annaually.                                                                                                9  anée IL, S% année 2, pUis 791 annuellement.  Dépenses
locles 10AF  1anellement.
5/  C2%  1,75  'e  as20r                                                          15,750 'CIr  ar tomy-omnée



SENECAL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT / PROJET DE RECHERCHE AGRICOLE
(ii) Project Cost by Program or Activity / Coûts Prévisionnels du Projet par Programme ou Activité
(CFAF '0o0)
PY 1        PY 2        PY 3        PY 4        PI 5        PY 6        TOTAL
Année 1    Annéé 2      Année 3    Année 4      Année 5     Année 6
A.   DIRECT COSTS 1/                                          081112         7258     Z    92      36.486   1,899g9         65797           99°     A.   COVTS DIRECTS 2
1.  Conmollty Programo                                   626 600     686 822     7 8 51Q      749,334     425,33      453 012    3 679 594           1. Prlogramme Produits
1-1  Millet                                                           1       13,do8l 75,241                                                               Mil79,5 94   1  mit
1-2  Mai"e                                            32,994      63,338      61,105       83,916      39,425      41,385      322,163               1-2  Mals
1-3  Rice                                            175,472     166,876     175,840      188,360     128,256     142,503      977,307               1-3  Riz
1-4  Sorghum                                          81,688      78, 004     76,090       92,180      35,221      36,901      400,o84               1-4  Sorghi
1-5  Groundnuts                                      168,425     219,486     214,223      260,811     111,058     115,678    1,089,681               1-5  Arachide
1-6  Cowpeas                                          57,140      54,070       74,535      48,826      46,625      48,585      329,781               1-6  Niébé
2. Production Systems Progros                  a         6           819,576     81',391      779,496     615,273          45    4.161,177           2.  Programmes Systèmes de Production
2-1  Senegal River                                   1094        20,67       211,240      176,124      43556      147,570    1,012,650               21  Pleuve Sénégal
2-2  Sylvo Pastoral Region                           165,o48     157,559      154,853     159,693     162,o68      85,127      884,348               2-2  Zone Sylvo-Paotorale
2-3  6ine Saloum                                     116,684     123,440     120,250      116,252      58,035      60,835      595,496               2-3  Sine Saloum s
2-4  Voer-  Casam.nce                                171,496     192,761     189,098      195,447     175,879      99,778    1,024,459               2-4  Haute Casmnce
2-5  Louer Casmaance                                  96,584     141,140     137,950      131,980      75,735      60,835      644,224               2-5 BRsse Canamance
3. Support Research                                      566,616     512,260     501,900         o56      299.247          0     2,61719             3. Recherche d'Appui
3-1  Coonnodutuen                                    254,356     211,480     205,100   167,596        116,070     121,70                             3-72  }1  Produits
3-2  Animal                                          147 280     141,940     141î15o     136,780      125,142     101,035      793,327               3-2  Animale
3-3  Economics                                       164,980     158,840      155 650     149,680      58,035      60,835      748,020               33  Economique
4. Additional Reoearch Staff Cs t/                       228,600     228,600     228,600      333,600     560,100     455,100    2,o34,600           4. Dépenses Complémentaires en Personnel de Recherche
B.  INDIRECT COSTS                                          2,335,498   2,697,667      938,44      438,489     526,285     429,963    7,366,350      B.   OOVTS INDIRECTS
1. Capital Cost                                        1,918,600   2,?82,400     527,800      120,70C     177,200     118,500    5,145,2GO           1. Décenses d'Investissements
2. Operating Cnet                                        416,898    415 167       hl1 648  ~317,789       349,085    '11, 46'    ,221,15c            2. Frais de Fonctionnement
2-l GeceraI M-a,aement                               205,575     2G4965      2O015 9       7I 9']5    184850       73,40       151 030               -l  Direction Génerale
2-    u Juprort Services                            2.11,32'    210, 3«P      208, 72'    18,474      164 '35     178,067    1,071,1'C               2-2  dervices d'AppoA Y
C.  TOTAL A    IlBI 4416,61   3L44s 9                                                 2840   2,754,975   7426, -'    2095,76(   19,C59,740           C.  TCTAL A   P B
Physica1 Contingencieo                                  ,247,530     280,98C      106,84O      63,880      61,670      54,51C      815,41o           Imprévus Phyniquen
TCTAL  (Januury 1981 nrines)                           4,664,140   5,225,905   32768G   2,818,P55   2,487,900  ,7150,270   20,674.750                TOTAL  (Prix Janvier 1981)
Provision for Frice Increra..                            844,800   1,447,200   1,263,750   1,345,800   1.524,450   1.545,900    7,971.900            Provisionr  our housse don prix
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                     5,508,940   6,673,105   4,591,430   4,164,655   4.012,350   3,696,170   28,646,650            CODT TOTAL DU PROJET
CFAF 000                                               5,508,900   6,673.100   4,591,400   4164,700   4,012,400   3,696,2W    28,646,700            ,000 FCFA
_                                                  -    -                  .            -      -      _           _~~~_ 
1/ Research utaff expenditures and direct opereting cout.                                                    1/  Dépenses en cersonnel de recherche et coûts directs de fonctionnement.
D/ Viîiting Scientiste, VSNA, Syntems Analysis and Expatriate Scientints replacing                           2/ Missions d'ap-ui, VSNA, Analyse 3ystèmse, et chercheurs expatriés remplacant les candidats
candid.ter on PhD training.                                                                                  à le formation de Doctorat.
3/  Including the Laboratory and Documentation Center in Bambey.                                             3/ Incluent ici le Laboratoire et le Centre de Documentation de Bambey.



SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT / PROJET DE RECHERCHE AGRICOLE
(iii) Project Cost Estimate by Organizational Unit / CeAte Prévinionnoîn du Projet par Centre de Responsabilité
(CFAF 'OC0)
Py T        PY 2        Py 3         Py 4        PIY 5        PY 6        TOTAL
Année 1     Année 2     Année 3    Année 4       Année 5      Année 6
].   ieneral.Panngenent                                      1,257945       827,335     700,205      722,285     893,915      750,755    5,1 2.4       1.   Direction Générale
- Capital Cont -                                          581,000      183,500      66,500      25,000       25,000      25,000       906,000          -  Dépen.e. d'investieeement            2/
- Reseorct Staff EspendoCuren ~-                          345,600      345,6oo     545,600     450,600      588 600     483,600    2,559,600               Déeenses en pereonnel de recherche -
-  Operating Cost                                         311,345      ?98,235     288,105     246,685      28o,315     242,155    1,666,840           -  Fraie de fonctionnement
2.  Reeearch Stations 33,001,115   3,940,040   23085   1,908,240   1,407,865   1,220,555   13820,900                                                  7.   Statione REpirinentalea-/
2-1  Fan.ve                                               637 462      966 161     440 975     355,574      321,665     273 511    2,995,348           2-1  Fnaaye
-  Capital Cnet                                      581,771     605 268       8            59l         56,714      25 414    1,192,510                 -  Dépenses d'inventise.mente
- Ree.arch Staff Expendituree                        135,000     231,000      234,300     205,050      163,050     158,100    1,126,500                 -  Dépenses en personenl de recherche
- Operating Cnet                                     120,691     129,893      122,246     111,610      101,901      89,997      676,338                 -  Fraie de fonctionnement
2-2  Dahra                                                304,827      380 078     216 607     182,087      168297      109 67      1 ,361,574         2-2  Dahra
-  Capital Cnet                                      162,878     232:984       5 56        12,717       19,987      16,11       500,0 o                 -  Dépenses d'icveatiaeement
- Research Staff E.pendituree                        100,275     101,075      102,675     115,575      104,475      41,475      565,550                 -  Dépenses en personnel de recherche
- Opersting Cnst                                      41,674      46,019       58,576      53,795       43,835      52,086      295,985                -  Fraie de fonctionnement
2 Baonb y S                                                         63  6 0_                 _ _ _ _   _ _ _  _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _                  _ _  _ 4/
2-   -  Capmtal Cnet                                      554I         638,660     6o1         432.909      281,058     287,197    2,847,461           2-3   ambey -
-  Capital C..t                    60,37l                        120,920       k6I6        19,391       27,131      17,191      293,020                -  Dépenses d'investissements
- Reeearch Staff Expenditure.                        272,600     248,600      261,500     223,700      122,000     122,000    1,250,400                 -  Dépenses en personnel de recherche
- Opereting Cnst                                     244,471     269,140      320,679     189,818      131,927     148,006    1,304,041                -  Frais de fonctionnement
2-4  Ninrg Su Rip                                         618 657      839 280     377 785     338,879      200 217     216 145    2 590 963           2-4  Nioro du Rip
-  Capital Cst                                       362, 807    536,o73       70,243      25,732       2328        32433    1o5582O                   -  Dépenses d'investissement
- Research Staff Expendituree                        163,100     206,150      211,050     216,450       96,000      96,ooo      988,750                -  Dépenses en persomnnel de recherche
- Operaticg Cnet                                      92,750      97,057       96,492      96,697       75,685      87,712      546,393                 -  Frait de fonctionnement
2-5  Djibel-r                                             408 ,88     557 503       3572       284998       177 114     161 752    1,943,027           2-5  Djibelor
- Capital Cost                                         83        258,519       46, 963      6,831       18,661      12,6?1      511,910                -  Dépenees d'investissements
- Research Staff Expenditerea                        172,400     213,500      219,200     211,800       95,700      78,000      990,600                -  Dépense.  en pereonnel de recherche
-  Onerating Cnet                                     77,423      85,484       87,409      66,367       52,753      71,081      440,517                 -  Fraie de fonctionnement
2-6  Kolda                                                355,339     45821        221 451     209,693      169 814     103,571    1,518,126           2-6  Kolda
-  Capital Cnet                                      205,816     28,536        43'S32       17,470 40               11,370      577,300 W2pense6  d'investissement
- Research Staff Expenditures                        101,925     123,725      125,325     141,525      109,425      46,425      648,350                -  Dépen.ec  en personnel de recherche
- Operating Cent                                      47,598      52,007       52,188      50,698       44,209      45,776      292,476                -  Fraie de fonctionnement
2-7  Labo fHann (Support Reeearch) 2/                      99,300     100,100      102,500     104,100       89,700      68,700      564,400           2-7  Labo Hen- (Recherche d'Appui)
3.  Support Service-6/                                         177,550     177,550      177,550     124,450      124,450     124,450      906,000      3.   Servicen d'App    /
- Opcrating Cnet                                          177,550     177,550      177,550     124,450      124,450     124,450      906,000           -  Frais de fonctionnement
4.  Phy.ical Contingencies                                     247,530      280,980     106,840       63,880      61,670      54,510       815,410     4.   Imprévue Physiques
5.  TOTAL  (January 1981 pricen)                             4,664,140   5,225,905   3,327,680   2,818,855   2,487,900   2,150,270   20,674,750        5.   TOTAL  (Prie Janvier 1981)
..   Provision for Price Increanro                             844,800   1,447,200   1.263,750   1,345,800   1,524,450   1,545,900    7,971,900        6.   Provision pour hbu..e de. prix                  -
7.   TOTAL PROJECT COST                                      5,508,940   6,673,105   4,591,430   4,164.655   4,012,350   3,696,170   28,646.650        7.  GOOT TOTAL DU PROJET
CFAF 100O                                               5.508.900   6.673,100   4,59           164.700  4,      16400   3                              IWO .,696.290  18 .6 0  '000 FCFA
1   Initisl expenses, uorking capital, office furniture, architect'e feen, snd ten ve hiclen.                              _/  Frais à immobiliser, fonde de roulement, mobilier de bureau, honoraires
3/  Sy.teme Aialynie, Socio-Economic Support Research, Expatriate Scientiste raplacing                                     _     d'architccte, et dix nAhiculen.
Senegalese on PhD Training, VSN and Visiting Scientists.                                                             1/  Analyse Systèmes, Recherche d'Anpui. Socio-Economique, chercheurs e.patrie.
3/ See detailed tables 2-6 /i/.                                                                                                  remplacant lea  Sénégalais en formation de Doctorat, VSN, et Miesions
/  Laboratory and Doc"pe%tation Centre included.                                                                                 e Ap-ai.
5/  Jupport Research Staff only.                                                                                           2/ Voir tableaux détaillea  2-6 /i/.
;/  Labor~atory end Dcoc.entation Centre in Rambey not included.                                                           7/ Lahoratnire et Centre de Dconentation inclue.
5/  Personnel de recherche d'apoui neulement.
7/  Laboratoire le Bambte    et Centre de Documentation exclue.



SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT / PROJET DE RECHERCHE AGRICOLE
(iv) Project Cash Flow / Flux de Trésorerie du Projet
(US $ million)
PY 0      PY 1       PY 2        PY 3        PY 4        PY 5       PY 6
Année 0   Année 1   Année 2    Année 3    Année 4    Année 5    Année 6
A.  SOURCES                                                                                                       A.  RESSOURCES
Government Prefinancing        -        1.2         -           -           -           -           -             Préfinancement du Gouvernement
Senegal National Budget        -         4.9       4.5         4.3         5.6         6.5         7.1            Budget National du Sénégal
France                         -         5.0       6.6         6.6         5.5         6.3         5.3            France
IDA                           0.5        5.8       8.3         2.7         1.1         0.7         0.4            AID
USAID                          -         2.8       3.8         2.3         2.2         1.0         0.7            USAID
USAID (FAO/CILSS)              -         0.6       0.9         0.8         0.8         0.2         0.2            USAID (FAO/CILSS)
UNIFSTD/Others                 -         0.7       0.6         0.4         0.2         0.2          -             UNIFSTD/Autres
Total Sources                 0.5       21.0      24.7        17.1        15.4        14.9        13.7            Total des Ressources
B.  APPLICATIONS                                                                                                  B.  EMPLOIS
Repayment of Government                                                                                           Remboursement du Prgfinancement
Prefinancing                -         -         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.3         0.3               du Gouvernement
Project's Cost                0.5       19.9      24.7        17.0        15.4        14.9        13.7            CouIt du Projet
Total Applications            0.5       19.9      24.9        17.2        15.6        15.2        14.0            Total des Emplois
C.  SURPLUS (Deficit)                                                                                             C.  SURPLUS (Déficit)        
Annual                         -         1.1       (0.2)      (0.1)       (0.2)       (0.3)       (0.3)           Annuel                           XCm
Cumulative                     -         1.1       0.9         0.8         0.6         0.3          -             Cumulatif                           4 



SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT / PROJET DE RECHERCHE AGRICOLE
(v) Proposed IDA Financing by Year and Type of Expenditure / Financement AID Proposé par Année et par Nature de Dépenses
(CFAF '000 FCFA)
py 1        PY 2           PY 3           PY 4              PY 5           PY 6
Année 1         Année 2        Année 3       Année 4           Année 5         Annge 6        TOTAL
Capital Cost                              1.232.300       1,446,900       199.600         26.300            29,300         26,200    2,960,600        A. Dépenses d'Investissements
1 - Civil Works                             659,400         814,800        20,600            -                 -              -       1,494,800            1 - Génie Civil
2 - Site Development-                       134,400         326,000        99,600            -                 -              -         560,000            2 - Aménagements Fonciers -
3 - Architect's and Supervision of
Works Fees !/                         238,000          74,000         7,000           -                  -              -         319,000           3 - Honoraires d'Architecte et
Surveillance des Travaux-
4 - Vehicles and Equipment                    8,500          20,600        14,200          3,900             6,600          3,800        57,600            4 - Véhicules et Matériel
5 - Small Equipment and                                                                                                                                    5 - Petits Equipements et Fournitures
Research Supplies                      80,000          80,000        40,000        20,000             20,000         20,000       260,000                  do Recherches
6 - Physical Contingencies (10%)            112,000         131,500        18,200         2,400              2,700          2,400       269,200            6 - Imprévus Physiques (10%)
Research Staff Expenditures                 126,000         210,000       210,000       132,000             48,000          6,000       732,000       B.  Dépenses en Personnel de Recherche
1 - Expatriate Scientists                   126,000         210,000       210,000       126,000             42,000            -         714,000            1 - Chercheurs Expatriés                        CD
2 - Visiting Scientists                         -               -             -           6,000              6,000          6,000        18,000            2 - Missions d'Appui
Operating Cost                               82,200           82,300       82,200         32,300            25,700         25,800       330,500       C.  Frais de Fonctionnement
1 - Expatriate Support Staff -/              63,000          63,000        63,000            -                 -              -         189,000            1 - Personnel d'Appui Expatrié -/
2 - Audit                                    17,500          17,500        17,500        17,500             17,500         17,500       105,000            2 - Audit
3 - Management Training Expenses                -               -             -          11,800              5,900          5,900        23,600            3 - Frais de Formation à la Gestion
4 - Physical Contingencies (10%                                                                                                                            4 - Imprévus Physiques (10% sauf
except for staff)                       1,700           1,800         1,700         3,000             2,300           2,400        12,900                  sur le personnel)
;UBTOTAL (A + B + C)                         1,440,500       1,739,200       491,800       190,600            103,000         58,000    4,023,100        SOUS-TOTAL (A + B + C)
Provision for Price Increase                258,500         502,300       242,050       104,700             75,050         49,800    1,232,400             Provision pour Hausse des Prix
- On Capital Cost                           221,200         426,400       119,850         18,100            26,550         25,200       837,300            - Sur les Dépenses d'Investissements
- On Research Staff Expenditures             22,500          54,600        83,500        68,400             30,400          3,900       263,300            - Sur les Dépenses en Personnel de Recherche
- On Operating Cost                          14,800          21,300        38,700        18,200             18,100         20,700       131,800            - Sur les Frais de Fonctionnement
'OTAL CFAF '000                              1,699,000       2,241,500       733,850       295,300            178,050        107,800    5,255,500        TOTAL en '000 FCFA
JS $,000 3/                                      6,300           8,300         2,700         1,100                700            400        19,500       'O00 $EU -/
1/  All costs.                                                                                           1/ Tous les couts.
2/  Chief, Interrnational Auditing and Budgetary Control Unit;                                           2/  Contrôleur de Gestion; Architecte, Chef T.S.U.                                              , 
Architect/Planner, Chief T.S.U.                                                                                                                                                                  omv
3/  US$1 = CFAF 270.                                                                                     3/  US$1 = 270 PCFA.



SENEGAI,
AG_ICULTURAL RESARCH PROJECT / PROJT   RECHERCHE AGRICOLE
(vi)  Fropoeed Fi_encing from France bv Year end Type ofExpendi_ure /inancement_Propoeéy~ p u  laFrace  r Annéeetpar Nature de Dépenses
(CFAF '000 FCFA)
PYl        PY 2        PY 3        p7 4        Py 5              6    TIA
Année 1    Année 2    Année 3    Année 4    Année 5    Année 6            TAL
A.  Ca3ital Coet                                   136,700    332,100      229,600      62,400     i06,100      62,300     929,200     A.  Dépenses d'Investissement6
1 - Vehicles and Equipment                    124,300    301,900      208,700      56,700      96,500      56,600     844,700          1 - Véhicules et Equipement
2 - Phyeical Contingenciee (10%)               12,4C0      30,200      20,900       5,700       9,600       5 700      84,500          2 - Imprévue Physiques (10%)
B.  Research Staff Expenditures                    675,000    738,000      738,000    738,000      738,000    s70,000   4,197,000      B.  Dépenses en Personnel de Recherche
1 - Ex»atriate Scientists                     567,000     630,000    63o,000      630,000    630,000      462,000   3,549,000          1 - Chercheurs Expatriés                      T
(27)      (30)         (30)        (30)        (a'          22)
2 - Visiting Scientiste                        42,000      42,000      42,000      42,000      42,000      42,000     252,000          2 - Missions d'Appui
-VSNA Expatriates                             66,ooc      66,ooc      66,oo0      66,000      66,000      66,000     396,000          3 - VSNA
C.  Operatine Cost                                 332,000     344,ooo     326,70c     206,600     215,700     201,500   1,626,500     C.  Frais de F_tontinement
1 - Expatriate Support Staff 1/               i4l,80o     141,800     110 20C      36,800      21,000      21,000     472,600          1 - Personnel d'Appui Expatrié
2 - Training Expenses 2/                       64,900      75,800      88,800      46,400      69,00      56,100     401,000          2 - Frais de Formation  /
3 - Other Gperating Costs                     108,00o o    o8,o0C     108,000  108 o8,o       108,000    108,000      648,000          3 - Autres Frais de Fonctionnement
4 - Physical Contingencies (1u% except                                                                                                 4 - Imprévus Physiques (10% sauf
for Staff)                               17,300      18,400      19,700      15,400      17,700      16,400     104,900                 sur le personnel)
SUBTOTAL   (A + B + C)                           1,143,700   1,414,100   1,294,300   1,007.,000   1,059,800    833,800   6.752,700     SOUS-TOTAL  (A'+ _B+ C)
_rovision for Price Increase                  210,800     384,300     477,000     474,500     650,000     593,300   2.789,900          Provision Pour Hausse des Prix
-  On Canital Cost                                                                                                    309,000          -   Sur les Dépenses d'Investissements
-  On Besearchi Staff Expenditure                                                                                   1,686,000          -   Sur les Dépenses en Personnel de Recherche
-On Researating Costaff Exendit794.900                                                                                             -   Sur les Fraie de Fonctionnement
-On Operating Cost
TOTAL CFAF '000                                  1,354,500   1,798,400   1.771,300   1.481,500   1.709,800   1,427,100   9,542,600     TOTAL '000 FCFA
l/ Research Station Staff at CFAF 15,750,000 per year, 5 in PY 1, 5 in PY 2,              Personnel des station de recherche à FCFA 15,750,000 par an, 5 en AP 1, 5 en AP 2, 3 en AP 3
3 in PY 3 and 1 in PY 4; 3 man-years Statistician/Biometrist.                         et 1 en AP 4; 3 nes Statisticien/Biométriste.
2/  Including 23 MSe Scholarships (4 yeers) and 14 PhD Scholarshipm (2 yeare).        2/ Y compris 23 bourses niveau Maitrise (4 ans) et 14 bouirsessniveau Doctorat (2 ans)



SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT / PROJET DE RECHERCHE AGRICOLE
(vii)  Proposed Financing from UNIFSTD by Year and Type of Expenditure / Financement UNIFSTD Proposé par Année et par Nature de Dépenses
(CFAF '000 FCFA)
PYI         PY 2        PY 3        PY 4         PY 5        PY 6       TOTAL
Année 1    Année 2    Année 3    Année 4    Année 5    Année 6
A.  Capital Cost                                14.300      17 600         400            -           -            -      52 500       A.  Dépenses d'Investissements
1.  Civil Works                            13 000      16 000          400           -            -           -      29 400            1.  Génie Civil
2   Physical Contingencies (10%)            1 300       1 600            -           -            -           -        2 900           2   Imprévus Physinues
B   Research Staff Expenditures                 6 000        6 000       6 000            -           -           -       18 000       B.  Dépenses en Personnel de Recherche
1.  Visiting Scientists  1/                 6,000       6,000       6 000            -           -            -      18 000            1.  Missions d'Appui  1/  .
C.  Operating Cost                              79 900      56 800      25 400            -           -           -      162 100       C.  Frais de Fonctionnement
1.  Training Expen ses                     il 800      il 800      il 800            -            -           -      35 400            1.  Frais de formation
2.  Other Operating Cost                   60 100      39 300       il 000           -            -           -      110 400           2.  Autres Frais de Fonctionnement
3.  Physical Contingencies                  8 000       5 700        2 600           -            -           -       16 300           3.  Imprévus Physiques
SUBTOTAL  (A + B + C)                         100 200       80 400      31 800            -           -           -      212 400       SOUS-TOTAL  (A + B + C)
Provision for Price Increase               20 500      25 400       11 700           -            -           -       57 600           Provision pour Hausse des Prix
1.  On Capital Cost                                                                  -           -            -       10 400           1.  Sur les Dépenses d'Investissements
2.  On Research Staff Expenditures                                                   -            -           -        6 400           2.  Sur les Dépenses en Personnel de Recherche
3.  On Operating Cost                                                                             -           -       40 800           3.  Sur les Frais de Fonctionnement
TOTAL CFAF '000                                120 700    105 800       43 500                        -           -      270 000       TOTAL '000 FCFA
1/  Scientific and Technical Committee.                                                                                                1/  Comité scientifique et technieue
I.5-
fD ta



SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT / PRJET IE RECIERCHE AGRICOLE
(viii)  Proposed Fina_cing from USAID bYear and Type ofExpenditure / Financement USAID Proposé parAnnée et par Nature de Dépenses
(CFAP '000 FCFA)
PY 1      PY 2      PY 3       PY 4      PY 5       PY 6     TOTAL
Année 1   Année 2   Année 3   Année 4   Année 5   Année 6
A.  Capital Cost                                        308,200   440,300    91,600    22,700    38,600    22,700    924,100         A.  Dépenses d'Investissement6
1 - Civil Works                                   235,000   290,500      7,400       -         -          -       532,900            1 - Génie Civil
2 - Vehicles and Equipment                          45,200   109,800    75,900    20,600    35,100    20,600    307,200              2 - Véhicules et Equipement
3 - Physical Contingencies (10%)                   25,000    40,000      8,300      2,100     3,500      2,100     84 000            3 - Imprévus Physiques (10%)
B.  Research Staff Expendire189000   210,000   210.000   20,000    42,000    21,000    882.000                                       B.  Eépenses en Personnel de Recherche
1 - Expatriate Scientists  1/                     189,000   210,000  210,Q000   210,000    42,000    21,000    882,000               1 - Chercheurs Expatriés 1/
(9)      (10)      (l0)     (10)         (2)        (1)
C.  Operating Cost                                      145,300   145,300   145,300   145,300    66,600    66,600    714,400         C.  Frais de Fonctionnement
] - Training Exuenses 2/                            78,100    78,100    78,100    78,100       6,500     6,500    325,400            1 - Frais de Formation Z/
2 - Other Oaerating Coasts                          54,000    54,000    54,000    54,000    54,000    54,000    324,000              2 - Autres Frais de Fonctionnement
3 - Physical Contingencies (10;l excent                                                                                              3 - Imprévus Phyeiques (10% sauf sur
for staff)                                   13,200    13,200    13,200    13,200       6,100      6,100     65,o0o                  le personnel)
SUBTOTAL  (A + B + C)                                  642.500   795.600   446.900   378.000   147.200   110,300 2,520.500           SOUS-TOTAL  (A + B + C)
Provision for Price Increase                      122,100   222,800   178,800   211,700   100,100    91,600    927,100               Provisi2p_euor Hausse des Prix
-   On Capital Coat                                                                                               265,700            -Sur les Dépenses d'Investissements
-   On Research Staff Expenditures                                                                                303,000            -   Sur les Dépenses en Personnel de Recherche
-   On Operating Cost                                                                                             358,400            -   Sur les Frais de Fonctionnement
TOTAL CFAF '000                                         764.600 1,018,400   625,700   589,700   247,300   201,900  3,447,600         TOTAL '000 FCFA
1/  Between brackets:  number of scientists.                                              1/ Entre parenthèses:  nombre chercheurs.
2/ 24 MSc Scholarships (4 years); and 2 PhD Scholarships (2 years)                        2/  24 bourses niveau Maitrise (4 ana); et 2 bourses niveau Doctorat (2 ans) à
at CFAF 3,255,000 per year.                                                               FCFA 3,255,000 per an.



SENE~GAL
AGRICU1LTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT / PROJET DE RECHERCHN AGRICOLE
(ix)  Pro oseo Fi_ancin  from USAID through _AO/CILSSyYear and Type of_,penditure / Financement USAID  Proposé_ Travers FAO/CILSS par Année et par Nature de Dépenses
(CFAF '000 FCFA)
PY 1      PY 2      PY 3       PY 4      PY 5       PY 6
Année 1   Année 2   Année 3   Année 4   Année 5   Année 6    TOTAL
A.  Capital Cost                                         r3 5o      p S 00    96 soo     7,200    12,100      7,000   jxg 4nn        A.  Dépenses d'Investissements
1 - Civil Works                                    I1 700    1 .300         400      -         -          -       24.400             1 - Génie Civil
2 - Vehicles and Equipment                          14100    3I,500    23,700       6,500    11,000      6,400    96,000              2 - Véhicules et Equipement
3 - Physical Contingencies (10%)                     2,500     4,700     2,400        700     1,100        600    12,000             3 - Imprévus Physiques (10%)
B.  Research StaffExpenditures                          108,300   108,30o   108,300   108,300       3,300     3,300   4xg Ann        B.  _Dénses en Personnel de Recherche
I - Senegalese Scientiutu 1/                         -,300     3,300      3,300     3,300      3,300     3,300    19,800             1 - Chercheurs Sénégalais 1/
(1)       (1)       (1         (1        (1         (1) 
2 - Expatriate Scientists 1/                       105,000   105,000   105,000   105,000        -         -      420,000             2 - Chercheurs Expatriés 1/
~~~ (5) ~~~~~~~(,5)                    5        (5)
C.   Qperating Coet                                      21,100    21,100    21,100    21,100    17,500    17,500   119,400          C.  Frais de Fonctionnement
1 - Training Exoenses 2/                             3,300     3,300      3,300     3,300       -         -        13,200            1 - Frais de Formation 2/
2 - Other Operating Costs                           15,900    15,900    15,900    15,900    15,900    15,900    95,400                2 - Autres Frais de Fonctionnement
3 - Physical Contingencies (10" except                                                                                              3 - Imprévus Physiques (10% sauf
for staff)                                    1,900      1,900     1,900      1,900     1,600      1,600    10,800                   sur le personnel)
SUBTOTAL  (A + B + C)                                  lS6;700      181,Q              136,600    32,900    27,800   &   600o        SOUS-T_AL  (A + B + C)
Provision for Price Increase                        29,100    49,100    57,700    75,100    23,400    23,600   258,000               Provision jour Hausse des Prix
-   On Capital Cost                                                                                               44,400             -   Sur les Dépenses d ' Investissements
-   On Research Staff Expenditures                                                                               145,200             -   Sur les Dépenses en Personnel de Recherche
-   On Speratiag Cost                                                                                             68,400.            -    Sur  les  Frais de Fonctionnement             , :
TOTAL CFAF '000                                         185,800   230,800   213,600   211,700    56,300    51,400   949,600          TTAL '000 FCFA                                            X
1/  Figures between brackets:  number of scientists.                                     1/ Entre parenthèses:  nombre chercheurs.
2/  1 MSc Scholarship (4 years) and 1 PhD Scholarship (2 years).                         2/  1 bourse niveau Naitrise (4 ans) et 1 bourse niveau doctorat (2 ans).



SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT / PROJET DE RECHERCHE AGRICOLE
(x) Proposed Other Financing (ICRISAT and WARDA) by Year and Type of Expenditure I Financement Autre Proposé (ICRISAT et ADRAO) par Année et par Nature de Dépenses
(CFAF '000 FCFA)
PY 1        PY 2         PY 3         PY 4        PY 5          PY 6
Année 1     Année 2      Année 3      Année 4     Année 5       Année 6        TOTAL
Research Staff Expenditures                                                                                                   Dépenses en Personnel de Recherche
-  Expatriate Scientists          42,000       42,000       42,000      42,000       42,000            -        210,000        -  Chercheurs Expatriés
Provision for Price Increase        7,500      10,900       14,700       18,400      22,600            -         74,100        Provision pour Hausse des Prix
Total CFAF '000                   49,500       52,900       56,700       60,400      64,600            -        284,100        TOTAL '000 FCFA



SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT / PROJET DE RECHERCHE AGRICOLE
(xi) Proposed Financing from Senegal by Year and Type of Expenditure / Financement Proposé pour le Sénégal par Année et par Nature de D£penses
(CFAF '000 FCFA)
PY 1          PY 2          PY 3          PY 4          PY 5           PY 6
Année 1       Année 2       Année 3       AnnEe 4        Année 5       Année 6       TOTAL
A.  Cp       Cost                        391,700       222,600         32,900        14,300         8,800        12,100        682,400      A.  Dépenses d'Investissements
1 - Initial Expenses                 210,000                                                                              210,000           1 - Frais à Immobiliser
2 - Small Equipment and                                                                                                                     2 - Petits Equipements et Fournitures
Research Supplies              20,000         20,000        10,000         5,000         5,000          5,000        65,000                 de Recherche
3 - Civil Works                      103,700       128,200        33,300            -             -             -         235,200           3 - Génie Civil
4 - Site Development                  22,400        54,200        16,600          8,000         3,000         6,000       110,200           4 - Aménagement Fonciers
5 - Physical Contingencies (10%)   35,600           20,200         3,000          1,300           800         1,100        62,000           5 - Imprévus Physiques (10%)
B.  Research Staff Expenditures          243,900       260,700         293,400      411,700       483,200       496,400    2,189,300        B.  Dépenses en Personnel de Recherches
1 - Senegalese Scientists             89,100        89,100       112,200       192,500        264,000       277,200    1,024,100            1 - Chercheurs Sénégalais
2 - Senegalese Technicians           154,800       171,600       181,200       219,200        219,200       219,200    1,165,200            2 - Techniciens Sénégalais
C.  Operating Cost                       496,200       488,600        554,300       620,400       607,300       608,400    3,375,200        C.  Frais de Fonctionnement
1 - Local Support Staff              346,300       360,700       377,000       428,000        431,900       432,900    2,371,800            1 - Personnel d'Appui Local
2 - Other Operating Costs            136,300       116,300       162,700       179,500        159,500       159,500       913,800           2 - Autres Frais de Fonctionnement
3 - Physical Contingencies                                                                                                                  3 - Imprévus Physiques (10% sauf
(10% except for Staff)         13,600        11,600        14,600         17,900        15,900        16,000        89,600                  sur le Personnel)
SUBTOTAL (A + B + C)                   1,131,800       971,900        880,600    1,046,400    1,099,300    1,116,900    6,246,900           SOUS-TOTAL (A + B + C)
Provision for Price Increase             196,300       252,400        281,800       461,400       653,300       787,600    2,632,800        Provision pour Hausse des Prix
-  On Capital Cost                                                                                                            256,100      -  Sur les Dépenses d'Investissements
-  On Research Staff Expenditures                                                                                             886,600       -  Sur les Dépenses en Personnel de Recherche
-  On Operating Cost                                                                                                        1,490,100       -  Sur les Frais de Fonctionnement
TOTAL CFAF '000                        1,328,100    1,224,300    1,162,400    1,507,800    1,752,600    1,904,500    8,879,700              TOTAL '000 FCFA                                     p|
1>C



-85-                                                       ANNEX 4
SNEGAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(xii)  ISRA's Balance Sheet6  /  / 5/
(CFAF million)
As or         As of         As of .        As of                Aa of
06/30/75     06/30/76      06/30/77        06/30/78            06/30/79
1.   Current Assets
-  Cash                                               173.8         222.8         504.5           74.1               139.4
-  Receivables                                    -    6.3-         206.7         173.9           42.7               194.5
-  Inventories                                        172.0         186.6         204.4          114.4               132.6
-  Prepaid expenses                                     -             -             1.7          130.0                 0.6
-  Other current assets                                 -             -           368.3          332.5               452.5
Total Current Assets                                  432.1         616.1       1,252.8          693.7               919.6
2.  Fixed Asset6
-  Vehicles                                            44.5          75.8          89.7          113.6               147.0
- Research and operating equipment                    115.1         130.8         201.6          277.2               279.5
-  Furnishinge and office equipment                   135.8         157.6         160.9          208.9               279.1
-  Buildings                                            1.0          17.5          30.5           36.6                39.0
-  Land                                                 -             -             -              -                   _
-  Other fixed assets                                   4.8          14.5          30.6           47.7                64.6
Total Fixed Assets                                    301.2         396.2         512.9          684.0               809.2
Less cumulative depreciation                           94.0         199.3         305.4           350.5              414.9
Net Fixed Assets                                      207.2         196.9         207.9          333.5               394.3
A. TOTAL ASSETS                                       639.3         813.0       1,46o.7        1,027.2             1.313.9
3.  Liabilities
-  Bank and CE  overdraft -                                           -           126.7            2.7               265.5
-  Accounte payable                                    95.0         148.7         283.1          164.7               158.8
-  Deposite on orders received                          -             -            92.6            -                   _
-  Other liabilities                                   29.9          83.7         173.5           87.4                51.4
Total Liabilities                                     124.9         232.4         675.9          254.8               475.7
4.   Grants Invested in Fixed Assets                        37.3           28.5         55.9            49.3               41.9
5.   Equity
-  Retained earnings 4/                                66           141           317.8          312.0               385.2
-  Capital Grants                                     411.1         411.1         411.1          411.1               411.1
Total Equity                                          477.1         552.1         728.9          723.1               796.3
B.  TOTAL LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL                     639.3         813.0       1,460.7        1,027.2               919.6
1/ Not audited by external auditors.
2/ ISRA is expected to communicate its 1980 Balance Sheet by the end of July 1981.
C/ CEP = "Centre des Etablissements Publics", Dakar.
4/Mainly earned surplus from sales of vaccines and from unspent operating subsidies.
57  For the French version see "Bilans de l'ISRA" as published by ISRA.



SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
A. (xiii)Tentative Disbursement Schedule
(US $ million)
PY O      PY 1       PY 3      PY 4       PY 5       PY 5      PY 6       TOTAL
1.  Commitments                     -      20.40      24.70     16.90      15.40      15.10     13.60       106.10
2. Disbursements
Annual                    0.55      17.35     23.70      19.50      16.40     15.00      13.60
Cumulative                0.55      17.90     41.60      61.10      77.50     92.50    106.10
3. IDA Disbursements
Annual                    0,55       2.60       7.30      5.50       1.90      0.90       0.75
Cumulative                0.55       3.15     10.45      15.95      17.85     18.75      19.50
UTJ>-



-87-                                ANNEX 4
Page 16
SENEGAL
(xiii) AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
B.     IDA Credit - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US $ '000)
Disbursements                 Undisbursed
Fiscal       Quarter                                               Amount at End
Year                     During Quarter         Cumulative          of Quarter
1981           1                100                 100               19,400
2                -                   100               19,400
3               450                  550               18,950
4                -                   550               18,950
1982           1                450               1,000               18,500
2                                 1,000                18,500
3             1,075               2,075                17,425
4             1,075                3,150               16,350
1983           1              1,575               4,725               14,775
2             1,575               6,300                13,200
3             2,075               8,375                11,125
4             2,075              10,450                 9,050
1984           1              2,075              12,525                6,975
2             2,075              14,600                 4,900
3               675              15,275                 4,225
4               675              15,950                 3,550
1985           1                500              16,450                3,050
2               500              16,950                 2,550
3               450              17,400                 2,100
4               450              17,850                 1,650
1986           1                225              18,075                1,425
2               225              18,300                 1,200
3               225              18,525                   975
4               225              18,750                   750
1987           1                188              18,938                  562
2               188              19,126                   374
3               187              19,313                   187
4               187              19,500                     0
End of Disbursement: July 31, 1987.



SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(xiv) Incremental Project Costs (including price contingencies)
(CFAF '000)
PY O           PY 1             PY 2           PY 3             PY 4            PY 5             PY 6            TOTAL
ISRA's Ongoing Research
Activities Directly Related
to the Proposed Project          2 101 400      2 101 400        2 101 400       2 101 400       2 101 400        2 101 400        2 101 400       12 608 400
Price Contingencies                    212 100        445 000         701 400         961 000       1 240 600        1 548 000        1 786 200         6 682 200
TOTAL WITHOUT PROJECT -              2 313 500      2 546 400       2 802 800       3 062 400       3 342 000        3 649 400        3 887 600        19 290 600
Financed by GOS                  1 117 000      1 229 400        1 353 200       1 478 500       1 613 500       1 788 200         1 904 900         9 367 700
Financed by Other Donors 2/    1 196 500        1 317 000        1 449 600       1 583 900       1 728 500       1 861 200         1 982 700         9;922 900
TOTAL WITH PROJECT -/                    -          5 508 900       6 673 100       4 591 400       4 164 700        4 012 400        3 696 200        28 646 700
Financed by GOS                      -          1 328 100        1 224 300       1 162 400       1 507 800       1 752 600         1 904 500        8 879 700       -
Financed by Other Donors             -          4 180 800       5 448 800        3 429 000       2 656 900       2 259 800         1 791 700       19 767 000
INCREMENTAL COSTS -/                     -         2 962 500        3 870 300       1 529 000         822 700          363 000          (191 400)      9 356 100
Financed by GOS 4/                   -             98 700         (128 900)       (316 100)       (105 700)         (35 600)             (400)       (488 000)
Financed by Other Donors             -          2 863 800       3 999 200        1 845 100         928 400         398 600          (191 000)      9 844 100
Steps in Calculation:
1/   "Total with "Project" from detailed financing tables.
2/   "Without Project Financed by GOS" based on ISRA's 1980 budget relevant to the Project less self-financing activities.
3/   "Incremental Costs Financed by Other Donors" 100% from detailed financing tables for IDA, USAID, UNIFSID, FAO/CILSS (USAID) and Belgium.
For France increment calculated as follows:
A - Capital Costs based on PY O participation of CFAF 117,700,000;
B - Research Staff Expenditures based on two incremental staff in PY 1, five in PY 2 through PY 5 minus three in PY6, plus
two visiting scientists from PY 1 through PY 6;
C - Operating costs based on PY O participation of CFAF 273,200;
For other financing increment calculated for 100% from detailed financing table after deduction of two non-incremental expatriate
research workers, financed by WARDA and ICRISAT.
4/   "Without Project Financed by Other Donors" step 1 minus step 3.



SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(xv) Estimated Internal Rates of Return to Agricultural Research Expenditures
Internal Rate of
Commodity               CGuntry                    Study                 Time Period               Return (%)
Maize                      U.S.A.            Grilliches (1958)                1940-55                       35-40
Sorghum                    U.S.A.            Grilliches (1958)                1940-57                        20
Sugar cane                 India             Evenson (1969)                       -                          60
Wheat                      Mexico            Ardito-Barletta (1970)           1943-63                        90
Maize                      Mexico            Ardito-Barletta (1970)           1943-63                         35
Cotton                     Brazil            Ayer (1970)                      1924-67                         77
Maize                      Peru              Hines (1972)                     1954-67                        25-40            x
Maize and Cultivation
Package                   Peru              Hines (1972)                     1954-67                       50-55
Rice                       Columbia          Ardila (1973)                    1957-72                       58-82
Rice                       Columbia          Scobie (1978)                    1957-74                       79-101
Rice                       Asia              Evenson (1978)                   1960-75                       75-102
Aggregate Studies
All Agriculture            U.S.A.            Evenson (1968)                   1949-59                         47
All Agriculture            India             Jha & Evenson (1970)             1953-71                         40
Crops                      Mexico            Ardito-Barletta (1970)               -                         45-93
International    Kislev and Evenson (1973)         1955-1968
Applied Research           LDCs                                                                               42
DCS                                                                               21
Agriculture Scientific
Research                  LDCS                                                                               60
DCs                                                                               36
Source:   Senegal Agricultural Research Project Preparation Report by IADS, July 1979



SENECAL
AGRICUI.TURAL RESEARCII PROJECT
(xvi)  Research Expenditures in West Africa (1975)
Agricultura  NResearer                        Researcli         Researchi       Research       Arclua
Agricultural      Nuaiber of      Researchi       Scientits    Expenditures/   Expenditures          giDuPu As
Recearch                     Expendiures/s                                                          C.D.. As
Research    Exp,di,  ,s        Per Million         Ca itaAs%Q                         frF 
Expenditures         .         Scientlst/yr.    PAs Z  f                                             Z Of Total
(US  '000)      Scientists      (US $000       Agricultural    Agricultural   Agricultural            G.D.P
Population       Population         C.D.P.
WEST AFRICA            91,620            3,464          26.45              43             1.142            0.57               36
Low-Income             79,283            2,956          26.82             42              1.141            0.65               35
Bellfn                1,21.5              17          71.47             12              0.826            1.04               31
CaiiiLtroon           1,947               96          20.28             18              0.366            0.27               32
C(had                    649              30          21.64              9              0.188            0.06               50
Ganibla                   53              10           5.32             24              0.130            0.11               48        O
Mail                  2,630               37          71.09               7             0.518            1.31               38
Mdlarit;aniia            597               4         149.25              4              0.546            0.88               16
Nlge r                  819               16          51.21              4              0.196            0.31               45
Nigeria              66,376            2,534          26.19             70              1.824            0.78               34
jSegegai  i/          3,949              146          27.05             43              1.159            0.70               34
Sierra LLoile            325              36           9.02             18              0.159            0.15               33
li'ogo                  497               19          26.16             12             0.313             0.3()              29
UppeQr-Vl La             226              il          20.54               2             0.044            0.08               42
Mie!dd]-iui0icin        12,337             508          24.28              47             1.154            0.32               39
C;Ihana               3,963              300          13.21             55              0.728            0.15               51
Ivory (oast           7,933              189          41.97             47              1.979            0.78               26
1Jherla                 441               19          23.21             15              0.355            0.21               25
Source:  I4B Agricultural Research Policy Paper                                                                                     f|
1/  Tbe Agricuiltural Researcli Expeniditure quoted here mnay only reflect ISRA e*penditures funded by the Senegalese
(:ov&unii.±L and miay cicluLde expenditures financed by external sources, notably France.  See para 1.24 of tie text.    l



-91-
SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL RESFARCH PROJOCT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1-, Senegal, Agricultural Research Revlew, IADS, Masterplan.
December 1978 (124,233)
2-  Plan indicatif de la recherche agricole pour la Région du Fleuve,
période 1979-1984, ISRA. November 1978 (124,241 D)
3-  Plan indicatif de la recherche agricole 1979-1984 prévu pour la
Région de Louga et la Zone sylvo-pastorale, ISRA, October 1978 (124,241 G)
4- Plan indicatif de la recherche agricole pour la Région du Cap-Vert,
période 1979-1984, ISRA, November 1978 (124,241 H)
5- Projet de plan indicatif de la recherche agricole pour les Régions de
Thies et de Diourbel 1979-1984, ISRA, October 1978, 4 volumes (124,241 B)
6- Plan indicatif de la recherche agricole 1979-1985 prévu pour la Région du
Sine-Saloum, ISRA, October 1978 (124,241 C)
7-  Plan indicatif de la recherche agricole pour la Région du Sénégal Oriental,
ISRA, October 1978 (124,241 E)
8-  Plan indicatif de la recherche agricole pour la Région de la Casamance,
ISRA, October 1978 (124,241 F)
9-  Plan indicati' national de la recherche agricole, DGRST, ISRA, February 1979
(124,655)
10- Sénégal, Agricultural Research Project, IADS, Preparation Report, July 1979
(124,532)
11- U.S. Research Training in Agriculture and Related Areas, a Proposal for
Senegal, W.D. Buddemeier, USAID, June 1979
12- Rapport de mission effectuée au Sénégal, P. Fallavier, June 1979
(laboratory equipment)
13- Mécanisation dans le cadre du plan indicatif de la recherche agricole 1979-1984,
J. Dutartre, CEEMUT, iuiln 1979
14- La recherche socio--éconormique à l'Institut Sénégalais de la Recherche
Agronomique, Robert Badouin et Jean-Pierre Dozon, ISPIA, 1979



-92-                          Al,'~'NNEX 5
Page 2
15- Formulation de Projets de recherche a;roncom.ic, S   gai, La Recherche
Maraîchère, C. Reller, FAO, RPome, 1979
16- Formulation de Projets de recherche agronomique, Sénégal, Equipement de
laboratoires, M. Pinta, FAO, Rome, 1979
17- Formulation de Projets de recherche agronomique, Sénégal, Equipement de
stations et recherche en matière de mécanisation agricole, B.P. Pothecary,
FAO, Rome, 1979
18- Rapport de mission, Equipement de laboratoires, Maurice Pieta, FAO, Sénégal,
Juillet 1979
19- Réflexions sur les programmes de recherche halieutique au Sénégal,
Jean-Paul Troadec, FAO, juin 1979
20- Les liaisons Recherche-Développement, Propositions pour une organisation.
P. Viguier et R. Tourte, SERST, Octobre 1979
21- Staff Working Documents, March 1980, (125,429)
1. Production Systems Research Programs (English and French)
2. Commodity Research Programs (English and French)
3. Aménagement et Equipement des Stations expérimentales (French only)
4. Civil Works and Architects' Briefs (English and French)
5. Coûts prévisionnels du Projet et Financement (entries in English
and French).



-93-
SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
ISRA ORGANIZATION CHART
|Board of
Governers,   
i   _   |  Boand  1. Scienti!fic and Technical
Boatd       Ço~C,mml tee
General                   rlCommittees      2. Steering Committee
[Internai Auditing                            Financial and
Rnr Suppo .rRecSt                           Administrative
Control Unit                                  Dinector
"Agent Comptable
Particulier"    DACP_t                              conti
S   Monitoring and                                  Bgr  e 
Staff           Biochemittry       Eva         Sysio  UnteeStin2Dhr                                              6.Dber
Anl -i Gr                  Manage ent          3. rne
Macro-,~.
Economic           __                          Personnel
Commodity                      Livestock                    Production                    Support                       Forestry                   Oceanography
r   Program                       Physiology                      Pogramn                   Laboratories  ||2. Dakar-Hann
ReSorghum                 S     Pathotogy    |        _|hSylvo-Passoral                 Deveo _| pentarm
Program                      l l (enetics)l                Programn      l             Training Unit|
DepMaize                       ePathology                                                 epatSine Satoum  S o r Unit
r   Program              < 1 (Trypanosomliasis) |       D Program                           (TSUL
Se 1o             utt                            stemsStation2DahreUpper    |Documentation  |
Rice ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~4.Nood    i
rle-    Epidemiology                                      Casamance                   and Publication 
l  l    Program  l      l                  l         |     Program                      La|rUnit         2
CowPea  l                             §     ~~~~~~~~~Lower          |Data Processing|
Sorghum      |a.ooa                                        Casamance torland Statistics
Program                       G                             Program                         Unit
[-   §  l  Support          ----             2t  Vaccine Production
ll Groundnut                                                      Research                  Production andti 3. Animal Health Services
Program                                      Li~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Prgaison
;    Program |   .  |  LiaisonTechnicalgServicest   4. Breedlnprovement
I  Horticulture    g                             [     Support                                     2 1V Microbiology
~~~ Horticulture~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~~upo,                                       Mcobolg
rCDHI          I ureproct                                                      2. Bioclimatology
-  CDH-                                                  Crop Production      3. Soi Physics
4. Soil Conservation
S. Soil Chemistry/Fertility
6. Weed Control
7. post Harvest Techlnology
S. Agricultural Engineering
*Self-financing operations                                                      9. Irrigation and Drainage                                         World Bank - 21580



-94-
SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
RESEARCH STATION ORGANIZATION CHART
(Fanaye, Bambey, Nioro du Rip, Djibelor)
|    STATIN SO 
FINANCIAL AND                      RESEARCH                         TECHNICAL l
AD MINISTR ATIVE                  STAIFF SECRE-                       SERVICES 
SERVICES      .TARIES POOLl
......... ...... Liaison                                       .                                              World Bank - 21578



-95-
SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
ProjectYear        PY 1              PY 2             PY 3               PY 4              PV P              PY 6
COMMODITY RESEARCH
PROGRAM
Millet _
Sorghu m                          _
Maize
R ice              _                      _                                                      -   -   -
Cowpea
G round nuts
PRODUCTION SYSTEMS
PROGRAM
Senegal Rover                              _   _   .              - _                   -         
Sylvo-Pastoral Zone                         _                             - _           -        -        - . _ _ _              -   -
Sine Sal oum m                                      - _   _   _   _
Upper Casamance                            _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _
Lower Casamance                _      _ _   _ _ _
CIVIL WORKS
Building Construction                 _   _   _   _   _           _   -
Station Development                   _   _   _   -   _           _
PURCHASE AND DELIVERIES OF:
Vehicles and Farm Equipment                -   -   -         -                     - _
Laboratory Equipment                                             -            -   -
Office Furniture and Equipment
TRAINING
M.Sc. TrainingBn25
Ph.D Training-
World Bank - 21579






IBRD 14941
MOBB CANIA                                                                                                                                                     14~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iLMABCH I000
SE;[.A\ ~     L        1/$GENFG,AL
0~~ 'I"TO"T           *B   Ï~'~  -  Podo; ~oo                                                          AGRICULTURAL~ RÊSEÂERCH PÉROJECT
O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oooo                                                                                                                                                          16'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
10'   Tho op00AO COO by tI,0
W- dg,$ ofool/fo':X
BCC4O  000 $00 p01                                R     E
0000$ Oorp$y on ChoC  C'oBC  00  ~                       L     "~ '~-~        <~-A                '              " b0"
o, OotoCOO0 Reo?( 000 bcoatoo      Lom               $Oome
Z09ca 0P-Vre           oo2~~-Bb  ~oo                       N~,          Or  Bog
100- -     Rain      0100Noi
Pro octat Arensitohdoy                               Ooho  Gro
*  Re2e~~rcP Sp~~ions  M'Booo                               kh 
E00  - roy h  Roids                51
PàpuI0toon uD ersy Contrutio
R$ 0w5yS                                                            -h000    000SM/N                                     
Ferr20
Gravpe.l Rod                                                     5
F  nFernrieis  i o,dai



