Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
fiLE   cupjI                             Report No. P-2955-SE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROWECT
August 19, 1981
'Mis docmt hus a restrie  distribution an may be used by recipients only In the performnce of
t oeir odcal dtes. Ihs coutets mny not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Dak auhoriatIon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:       CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.00          =  CFAF 270
CFAF 1 million   =  US$3,700
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES:  METRIC
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BNDS          Banque Nationale de Developpement du Senegal
CILSS         Comite Inter-Etat de Lutte Contre la Secheresse Sahelienne
FAO           Food and Agriculture Organization
IADS          International Agricultural Development Service
ICRISAT       International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid
Tropics
ISRA          Institut Senegalais de Recherches Agricoles
ITA           Food Technology Institute
SERST         Secretariat d'Etat a la Recherche Scientifique et Technique
UNIFSTD       United Nations Interim Fund on Science and Technology for
Development
USAID         United States Agency for International Development
WARDA         West African Rice Development Association
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Senegal                      July 1 - June 30
ISRA (until end of calendar year 1981)   July 1 - June 30
(beginning calendar year 1982)       January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Republic of Senegal
Amount:         SDR 17.0 million (US$19.5 million equivalent)
Terms:          Standard
Project
Description:   The proposed project would be the six-year first phase of a
long-term program to improve the relevance and impact of
Senegal's national research effort in crop and livestock
development and to strengthen the linkage between research,
extension and agricultural activity in Senegal. Making agri-
cultural research more relevant to production needs is an
important element in the Government's plans for improving
overall performance in the sector as part of its ongoing
structural adjustment program. Specifically, the project
provides for: (i) introducing mixed agriculture/livestock
production systems research programs in five priority regions;
(ii) establishing nationally-coordinated multi-disciplinary
research teams for six priority foodgrain and cash crop com-
modities; (iii) reorganizing and strengthening the operations
of the Institut Senegalais de Recherches Agricoles (ISRA), the
implementing agency; (iv) establishing long-term manpower
planning and training for professional and technical staff, and
improving personnel management policies and procedures; (v)
strengthening research on production economics, marketing, and
human resources; (vi) strengthening capabilities for evaluation
and application of new technologies, and more effective links
with extension services; and (vii) strengthening linkages with
external technical assistance agencies, including international
agricultural research centers.
The proposed investment in problem-oriented research would help
assure much needed improvements in quantity and quality of cash
crop and livestock production and higher farmer adoption rates,
and is therefore important to achieving growth in the agricul-
tural sector. One major project objective would be to address
directly the needs and problems of farmers through improved
communication between research workers and extension personnel.
A number of problems (participation of several external donors
in a tightly coordinated program, availability of qualified
expatriate staff and trained local personnel, and effectiveness
of the extension system) may contribute to delays in achieve-
ment and dissemination of research results. The project
includes appropriate measures to reduce these risks to the
minimum.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated
Project Cost: Total project costs (net of identifiable taxes and import
duties from which the project would be exempt) are estimated at
US$106.1 million equivalent. The following is a summary table
of cost estimates.
Local   Foreign   Total
-----(US$ million)-----
Capital Costs
Civil Works and Site Development        7.3      3.9      11.2
Vehicles and Equipment                  0.5      4.3       4.8
Other Capital Costs                    0.9       1.1       2.0
Subtotal                               8.7       9.3      18.0
Research Staff
Expenditures
Senegalese Scientists and
Technicians                          8.2        --       8.2
Expatriate Scientists                  5.0      18.9      23.9
Subtotal                              13.2      18.9      32.1
Operating Costs
Support Staff                          9.3       1.9      11.2
Training Costs                         0.6       2.4       3.0
Other Operating Costs                  2.2       6.0       8.2
Subtotal                              12.1      10.3      22.4
Refunding PPA                          0.6       0.4       1.0
Base Cost                             34.6      38.9      73.5
Contingencies
- Physical                             1.5       1.5       3.0
- Prices                              14.8      14.8      29.6
Total Project Costs                   50.9      55.2    106.1



- iii -
Financing Plan: The project financing plan takes account of current and
planned participation of the Senegalese Government and
several external sources in the overall six-year research
effort as follows:
US$ million   Percent
IDA                19.5         19
France             35.3         33
USAID              12.8          12
FAO/CILSS           3.5           3
ICRISAT/WARDA       1.1           1
UNIFSTD              1.0          1
Government         32.9         31
106.1        100
Estimated
Disbursements:            FY82   FY83   FY84  FY85   FY86   FY87
Annual       3.2    7.3    5.5   1.9    0.9    0.7
Cumulative  3.2   10.5   16.0  17.9   18.8   19.5
Staff Appraisal
Report:               Report No. 3073-SE dated July 24, 1981
Map:                   IBRD 14941






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of Senegal for SDR 17.0 million (US$19.5
million) to help finance an Agricultural Research Project. The Credit would
be on standard IDA terms. External financing for the proposed project would
be provided in the form of grants and technical assistance from several donors
through their ongoing or proposed funding of research activities in Senegal as
follows: France, US$35.3 million equivalent; United States Agency for Inter-
national Development (USAID), US$12.8 million equivalent; Comite Inter-Etat de
Lutte Contre la Secheresse Sahelienne (CILSS), in cooperation with the Food
and Agriculture Organization (FAO), US$3.5 million equivalent; International
Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) and the West
African Rice Development Association (WARDA), US$1.1 million equivalent; and
the United Nations Interim Fund on Science and Technology for Development
(UNIFSTD), US$1.0 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "The Economic Trends and Prospects of Senegal"
(1720a-SE) was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 10, 1980,
followed by a president-s report for a structural adjustment loan/credit
(P-2869a-SE) dated November 26, 1980, containing an expanded section on the
economic situation. The following paragraphs reflect the conclusions of these
reports. Country data appear in Annex I.
Economic Structure and Past Developments
3.        Three-quarters of Senegal's territory lies in the Sahel zone, which
suffers from low rainfall and periodic droughts. The mainstay of the tradi-
tional economy is millet cultivation and nomadic cattle-raising for domestic
consumption, and groundnut cultivation for exports. Soils are generally
poor, and periodically food shortages occur in the months between the sowing
and harvesting of the next crop. The large river basins--some of them fed
in the tropical rain zone--have so far been exploited only marginally.
Land distribution is fairly even. In the western part of the country arable
land is becoming scarce, but in the extreme southeast some good land is
still available. The modern sector of the economy is concentrated in Dakar,
the capital, a city of about one million inhabitants, the economic base of
which consists of excellent port facilities, an important industrial sector,
and a small but fast-growing tourism industry. With a population of 5.5
million, Senegal's per capita GNP for 1980 was estimated at US$450.



- 2 -
4.        During the 1960s, the Senegalese economy experienced virtual
stagnation as real output increased at a rate estimated at 2.7 percent per
annum, hardly more than the population. Two factors were responsible for
this situation.  Firstly, with independence, Senegal lost its privileged
position as the center of Freach we<, Africa, and &,ubsequcit1l- had to adapt
to its reduced economic, adminisi:r.stive, ar-d political position. Secon;lly,
in the latter part of the decade, productioni of groundnuts (iLS pritLcipal
export) fell, due to unfavorable weather and declining export prices.
5.        In the 1970s, Senegal's narrow-based export sector was hit by sharp
fluctuations in volumes and prices, and even with the achievement of higher
rates of both private and public investment, average annual growth was not
raised above the earlier 10 years level. Output and incomes were depressed
in 1972 and 1973 by the Sahel's most severe drought in over a century, which
brought a decline in real national income. Thereafter, when weather condi-
tions improved, the purchasing power of the rural population was substantially
restored and both agricultural and industrial production increased markedly.
However, the late 1970s saw another series of bad crops, which have adversely
and increasingly affected the economy since 1978. The magnitude of these
downswings is reflected in the variations in groundnut crops; from a historical
record of 1.45 million tons in 1975/76, output fell to less than 0.6 million
tons in 1977/78; it recovered to about 1.0 million tons in 1978/79, but fell
again, to less than 0.8 million tons in 1979/80 and to a new low of about 0.5
million tons in 1980/81. Industrial output (excluding groundnut processing)
did grow at a fairly even rate of about 5 percent a year. After recovery from
the earlier droughts, real GDP increased at about 5 percent between 1973 and
1977, but in 1978 it is estimated to have declined by 9 percent reflecting the
effect of the 1977/78 drought; similarlyi due to the mediocre crops in 1979/80,
it remained below its 1977 level in 1980.
6.        The large fluctuations in physical production were aggravated by
the price movements of Senegal½s major export and import commodities. In
1974, the terms of trade improved by over 21 percent, because of exceptionally
high prices for phosphate rock, Senegal's second export commodity, but in 1975
export prices for groundnuts declined sharply, followed in 1976 by a fall
in the export prices for phosphate rock; the recent increase in oil prices
brought a further deterioration in the terms of trade, causing a total loss in
income since 1974 of roughly 5 percent of GDP. These swings in international
prices, together with the fluctuations in output, had serious consequences
for domestic prices, public finance and balance of payments.
Public Finance
7.        The Government has shown some flexibility in adapting its financial
policies to changes in the economic environment. In 1974, the retail prices
for rice, sugar and groundnut oil were raised by 40 to 90 percent in order to
reduce consumer subsidies that had ballooned following the price hikes for
these commodities on the world market. Government also aligned producer
prices for groundnuts closer to world prices which were particularly high at
that time. The loss of revenue to the Treasury because of this latter step
was expected to be compensated by additional revenues from the phosphate mine,
such as an 80 percent excess profits tax and dividends from increased owner-
ship. In 1974, the phosphate price quadrupled, and in 1974 and 1975, Govern-
ment did indeed receive high revenues from phosphates amounting to roughly
US$45 million a year, or 12 percent of tax receipts.



8.        Public savings after debt service rose from a yearly average of
US$25 million during 1971-73, to US$46 million during 1974-76. This higher
level of public savings was doubtless an important factor in stimulating
Government to increase public investment outlays from a yearly average of
US$24 million to US$49 million during the same two periods. In addition,
however, Government purchases of equity and lending to domestic enterprises
increased sharply, mainly because of the increased participation in the
phosphate mine and the acquisition of two foreign-owned public utility
companies. The total capital outlays of the Government were thus substan-
tially in excess of public savings, and were financed in large part through
medium-term foreign bank loans. As a consequence, foreign debt service borne
by the Government increased from US$8 million in 1972/73 to US$38 million in
1975/76, representing about 10 percent of its revenues.
9.        A sudden fall in world phosphate prices in 1976 eliminated Govern-
ment revenues from this source. In the following year, Government raised
tax rates, limited recurrent expenditures, and undertook some new commercial
borrowing for its investment program. When it became clear that the 1977/78
crop would fail, Government endeavored to avoid famine in the countryside and
maintain rural incomes by importing more cereals and absolving farmers' debts;
however, the added financial burden which these measures entailed was not
accompanied by reductions in capital expenditures, which were financed through
heavy commercial borrowing amounting to US$122 million in 1977 and US$200
million in 1978. As a consequence, in 1980, when grace periods were over,
debt service obligations of the budget reached about US$145 million (or 19.5
percent of Government revenues).
10.       In August 1978, the National Assembly was called from summer recess
to approve a new fiscal package amounting to US$20 million in additional
revenues.  The 1978/79 budget presented a tax reform aimed at removing tariff
distortions and administrative deficiencies, which also increased Government
receipts through reductions in exemptions. Further tax measures in 1980/81
will bring the ratio of Government receipts to GDP to 29 percent, as compared
to 19 percent in 1970/71 and 23 percent in 1976/77.
Balance of Payments
11.       Since 1973 the balance of payments has been under heavy pressure,
resulting in a very large negative balance in the net foreign assets by the
end of 1980. Underlying the deterioration in the external accounts is the
sluggish growth of exports combined with fast growing imports, leading to
increasing current account deficits that could not be covered anymore by
the normal flow of concessionary aid and an acceptable level of commercial
borrowing. Between 1974 and 1976 exceptionally high phosphate revenues slowed
the deterioration in the current account, but Government's purchases of large
participations in existing enterprises, created considerable outflows of
private foreign capital, and foreign reserves were not replenished. The
deterioration in the external accounts accelerated in 1978, fueled by losses
in groundnut revenues, strong import demand and the oil price hike, and could
not be arrested by EEC STABEX fund receipts and commercial borrowings. At
the end of 1979, net foreign assets stood at minus US$319 million, including



- 4 -
drawings on the IMF of US$61 million. The balance of payments picture in 1980
was characterized by a loss in groundnut revenues of almost US$200 million,
partly due to the small harvest and partly to exceptionally low world market
prices. Moreover the net effect of the 1979 increase in petroleum prices was
close to US$90 million. The resulting deficit on the current account was
partly absorbed by the first tranche of an exceptional international aid
package amounting to almost US$200 million, of which US$56 million by the IMF
in the form of drawings on the Extended Fund Facility taking some pressure off
the monetary union and the commercial banks. At the end of 1980, net foreign
assets stood at minus US$463 million.
12.       Although exogenous factors such as droughts and variations in world
market prices explain part of the fall in net foreign assets since 1973, it is
also due to more perennial factors such as sluggish growth of export volumes,
slow drawings on public aid commitments, increasing debt service related to
heavy reliance on commercial funds, and excessively expansionary monetary
policies. Senegal's basic problem has been the failure of production and
exports to respond to higher investment levels and other expansionary policies.
Government s Economic and Financial Rehabilitation Program
13.       In December 1979, during his annual speech to the National Assembly,
the Prime Minister explained the urgency of modifying prevailing tendencies in
the economy, and outlined a medium-term stabilization and rehabilitation
program. This program was informally but extensively discussed with the Bank
and the Fund and provided the basis for an agreement with the IMF for the
purchase of US$243 million equivalent in currency under the Extended Fund
Facility, an agreement which was approved by the IMF Board in August 1980, and
a US$60 million structural adjustment loan/credit presented to the Board on
December 18, 1980. The letter of intent from the Government to the IMF and
the statement of economic policy sent to the Bank emphasized various aspects
of the Government-s program. The global objectives of the Government's
program are to stabilize the economy during the first two of the five years
and to achieve a modestly higher rate of economic growth of 4 percent a year
in the following three years.
14.       Under the program, public savings after debt service would increase
from about 1 percent of GDP in 1978/79 to over 3 percent of GDP in 1985,
mainly through a freeze of recurrent expenditures in real terms. This savings
target would have allowed the Treasury to finance at least 15 percent of the
public investment program in the near future, to be improved to 25 percent by
1985. The 15 percent minimum contribution serves as a planning basis and is
likely to be exceeded in favorable years, but may fall short in years of bad
crops such as in 1981. Consequently, financing of local costs by foreign
donors for specific projects is likely to be essential.
15.       Increased private savings will be encouraged by the 2.5 percentage
points increase in interest rates on deposits and savings certificates (an
increase that was introduced in May 1980 together with a similar increase in
the rediscount rate of the Central Bank), and through the allocation of
preferential housing loans to borrowers with good savings performance. In



rural areas, the savings of farmers will be mobilized. However, the bulk of
private savings will have to come from private enterprises. To achieve this
goal, the Government has eased price policies and tightened credit policies,
in particular for non-productive projects.
16.       Recognizing that the recent bad crops and the ongoing savings drive
will dampen domestic demand and that production costs in Senegal are high
compared with foreign competition, the Government has proposed to take steps
to provide more protection to domestic producers by raising import duties
while achieving greater uniformity in their application, and by subsidizing
export industries with excess capacity. This policy allows for the fact that
parity of the local currency is fixed in the framework of the monetary union
to which Senegal belongs. Senegal's efforts are being reinforced by the
recent weakening of the CFA franc.
17.       The level of investments is being reduced somewhat to facilitate
economic stabilization but is planned to increase moderately over the five-
year period of the Rehabilitation Plan. The emphasis of Government's program
is on a shift of total investments toward more productive projects. A minimum
rate of return requirement will weed out the less viable projects in the
public sector, and an improvement in the incentives for private investors is
expected to encourage private undertakings. The propensity to invest in
Senegal is still low because of limited domestic markets and high production
costs, and following the period of active state intervention, private entre-
preneurs have tended to seek Government participation or loan guarantees for
new ventures, to reduce their risks.
18.       The parapublic sector (public enterprises and mixed companies)
represents a serious drain on Government finances and will be placed on a
sounder footing through the conclusion of medium-term program contracts
("contrats-plans") between the Government and individual parapublic enter-
prises, that aim at setting sector objectives and reducing present levels of
budgetary support. Five program contracts have already been signed for
institutions in the urban, transport and agricultural sectors. Three other
contracts with the railway entity and two agricultural institutions are under
discussion (see para. 35). More scope will be given to these enterprises to
adjust tariffs to more economic levels. Government's program imposes ceilings
on commercial borrowing abroad and restricts its use to enterprises and
projects that generate a sufficient cash flow to service such debt. It
introduced a fee for Government guarantees on debts of mixed enterprises.
Treasury advances and loans to mixed enterprises in financial difficulties
have been drastically reduced and made conditional on the conclusion of a
program contract.
19.       In the agricultural sector, the liabilities resulting from the
uncovered recurrent expenditures of parapublic enterprises had accumulated
to the extent that the Treasury and, indirectly, the money and credit system
were threatened. Moreover, because of weak management, some public institu-
tions had become an obstacle to project implementation. In August 1980,
Government dissolved the central cooperative organization (ONCAD) which con-
trolled individual cooperatives, as well as the delivery of agricultural
inputs, the extension of agricultural credits and the marketing of crops,
restoring some of its functions to the private sector. The cooperatives
will be reorganized to assume responsibilities for agricultural credit and
seedstocks, and to allow greater farmer participation. Technical assistance
to cooperatives would in future be provided by the regional rural development



- 6 -
agencies that are in charge of extension services to the farmers. The remain-
ing parapublic agencies in the agricultural sector will also be reorganized
with a view to restore their financial soundness and increase their operational
efficiency. Subsidies on agricultural inputs were removed with the exception
of those for fertilizer for which substantial reductions are now being con-
sidered. The agricultural reform will also lead to a substantial reduction in
the number of staff, reduce the annual deficits that have been supported by
the budget, and may eventually allow higher net revenues to farmers.
20.       The structural adjustment program agreed with the Bank on the
basis of the above Rehabilitation Program had a slow start as a result of:
(a) a change in Government in early 1981; (b) a record low 1980/1981 crop;
and (c) steep increases in the price of imported rice. The new Government
restated the general objectives of the program but focused, during the first
four months in office, on the economic and financial crisis caused by the bad
crop. Short-term targets and policy measures had to be adapted to the new
situation and discussed with the International Monetary Fund in the framework
of the agreements under the Extended Fund Facility, drawings on which were
blocked in the absence of agreed credit ceilings for 1981. Also, some
issues existed concerning the Government-s price policies. After levying
a "solidarity tax" on urban wages to finance emergency food supplies for
the rural population, the Government thought it could not increase basic
food prices by implementing the scheduled 15 percent import duty on rice
intended to protect local cereal producers, and even accepted some temporary
food subsidies to cushion the impact of rising world prices on the cost of
living. Within the agricultural reform program, the tests to build
autonomous village sections within the agricultural cooperatives were
delayed as well as the introduction of a new credit system based on these
units, mainly because the new administration had to prepare emergency
measures before familiarizing itself with the program. On the other hand,
progress was made in the field of investment planning and establishment of
program contracts with parastatal enterprises. The system of export
premia for five test products was set up, but with retroactive payments
of the premia later in the year. In view of the delays in the execution
of the structural adjustment program, the Bank postponed release of the
second tranche of the loan/credit.
Long-term Prospects
21.       The Government's long-range development strategy continues to be
based on the promotion and diversification of agriculture and export-oriented
activities. The agricultural program calls for the development of areas less
afflicted by drought (Casamance and Eastern Senegal), where cash crops other
than groundnuts can be grown. Irrigated cereal production is being developed
in the arid northern part of the country along the Senegal River. This
approach will make the country less dependent on the uncertainties of its
climate and world market prices, and reduce the heavy burden of food imports.
The overhaul of institutions in the groundnut sector is expected to restore
production to previous levels within a few years, and even to increase produc-
tion by 1.8 percent a year if, in the medium term, the groundnut prices paid
to the farmer can be raised as expected. Agriculture research will be oriented
more to farming systems than to individual crops, with the objective of
lowering the costs of the agricultural techniques propagated, and better
adaptation to farmers- needs.



- 7 -
22.       The Government also aims at a modest expansion of phosphate mining,
and development of light export industries and tourism; moreover, contracts
have been signed for construction of a ship-repair yard, and plans for a phos-
phoric acid plant are in an advanced stage. However, with limited prospects
for export growth in the groundnut sector, and because of the modest scale
of the export subsidy scheme, no spectacular improvements in export perfor-
mance can be expected. Government counts heavily on the implementation of a
number of large investments in irrigation to diminish the heavy dependence
on rice imports. However, since such investments have long gestation periods
and are difficult to implement, a cautious view of the long-term outlook is
warranted. Even if economic growth could be raised to a modest 4 percent a
year between 1982 and 1985, the annual growth rate between 1977 and 1985,
because of the decline in GDP in 1978 and 1980, would probably not exceed 2.4
percent a year, which is still below population growth.
23.       The economic and financial rehabilitation plan, and the exceptional
foreign aid based on it will help Senegal to overcome the effects of the recent
bad crops, the higher oil prices, and the high debt service built up over the
past five years. Adequate implementation of this plan is therefore crucial for
Senegal's prospects for economic growth and creditworthiness. In the meantime,
Senegal will continue to need external financing provided on very concessionary
terms, and with donors prepared to meet an unusually large proportion of
project costs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
24.       The Bank Group has had 51 operations in Senegal to date.  Total
outstanding funds amount to US$383.4 million, including 26 IDA credits, 14
Bank loans, four blends of Bank and IDA funds, four IFC operations, two blends
of Bank and IFC funds and one blend of Bank, IDA and IFC funds. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments
as of June 30, 1981, and notes on the implementation of ongoing projects.
Physical execution of these projects is progressing reasonably well, although
some operations are affected by the shortage of counterpart funds due to the
Government-s continuing difficult public finance situation, as well as by lack
of qualified local staff for key positions. But institutional bottlenecks in
several sectors constitute the largest obstacle to efficient project imple-
mentation.
25.       The Government is well aware of the need to increase absorptive
capacity and particularly of the importance of assuring good management
supervision of projects in all sectors. In this respect, the ongoing Para-
public Sector Technical Assistance Project initiates and implements measures
necessary to resolve some sectoral issues concerning financial management
and Government control of public enterprises and mixed companies, particularly
those that are channels for Bank Group assistance. The Government created
in late 1978 an Inter-ministerial Committee (Comite de Relance des Investisse-
ments) which works closely with foreign aid donors, to expedite preparation of
new investment projects, and to identify bottlenecks in project execution and
take remedial action. The work of this committee has already begun to produce
some positive results, and will be strengthened under the Technical Assistance
Project for Economic and Financial Planning, approved in August 1980, through
reinforcement of its secretariat.



26.       The Bank Group's share in total external aid disbursements to
Senegal over 1979-85 will stay at around 12 percent, of which roughly 52
percent in IDA financing. The Bank Group-s share in outstandin6 disbursed
debt was 18 percent in 1979, and will remain at around that level until 196i.
The Bank Group's share in public debt service is expected to increase rrom
3.8 percent in 1980 to about 7 percent in 1985, a rise which is mainiy due
to the increase in Bank loans from 32 percent of the Bank Group's total
outstanding and disbursed funds to Senegal to about 41 percent by 1985.
27.       The Bank Group's project financing and economic ana sector work,
which is designed to support the Government's development strategy, has six
main objectives. First, priority continues to be given to rural development,
including development of irrigation in the Senegal Kiver Valley Region,
rainfed agriculture in the well-watered southern regions of the country, ana
intensification of groundnut production and diversification into new crops
and new regions.  This effort of diversification has led the bani Group to
finance a Small Rural Operations Project in FY80, a reforestation project
earlier this year and the project to help improve agricultural researcn tnat
is described in this report. Agricultural lending over tne next few years
is expected to account for about 20 percent of the total. Secona, the bank
Group has supported diversification of the economy by lending to the 6rowinb
industrial sector through the Societe Financiere Senegalaise pour ie Develop-
pement de l'Industrie et du Tourisme (SOFISEDIT), a development finance
company established with Bank Group assistance in 1974 for whichi a third line
of credit was recently approved, and through the SEFICS rail transport project,
which was approved in June 1981, in support of the ICS Fertilizer Project, a
major phosphoric acid/fertilizer complex. Diversification of the economy is
also pursued through an ongoing project for development of tourism infrastruc-
ture.  Third, Bank Group projects have supported modernization ana expansion
(where economically desirable) of the country's infrastructure through lendin6
to the four modes of transport. A Second Aviation Project was approved in
FY79 and a Fourth Highway Project in FY80. An engineering project approved in
FY79 finances studies and technical assistance for water supply and sanitation
development in eleven secondary centers and is expected to pave the way for
future Bank Group involvement in that sector. Similarly the Power Engineering
Project should identify possibilities for Bank financing in this sector.
Fourth, assistance in the field of social services is being provided under
the Third Education Project approved in FY79 to help the Government re-orient
and expand the country's education system at all levels. Tne bank remains
conscious of the need to support the social services (within the limits of the
Government's ability to bear the recurrent costs involved) by preparing
carefully identified projects; to that end, a proposed Primary  -ealth Care
Project is under preparation. Fifth, the energy sector is oeinm supported
through the use of funds under the Project Preparation Facility for the
preparation of an offshore oil exploration project. F'inally, continuing
assistance is being provided to help Government increase its absorptive
capacity for planning, executing, and managing development projects throu6h
institutional support within individual Bank Group projects. Several bank
Group operations, notably in tourism, telecommunications, port infrastructure,
loans to SOFISEDIT, and in airport development, have the additional merit of
generating revenues for the Senegalese Treasury.



-9-
28.       While project aid is vital, Senegal's long-observed economic
stagnation and the deep-seated problems that have culminated in the present
crisis call for additional, special remedies. One is economic advice. In
1979, for instance, the Bank helped Government devise a policy package aimed
at improving the balance of payments while maintaining whatever growth momentum
was left in the economy, through waste reductions, cutting consumer subsidies,
and higher taxes on urban dwellers, rather than through cuts in groundnut
producer prices or curtailing productive investments. Second, and far more
importantly, Government's needs for financial and technical assistance during
the period of structural adjustment are being addressed under the ongoing
Loan/Credit operation. A paper was circulated to the Executive Directors on
May 4, 1981 explaining that disbursement of the second tranche of the Loan/
Credit has been delayed; however, in cooperation with the IMF, the Bank is
pursuing an intensive dialogue with the Senegalese Government on key macro-
economic issues.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE AND RURAL SECTOR
A. Background
29.       Senegal has a population of about 5.5 million (1979 estimate), of
whom about 75 percent live in rural areas and depend on agriculture to provide
a livelihood. The country covers almost 200,000 km2, of which a relatively
high 70 percent is suitable for rainfed crop production. Basic foodcrops are
millet, sorghum, rice, maize, and cowpeas; groundnuts and cotton are the major
cash crops.  About 60 percent of the rural population is concentrated within
about 150 km of Dakar in the central Groundnut Basin; population density in
this area is almost four times as high as the national average, and there is
little scope for further expansion of extensive farming. Large areas in the
northern and eastern parts of the country are suitable only for livestock
production under extensive grazing. The two large river basins (Senegal in
the North, Casamance in the South) offer an important water resources potential
for agriculture, but have only in recent years begun to be developed.
30.       Despite generally poor soils and erratic rainfall, and although
the contribution of the rural sector to GDP (about 35 percent) is much lower
than in most countries of West Africa, the sector remains a key one in the
Senegalese economy. Agriculture produces about half of export income (with
groundnuts accounting for 90 percent of this), and employs about 75 percent of
the labor force; but per capita income of the rural population represents only
about one-third of the national GNP per capita estimate. Almost all output of
the rural sector is produced by small-scale units from rainfed agriculture,
but there is much diversity in farm size, labor availability, ownership of
agricultural equipment, productivity, and income. Agricultural and food
production generally stagnated in the 60s and 70s, partly because of a series
of droughts, and partly because the available agricultural technology has
almost exhausted its potential, and in any case did not always produce the
desired results. Thus, despite increasing investments in the sector, Senegal
is still not self-sufficient in basic foodstuffs, and the continuing need for
food imports is increasing the already high pressure on foreign exchange
reserves.



- 10 -
B.   Administration of the Sector
31.       Efforts by the Government and the international donor community to
develop agriculture have been directed to increasing production of groundnuts
and millet through large-scale annual agricultural programs; promoting live-
stock development in Eastern Senegal and encouraging migration to less heavily
populated areas of the country; and seeking to develop the country's irriga-
tion potential especially in the Senegal River Basin and in the Casamance
Region. Responsibility for the development of the sector lies primarily with
the Ministry of Rural Development. However, several other ministries, includ-
ing Water, Forestry and Inland Fisheries, Human Affairs, Public Works and
Water, and Science and Technology are responsible for general policy. The
execution of the Government s agricultural program is entrusted to five
semi-autonomous regional development agencies, each assigned to a particular
ecological zone where it does extension work. All agricultural research is
carried out by the Senegalese Agricultural Research Institute (ISRA).
In the past few years questions have been raised about the effectiveness and
intervention roles of the technical and financial agencies responsible for
input supply, marketing and agricultural credit. On the whole, the agencies
operated effectively in the early stages of execution of modest development
programs, but further expansion and diversification of their activities may
have been too rapid, thereby severely over-taxing the technical skills and
managerial talents of their staff. In addition, constant governmental pres-
sure for job creation led to severe overstaffing and growing inefficiencies.
Initially funded by external aid, rural agencies had to rely increasingly on
domestic resources for counterpart funds, and to meet operating and mainte-
nance costs of completed infrastructure works. Understandably, the deteriora-
tion of Government's financial position over recent years has had negative
effects on the quality of the agencies' performance, as timely availability of
adequate financial resources was not always assured.
32.       ISRA is responsible for all horticultural, agricultural (including
on-farm post-harvest technology), livestock, forestry and oceanographic
research, and is directly responsible to the State Secretariat for Scientific
and Technical Research (SERST), which itself is responsible to the Ministry of
Higher Education. ISRA has a Managing Director and a Board of Governors,
whose President is appointed by the Prime Minister. Two committees assist the
Managing Director in his task: the Steering Committee, which is concerned
with financial and administrative supervision; and the Scientific and Technical
Committee, which oversees the plans and progress of ISRA's research operations.
Currently, ISRA's seven scientific departments are organized by discipline.
Its present management staff is too small to supervise adequately an expanded
and reoriented national research system. Budgeted agricultural research
expenditures in Senegal totaled about CFAF 4.39 billion (US$16.3 million) in
1979/80 to which Senegal contributed about CFAF 1.32 billion (US$4.9 million).
France has financed most of the agricultural research work in Senegal by
providing experts, but has gradually been reducing its share of capital and
operating costs.



C.   Agricultural Research
33.       Agricultural research in Senebal has been structured alonb aisci-
plinary lines, and has been centralized on one station (Bambey) in an area of
limited production potential. The proposed project woula focus on proauction
systems research and is designed to tackle four main issues in the sector.
First, past research has concentrated on grounanuts and cereal production from
rainfed agriculture. There is therefore virtually no research Knowleuge of
production from irrigated agriculture in the country, even thougn the oDJec-
tives of increasing home grown food and reducing food imports would depend
increasingly on developing Senegal's irrigation potential. Future strate6y
then would involve new research efforts on problems of irri6ated proauction,
as well as suitable farming systems under irrigation. Second, agricultural
research has always been concentrated at one main station (Bambey) in a lower
rainfall area (700 mm). Through decentralization of research proposed uncer
the project efforts would spread to areas witn higher rainfall and therefore
higher production potential. Third, output from rainfed farming is sta6nating.
The issue is the need to define improvements in farming systems that take into
account farmer constraints and the farmers capacity to adopt new packa6es.
Without research it may be difficult to have any new message to extend in the
next decade. Fourth, diseases and insect attacks are beginning to be serious
problems in agricultural production and researchers should work on these
problems as soon as they develop so as to avoid possible catastrophes.
D.   The Bank Group's Role in the Sector
34.       Total Bank Group lending for a6ricultural and rural development
amounts to US$94.6 aillion for 14 operations as follows: three projects for
engineering and construction of river polders and large irrigation perimeters
in the Senegal River Delta; two projects for development of rice cultivation
in the southern Casamance region; two programs for resettlement of farm
families in the underpopulated Eastern Senegal region; an agricultural develop-
ment project for crop improvement and diversification in the Southern Groundnut
Basin; two operations to establish and implement all agricultural credit
program; an emergency drought relief program; a livestock development project,
a project supporting several types of small rural operations in productive
activities; and a national project for reafforestation and natural forest
management. The proposed project would represent a major effort in interna-
tional cooperation for the benefit of agricultural research development.
Until now, Bank Group projects and those of other donors, have incluaed
increasingly larger components for applied research to fill identified 6aps.
However, this approach served largely as a stop-gap measure and did not
address the problem of coordinating a number of inciividual efforts. The
proposed project represents the first phase of an integrated, long-term
research program for agricultural development in Senegal. -
35.       An essential element of the Structural Adjustment Loan and Credit
(SAL), approved in December 1980, was the provision that counterpart funas
would be used principally in the agricultural sector for reorganization of
the regional rural development agencies. These counterpart funds were to
be allocated to those agencies that established agreements (program contracts)



- 12 -
with the Government, relating, inter alia, to the medium-term objectives of
the enterprise, its operational program including a staffing and investment
plan, its annual budget and medium-term projections of operating and capital
expenditures, and to the Government's financial obligations to support this
program. Under SAL, the Government would consult with the Bank/IDA on policies
affecting the agricultural sector, as discussed in the Economic Policy State-
ment attached to the letter from Mr. Abdou Diouf to the President of the Bank,
dated October 31, 1980. 1/
36.       The failure of this year s groundnut crop (see para. 20), however,
has forced Government to concentrate on short-term financial problems rather
than on the longer-term policy measures advocated under SAL. Recently,
though, the Prime Minister's Office has organized a study group comprising
representatives of relevant ministries and agencies in the agricultural
sector, to study agricultural credit reform and other sector policies. The
Bank participates, as an observer, at these meetings and will review policy
proposals by Government as they become available. Though the proposed Agri-
cultural Research Project would be administered exclusively by ISRA, a well-
organized and efficient research institute, the efficient performance of the
regional development agencies is also important in the longer term for the
rapid dissemination of benefits from the improvement of research. - Since
results from existing projects have not always been as good as anticipated,
future investments in follow-up projects would include appropriate measures
to improve sector performance. Investment opportunities will also be explored
in livestock, forestry and fishing, particularly where the Bank has a contribu-
tion to make by way of new technology and/or improved institutions.
37.       Project Performance Audit Reports (PPARsJ have been issued for the
first Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 584-SE and Credit 140-SE), the first
Casamance Rice Project (Credit 252-SE), the Terres Neuves I Resettlement
Project (Credit 254-SE), the Drought Relief Project (Credit 446-SE), and the
River Polders Project (Credit 350-SE). Execution and expected returns from
these projects have been generally satisfactory, but the PPARs did identify
some problems as follows: (i) the quality of engineering design and super-
vision of construction of project works; (ii) marketing, unremunerative
prices, and input distribution; and (iii) the need to investigate more
thoroughly the social aspects involved in project planning and execution.
While these lessons are not generally relevant to the proposed research
project, particular attention has been paid during preparation and appraisal
to measures to ensure sound engineering preparation and supervision of con-
struction works.
1/   See Annex IV to SAL President's Report, No. P-2869a-SE.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
A.   Project Origin and Background
38.       In early 1978, the Government requested international assistance in
preparing a Master Plan to define a strategy for improving the national agri-
cultural research system, and for strengthening the generation and transfer
of agricultural technology. This assistance was provided by several Bank
preparation missions, and by a team of experts from the International Agricul-
tural Development Service (IADS), a US-based agency funded by the Rockefeller
Foundation, who worked in close cooperation with ISRA. The IADS services were
financed under the ongoing Sine Saloum Agricultural Development Project
(Credit 549-SE) following agreement between the Government and the Association.
39.       Recommendations put forward in the Master Plan fo- addressing the
most serious problems in agricultural research in Senegal (see para. 33) were
reviewed by Government and IDA in January/February 1979 and found acceptable.
ISRA then prepared more detailed proposals for a first-phase implementation of
the Master Plan, and Bank assistance was requested to plan a full-scale
research project. In March 1979, the Government requested IADS to review and
evaluate the ISRA proposals, and to complete the final project preparation
report. The Association approved Project Preparation Facility advances
totalling US$1 million to help finance IADS' services, architectural and
engineering designs for research station buildings and land development, and
preparation of tender documents, and evaluation of bids; IADS presented its
final report in August 1979, and the project was appraised (jointly by IDA and
expert staff from the French Ministry of Cooperation) in November/December
1979. In September 1980, the Government arranged a full co-donor meeting in
Dakar, during which agreement was reached on the content and timing of their
respective technical and financial participation in the project (para. 56) and
a Consultative group on Agricultural Research in Senegal was formed (see para.
59). Credit negotiations were held in Washington in early March 1981, with a
Senegalese delegation led by the Minister of Planning.
B.   Project Objectives and Description
40.       Following the recommendation of the Master Plan, the proposed
project would represent the six-year first phase of a long-term program to
strengthen agricultural research capability in Senegal, and to improve the
relevance and impact of that research. The proposed broadening of the research
program and introduction of production systems research affords important
possibilities for a high pay-off. Under the new approach, research would be
practical and problem-oriented, and recommendations would be directly usable
by extension services, leading to increased production and higher farmer
adoption rates. This first-phase effort would be limited to the agriculture
and livestock subsectors, and within these, to priority foodgrain and cash
crop commodities, and priority regions for improved farming systems.
41.       To achieve these objectives, the project would:



- 14 -
(i) introduce mixed agriculture/livestock production systems research
programs in five selected priority regions;
(ii) establish nationally-coordinated multi-disciplinary crop research
programs for six commodities: groundnuts, rice, millet, sorghum,
maize, and cowpeas;
(iii) establish long-term manpower planning and training for professional
and technical staff, and improve personnel management policies and
procedures;
(iv) strengthen capabilities for evaluation and application of new
technology, and provide more effective linkages with extension;
(v) strengthen linkages with external technical assistance organiza-
tions, including the international agricultural research centers;
and
(vi) reorganize and strengthen the operations of ISRA through introduc-
tion of a cost accounting system and effective budgetary planning.
C.   Detailed Features of the Project
42.       Production Systems Research Programs.  Production systems research
would be guided by farmer constraints identified in the field and subsequently
quantified to ascertain that further research to eliminate or limit the con-
straint would be justified. Each systems research program would therefore
consist at any given time of three components: (i) identification and quantifi-
cation of technical, economic, and social constraints through the study of
existing production systems; (ii) carrying out research on farmers fields and
stations, directed towards solving these constraints; and (iii) testing the
solutions on farmers' fields. Problems specific to each region have been
identified and an appropriate research program has been designed for that
region. Research in the Senegal River Valley would focus on irrigated farming;
high priority would be given to researching cultivation of rice in combination
with other crops and with animal production. Research in the Sylvo-pastoral
Zone would concentrate on improving the traditional enterprise of livestock
production, with emphasis on the productivity of rangeland. The principal
production problems are low reproduction rates, high mortality in the new
born, and slow growth and maturation. In the Sine Saloum Region, the research
team would attempt to introduce improvements in the present system of animal
production, protection of crops and livestock from insects and diseases, and
more effective techniques of inter-cropping, fertilizer research, on-farm
post-harvest technology, and seed storage. Systems research in the Upper
Casamance would focus on problems of livestock development, and in this region
of good agricultural potential, on possibilities for effective integration of
crop/livestock systems. The techniques for rice production in the Lower
Casamance region are strikingly different from those in the Senegal River
Valley. The systems research team would concentrate on the problems of rice
production under varying conditions: mangrove swamp, as irrigated paddy, and
as an upland crop. The team would also work on diversified small-scale
agriculture where livestock (especially pigs and poultry) may have special
importance.



- 15 -
43.       Commodity Research Programs.  These would primarily consist of
multidisciplinary breeding programs to identify high-yielding, good quality,
drought resistant varieties of mnillet, sorghum, maize, rice, cowpea and
groundnuts, with a strong emphasis on disease and insect resistance, and
moderate fertilizer requirements.  Research affecting storage and processing
of cereals, and consumer concerns, would be carried out in cooperation
with the Food Technology Institute (ITA).
44.       Support Services.  Under the project, all existing research stations
and central laboratories would be regrouped into a single Support Services
Department strengthened with: (i) a Manpower Development and Training Unit to
identify, recruit, train, and post Senegalese staff necessary for the program;
(ii) a Technical Support Unit to act as intermediary between ISRA and the
project architects, to be responsible for procurement, and to oversee contract
arrangements, supervision and maintenance of all physical facilities; (iii) a
Documentation and Publication Unit responsible for coordination and publishing
of all ISRA's scientific, technical, and annual reports and publications; and
(iv) a Data Processing and Statistics Unit which would handle the design of
complex experiments and necessary mathematical models.
45.       Strengthening of ISRA Headquarters.  The project provides for
strengthening of ISRA Headquarters' organization through establishment of
(i) a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit within six months after the start of
the project, responsible for planning and management of all research programs,
including undertaking of annual reviews, and preparation of progress reports
and the Project Completion Report (Section 2.05 of the draft Project Agree-
ment); (ii) an Internal Auditing and Budgetary Control Unit responsible for
introducing and managing an effective cost accounting system that would allow
budgeting and financial control for each research program; and (iii) a Macro
Economics Unit whose responsibilities would include necessary research on
agricultural policy, pricing, marketing, and trade.
46.       Staffing.  Of all the technical and administrative personnel to be
employed under the project, 17 would be considered key staff, including ISRA's
Managing Director (Project Manager); the heads of Support Services and Head-
quarters organization units (paras. 44-45); and the heads of production
systems and commodity research (para. 42-43). To assure the necessary staff
continuity during the early years of project implementation, ISRA would
appoint key staff acceptable to IDA for a period of at least three years
(Sections 2.02 and 2.04 of draft Project Agreement).
47.       The Senegalese Managing Director of ISRA has been in post for about
a year, and is performing satisfactorily. However, for at least nine of the
seventeen key staff positions, Senegalese candidates would probably not be
available; six of these expert staff would be provided by French technical
assistance, one by USAID, and two recruited internationally. Appointment of
the following key staff would be a condition of Credit effectiveness: the
Chief of the Internal Auditing and Budgetary Control Unit; the Senior Research
Planning and Evaluation Advisor; the Department Heads for Commodity Research,
Production Systems Research, and Support Services; the Architect/Planner as
Chief of the Technical Support Unit and the Project Coordinator (Section 5.01



- 16 -
(b) of draft Development Credit Agreement). ISRA at present employs about 600
staff, too many of whom are in auxiliary and support functions; therefore, no
further recruitment of such staff is envisaged under the Project and vacancies
would in principle be filled gradually through internal transfer only. Total
staff would increase to about 700 by PY6, mainly as a result of an increase in
specialized research staff, including senior and junior technicians.
48.       Training.  The project provides for fellowships (48 to the M.Sc.
level, and 15 to the Ph.D. level) to increase the number of Senegalese
research staff and gradually reduce dependence on expatriate personnel.
Candidates would undergo their overseas training at UJniversities and agricul-
tural research centers which offer coursework and practical experience in
conditions similar to those in Senegal. The project also makes provision for
periodic professional development workshops, seminars, and conferences, both
in Senegal and overseas. Additionally, about 20 short-term management train-
ing fellowships would be available for senior administrative staff. Training
needs for all levels of personnel would be reviewed annually by ISRA Manage-
ment, the Scientific and Technical Committee of ISRA-s Board of Governors, and
the recently established Consultative Group on Agricultural Research in
Senegal (para. 59). (Section 3.03 of draft Development Credit Agreement and
Section 3.05 of draft Project Agreement).
49.       Visiting Scientists.  The project would provide for 120 man-months
of short-term consultancies by visiting scientists recruited internationally
in agreement with and under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. Of these,
about 30 man-months by a total of four scientists would be for assistance to
the Scientific and Technical Committee of ISRA-s Board of Governors, and about
90 for specialized consultancies as requested by research teams, assistance in
procurement arrangements, and preparation of a possible second-phase project.
(Section 2.03 of draft Project Agreement).
50.       Research Station Development and Civil Works.  The civil works
program consists of rehabilitation of existing buildings on ISRA-s six research
stations, and includes new construction of about 106 housing units; 6,000 m2
of offices, laboratories and farm buildings; 5,400 m2 of cattle and sheep
pens; a 100 ha experimental irrigation perimeter at Fanaye; and a Documentation
and Publication Center at the future site of ISRA-s headquarters at St. Louis.
In the event of the transfer of headquarters to St. Louis, ISRA would maintain
a permanent liaison office at Dakar (Section 3.02 of draft Project Agreement).
Government public utility agencies would extend service to project sites where
needed (Section 3.04 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
D. Project Costs and Financing
51.       Total project costs (reflecting ongoing and incremental research
activities, and excluding local taxes and import duties from which the project
would be exempt) are estimated at US$106.1 million equivalent, with foreign
costs of about US$55 million (about 52 percent). Base cost estimates are in
January 1981 prices. Physical contingencies have been applied at 10 percent
for all capital and operating costs and local costs (except for local staff
costs that are calculated to increase at 7 percent). Price contingencies have



- 17 -
been applied to foreign costs as follows: 1981, 9 percent; 1982, 8.5 percent;
1983-85, 7.5 percent; and 1986, 6 percent; expected price increases total
about 28 percent of project costs. The proposed project has been appraised on
the basis of aggregate costs, including the continuation of ongoing foreign
assistance and associated government expenditures, to emphasize that IDA's
lending, although mainly used for infrastructure, serves to support entire
research programs. The incremental costs of the project are US$34.7 million,
entirely financed by external donors; Government participation in aggregate
project costs would decrease slightly by US$1.8 million, mainly through
reductions in auxiliary staff and discontinuation of non-operational research.
52.       The proposed IDA Credit of US$19.5 million would finance about 70
percent of the cost of all project civil works, the services of an inter-
nationally recruited architect/planner, and required annual audits of ISRA.
France would continue its funding (in the form of grants and technical assis-
tance) at the present annual level, totalling US$35.3 million over the project
period. USAID would contribute a total of US$12.8 million for four ongoing
and planned operations. No withdrawals from the IDA Credit for expenditures
for civil works would take place at Fanaye and Richard Toll until the USAID
grant for the OMVS Agricultural Research Project would be effective (para. 3.b
of Schedule 1, of the draft Development Credit Agreement). CILSS would
provide a US$3.5 million grant for a plant protection project as part of a
larger regional operation financed mainly by USAID, with FAO as executing
agency. UNIFSTD would provide US$1.0 million for construction of the Documen-
tation and Publications Center and some of its operating costs, as well as 13
management training fellowships and about 7 man-months of independent consul-
ting services to strengthen ISRA-s Scientific and Technical Committee; IDA
would act as Cooperating Agency for the UNIFSTD grant. Two international
research centers (WARDA and ICRISAT) would continue to provide services of
expatriate research staff valued at about US$1.0 million. A condition of
effectiveness of the proposed IDA Credit would be the availability of funding
from all external sources for agreed research programs (Section 5.01(e) of
draft Development Credit Agreement).
53.       Government would contribute US$32.9 million equivalent to finance
all local staff, initial project expenses, 20 percent of research supplies,
10 percent of all civil works, and about 50 percent of total operating costs.
Government would make the necessary annual budget allocations to meet its
contribution, and funding for the project would be given priority over ISRA's
other activities (Section 3.01 (c) of draft Development Credit Agreement).
The Government has agreed to furnish the Association with a financing plan
satisfactory to IDA for ISRA's operations up to December 31, 1984, as a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed IDA Credit (Section 5.01 (f) of
draft Development Credit Agreement and Section 2.04 of draft Project Agree-
ment). The proposed participation by the Government would involve a small
decrease (about 5 percent) over its present cash outlay for research activi-
ties. There would however be a shift from its financing of operating costs to
personnel expenditures for Senegalese researchers returning from training. As
a result of improved management achieved with less support staff, total
operating costs would in fact decrease compared to the situation without the
proposed project.



- 18 -
54.       Cash availability is a major factor influencing the pace of project
implementation and consequently the rate of IDA credit disbursement. During
negotiations agreement was reached that ISRA would open a project account
with an initial Government deposit of CFAF 30 million (US$111,100), which
would serve as a revolving fund (caisse d'avance) to finance project expendi-
tures. This fund would be replenished by the Government promptly upon presen-
tation by ISRA of documentary evidence that payments from the fund have been
used for the carrying out of the project. Opening of the revolving fund with
the initial deposit by Government would be conditions of effectiveness of the
IDA credit (Sections 3.01 and 5.01(d)) of draft Development Credit Agreement).
E.   Procurement and Disbursements
55.       Procurement of civil works to be financed by the IDA Credit
(US$10.3 million) would be through international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Because of the relatively small size
of individual contracts for scattered jobs, bidding documents would provide
alternative tendering for lots or for general contracts. Contracts for civil
works estimated to cost less than US$100,000 may be awarded following local
competitive bidding, provided that the aggregate cost of such contracts does
not exceed US$1 million. Preparation of architectural designs and bidding
documents, and supervision of works (US$1.7 million) is being undertaken by
architects selected in agreement with IDA and financed under the PPF. Inter-
nationally recruited technical assistance to be financed by IDA (US$4.4
million), independent auditors (US$0.7 million), and training fellowships
(US$0.4 million) would be selected following procedures acceptable to IDA
(Schedule 1 of draft Project Agreement). Local competitive bidding for con-
tracts up to US$100,000 each would be allowed for vehicles and equipment
(estimated cost US$0.6 million), and small farm equipment and research supplies
(estimated cost US$1.4 million). Contracts for goods estimated to cost less
than US$30,000 may be procured on the basis of price quotations of at least
three suppliers.
56.       Proceeds from the proposed IDA Credit would be disbursed as
follows:
(i) civil works, 86 percent of total expenditures (US$9.3 million);
(ii) vehicles and equipment, 100 percent of foreign expenditure and 90
percent of local expenditures (US$0.5 million);
(iii) small farm equipment and research supplies, 100 percent of foreign
expenditures and 90 percent of local expenditures (US$1.3 million);
(vi) expatriate staff, auditors and architects- fees,-100 percent of
total expenditures (US$4.2 million);
(v) training, 100 percent of expenditures (US$0.3 million);
(vi) refunding of the Project Preparation Advance (US$1.0 million).
An amount of US$2.9 million would be unallocated.



- 19 -
F.   Accounts and Audit
57.       ISRA's current accounting and budgetary system would be reviewea
before end-1981 by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The auditor would
also assist the Internal Auditing and Budget Control Unit in preparing a
proposal for a cost accounting system by research program and by organizational
unit.  Such proposal would be furnished to ISRA's Steering Committee and the
Consultative Group for exchange of views, and separately to IDA for its
agreement by M4arch 31, 1982.  Following such a8reement, ISRA would subwit the
proposal to its Board of Governors for approval, upon which IS&A would start
implementation of the approved proposal by July 1, 1982.  All project accounts
and financial statements would be audited annually by the inaependent auditors.
Selection of auditors would be a condition of Credit effectiveness (Section
5.01 (c) of draft Development Credit Agreement). The audit report (includin6
a statement on the use of IDA funds) would be submitted to IDA for review
within six months of the end of ISRA's fiscal year (Sections 2.03 (c) and 4.02
of draft Project Agreement).
G.   Organization and Management
58.       The General Manager of ISRA would have overall responsibility for
project implementation. He would be assisted by two board of Governors
Committees: (a) the Scientific and Technical Committee, and (b) the Steerin6
Committee. His office would further be strengthened by the establishment ot
three staff units: (a) the Internal Auditing and Bud8etary Control Unit, (b)
the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, and (c) the Macro-Economics Unit. Under
the project, he would delegate most of the daily management to the three
Department Heads for: (a) Commodity Research, (b) Production Systems Research,
and (c) Support Services. To assist the two Research Department Heads in
their task, two staff units would be established:  (a) the Comuodity Research
Staff Unit; and (b) the Central Systems Analysis Group. Support Research
would be managed by the Production Systems Research Department. All research
stations, central laboratories and other support services would be managed by
the Head of the Support Services Department. Publication of an official
decree establishing the reorganized ISRA administrative structure would be
a condition of effectiveness (Section 2.02 of draft Project Agreement and
Section 5.01(a) of draft Development Credit Agreement).  Once a year, ISRA
would review with the newly established Consultative Group on a6ricuitural
Research in Senegal (see para. 59 below) and IDA its new organizational struc-
ture and management effectiveness and introduce appropriate changes in struc-
ture, and in procedures and techniques, as required (Section 3.02 of draft
Development Credit Agreement and Section 2.09 of draft Project Agreement).
59.       Research Programming and Coordination.  Research programs and
budgets would be reviewed internally during annual workshops for ISRA
research staff, to be organized and guided by the Senior Research Planning
and Evaluation Advisor recruited under the project. Subsequently, these
programs and budgets would have to be approved by ISKRAs Scientific and
Technical Committee, by its Board of Governors, then by IDA. The review
process would be planned to coincide with meetings of the Consultative
Group which is an informal forum for all donors to a6ree on research



- 20 -
concepts, program design and implementation, and their financial support to
Senegal (Sections 3.02 and 3.03 of draft Development Credit Agreement, and
Section 2.09, 3.03 and 3.04 of draft Project Agreement).
60.       Assurances have been provided that:  (a) ISRA's General Manager would
introduce: (i) by December 31, 1981, a project reporting system including
quarterly progress reports and annual scientific reports, and (ii) within six
months of signing of the Credit and Project Agreements, Project monitoring and
evaluation systems; both systems to be proposed by ISRA-s management and
reviewed by IDA; (b) ISRA management would prepare and forward not less than
four months prior to the end of ISRA's fiscal year its annual work program and
budget, after internal and external review, to IDA for approval; and (c) ISRA
would, within six months of the Closing Date of the proposed credit, prepare a
project completion report (Sections 2.05 and 2.08 of draft Project Agreement).
H.   Project Benefits and Risks
61.       It is difficult to calculate ex ante economic rates of return for
agricultural research programs, and no attempt has been made to do so for
the proposed project. However, ex post calculations for such projects are
normally quite high; in virtually all cases where studies have been completed,
estimated rates of return have been higher than the opportunity cost of
capital, and higher also than the rates of return estimated for most develop-
ment projects in those countries. Thus some crop research programs in Latin
America and Asia have been evaluated with returns ranging between 35 percent
and 102 percent; applied research in LDCs has shown an average rate of 42
percent, and scientific research, 60 percent. Attainment of high rates of
return depends on the focus of research and careful monitoring and evaluation,
as well as on reasonable costs for operation and maintenance. The proposed
project has been designed to respond precisely to these kinds of concerns.
One important additional project benefit is that any new breakthroughs in
irrigated or rainfed agriculture and livestock production would have wide
application in other parts of the Sahel Region.
62.       Several factors may limit success of the project and delay the
availability of research results. These include: segmentation of the agreed
program which could result if research interests of the several co-donors do
not always coincide; the possibility that ISRA may be slower in adopting a
complete reorganization than now expected; lack of sufficiently trained local
staff and the time-lag in their training, and possible unavailability of
trained French-speaking expatriate personnel in all required disciplines; the
possibility that the linkage between research, extension, and agricultural
activity may not be fully developed; and more generally, the risk that in
Senegal's current difficult budgetary situation, Government may be unable to
fulfill even its current obligations in financing research activities.
63.       Appropriate measures have been taken or planned to reduce project
risks to a minimum. Co-donors have met and agreed formally on the content
and timing of their technical and financial participation. The re-organiza-
tion of ISRA and successful re-orientation of the national research approach



- 21 -
depends on a positive attitude by Senegalese technical personnel to the
proposed changes. Government and the management of ISRA are fully committed
to the new systems approach, but the project makes further provision for
a series of workshops to help improve understanding among research staff of
the problem-oriented approach, and to make the necessary adjustment more
supportable. Government has already identified potential candidates for
advanced training. The effective linkage between research and extension
would be assured by Subject Matter Specialists whose qualifications would be
acceptable to IDA and who would be seconded to the regional rural development
agencies; these specialists would train extension staff, who would themselves
report on farmers' problems in the field (Section 2.04 of draft Project
Agreement). An important element of the entire program would be the proposed
work of the Consultative Group, and the open annual review between Government
and co-donors (Section 3.02 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Senegal and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Asso-
ciation and ISRA, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association,
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
65.       Features of special interest in the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment and the draft Project Agreement are referred to in Section III of Annex
III. Special conditions of Credit effectiveness are: (i) official publica-
tion of a modification acceptable to IDA of the decree establishing ISRA's
administrative structure; (ii) employment of principal Department Heads and
key project staff in agreement with IDA; (iii) appointment of independent
auditors acceptable to IDA; (iv) opening of Project Account with initial
deposit by Government; (v) evidence of availability of financing from all
co-donors; and (vi) submission of a financing plan satisfactory to IDA for
ISRA's research staff and operating cost expenditures to December 31, 1984.
(Section 5.01 of draft Development Credit Agreement).  A special condition of
Credit disbursement is that no withdrawals can be made for expenditures for
civil works at Fanaye and Richard Toll until the USAID grant for the OMVS
Agricultural Research Project is effective (part 3(b), Schedule 1 of draft
Development Credit Agreement).
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 22 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
August19 , 1981



- 23 -                                    Annex I
Page I
TABLE 3A
SENEGAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SENEGAL                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AKEA (THUUSAND SU. KM.)                                                        - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)- 
ruTAL            196.7                                 MOST RELENT          MIDDLE INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      1.0               1960  jb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
CNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  18U.0       240.0     430.0                 794.2                   1616.2
LNLK6Y WNbUMPIIUN PEE CAPITA
(KILOGKAMS OF CUAL EQUIVALENT)      IU9.9       12U.0     266.4                 707.5                   1324.1
POPULATIoN ANU VITAL SIATISTICS
PUPULAIION, MID-YEA"  (THOUSANUS)  3435.0      4385.0    5518.0
UdBAN PoPULATIUN (PEKCENT UF TOTAL) 22.6         23.7      25.2                  27.7                     64.2
PUPULATIUN PROJECTIUNS
PUPULAIIUN IN YEAK 2000 (MILLIUNS)                        9.7
STATIONARY PUPULATION (MILLIUNS)                         30.0
YEAR STATIUNARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2135
PUPULAIIUN DENSITY
PEK Sq. KlH.                       17.5        22.3      28.1                  55.0                     34.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      43.0        55.0      66.4                 130.7                     94.5
PUPULATIUN AGE SIRUCTURE (PERCENT)
U-14 YES.                          42.7        43.9      44.6                  46.0                     40.7
15-64 YES.                          54.3        53.2      52.6                  51.2                     55.3
o5 YKS. AND ABOVE                    3.0         2.9       2.8                   2.8                      4.0
PUPULATION GKoWTH KATE (PERCENT)
TOrAL                               2.2         2.4       2.6                   2.8                      2.4
URBAN                               2.7         2.9       3.2                   5.1                      3.7
ChUDE BI1TH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      47.7        46.8      47.8                  46.9                     31.4
CRUDE UEATH RAIE (PER THOUSAND)      26.1        23.1      21.4                  15.8                      8.4
ROSS REPRODUCIIUN RATE                3.2         3.2        3.2                  3.2                      2.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTOKS, ANNUAL (THUUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT UF MAKRIED WUMEN)    ..           ..
FOOD ANDO NUTRLITIuN
INaEX UF FUUO PRODUCTION
PEK CAPITA (1969-71-100)          125.0        83.0      85.0                  89.9                    108.3
PER CAPITA SUPYLY OF
LALORIES (PERCENT UF
IEQUIREHENIS)                    92.0        95.0      95.0                  92.3                    107.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           62.0        64.0      64.0                  52.8                     65.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        19.0        20.0       19.0                 16.1                     34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY 3         40.6        34.7      31.3                  20.2                      7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    37.5         40.4      43.0                  50.8                     64.1
INFANT MOITALITY RATE (PER
THUUSAND)                              ..          ..        ..                    ..                     70.9
ACCESS TU SAFE WATER (PERCENT UF
PUPULATION)
rOTAL                                ..          ..      37.0                  27.4                     65.7
URBAN                                ..          ..      68.0                  74.3                     79.7
KURAL                                ..          ..      23.0                  12.6                     43.9
ACCESS TO EXCKETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
UF PUPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          ..         ..                   ..                     59.9
URAN                                 ..          ..         ..                   ..                     75.7
iURAL                                ..          ..         ..                   ..                     30.4
PUPULAIIUN PER PHYSIClAN          24535.7     16673.0   15709.6               13844.1                   1728.2
POPULAIIUN PEiR NURSING PERSON     4110.01c    2683.6    1660.1                2898.6                   1288.2
PUPULATlON PER HOSPITAL BED
TuTAL                             840.0       812.2     90U.5                1028.4                    471.2
URBAN                             281.0       356.1     421.8                 423.0                    558.0
RURAL                            2U01.0      1384.2         ..               3543.2
ADbIlSSIUNS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        22.2      26.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEiHOLD
TUTAL                                ..          ..
URBAN                                ..          ..        7.6
KURAL                                ..          ..       6.0
AVERAGE NUHBER UF PERSONS PER ROUM
TOTAL                               1.5          ..
URBAN                                ..          ..
RURAL                                ..          ..
ACCESS TU ELECIKICITY (PERCENT
UF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..          ..
URBAN                                ..          ..
RURAL                                ..          ..



- 24 -
Annex I
TABLE 3A                                           Page
SENEGAL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SENEGAL                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT         MIDDLE INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 27.0        33.0      41.0                  73.7                    101.7
MALE                 36.0         47.0      50.0                  96.8                    103.0
FEMALE               17.0         30.0      32.0                  79.0                    101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  3.0         9.0       10.0                 16.2                     35.3
M4ALE                 4.0         13.0      14.0                  25.3                     34.9
FEMALE                2.0          5.0       6.0                  14.8                     35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY) 23.0           9.0       10.0                  5.3                     30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              ..        45.0      42.0                  36.2                     29.6
SECONDARY                          34.0        29.0      22.0                  23.6                     15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         5.6/d      10.0       10.0                   *-                     80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          6.0         8.7       9.2                  32.3                     42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         36.4        61.1       56.2                 69.0                    215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         0.3       0.4                   8.0                     89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   6.0         4.6        4.9                 20.2                     62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..           ..        0.7                  0.7                      3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1590.3      1911.8    2268.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   39.5        39.0      38.4                  36.7                     22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              83.6        80.0       76.4                 56.6                     35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  5.4         7.0       9.6                  17.5                     23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                46.3        43.6       41.1                 37.2                     31.8
MALE                                 56.3        53.7       51.1                 47.1                     49.0
FEMALE                               36.4        33.7      31.3                  27.5                     14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0         1.1        1.2                  1.3                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   36.8/e         ..
HIGhEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  62.5/e         ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    32            ..2..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    9.47/         ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..                381.2
RURAL                                ..          ..      82.0                 156.2                    187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..      194.0                334.3                    513.9
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..                137.6                    362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..
RURAL                                ..          ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1964;  /d African population only;  /e Population.
May, 1981



- 25 -
OtElNTCCttS CF  ni.CaL lt,a~TOdyl
jate:  Alathagh she data are  d           fant   --- Ears  generally  bdged alIoI        atrettaeadciad,a  sol   lcI   oe ,,,I                             the. tan ...I b..n...
natnaii.ytinPar. i bec fs at te tact af atandard-d dna martyrs and cotet  ace d by daI Iron   cntia  in colIc: tan   ale data   Tao data a    none-
theless,. aes.a  an  dean..ahb  urde.-  ntngatd,indttt- nsda                  -d aharartr        --acanat  eny- dCft,-roan  b-n-eeenn.nsn_
Thecleer   grops  re  itthe came nntary grup ad the antidd not -antyr ad (2ll                         a...antY gsay nb  aaeahar big her aner ge ana            ha-  tar, -a-aty   grn
nt  heacieaonatr   fenet tr  'Caitl rrpne   llinytnns"grapeer  ''Middle  I.nse   arth hlri-a  and Caddie Last" ranbasn b-aaa   at a-r-g-
mejrti  of thI      dttein a geray ha. data  fry-thus  -nd--aur   tImoe etI                -nrg-     a     anyr  anhe.adnsat  a:yaat'raalaaht   :dat
adaneunIte., narr   atbe surmisedin 1otaing aunenge-  ot an  ltd  ay-  t -0a                                 h-r nt  a-s-got  -r  nl   aa  an                          -
Total   Tota  suta err    auyen   ln   ae  and inlsndabrealn, and natal  dyn dad by nha.,rrnrty-tnoanhr   *t l:ap-a anb-a
Asrnanana     nnenten5  groatarl  ra  as-d t-ePorasi   an persanetly                              enalahlr so pabll Icadyrlt   genera  any uy-enel ln   haay 5 1 Ind i-
by as tOaS .r.    ayia ..Ih,_   E-atrbeirnaI  ynon-da-  yni-nAsllaors--
ItP PER Cr211A  tiff) - GNP per rapite earisatee An  -n-nr.  -aker ynian, n--                               tiai arm        I norot  -nn ldad    kr-I inept-n , ta-renen      1,sn lad  lusith
""Ia'd bY cAre anoeIon rethna  aa World lane Anlar f19dI-79 b-siri, i960,                                tad uee-a  cener  rat per........nly trailed  by a phpsiai   (nat ry a
_91,ad   I7 data                                                                                       rd iaaau..a..... .onrs,_      anta        Ito)ahn  oie   ic-pa _ru
CNERGY CON ICFTIb9 PItRCAPITa - ean s.I oursuetiar afIacnta  erg    cr                                      "tica   purnace. aeh Ibnsytl           ld -  tldidu   . pnnipatfgnela  basyttois1,
urd  ltguatr, peralear, nataralgas sod ryd.o-  .a.me  nra geortn nl  ier-                   And rural bolyltig4I . loa    re rat..I fyaplnsle nedi rdlol  ndnnen
tris_yl in tilogna-   of coat oqatneent pun ntra               49C, 1970, usa 1979                       netea.Cprli--d loantsaic  ar  an,ladd only adscc
dana.                                                                     Idrissions yen~~~~~~~~~p-  basplnsi Bed - Tutai camber nf rdehsetnataa   di-oba--
fran h-spanr   de-acyd by rho  _abe,ofbatds.
POPULATIOC Alt VITbAL STTICiTICS
Tost Pnalt.n.  tidCee  icoaend)       aaf asly 1; y960, i970, and 1979I                 unSuNC
mIePp      p--n yroeyu  tona)f      ahof elubant   aa  npl,              I                       hAat,,ehai    aussa    grayofI danaua tuh   elsar  'itnyg  .aa....
amng   ...gir -, 196t, 197, And 1979 dna                                                          abs huc-atot  raf     nttsclnayst
PIsile   enraIast-                                                                               Anc    .::ey   afpreayyye   rot-  ItAn_  -rb-f,yyyd4a1 - A...... one-
Pupal-oar  In ea  lIft~OO  - Canreun pepaltalca  p-j-aions err bated or 1980                          bet of percent Por sure in ull-b -rh d,anI.. aua   --rplaaao-              i
tota  poalseianby e , ad san erd sloir nortaian   ald fetlayrtsdulcg,  epc try.                                            -nitgueni-aera.  .--pe         ..a..ataI..rsd
'Ilrn)rnuoas        t~:1_           ii         _, naerree   asilatsetscurys    nihr,,sis-si.s..ae-  a..n.y.. P"   ame.-
ang iyfe eres ty anbith icyr-sto   nab  conry'c  arn nayn-  i-ance                                dneenu....        tcf   fype-ear  fiariani.  ce-                 ra,un1an 
t   -e,sdtemeia   -rcsec    ibil-rag at 77.) veers.  The par-                                   lasnernan-a  dreilangtsa-h clrnnicytnI  a.: 1in-g q_attera-a
enesno.e..iyrasea   haye thre  tenets  -sncing dry-itt In                                       ufntl   san   t-ae  ad   nacpra-t-ry.
EIsb cranny ic eber ...sigrer nc ni these sire tobnnatof taczisir                              EDCCATIOt
and fIrti laty trndt ftr prnjmatirn  np.rp..r                                                     Adi-actd Crirn   a  n
Saranary'y1.',ht rairro .-In     h.enarrtp d       ara  bneangrnbhIc --ian Ando  -teu1,-ylean  fert      re  c                                                     tat .aeaaicl
_aint nabssyc1.  This te a-bi-yd  only alter fentat. anrants deciter to                                pIiserpa-bac1-age  prta-inior,-nrntaarider-                  odr  aged 6-il
lhe  r            1-asntier  of utat nnt rcfrdatsi. or rar, when eah frey nyears ban adjnsced f-r calferent 1e-gthc  It Pranar  educto                                           o
al  nsc splncateilerott         reataan.ry    pptno    lcno                                    rt   hr~nanyna    dtty   ecaletry maroi_te                               rcu
e    oaac    n nba basis a1 the   t)oe.    hrnearc    trep0trr                                    an    asCri   r   ray  ahtne nIt-ufiaataaa   aa..
an the year 200C, .ad the care at dentist  fi fstill yri tetareylaa-                                Icarodany arboat   tonl mote and terele  C-Capand as eoyr, snoadar
mon  blen-l                                                                                             educsyaa  require  at trait roar yeat   naparned pteFtetnin
lccostrinsayaeoulotuuseenho    -Th. Fear ebec  -san-r-y popal--ar                            pocae   g               -oo,n -rica, ans- t       ___anrKarnaLo,  Ca--   n    cs. pah
sine has beeneI.,rerbf1od                                                                                                  1   .. asryarluC fer   nrge,yns-s-pd--ornrer  -r g.n.rnii
Puultasleca                                                                                                 sonladed2
Fee a. ta. - ttd-srarpapultairo   Per s      kar ileater (lIC  laeret-.  of                     Cratl.Ia  esenilletIpcecr  ulf_1 scntsy   -Cotua  aaiaao
only, 1960, 1970 eraI919C  dat,-pltebsrsayiey  and 2ctn                                                                                                    Intel  atdenI. entile1d in
Feprimnirs.c iAz.    aene   eroantf - Cbhildre   fl-i4 year)  .-krsing-ege fIt-                              rAsary and secrdnry Ire-1s dinided by rubtebr  of  eteone-  is IbI
tie pe.n...  edretiled fit yen-  as dnr   as.  p-entenrsr fri-d-y-arrapa-                                oAresyndigtn r lu-
tanr19g. iFy, sd1979 data                                                                         Mind iercra lly-r.t     .entenf-iteaedin                .at   cy eed erd -imI
"ra     I'loCorl "at  (terrr        ttl1 - dA ..Al g_ueh rer  at tarl mid-                           sepeerg    f Irtel adar  .pomitit- aged 19 years sad rner.
yea Ipepaisnrn fee 1950-bI, 19h0-C0i, aed 197 f-C9.
Purisnar to h Mt.t Ic--er   - arben  - arrant cerea  eases of un1bar porn-                    CrNtS~PyTtg
Lati.. tar 1950-60, 1960-7li. ed 19C0-Cr                                                             .....Fase Ia Car  fy- thrane    anlric   -Feetger tare  -osyse netar
Ir-de  mrb   Rt   pt lasd   - Aeras.I line biribh  Pen thracana of aid-tenner..,egle  r.herreght nes-                                             e e.ra.la A.(pIt  .. d~1    Il     11de amaaes  hoarser and
popalataun, inC., 1970, amd19a ira        data1 '                                                                 -lttenh-rte
meat De tmath  alo  pnathnsserdi -9Asear  d-tarntrsoso   t-nerdi. earr   ortyse  ncaiia-a.-Ala  otypo  nI ero                                                                     sta  radar
tniir:19ff  i90, td Irty            l dan .                                                    boa hst  t  gPr   tila ehooa-r odCnaataf                             a rdsdn
irts  RIFTerod it    an-Anng    ubto    mgtsatmnri   eni                                                 incdycln             in  --tnrirs and in years when egsn           Io    f radia
henanea   reodantive yeIird it she  oeirosA            rey    gc-sp-oli  tee-                    nt   a   netc,dt   y    retyscsyyo   ecraet   lc
ciit iy  nara-s,__asnally  iin-ys mage   edieg I itbn 196,97, rod 1979                                a'l" iet nart.. I.lsts  ltoenIlsiu......5.......
Fearild       11 F cir-dI'llrrnrs. rca   fth, isadm   - lus   mete  ofarer                             TVdRletiney  fear thoua...d P.a.. lt    TV                ...frr  Ion   ..aa.....t
of bintb-onseti, denlirtes an.der paeiona of estirari ferlllybpursin   yrr.           s.                erra  yhy    in P     b, car h   rni.t...enIade-  -1tnrsd-bd               rinr
Fasiiyp F Iiaotegs_ e_  fre-esa  of rarird race) -                         oferoetago  t                  innic  errunnyr   sod _asYears tha ceg_-teint n  TV sets eec in eaIttt
nue    fiotild-breesg oat fib-44 years  rh.oaer bioth-tn-rc   doniocs so                       tNyarapst Circtnta  fran rhcundrSatgn)                      -  the rh  -nati  tie-
all mried  -oe  in gam  age grnnp.                                                                    -cutsicaof  do    gtn..r.. atrtecpsa ", deface  stAyraid
pablkIiait  d-nesd pni-ecily           I. rneardr   grsoc. A_ eIs.  It is cn..ai-dcd
FIfD ANDC NUIthTlr                                                                                         tobed "diY" af t ispanancar least... itaronr Aurak.
CrAms of Food Prnddaolin  ret Cents. fi19l-CielI) - Indmaf  . rienap-tra,.aI                           Pirat_ wyrAl .  Aster dars- c F   att  Pcc  Iran-tarod  nr s          acha  nf
pcrdartrae di all good  -ardisias.,Frlrire u                    Asie.d ard f cod red                   tinkers saId da-ig9 thn  yea, ittadingadrisulets  ta asire-an  c,itemo
is er oaierdse yea  basis.  iamrditiesony-r pcimor7 goods leg., sagEee..                               end  rbitratis..
Iscread rIf _grf ubtah areedbl  cad ...ri  itrieic  te. onclor and
te  eta  _urldsdr.  Ag1e-1atc  rmnte sf sent co ryt  based 01                                     LABOt Firar
natitnee   an Peg  pera..I peloc ceight.c  1961-h5, 1970. sod 1979 dana.                            Tusi. Late  F..e.snuios   - Easr.s.o-11y amIne pr-ns..n.. 1ncld-g
Prcgit   ayyn   ceic(eresu   eanrrr  Crotspasd from                                                erccd lamer. And  -r-ploytd tan  -naldan    rsuns    laes    a
enoagy eaineleorlner  fra   capplir  eralic irn  --nic   ye  zapi1a                                      I..ia    ialta   of all ags .   O   a.a....n.at .scanaa      c
Per day   Aesilatie  seppliienrrrc   drec              p-nedar-tn. iIdnatas                          o  cryarble. 19hC,11971 asa i97  data
cners,t  -d ch.sg.s in stool,  let cplina rila                aio   ed  seeds.F.eI. fytoer .. t _-Feal  irbor fInn   as pec_reag  of tonal tabyI force
qa-eii-s are  It feud penossetilg, aid iraces..   din        eaa r    eqsic-                       grcirefean) - Laa   iabi-amn,  ateF   hasteg edd
croe  or  ear i-ro  Is. PAy b-g  -t pbycisl~i-lne  cods for-- -ntsai-                            fanigh as psc     ft5         rt -Acl labor fn--;  I9i     17  aIdi9C Idaa
itty  red brhothI . iosdre,ino     nrng     rotcmsaue  bady -eighto. er                           Isansn   fo ccI-Labnr Corns in rinig.  ..yns .tesoela. nafa_trrln
and see dlmtnibtoiar rf pupolatit, ..d alluring it penneyt frr.. ases at                            sad ele-'.ti-y, rate   And gas  . es       --oinngd   arain.  bIe  Cfn-, i960,
boae_nd -   eycI;- a9ia-tn, 1970, saC  197i dsta.                                                   I97i red 19C9 dsa..
Per rc ca cany a     _osic    ee   r  den) - P-rtear  -tan -r ad yen ne..Fmccr nra  C.nn.                                    a  -     tugi uie. rod feml   - FsntcipetI u   yr 
see supply at fuat yen dr1y.  Nfetnapply nf fed is defiaed as abane.  Rc-                           enmity  case  ar    raced asiti.                    Ane.rd Ce-le labor fra
airemeite  fec gil real tr.ies eatsblisbd by ColDA pcr-lde ftc umier                               p- -etger of atnal, carl  rid femal  popa1.lata     rf all    gas ceId        orn
aloenrof th  ger  of traI            roenper day aid d0 t faen  ais rd                              tCl   91,ad 19Cr deta.  Thes  aro breed an ILOc P-raiair    ae
pale             ofcmn,a  eh Io 10gaeelodIn         ima   rrarIls  stan-                            retiI.ttng .g.-eo .Is..rsaa   at th, poa         -sn    Id ions IA red
resoe  en  tbsr tbhenf:      bgri  ofttlpa           -ned 23 grass rf                         feu.ti esloerro   fa  natirt ..        ascI
anima  pFtat.c me an A.eeBe fry  sIn  _ai,   FrPIep..d by FAl in n,e ChlIna                       lorric CieCrdnndac   Rainhaia  nf popalaIano -rdcrt 15And 61 ard nyct
Curild none barey; 1961-6n, 1971 and 1917 deer.                                                     ty  thc  yat-l  asbn taot-
meI _srl       n  ints       Y fse t mu    ....a sad roles -_Fntir ."yPly at durd 'de-
pined ftos  mimic  and pulses in gr.eo  Pen day; 1961-65, 1970 and 197) dats                    nInniM DuyTBayayCa
Ib'ld, fates 1-te4bn         Plrraed  bper thbonsetado  - A-..'- deuths yes thr.....d 5Innnet     Pya-an  Iccosar fbyrh ncc-.h  -da kaaf-                                ayr   b   ahr
age groa  i-u  fears, tO r1lldre,l1n Irhac  age fr-p; fso .ret dec-lyytrgt-ny-                         Ii -12crrerc            .. nih-t1 can,  rre   2f0 yponnt, ard ypnc-n  40 peranna
tr-e  dos  dented  gr_  lip  tabI          19ir0, 1970 And 1979 datafh .. elmarIds.
Life Cpca ay en tirolyfesre1  -Innrg   tastier of years af ltferrTah. m   frllnsatn   eccicatas ar Inyprasb    rsrnadaey    ees
bef uP peoplet iRclt. urba,  sod1,1 -uel  rich" reatheb. lrercrsecnssi oefl-ardebie-.deb
CAte  soba  rbahwt  sca  nn-te-osf   borbsel          Ipag , er        d ser -er   yels  at             Rural rata ,tine   ponrn     ie        thtye   asan,.  -ibedr ben-F  ih ye  capita
ofb.isesesof ppitits.I  rnphr  re    pali-tncnilarm   icl  aaysy                                                                       ntn  pylasdelad   rtsbes.a
nesaoIhecassaod   im..ply t is in                 praseafe c   -Irsr  af nio hy nseh)a           -sdr r.al        t Pnane                       Xsslnra t and oasIf tot ar -abstda-r
teeter of praylo  farral, anIon. and rural: sarned bty eucreta dienne_al                                                                                ..  as   ..
len  reese  -enter by caerbneI  tylana   onh-  tIe  -d ri -alt           thi.e and stub-I                                                lnon-ysyn  anrnt     and pryn n na
d          _laln   Ienhctis   Pa_   lrin         P_do   by  tuband. as  f-hctcin  yhet
thas- queitInAnd fr,,,a rd irah caonia o-tIde..i. tenet. h
Paralatir yer Narcisa Persn- Papa.tst_n dinided biy numbeatpaing
onrafmigaaanasayatalrremadnltsene-



SENEGAL - ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET
Aetuals                 Fo.t ilates                  ..        PoetooA                                     GiStb Eaton  (75                                           7. Share   in GT
1974   1975   1976    1977    1978    1979   1980   1981   1987    1983    1984    1985   is  -    1971-75    1975-79    1979-85    1985-90                         191      17       99      1985    1999
A.  N      .ATIONAL AC.COUNTS
(to billion of 1971 ClAPS
1.  GOP                                      257      277     297      799      269     383      287     311      323     330     348      362     439 .   43             23          3.0         3 9           100.    100. 7103.0  101.3  104.8
2.  TTs.djustmoeit                              6      -0-    -9           -      1       -3      -6     -o1        T  Z0 1i1      -13     -15      -20        -           -            -           -                     -0 7      01    -43    -4 8
3.  401                                       763     275    -288      299      270     300    201       301    315       324    ,335      347     419        2 7         2 2         1.5         3 5            oo 100.0   100. 0  19.   500 5  100.0
4.  Imports  (mo.- NIl)                        89      86      105     115      113     125       99     108      110     112    -115      119      144       1.2         9.8        -0 0          3 9            3132    31 3   41.7    34 3   34.4
9.  Imports  (to.- NFS)                        68      77       95     101       73      84       69      92       96     101     106      112     147       4.7          2 2         4.9         5.4            25 9   28 0   28.8    32.3    35 1
6.  Eoports,,TT ad].                           /4      75       86     101       74       81      63      82       06      90       93      97      177       4.8         1.9            0         5 5           25.9    27 3   27.]    27.9   30 3
7.  Rceo. HU    TTY mdj.                     -1I      -1I    -19       -14      -34     -44      -36     -26      -22     -22     -22      -21     -17        -- -                           -                    7.3      4.0    14.3      6.1     4 1
a.  coosomptino                              225      243     257      266      265     298      274     288      288     296     304      313     367        1.9         3.2         3.8         3.2            91 0   884    99.3    90,2    87 4
9.  GrssCvotmo                                49       43       50      42       41      46       43      44      49       55       53      55      69       1 8          1.3         3 0         4.6            16.2    15.6    19.3    15.9    16 5
10.  M.Priat        loveotet                    20      15       18      19       14       15      16      17       18      10       18      19      23      -3.1          0.0         4 5         3 9             6.9      s.s     s o      s s     s5
11.  Poblic 1ovoteiet                           10      19       21      21       22      23       23      25       27      28       31      32      42       7.9          4.9         5.7         5.6             5.7      6 9     7 5      9 2    10.0
12.  CIbsogm.iestockt                           II       9       11       7        5        0       0       4        4       4        4       4        4       -            -           -            -             3.6      3.3     2.7   71.2        1.0
13.  Domestic  Geiogs, TT adj,                  38      32,      31      33        3        2       72     21       27      28       31      34      52       7.8       -50 0         40.0         8.9             0.9    ii 6I    0.7       9.6    12 4
6.4 N Deio..al Sevigs, TT ad).                  40      33       35      35       11        9      16      26       32      34       36      39       58       2.4      -27.7         27.7         8 3            12.1    12.0      3 I    11 2    13.8
15.  ISP (_m ms  fi m-r-t 3)                 1441    1900   19 14    1929    2012    2482    2632    3110    3521   3984   4511    51 05    9525             20.8         0.9         12.8        13.3             -        -       -        -        -
B. SE.CTOR0OCTPUT
1.  Velso eddod                  2~~~~~~57  2_77  297      299     26 9     303     287      311     323      335     34       36      49        2.          23           3 5         3.9           100.0   110.0  100.0   100.0  100.9
'2.  Ago Itoul -                               59      72       79      74       44      81       70      04       88      92      96      100     124        .0          30.6.4                                 21 0    28.4    26 7   276          28
3.  Industry                                  60       64      69       72      44       70      67       74      80       84      89      94      123       4 3         2.3          5 0         5 5            21 9    21.4    23.1    26 5   28.0
4.  Polnste Ser-i-s                          I11      115     419      550     100      118     116      119     170      124     120      133     150       0.2         1.1          2.0         2.5            45.3    39 46 38.9   34 7   34.2
5.  Poblic Services                           27       28      30       33      33       34      34       34      3 5     35       35      35       42      -0.9         3.0         0.5          3.5            11.7    iS 2   11.2       9.7      9.6
c.  PrRICEs iNDic.Es (1971 100)
1.  E.po-t Prices  (goods oely2              221     192      147     207      217     214      238     2753     209     304     320      377      490      17.7         2.7         9 9          5 4
2.   Iopoct Poice                            194     190      195     709      211     227      277      301     329     356      305     417      613      10.6         3.5        10.7          8.0
3.  Teems of Trade                           114      97       84      98      103       94      86      84       88      85       83      90       85      -0.8        -0.0        -0.7         -2.3
4.  GoP Dlelletor.                           132     147      154     159      169      174     190     203      224     544     248      292      450      15.          4 3         9.0          9 
5.  Comeme  Prim_2                           138     181      183     204      311     233      248     291      124     359      398     441      736      14,0         6.5        11.2         10.8
6.  Poco.d I-eecotPis                        138     166      167     100      195     208      229     25~      277     302      335     360      593      13 5         5.8        10.0         10.0
7.  loch. Rate  (IPA  P-pe  US$)             240.5  214 3  239        245.7  225.6   212 7207.1  250-   207,1  207.1  207.1  207.1  207 1                     ----
4/       L/        4/        4/
D.  ScLECTED INOIGATOES 2                       1960/65 1965/70 1970/75 1975/79 1980/84 1985/89                                                                            E   L4NOc_PORCI(         I71                  Thoosso dPecn
1.  ICOR 5                                     2.4     8.1      4k.7       9.8      3.9       3.9                                                                          1. Agrtcoltoco                               812              69.4
2.   r   e.   aig   Rete                      11.5     9.4      13.4       8.8      9.3      12.5                                                                          2MlNIeceg                                      2               0 2
3.Me.  Net. uioe0C                          -15.6    18.2       14.3  -103.8       41.0      25.0                                                                          3  Noofacrrt.                                 69               5 9
4.Ficed Inv-t-et gy?p                        2.76    12.5       1.        12.9     13.8      1444   Poh_ec Otitgo                                                                                                         4               0.3
5 I.Iport EI-at-ity                           -0.0    -0.1       0.90      24        0.6      0.98                                                                         5. Coostro  sloe                              17               1 5
4.  Ioportt/GDP                               32.0   29.0       32.9      37.4      33.9     32 6                                                                          6.       -t   Pr.sc .erice ...15                               9.8
7'2. i-otnllop                                28.9    24.9      23.4      28.4       58       2 .                                                                                P _~        i..171  
8.  Resures Gop/GDP                           -3.1    -5.0      -5.5      -8.6     -8.1      -4.7                                                                          0  Other                                      24               2.1
F.   FIStIC   FINANCE                               _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _            _ _ _ _ _ _         _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
(in hello on  ofcrect CFAF                               Atssentimaco                                      Pr  setno  1/ _                                         Groth rae-7- hrssocr                                        t GOP (j
cod finulyFr)8/P74    8775                                     FY76      FY77      PY78     PY79      PY80    P(81    FY85                             P52175       Y7 _-0       Y8o8        PY7L _    PY7 5  ~FY79 -FY8P 2/ lrts
1I Bodget Reve..oes                              55.4     77.3      87.2    104.8    110.1    126.7    154 2   161.7   289.0                                 13 4          14.0        15.3       19.0      20 7    25 9       28.7      29.0
2. Clco  to.(ed    cect                       09      4.         02       8.         36 i0s.           2.        24       411.7                                       13.0         1.9        17.3      17.4     21.4      22.6      20.3
3.  Budg. Oa.-  hoforo Dabt Srrice                4.5     11.5       710      18.5      12.5     21.8      32.8    43.6       01.0                                                                 I  .7     3.1       4.5      6.1       8.7
4.  Other Polic Savings 2/                        1.2       0.       4.       10.2       0.5       2.0     -2.1       LO8      ..                              --                                  0.4       0. --      .6     -_44-~
5.   PbM. Isv. hofoce Debt Serice                13.7      11.8     11.8      28.7      13.0      24.4     30.7    42.4       87.0                                                                 2    .3   5.2       5.1       5.7      8.7
6.  Debt S-evic                                   2.5       4.0       8.7      9.7      12.5      19.7     30.0      31.4      46.9                          1L-5.         531.2       9.3.         L-0       1.1      4.8 0     5.4      4.7
3.  lrsnl    opo                                 11.2       7.8      3.1      19.0       0.5       4.9      0.7      12 0     401.                                                                             _        . 0.1 
8    Pblic EI-ot-ete   5                          97       329      470          7       56       5.                                                         29.3          11 4        189         32        9.4      10. 3     11.      1.
9.  Poee-sgo of self flonsolg (T)                30.4      27.3       7.7     41.9       1.1       9.7       1.2     11.1     28.6
IS.  Debt Service  to p-rcetegc of                 4.5       5.2      10.0      9.3      11.3      15.5      19.5     28.4      14.2
1/ Those p-ojeetfeo u.sewo   thet Go-eoo-t'    t ubiliautioo  ploc will be teplge-ted
2/    Cost of l-iv9in dedo  of t-ditoosu   fuoIiie  0e Dnka-                                                                                                   This  polertloc Ci oct lO-Oitert with the att_rhd
3/   Clcle            -Io  voce   t  coereor Price   or cootut prices adjotod for ch-oge  i0 tlo-n  of trode                                                    busc    f P.ySO-t-.
4/   Adjusted In-  room   of tI.de shee apprpristc.
5/    Cel1-lated on thre   yeers soevge of GDP sed the five  y-nr   -c of fined lovet-e     -c  --o-tuc  pre-
6/ Calculatod cc th-o  year   --elgs  for the booo ea . icocron rpri-e
7/ Calcoleted cm  th-e  yeses ur-eocc   for  be buso year  tocomcpic-.
1/  isoi y..   I   rco-   OnlJy 1 to  3com  30.
9/  -oldes s-iogo  from  StaboIoati-e  Fsod sod public  -nt-p-cses.
10/   Public i-ves ots as defineod by the Miiotry of P-nio;colary to the eati-ou   oc-ooto  def-iti-o, thooo
figure   loclode tha full costs of peojecta  in mIned soterpri... in which Govreon-                   ue t   o. mao 0.J     ficc-i.1 to-
PIomiblbttty, ProjeLct Gopoesti  thet do  ot represet fined cepotul for-taio, resarch p-oicto  anden
olltary copsedit-r ..
II/ Esti_at ound for t.1981 Halanom of Pupoesto.



- 27 -
AilNEX 1
SENEGAL - bALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(millions of corrent US$)
Actuals                      EstiLates                                         Projections
1974   1975   1976   1977            1978       1979          1980      1981      1982        1983      1984      1985      t990
A.  SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
EBports, inc. NFS                          602    693    698    853             691         864          841      -7'.      1,396      1,551    1,739      1,962      3,778
Imports, inc. NFS                        -6b'    -791   -3S2   -979          81,030    -1,337          1,318   -1,332    -1,742       -1,928   -2,148    -2,394   -4,270
Resource Balance                           -89   -100   -154   -126            -339        -473         -477      -585       -346       -377      -409      -432       -492
Fattor Services (net)                      -48    -55       -8    -13           -27         -56          -74      -108        -76        -83       -92      -103       -161
Net investment incone                   -26    -37      -20    -24           ^28         -38          -46                  -41        -42       -44       -45        -70
Interest en public debt                -14    -19      -18     -21           -29        -44           -49                 -48         -47       -45       -45       -51
Other interest                            2      -3     -I      -4            -4        -11           -20                 -28         -36       -47       -59       -98
Workers' remittances                    -20      -6      17      19           15          17           19                   21         23    r  25         27         33
Other                                    10      10      14     18            19         20            22                   20         19        19        19         25
Current Transfers (net)                     64      67      66      71           97          93          140        93        114        123       133        143       210
Current Account Balance                    -73    -88    -96    -68            -269        -436         -411      -600       -308       -337      -368      -392       -443
Private Capital (net)                       -5      12      16      26           36          42           46        84         57         62        69         77       136
Capital Grants                              19      22      23      24           29          33           35        32 16/    38          39        40         42        54
Public M - T Loses (net)                    60      56      60      56          135         136          236 /14 156 -        179        214      -265        281       267
Disbursements                            80     76      84      92           204        214           342      264        277         325       402       457       641
Repayments                             -20    -20      -24    -36            -69        -78          -106     -108 17/   -98         -111      -137      -176      -374
Short-tern Capital (net) 1/                 23      10      -      -38          -39          36           °17      -30 18/    -  20       -         -          -         -
Capital  -.e.i.  2/                        -31    -22    -13        -9           24 /7       70 111       40 /15  56 -                    -
Increase to ieserves  (+)                   -7    -10    -10        -9          -84       -119            -4     -302         -28        -22         6          8        14
Level of Foreign Assets (end yr.)         277       15  -17   -53              T          2M73                   -625        M721        4f        17       249
B.  LOAN COMMIT'.ENTS                           70    135    127    215              357        149          282       268        259        373       444        491       678
IERD                                        :3       7      26      20 /5        11           7           75        14         30         64        51        48         63
IDA                                          -      25      1       -           26          25           72        13         25         25        28         31        42
OPEC FPnds                                   -       4       -       3            5          -             8          9        10         11        13         14        15
Other International institutions            10       6      12      21           28 /8   -.46 /12         14         22        20         23        25         26        31
France                                      16      13      27      28           27          25          101         36        40         44        48         53        59
Germany                                     17       3       5       4            2          16           15         17        17         19        19        22         25
Canada                                       -       8       4       5           -           -             2          2         2          2         2          2        -3
OPEC Countries                               9       -       4       -           38 /9        6           -          -         -          -         -          -         -
Other Bilateral                              4 /3  21 /4   -        12 /6        20 /I0      15 /13       20         20 19/   23          25        27         30        33
OMVS (Diama Dam)                             -       -       -       -           -           -            -        113 -
Suppliers                                    3       1      10      22           10           3           10         15        20         30        30        30         39
Financial Institutions and                   8      47      28    100            190          6           -           7        72        130       201       235        369
Private Banks
C.  LOAN TERMS
Intareat C)                                4.7    4.8    6.1       7.6           6.9         3.9          5.3       4.4        5.8        6.5       6.5       6.5       6.7
Grace (years)                              6.3    6.5      5.6    3.6            3.7         6.4          6.6        6.5       4.6        4.1       3.6        3.6       3.2
Maturity (years)                          27.5   23.4   20.1   12.7             13.7        23.7         26.5       30.1      21.1       18.8      17.2       16.9      15.8
Grant Element (%)                         39.0   40.0   28.2   13.6             19.9       43.9          41.4      53.4       37.3       29.7      27.2      26.9       24.6
Debt Service Ratio (7.)                    5.4    5.3      5.5    6.4           13.6        13.7         18.0       12.7      10.4       10.5      11.3       12.6      13.0
Debt Service Ratio  (including               -       -    5.6    6.6            15.1        15.8         19.5       15.5      13.3       17.6      13.3      14.5       13.8
IMF funds)
/l   Includes errart  and omissions. (1980/Ol fil.turem  refer .o a sn:ur,-t.ec, OPEC loan).
j2   Includes STABEX, SDR allocations and differences between publir capital inflows
as recorded by the Central Bank and by the IBRD debt report.
/3   $4 million from U.S.A.
/4   Secludes $17.4 nilli-n  from Spain and $3.5 from Denmark.
/5   Includes $14 million Third WindowP Fnds.
/6   U.S. Aid
/7   STABEX $24 million.
/8   Includes $17.6 million IMF Trust Funds.
/9   537 million frEe Saudi Arabia and $1 million from Abu Dhabi.                                                               a  The 1981 balance of paynents has been
/10  Spain.                                                                                                                         changed to take into account the effect
/11  Includes STABEX $64 million and SDR allocation $6 million.                                                                     of the bad crop.
/12  Includes $13.4 million IMF Trust FPnd, $19.6 milli-n  African Development Bank, and
$12.8 million European 1nvestment Bank.
/13 IOcludes $12.8 million from Japan and $2 nillion from the United Kingdom.
/14  Includes macoptional aid:  IDA  $15 million; France $67.6 nillion; and STABEX
advance fion France $36.2 million.
/15  Includes STABEX $34.8 million and SDR allocation $6 million.
/16  Including exceptional aid from IBRD $30 million and IDA $15 million.  Also including gapfills from 1981 on.
/17  Repayment of STABEX advance from France.
/18  STABEX /50.8 million and SDR allocation $4.9 million
/19  An estimated share of 75°/ in the $150 million cost of the Dian dam/ France $52 million;
Saudi Arabia $37 mIllion; Kuwait $35 million; and African Development Bank $26 million.
120 SDR allocation 46 million.



Table 1:1:  70PRT DETAIL
Actuals                                                Estimates                                            Projections
1974        1975        1976        1977        1976-       1979        1980        1981        1982        1983        1984        1985        1]90
A. CONSTANT 1971 PRICES
(millions of CFAF)
1. Groundnut products                             1l,118      27,Ob       40,620      37,535      10,398      21,276       7,802      28,265      28,765      29,282      29,809       10,346     33 177
2. Phospoates                                      5,9,2       4,757       5,526       5,39e       5,054       5,709       2), 'O      5,831       6,071       6,234       6,483        6,74s      7.969
3. Petroleum products                             2,207        2,221       1,651       J,000       3,17S       3,275       2,584       2,713       2,849       2,991       3,141       3,298       4.209
4. Fish and fish products                          7,230       7,709       8,928      12,600      12,660      13,601      14,008      14,778      15,517      16,448      17,559      18,831      24.960
5. Other goods                                    10.902       9,2i77     12 844      15.303      12.829      125,25      13,447         _        15 252      16,24j 3    17,380      18,94s      28.354
6.  tal_moods                                    42,469       51,750      69,569      73,834      44,119      56,386      43,491      65,899      68,400      71,198      74,414      78,162      98.6e9
7. Adjustmencs on custom statistics /1             3,269       4,388       3,510       5,25b       4,4P)       4,355       4,099       4,102       4,307       4,566       4,839       5,130       6.733
8. Non-tactor servic           e         s       22,613       20,574      22,709      21.788      24,169      23,357      21.402      22,400      23.500      24,910      26,903      2           41.898
Total Exports                                 68,551                  95788    100.878        72,743      84_098      68 992      92,401       96,207    100.674    106,150       1IZ,347    147. 100
B. PRICE INDICtS (19/1 - 100)
1. Groundnut produets                             210.8        145.0       158.4       211.0       226.0       19s.0       175.o       221.3       276.8      279.6        282.4        285.2      413.3
2.       mt.s                                      419.1       467.2       306.1       278.0       277.0       257.5       301.2       334.5       363.0      395.7        432.5        473.3      621.5
3    _         pcom-.t.                            234.2       312.8       371.9       427.0       428.0       4r8.0       616.2       738.8       808.2      884.8        968.5    1,061.9    1 828.8
4. Eish and fish products                           99.2        94.2       126.0       134.0       143.0       155.9       169.9       181.8       194.5      208.1        222.7        238.3      334.2
5. Other goods /2                                 206.8        241.4       140.9       189.5       206.6       225.1       245.4       262.6       280.9      300.6        321.7        344.2      482.8
6. Total goods                                     221.2       191.5       167.0       207.1       216.9       214.2       238.0       252.7       288.8      303.5        319.5        377.2      480.3
7. Adjustments and NFS                             194.3       198.3       193.7       209.3       211.0       227.3       276.6       301.1       328.8      356.3        385.4       417.3       613.4
Total Exports                                  211.0       193.7       174.0       207.7       214.6        218.6      252.3       266.6        300.4     302.5         339.2       361.6    _530 9
C. CURRENT VALUES
(millions ot CFAF)
1. Groundnut products                            33,977      40,318      64,342       79.200      23,499      41,701      13,700      62,531      79,620      81,874      84,182      86,547       137.1
2. Phospnates                                    24,946       22,225      16,914      15,014      14,000      14,701      17,018      19,504      21,843      24,668      28,041      31,913        49.5
3. Petroleum  products                             5,309       6,948       5,316      12,800      13,602      14,999      16,000      20,045      23,024      26,467      30,4'9       35,021       76.9
4. Fish and fish products                          7,172       7,262      11,%320     16,900      18,104      21,200      23,799      26,865      30,183      34,233      39,194      44,873        83.4
5. Other goods                                   22_569      22.348      18,103      29_006       26,499  2S8199         33_j0Q       37605       42,55J      48,833      55.909    _6D207         136.9
6. Total goods                                   93,973       99,101    115,925    152,920        95,704    120,800    103,517    166,530    197,523    216,073          237,745     263,561       483.8
7. Adjustments ou custo- statistics /3            6,362       8,701       6,799       11,000       9,401       9,901     11,339       12,353      14,164      16,268      18,649      21,407        41.3
S. Nos-iactur services                           44325         0,799      43987         4   5,600  50999      53.101      59.204      67,457      77,280      88  763    103.671    121,247        257.0
Total Exports                                 144,660    148,601    166,711    209.520    156,104    183.802    174.060    246                            321_106    360.065    406,215          782.1
D. CURRENT VALUES
(millions of 13S dollars)
1. Grosndnut products                             141.3       188.1       269.2        322.4       104.1       196.0       66.2       302.0        384.6      395.4        406.6       418.0       662.2
2. Phosphates                                     103.7       103.7         70.8        61.1        62.1        69.1       52.2         94.2       105.5      119.1        135.4       154.1       239.2
3. Petroleum Products                              22.1         32.4        22.2        52.1        60.3        70.5        77.3        96.8       111.2      127.8        146.9       169.1       371.8
4. Fish and fish producrs                          29.8        33.9         47.1        68.8        80.2        99.7       114.9       129.8       145.8      165.3        189.3       216.7       402.9
5. Other gosos                                     93.9       104.3        75.8        118.1       117.4       132.6       159.4       181.6       206.9      235.9        270.0       314.9       661.1
6, Total Roods                                    390.8       462.4       485.1       622.5        424.1       567,9       500.0       804.4       954.0   1,043.5       1,148.2    1,272.8    2 337.2
7. Ad7ustments on custom statistics LI             26.4        40.6        28.5        44.8        41.7         46.5                                                                                           54.8  59.7  68.4  78.6  90.1  103,4  199.6
8. Non-tactor services                            184.3       190.4       8OA.1        185.6      226.0       249.6        285. 9     325.8        373.3      428.7        500.7       585.6    1 241.5
Total Exports                                  601.5       693.4       697.7       852.9       691.8       864.0       840.7    1 189.9    1,395,7   1,550.8          1,739.0    1 961,8    3 778.3
(Exchange rate)                               (240.50)   (214.32)   (238.98)   (245.67)  (225.64)    (212.72)   (207.06)   (207.06)   (207.06)  (207.06)               (207.06)   (207.06)  (207.06)
1/  Adj.stsment  are related to:  (i) the timing of transactions;
(ii) udder-invoicing and uofficilal border trade;                                                                    x   This proiection is not -osi-tent vith  the  attached bala-     f payment.
(iii) stock movements in bonded warehouses; and
(iv) supplies to ships (mainly bunkers).
2/ Calculated as residuals.
3/ Import price index.
4/ A new estimate world be about 3,800.



TABLE 1.2 IMPORT DETAIL
Actuals                          Estimates                                                    Pro ections
1974       1975        1976       1977        1978       1979       1980       1981        1 1982      1983       1984        1985    -I9 ?               -
A. CONSTANT PRICES (c.i.f.)
(millions of CFAF)
Foodstuffs                                  17,139      13,063     18,403      19,842     21,115      24,666    21,394      21,202      19,800     18,546      19,138      17,197    18,200
Petroleum                                    4,715       4,497      4,668       5,291      4,988       5,690      7,154       7,163      7,521       7,897      8,292       8,707    11,112
Intermediate goods                          13,644      18,809     23,464    24,213       23,350      24,575    17,741    23,500        24,675     25,909      27,204      28,564    37,154
Other consumer goods                          9,826     12,451     16,621    21,620       18,500      21,576    14,860      16,123      16,445     16,774      17,110      17,452    19,841
Equipment goods                             16,118      14,022     15,738    18,649       14,600    19,427    15,154        16_981         ,       18,784      19.790     _ 20 558    25.974
Total goods                                 61,442      62,842     78,894    89,615       82,553      95,934    76,309      84.969      86,270     87,910      90,534      93,079   112,281
Adjustments . cu,stom statistics /1    14,616           10,593     10,866      11,181     11,800      12,751      9,721       9,217      9,770     10,356      10,978      11,636     15,572
Non-factor services                           9,408                 1460       14143    15830    16451    12,623   13498                     3         769    13 907    14,046    16 280
Total Imports                            85, 466    85.,773   104368   114.939   110,183   125136   98_653   10,8 109.673   1123035                                    118,761   144_ 133
B. PRICE INDICES (1971: 100)
Foodstuffs                                   236.3       224.9      186.1       189.5      191.8       171.9      209.4      228.3       254.2      271.8       290.9       312.2      408.8
Petroleum                                    329.3       330.0      404.8       442.0      417.0       513.2      698.9      837.6       118.0   1,006.8    1,103.8    1,211.9   1 951.8
Intermediate goods                           177.2       182.8      185.4       200.0      200.0       223.4      243.5      260.6       278.8      298.3       319.2       341.5      479.0
Other consumer goods                         177.1       182.8      185.4       200.0      200.0       223.4      24i.5      260.6       278.8       298.3      319.2       341.5      504.0
Equipment goods                              135.2       166.4      167.9       200.0      200.0       223.4      243.5      260.6       278.8      298.3       319.2       341.5      479.0
'teal Goods /2                             194.3      198.3       195.1      209.3      211.0       227.3      276.6       301.1      328.9       356.4      385.4       417,3       13 4
C. CURRENT VALUES
(millions of CFAF)
Foodstuffs                                  40,502      29,313     34,248      37,597     40,499     42,401    44,799       48,404      50,322     50,408      52,763      55:562    74,402
Petroleum                                   15,528      14j840     18,897      23,390    20,800       29,201    49,999      59,997      69,044      79,509     91,528    105,516   216,885
Intermediate goods                          24,176      34,375     43,502    48,426       46,700      54,901    43,200      61,230      68,791     77,287      86,832      97,556   177,972
Other consumer goods                        17,388      22,756     30,816      43,240     37,000      48,201    36,200      42,009    45,848    50,039         54,t12      59,604    95,046
Equipment goods                             21,788      23  332    26424    34,894         _9 20     43400    36 901    44,244    49 704            6_6035    63,167    70 2I3   124,421
Total Roods                                119,382    124,616    153,887   187,547    174,199   218,103   211,095    255,884   283,719   313,278    348,902    388,451   688,720
Adjustments on custom statistics /t    28,398           21,004    21,201    23,400        24,893      28,989    26,891      27,757      32,129     36,903      42,303      48,558    95,515
Non-factor services                         18.280    24.467    284            29600    3                _40     34,919    40 649    44 832    40065                       55 6r611,  99,858
Total Imports                            166,060   170,087   203,628   240.547   232,501   284,493   272_  9                    _2429    3 0   39.246    444,796   _49 623 884.094
D. CURRENT VALUES (c. i. f.)
(millions of US$)
Foodstuffs                                   168.4       136.8      143.3      153.0       179.5      199.3       216.4    233.8        243.1       243.5      254.8       268.4       359.4
Petroleum                                     64.6        69.2       79.1       95.2        92.2      137.3       241.5    289.8        333.5       384.0      442.1       509.6    1 047.6
Intermediate goods                           100.5       160.4      182.0      197.1      '206.9      258.1       208.7    295.7        332.3       373.3      419.4       471.2      859.6
Other consumer goods                          72.3       106.2      128.9      176.0      163.9       226.6       174.8    202.9        221.4       241.7      263.8       287.9      459.0
90.6      108.9       110.6     142.0       129.4      204.0        178.2     213.7       240.1      270.6       305.1      3i39 1      601.0       Y D
Equipment goods                                                                                                 __7-           1.                    7. 
'Total Goods                                  496.4      581.5       643.9      763.4      771.9   1 025.3       1 019.6  1 235.9    1 370.4   1 513.1    1 685.2    1 876.2    3 326.6            D 11
Adjustments on customs statistics /3    118.1             97.9       88.7       95.2      110.3       136.3       129.9    134.1        155.2       178.2      204.3       234.5       461.3
Non-factor servs-s                            76.0       114.2      119.8      120.5      148.0       175.8       168.7      196.3      216.5       236.9      258.3    ...2AaI3       482.3
Total Imports                              690.5      793.6       852.4     979.1   1 030.2    1 337.4    1 318.21 566.3    1 742.1   3.928 .2148.3    v 393.8   4 270.2
(Excnange rates)                            (240.50)  (214.32)  (238.98) (245.67)  (225.64)  (212.72)  (207.06)  (207.06)  (207.06)  (207.06)   (207.06)   (207.06)  (207.6)
1/  Adjustsmrts are related to:  (a) the timing of transactions;                                                                            x  This projection is not consistmet with
(b)  under-invoicing and unofficial border trade;                                                                                          the attached balance of payments.
(c) stock movements in bonded warehouses; and
(d) supplies to ships (mainly bunkers).
2/ The import price index is also applied to non-factor services
and trade adjustments.



SENEGAL -DEBT AND CREIDITWORTHIINESS                                                                                    A .110.I
(multions of current 050)                                                                                        AlnEU
Actuals                             Eetimate                                                       Pr-lectins
1974         19/5         1976         1977         1978          1979         1980         1981 *       1982          :983         1984         1985          1990
A.  5EDI0M AS/D LONG-TERM DEBT
(diab-roed only)
7. Total Pa,blic Debt Outstanding                             245.1        295.0        350.4        517.1         581.7        717.6        914.0         1 059.2   1 238.3       1 452.2      1 716.8       1 997.9      3 220.4
2. Including Ueditburand                                      420.4        522.8        616.6        814.5      1 156.0      1 227.2       1 147.1      1 354.3       1 605.8      1 955.9      2 341.0      2 721.0       4 206.4
3.  ublic Debt Service                                         33.4         39.3         423          56.5          98.0        122.0        154.9         152.6        146.6        163.6        197.8         248. 5       497.2
a-  Interest                                               13.8          18.4         18.1         20.6         29.2         44.1          49.3         49.1          48.5         52.5         60.2          72.1        122.9
b.  Amortizatio.                                           19.6          20.9         24.2         35.9         68.8         77.9         105.6        103.5          98.1        111.1        137.6        176.4         374.3
4. Othbe  M & LT Debt Ser.ice                                   -            -             1.1          1.9         11.1         1V.S         13.1          32.6         41.7         47.0         35.9          3724         31
a.  Iloer-st                                                              -            1.1          1.8          3.4          3.8           3.6         23.1         23.2          21.9         23.2         27 4         21
b.  Artization                                               -            -            -            -            7.7         15.1           9.5          9.5         18.5         25.1          12.7         15.0         10
S. Total Debt Se-viue                                          33.4         39.3         43.4         58.3        109.1         140.9        168.0         185.2        188.3        210.6        233.7         285.9        529.2
6. Net Investment                                              26.0         37.0         23.o         24.8          28.4         37.6         45.9          38.2         41.0         42.0         44.0         4S.4          69.9
7. latna  Payment an Poreign capital                           59.4         76.3          66.4        83.1        137,5         178.5        213.9         223.4        229.3        252.6         277.7        331.3        598.1
B0.  DET  0BUBDE1
1. Public Debt Service  Rati.                                   5.4          5.3          5.5          6,4         13.6          13.7         18.0          12.7         10.4          10.5         11.3         12.6         13.0
2. Payment on Foreign Capital Ratio                             9.5         10.4          8.5           9.4         19.0         20.1         24.8          18.5          16.3         16.2         15.9         16.8          [5.7
3. public lebt  er-vice/GDP                                     2.4          2.1          2.2           2.9          4.9          4.9           5.9          4.9          4.2           4.1          4.4          4.9           5.2
4. Public Debt Service/Oovt. Revenue-                           4.5          5.2         10.0           9.3         19.3         15.5          19.5         20.4         16.2          14.9         15.2         16.2
C.  T31845-'
1. Intetest on Tatal DOD/Total DOD                              5.6          6.2          5.2          4.7          5.0           6.2           5.4          4.6          3.9           3.6          3.5          3.6           3.8
2. Public Debt Unn1ice/Total.  DOI                             13.6         13.3         12.1         12.7          17.0         17.1          16.9         14.4          II.8         11.3         11.5          12.4         [5.4
D.  DEPENDEIICY RATIOS 60  M 4 Li UbB0T-
1. G-osa  Disbursements/lmports  (incl. se-vtces)              10.4          8.5          9.0          8.9         18.7          151         21.6          15.0          15.1         16.1         17.9          18.2         14.4
2. Net Traasf-n/Tmpocta  (inal. a-n -cee)                       7.8          6.3          6.5          6.9           9.9          6.5          9.9           7.4           6.3         651          5 9           5 7          4.7
3. Net Teanefec/G.c.s Dl. bur. eents                            0.75         0.74         0.71         0.77         0.48          0.43         0.57         0.57          0.55         0.50         0.43          0.40         0.41
E.  EXPOSURE
1. IBRD Disb./lotal Grona  Disbursements                        1.0          9,4          5.6         14.1          3.2           4.9          4.0          5.5           5.2          5.7          6.9           7.7          8.5
2. Bank Group Disb./Total Cross Diebursem.ens                  20.9         24.9         19.9         22.6           7.6         13.1          8.6         13.8          11,9         12.0         12.1          12.8         13.9
3. IBRD DDD/Total DOD                                           1.3          3.4          4.2          6.5           5.5          5.8          5.7          6.1           6.2          6.4          6.5           6.8          8.2
4. Bank Croup DOD/Total DOD                                    14.2         18.1         19.9         2116         17.9          18.2         16.9         17.2          17.2         17.1         16.8          16.          1B.9
5. IBRD Dmbt servicn/Total Debt Service                         1.8          1.9          2.9          3.6           4.2          3.2          3.1          4.6           6.3          6.6          5.9           S.8          6.5
6. Bank Group Debt Service/Dtbal Debt Service                   2.5          2.6          3.7          4.6           4.9          3.9          3.7           5.3          7.'          7.6          6.8           6.6          7.1
nl      dneDec.3 1979                          Outstanding Dee  31,  1885                      nta 3nd_ing Dec  31   1990
F.  EXTERNAL DEbT_Oiobursnd on/v                                                    Amount                Percent                  Aount                 Percent                 Amount               Percent
1. IBRD                                                                           41.8                   5.8                   136.1                    6.8                 265.3                    8.2
2. TDA                                                                            89.0                 12.4                    197.9                    9.9                 342.4                   10.6
3. Other Multilateral                                                             79.8                  11.1                   322.3                   16.1                 568.4                   17.6
4. Gove-e-ete                                                                   2559.1                  36.1                   577.7                   28.9                 835.0                   25.9
5. Suppliers' Credit and Financial Tnstitutions                                  245.0                  34.1                   148.4                    7.4                  11.5                    0.4
6. Otnens                                                                          2.8                   0.4                   615.5                   30.8               1 197.8                   37.2
7. Total Public M & LT Debt                                                      717.5                100.0                 1 997.9                  100.0               3 220.4                   100.0
8. Total Public M & LT Debt (ina.  ndiebursed)                                1 227.2                 171.0                 2 721.0                  136.2                4 206.4                  131.4
C.  TOTAL DEBT SERVICE 1960-85/DOD end-1979                       177.2%
i/   Debt service to be paid by the Treasury only (fiscal yeara.)
2/   Publin debt only.                                                                                                                                   x  This project/on  is not coos/steert ,ith
3/   High Eurodollar borrowi/g to finace Government's participation policy.                                                                                  the attached balance of payents.



- 31 -                        ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of June 30, 1981)
Amount, less cancellation
Loan/Credit                                                          (US$ Million)
Number    Year   Borrower       Purpose                    Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Five Loans* and twelve Credits fully disbursed                19.4    58.1
336-SE      1972   Senegal        Housing Site and Services            8.0        1.8
987-SE      1974   SOFISEDIT    Development Finance            3.0                0.0
530-SE      1975   Senegal        Education II                        15.0        3.1
1113-SE     1975   Senegal        Agric. Diversification       7.0                3.8
578-SE      1975   Senegal        Terres Neuves II                     2.0        0.0 1/
1221T-SE    1976   Senegal        Feeder Roads                6.6                 0.2
1222-SE     1976   Senegal        Third Highway              15.0                 2.7
633-SE      1976   Senegal        Livestock                            4.2        1.6
647-SE      1976   Senegal        Second Sedhiou                       6.3        2.1
1332-SE     1976   SOFISEDIT    Second Development Finance 4.2                    1.1
1405T-SE    1977   Senegal        Port of Dakar               6.0                 0.9
1412T-SE    1977   Senegal        Petite Cote Tourism         8.0                 3.6
1413-SE     1977   Senegal        Petite Cote Tourism         5.6                 2.5
764-SE      1978   Senegal        Para-Public Sector
Tech. Asst.                        6.3        2.0
775-SE      1978   Senegal        Irrigation                          20.0        7.5
1518-SE     1978   RCFS           Railways III               11.0                 3.7
1665-SE     1979   Senegal        Second Airport              7.0                 4.0
S-23-SE     1979   Senegal        Water Supply Engr.                   2.5        1.7
908-SE      1979   Senegal        Education III                       22.0       19.3
991-SE      1980   Senegal        Small Rural Operations              11.0       10.2
993-SE      1980   Senegal        Fourth Highway                      28.0       28.0
1810-SE     1980   Senegal        Fourth Highway             10.0                10.0
S-26-SE     1980   Senegal        Power Eng and T.A.                   3.3        3.0
1061-SE     1980   Senegal        Structural Adjustment 2/  30.0        -        30.0
1973-SE     1981   SOC FIN        Investment                  6.5       -         6.5
SEN TOURIS   Promotion
2025-SE     1981   Soc. D'Expl. Rail Transport               19.3       -        19.3
Ferroviaire
Total                                    158.6   186.7       168.6
of which has been repaid                   9.1      0.8
Total now outstanding                    149.5   185.9
Amount sold                      3.4
of which has been repaid         3.2       0.2
Total now held by Bank and IDA 3/        149.3   185.9
Total undisbursed                         88.3    80.3       168.6
*    A loan of US$3.5 million for agricultural credit (584-SE) made in 1969 was
cancelled on March 25, 1971.
1/   A balance of $197.11 remains undisbursed.
2/   There is also a credit of SDR 22.9 million (US$30.0 million) under this project.
S1   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 32 -                         ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   SDR Denominated IDA Credits (as of June 30, 1981)
Amount, less cancellation
(SDR Million)
Credit Number  Year   Borrower    Purpose                                 Undisbursed
1061-SE     1980   Senegal    Technical
Assistance                   4.1         4.1
1084-SE     1981   Senegal    Structural
Adjustment*                 22.9         9.7
1103-SE     1981   Senegal    Forestry                         7.3         7.3
Total                                            34.3        21.1
of which has been repaid                         -           -
Total now outstanding                            34.3        21.1
Amount sold
of which has been repaid                         -
Total now held                                   34.3        21.1
Total undisbursed                                            21.1
*    There is also a Loan of US$30.0 million under this project.
C.   Statement of IFC Investments (as of June 30, 1981)
Amount (US$ Million)
Equity
Fiscal       Obligor             Type of Business      Loan   Investment   Total
1967   Societe Industrielle    Fertilizer Plant         2.45       1.01      3.46
d'Engrais au Senegal
1972)  BUD Senegal
1973)  S.A.                      Vegetable Export        -         .0.84     0.84
1976)
1974   SOFISEDIT                 Development
Finance Company        -          0.24      0.24
1980   Banque de l'Habitat       Money and Capital       -         0.47      0.47
du Senegal S.A.          Market
1980   Societe Hoteliere         Tourism                3.00         -       3.00
du Barachois, S.A.
Total Gross Commitments                         5.45        2.56      8.01
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
repayment and sales                           2.45        1.05     3.50
Total Commitments now held by IFC               3.00        1.51      4.51
Undisbursed Balance                             3.00        0.00      3.00



- 33 -                        ANNEX II
Page 3
D.   Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. 336      Sites and Services Project; US$8.0 Million Credit of September 29,
1972; Effective August 31, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Project implementation started slowly, but is now proceeding satis-
factorily following agreements reached with the Government in October 1978 to
improve performance. The main problem in recent years has been the lack of
counterpart funds required to complete infrastructure on the Dakar site. As a
result plot occupancy and consolidation have moved slowly. Government has
recently advanced counterpart funds required to complete outstanding works on
the Dakar site. It is expected that the completion of these works and better
cost recovery should improve the occupancy and consolidation picture. Site
development has also been hindered by the absence of on-site employment
opportunities other than construction-related activities.
Ln. 866   Telecommunications Project; US$6.3 million Loan of December 19,
1972; Effective June 5, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project was designed to improve the quality of telecommunica-
tions service in Dakar and in parts of northern Senegal. Completion of
project implementation took about five years longer than originally scheduled
mainly because of delays in procurement, resulting cost overruns, and changes
in top management. The physical works are now completed. The Borrower has
made significant efforts over the past two years to improve its management, as
well as its accounting and financial organization. This, together with the
audits and financial advisors financed under the Parapublic Sector Technical
Assistance Project (Cr. 764), is expected to result in substantial institu-
tional improvements. A completion report is being prepared.
Cr. 530   Second Education Project; US$15.0 Million Credit of February 19,
1975; Effective April 22, 1975; Original Closing Date: June 30, 1982;
Current Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
With the exception of the experimental rural youth education centers,
all construction has been completed and all equipment delivered. The Industrial
Training and Upgrading Center is operating satisfactorily. The science and
technology centers will be fully operational in October 1981; savings on this
component will be used to build and equip a maintenance unit for the centers.
The Government has decided to reoriented its policies regarding post-primary
education, and alternative approaches to rural youth education are now under
consideration. The number of new rural youth education centers is likely to
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 34 -                         ANNEX II
Page 4
be reduced to five, or the construction of these centers may be cancelled
altogether. The resulting savings would be used to complete the Merchant
Marine School, which is operating satisfactorily but needs boarding facilities
and supplementary training equipment. The Government s decision regarding
rural youth education is expected in the near future, and this matter is being
closely monitored to allow the necessary adjustments in the project to be made
at the earliest possible time.
Cr. 549      Sine Saloum Agricultural Development; US$7.0 Million Credit and
Ln. 1113      US$7.0 Million Loan of May 22, 1975; Effective October 31, 1975
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The objective of the project is to improve productivity of small
farms through intensification of farmers agricultural practices, particu-
larly through increased use of fertilizer and heavy equipment. However,
results over the first four years of the project show that yield increases
have been negligible. It was therefore decided, in agreement with the Govern-
ment and the co-financer CCCE, to re-appraise the project in an attempt to
find new workable solutions to the existing problems. A joint re-appraisal
was carried out in November 1979, and a draft Amendment to the Credit Agreement
was re-negotiated with Government in May 1980 and signed on August 14, 1980,
when the closing date was extended to June 30, 1983. Although Government
policy statements continue to support the project concept of the renegotiated
Credit Agreement, the tests of effective farmers organizations that were to
be undertaken have not yet been started; although farmers interest has been
clearly established, actual Government policies do not permit the undertaking
of the tests.
Ln. 1221-T      Feeder Roads Project; US$6.6 Million Loan of March 31, 1976;
Effective June 15, 1976; Closing Date: Dec. 31, 1981
The project consists of improvement of about 1,000 km of feeder
roads and maintenance of about 250 km of existing roads by force account;
technical assistance for project implementation and monitoring; construc-
tion of HQ building for the Bureau des Pistes de Production. The project
experienced serious delays caused by insufficient financial, managerial, and
logistic support; the Government undertook a series of measures to accelerate
works, and progress has improved considerably. Works executed so far are of
satisfactory technical quality; about 800 km will have been improved when the
funds are exhausted.
Ln. 1222     Third Highway Project; US$15.0 Million Loan of March 31, 1976;
Effective June 5, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project consists of pavement strengthening of about 200 km of
primary roads, equipment procurement, and consulting services for preinvest-
ment studies, highway maintenance, and development of the domestic construc-
tion industry. The pavement strengthening program has been completed. The
road maintenance program begun under the Second Highway Project, extended



- 35 -                        ANNEX 1I
Page 5
under this project, is continued under the Fourth Highway Project to
strengthen the maintenance organization and operations. As a result of
currency realignments and a civil works execution period that was shorter than
planned, about US$2.5 million became available under the loan; the Bank
agreed to use these funds to cover the foreign cost of extending technical
assistance for road maintenance, improving workshops and training center
buildings, and procuring workshop and training equipment.
Cr. 633      Eastern Senegal Livestock Project; US$4.2 Million Credit of
June 17, 1976; Effective June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project is designed to assist about 30,000 pastoralists in
Eastern Senegal through improved grazing and herd management practices,
development of stock watering facilities and firebreaks, improved animal
health services, livestock credit, and a functional literacy program. Parallel
financing is being provided by the Kuwait Fund and BADEA. Project implementa-
tion is progressing satisfactorily and on schedule. Livestock producers
appear to be giving full support to the project.
Cr. 647      Second Sedhiou Project; US$6.3 Million Credit of June 25, 1976;
Effective November 23, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project aims at increasing and diversifying agricultural and
livestock production through improved farming and husbandry practices.
Project implementation has been going reasonably well until 979 when produc-
tion was severely affected by the failure of ONCAD (the national cooperative
and marketing agency) to supply fertilizers as needed. In addition, the
project's overall efficiency is hampered by sectoral policy problems similar
to those being encountered in the Sine Saloum Project (Loan 549/Credit
1113) discussed above. Government-s request for an extension of the closing
date has therefore been declined.
Ln. 1332     Second SOFISEDIT Project; US$4.2 Million Loan of October 14,
1976; Effective April 21, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
In addition to providing SOFISEDIT with a second line of credit
for   industrial and tourism investments, the Loan has helped finance a
pilot scheme of assistance to small-scale Senegalese artisans through
SONEPI, the local industrial promotion agency. The Loan is fully committed.
Ln. 1405-T   Dakar Fishing Port Project; US$6.0 Million Loan of June 7, 1977;
Effective March 20, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Following a slow start caused mainly by time-consuming Government
procedures, project implementation is now satisfactory. Civil works have
been completed. The quality of contractors workmanship is good, and
the new quays have been put into use. All the technical assistance services
and studies are progressing satisfactorily and the container study financed
by the project has been adequately completed. Overall performance of the
Port Authority remains satisfactory, but there are continuing problems with
receivables, statistics, and recruitment and retention of qualified staff.



- 36 -                         ANNEX II
Page 6
Ln. 1412-T    Petite Cote Tourism Project; US$8.0 Million and US$5.6 Million
Ln. 1413       Loans of June 7, 1977 as amended on May 12, 1980;
Effective January 23, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project includes construction of infrastructure and common
facilities for hotel development on the Petite Cote, a major tourist area
where lack of infrastructure has so far limited such development; a program
of works for renovation of Goree Island; and technical assistance and studies
to improve planning and promotion in the tourism sector and a line of credit
for long-term financing for hotel construction at the site.  Construction of
infrastructure works at the Sali site have been satisfactorily completed and
areas designated for hotel construction are ready for delivery. The common
recreation center and commercial areas are under construction. The first
hotel (Palm Beach) opened on December 24, 1980. Two hotel projects are
expected to get underway in early 1982. Port and street works for the Goree
renovation began in June 1981 and are expected to be completed in January 1982.
Ln. 1518      Third Railway Project; US$11.0 Million Loan of March 17, 1978;
Effective August 17, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project consists of track rehabilitation and maintenance, supply
of material and equipment, improvement of telecommunications facilities and
track in the Dakar area, supply of spare parts for motive power and rolling
stock, strengthening of training programs and facilities, and studies. Track
repair work between Dakar and Thies proceeded satisfactorily for about 12
months, but the quality of ballast procured by the Regie was found to be poor.
Neither the Regie nor the Government has been able to provide the local funds
needed for better quality ballast in FY81, and so the track repair work has
been halted to be resumed in mid-1981 when funds in the new financial year
are expected to become available. Practically the entire order of locomotive
spare parts has been received. The locomotive rehabilitation work has commenced.
The training program is progressing satisfactorily. Consultants have completed
two phases of the study of the optimum structure and ownership of the Senegal
Railway (together with the connecting Mali Railway). While traffic stagnated
during FY80 and most of FY81, it has reached substantially higher levels since
early FY1981 due to increased cooperation with the connecting Mali railway.
The entire project is likely to take one year more than expected. There is
likely to be a local-cost overrun of $2 million and no overrun in the foreign
cost.
Cr. 764       Para-Public Sector Technical Assistance Project; US$6.3 Million
Credit of March 17, 1978; Effective June 6, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project consists of a three-year program to help improve the
efficiency of Government organizations charged with strategic analysis,
operational supervision, and formal financial control over the para-public
sector; and upgrading the auditing, financial management, and accounting
procedures for the sector as a whole and for a number of the most important
public enterprises and mixed companies. Consulting services and technical
assistance are in place, and work is progressing satisfactorily. Overall
guidance and direction by Project Management had not been very effective,



- 37 -                        ANNEX II
Page 7
but Government has recently taken some very positive measures to remedy this
situation. Training programs for government administrators have been pro-
gressing well and several intensive and specialized courses were organized in
1980 with more planned for 1981. The audits of State enterprises have been
satisfactorily completed and follow-up of audit recommendations by the agencies
has been good.
Cr. 775      Lampsar Irrigation Project; US$20.0 Million Credit of
March 17, 1978; Effective June 30, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The project provides for development of 2,220 ha through full
water control irrigation in the Senegal River Delta, and construction of
related facilities; technical assistance to the project authority SAED;
consulting services for applied research and studies for future develop-
ment of the River Valley. Works on the Lampsar perimeter are now completed.
Work on the Debi perimeter (financed by the Kuwait Fund under a parallel
financing arrangement) is well advanced. Studies for future development of
the Senegal Valley are sufficiently advanced to permit appraisal of an Irri-
gation IV project in FY82.
Ln. 1665     Second Aviation Project; US$7.0 Million Loan of April 18, 1979;
Effective November 15, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project consists of strengthening and levelling the main
runway and taxiway and improving the taxiway alignment at Dakar airport,
and installation of navigation and visual approach aids at regional airports
at Ziguinchor and Cap Skirring. Work at Dakar airport was satisfactorily
completed by the end of 1980. Equipment procurement is completed and con-
tracts for civil works at Ziguinchor have been satisfactorily awarded.
Government's request to use balance funds to do supplementary works and audits
is being removed.
Cr. S-23     Water Supply Engineering and Technical Assistance Project;
US$2.5 Million Credit of May 23, 1979; Effective August 10,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project provides for economic, financial, and technical
studies to prepare a priority investment project for rehabilitation and
extension of water supply systems in eleven secondary centers, including six
regional capitals; and technical assistance to strengthen the planning and
operating entities in the sector. Drafts of the financial studies have been
submitted, and pre-appraisal of the investment project is scheduled for
September 1981.



- 38 -                        ANNEX II
Page 8
Cr. 908      Third Education Project; US$22.0 Million Credit of May 23, 1979;
Effective August 16, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Construction has started on all five schools financed by the Credit
and three of them are already operational, using existing or temporary facili-
ties. The preparation of bidding documents and the processing of contract
awards for furniture and equipment are on schedule. Implementation has been
slow for two components, the National College of Agriculture (INDR) and the
educational research and planning component (INEADE), the main reasons being
incomplete staffing and delays in the recruitment of technical assistance. A
recent mission (July 1981) obtained assurances that the technical assistants
for INDR are being appointed to help prepare the training programs and equip-
ment lists, which will be evaluated in October 1981. For INEADE, a work
program has been agreed for the period ending July 1982, at which time the
remaining technical assistance needs will be reviewed jointly by the Govern-
ment and the Association.
Cr. 991      Small Rural Operations Project; US$11.0 million Credit of April 2,
1980; Effective September 10, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project focuses on channelling funds and technical services
to small groups of rural people who will undertake to provide labor, and some
funds, for the development of several types of directly productive activities,
namely: development of small perimeters for irrigated cultivation of rice,
vegetables, and bananas; beekeeping; and fishing. The project also includes
village water supplies, an allocation for additional directly productive
activities to be identified and prepared during implementation, and provision
for a management structure. The project has just completed its first prepara-
tory year and is about to move into its critical stage of implementing innova-
tions, for which the indications are good.
Cr. 993      Fourth Highway Project; US$10.0 Million Loan and US$28.0 million
Ln. 1810     Credit of April 2, 1980; Effective December 9, 1980;  Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The major objective of the project is to increase Government s
capacity to keep the road system in adequate condition, in particular, to
train technicians and selected staff, to improve road work planning and
programming capacity and to rehabilitate and upgrade important road sections.
The project consists of the following components: (a) a three-year training
program for road maintenance staff; (b) a two-and-a-half year technical
assistance program for road maintenance execution; (c) upgrading of the
Government-s soils laboratory to strengthen its participation in road main-
tenance activities; (d) design of proper and systematic pavement maintenance
and strengthening programs; (e) strengthening and rehabilitation of about
200 km of primary paved roads; and (f) construction of the Louga-Dahra road
(about 85 km) to two-lane, paved standards, financed in parallel by the
Japanese Government. Procurement is underway.



- 39 -                         ANNEX II
Page 9
Cr. S-26-SE Power Engineering and Technical Assistance Project; US$3.3 million
Credit of June 18, 1980; Effective August 29, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The major objective of the project is to assist Government in
developing an overall energy plan and reorganizing the power sector. Two
technical advisors for general energy and power sector planning have been
provided to the Ministry of Industrial Development. An overseas training
program has begun for Senegalese officials responsible for energy planning.
The project also includes financial and tariff studies, and feasibility
studies for a headquarters building for the new power entity and for the
expansion of the generating facilities. The project is well underway.
Cr. 1061      Technical Assistance Project for Economic and Financial Planning;
US$5.3 million Credit of October 27, 1980; Not yet effective;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is aimed at supporting and strengthening the Govern-
ment-s ability to identify, select and prepare, monitor execution of, and
evaluate retrospectively its portfolio of development projects. It also aims
at strengthening the public debt monitoring, budgeting and forecasting capacity
and improving coordination between project needs and public financing.
Ln. 1931-SE      Structural Adjustment Loan and Development Credit:  US$30 million
Cr. 1084-SE      Loan and US$30 million Credit of January 26, 1981; Effective
March 30, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Loan/Credit proceeds would be made available to the Senegalese
Government during the first part of its medium-term economic stabilization and
rehabilitation program.  Counterpart funds would be used principally in the
agriculture sector for reorganization of the rural development agencies, for
which prospects are mixed: the Irrigation agency has prepared an acceptable
short-term program, but rainfed crop agencies cannot prepare acceptable
programs until Government policies on farmer participation, input supply and
pricing, credit, and marketing, have substantially improved. About US$1.0
million equivalent would be used for consultant studies.
Cr. 1103-SE    Forestry Project; US$9.3 million Credit of March 11, 1981;
Not yet effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1987.
The project aims at meeting the steadily increasing demand for
fuelwood and forest products in the urban center of Dakar and in rural areas
of the heavily populated Groundnut Basin, where rapid population growth is
resulting in serious deforestastion.



- 40 -                         ANNEX II
Page 10
Ln. 1973-SE      Investment Promotion Project:  US$6.5 million Loan and
Cr. 1136-SE      SDR 2.1 million Credit of July 17, 1981; Effectiveness
(tentative) October 20, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The project aims at promoting productive investments in Senegal
by: (i) reinforcing SOFISEDIT, both financially and institutionally; (ii)
providing loan and equity finance for viable subprojects; (iii) improving
the efficiency of SONEPI, the local industrial promotion agency; and (iv)
streamlining the investment approval process. The loan and credit are not yet
effective.



- 41 -
Paee I
SUPPLEMIENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare project: Early 1978-Aubust 1979
(b) Agency which prepared project: ISRA, assisted by bank staff and
and consultants
(c) First Bank mission to consider project: June 1978
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission: Novemaber 1979
(e) Date of completion of negotiations: tiarch 1981
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: December 1981
Section II:   Special Project Implementation Actions by IDA
Conditions of Board presentation were specified, and were fultilled,
as follows: (i) approval of bidding documents, and review of architects cost
estimates for the civil works program; and (ii) evidence ot initiation of
formal procedures for transfer of necessary land rights to ISkA.
Section III: Special Conditions
During negotiations, the Government and ISRA provided assurances on
the following principal items:
(i)  Project staff would be appointed for periods of at least three
years and key Project staff would have qualifications and experience
acceptable to IDA (para. 46);
(ii) Staff training needs would be annually reviewed by ISRA mana6emeuet,
the Board of Governors Scientific and Technical Committee, and the
Consultative Group on Agricultural Research in Senegal (para. 48);
(iii) the Scientific and Technical Committee of ISRA-s Board of
Governors would be strengthened with four independent visitin6
scientists in an advisory role, recruited internationally in
agreement with, and under terms and conditions acceptable to
IDA (para. 49);
(iv)  ISRA would maintain a permanent liaison office at Dakar, in the
event that its headquarters are transferred to St. Louis (para. 50);
(v)  Government public utility agencies would extend service to project
sites where needed (para. 50);



- 42 -                         A1NNEX IIl
Pa6e 2
(vi)  Government would make the necessary annual oudget allocations
to meet its financial obligations under the project, and its
funding for the project would have priority over other activi-
ties of ISRA (para. 53);
(vii)  The Project Revolving Fund would be replenished by the Government
upon presentation by ISRA of documental evidence that payments
from the fund have been used for the carrying out of the project
(para. 54);
(viii)  Once a year after the start of the Project, ISRA woula review
with IDA its new organizational structure and mana6ement
effectiveness, and introduce appropriate changes in structure
and in procedures and techniques as required, in consultation
and agreement with IDA (para. 58);
(ix) ISRA would hold annual workshops for all its research staff
to review the annual research work plan; this plan, including
investment and operating budgets, woula be presented to ttle
Scientific and Technical Committee for comments, and then suo-
mitted to IDA for review and approval (para. 59);
(x) Government, ISRA, and the Consultative Group on Agricultural
Research in Senegal would arrange to have annually at least three
months before the end of each fiscal year, a formai exchange of
views on progress of the project, performance of obligations by
Government and ISRA, impact of the project on agricultural develop-
ment, staff training needs, and other matters relating to achieve-
ment of project objectives (para. 59);
(xi)  The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would be established within
six months after the start of the Project (para. 60);
(xii)  By December 31, 1981, ISP?A management would propose a project
reporting system including quarterly progress reports and annual
scientific reports for review by IDA and a Project Monitoring System
(para.60); and
(xiii)  Subject Matter Specialists in agricultural extension would be
recruited and seconded to the regional rural development agencies,
on terms and with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA,
and agreements for such secondment si-ned between ISkA and each of
the agencies (para. 64).



- 43 -                          AINNLX 11
Pa6e 3
Special conditions of Credit effectiveness would be:
(i)  evidence of availability ot financing from all co-donors (para. 52);
and
(ii) submission of a financing plan satisfactory to IDA for ISKA's
research staff and operating cost expenditures to December 31,
1984 (para. 53).
(iii) opening of Project Account, and establislhment of Revolving
fund with initial deposit by Government (para. 54);
(iv) appointment of independent auditors acceptable to IDA (para. 57);
(v)  official publication of a modification acceptable to IDA of
the decree establishing ISRA's administrative structure (para.
58);
(vi)  employment of principal Departuent Heads and key project staff
in agreement with IDA (para. 58);
A special condition of disbursement would be that no withdrawals would be made
from the IDA Credit for expenditures for civil works at:
Fanaye and Richard Toll until the USAID grant for the OiNS Agri-
cultural Research Project would be effective (para. 52).






1   _   ;A  ;    g  <>  =/o  f  f;  X } L  t= u ,)f  f  = ;  f  .  f  ,;B 0  Cr >t, ; ,g7 . E - >g; LoM, h; %,^ iiL 'g z [= ;\; '  g 1LD t00Ci;w "IBRD 1 '49419
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o                                          m                           A -  N   I:  A      , ET|
| j ~~~~u-                  P4                                                                  S°  ;                                                                       4g--Vl2@tB;
k powohrbnGons's/Km                                                               0  '--A)*  G,. -:  5A 1, ,
--   PrfireciotBoundcgrie                                                                                                                                       0                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~- G 0 
- lf trrictonrvib.uorv t_g_ d9_>
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D M-y 4Cp                     W                                                                                                                                                   It  



