CREDIT NUMBER 1176 SE
Project Agreement
(Agricultural Research Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INSTITUT SENEGALAIS DE
RECHERCHES AGRICOLES
Dated                              , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1176 SE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated            /)               , 1982, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and INSTITUT SENEGALAIS DE RECHERCHES AGRICOLES
(hereinafter called ISRA).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Senegal (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to seventeen million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 17,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that ISRA agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
and
WHEREAS ISRA, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the term "regional development agencies" means the Borrower's:
Sociftf d'Amfnagement et d'Exploitation des Terres du
Delta du Fleuve Sfnfgal;
Socigt& pour le Dfveloppement de 1'Elevage de la Zone
Sylvopastorale;
Sociftf de Dfveloppement et de Vulgarisation Agricole;
and
Socigtf de Mise en Valeur Agricole de la Casamance.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ISRA shall carry out the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, scientific, agricultural, engineering and finan-
cial practices.
Section 2.02. (a) ISRA shall employ or continue to employ and
thereafter maintain in position at all times the following key
staff, all with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
Associationo
(i) at ISRA's headquarters, a managing director who
shall act as Project manager with overall respon-
sibility for the carrying out of the Project, a
chief of the internal auditing and budgetary
control unit, an administrative and financial
director, an agent comptable particulier and a
senior research planning and evaluation adviser as
chief of thc monitoring and evaluation unit;
(ii) for ISRA's Production Systems and Rural Technolog-
ical Transfer Research Department, the head of the
Department assisted by a senior agronomist acting
as support research liaison officer coordinating
the activities of the research teams for production
systems and commodities, and a systems analysis
specialist, a farming systems specialist, an animal
production systems specialist, a systems sociolo-
gist and a production systems economist constitut-
ing a central systems analysis group;
(iii) for ISRA's Commodity Research Department, the head
of the Department assisted by a senior agronomist;
and
(iv) for ISRA's Support Services Department, the head of
the Department, an architect/planner, a statis-
tician/biometrist in charge of the data processing
and statistics unit and a project coordinator.


﻿-3-
(b) ISRA shall ensure that each of the staff mentioned in
paragraph (a) of this Section is appointed for a period of at
least three years.
Section 2.03. ISRA shall employ the following consultants and
scientists whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association:
(a) four independent scientists of international repute in
order to assist ISRA's Scientific and Technical Committee;
(b) architectural consultants in order to assist the tech-
nical support unit of ISRA's Support Services Department in the
supervision of civil works under Part C of the Project; and
(c) independent auditors in order to assist ISRA in the
preparation of a proposal for a cost accounting system and to
audit ISRA's accounts pursuant to Sections 3.04 and 4.02 of this
Agreement and to assist the internal auditing and budgetary
control unit at ISRA's headquarters.
Section 2.04. For each of the research programs included in
Part A (1) of the Project, ISRA shall:
(a) employ and maintain in position a subject matter specia-
list in agricultural extension with qualifications, experience and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Association; and
(b) enter into agreements, satisfactory to the Association,
with the relevant regional development agencies for the secondment
of each such specialist.
Section 2.05. Within six months after the date of this
Agreement or such later period as may be acceptable to the
Association, ISRA shall establish at its headquarters the monitor-
ing and evaluation unit referred to in Part B (1) (a) (i) of the
Project with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 2.06. Except as the Association may otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of the Schedule to this Agreement.


﻿-4-
Section 2.07. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
ISRA shall cause all services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.08. (a) ISRA shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) ISRA shall: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its
cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and
to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable the Associa-
tion's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures
of such proceeds and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Without any limitation or restriction upon the general-
ity of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, ISRA shall, after
consultation with the Association, introduce: (i) not later than
June 30, 1982 or such later date as may be acceptable to the
Association, a Project reporting system including quarterly
progress reports and annual scientific reports; and (ii) not later
than June 30, 1982 or such later date as may be acceptable to
the Association, a Project monitoring and evaluation system. ISRA
shall thereafter put said systems into effect on terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Association.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be acceptable to the Association, ISRA shall
prepare and furnish to the Association a report of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request on the
execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by


﻿-5-
ISRA and the Association of their respective obligations under the
Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
(e) ISRA shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of ISRA and any relevant records and
documents.
(f) Upon the award by ISRA of any contract for goods, works
or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the
Association may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
Section 2.09. (a) Not less than three months prior to the end
of its fiscal year, ISRA shall exchange views with the Borrower
and the Consultative Group on the progress of the Project, the
performance of the Borrower's. obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement, the performance of ISRA's obligations under the
Project Agreement, the effectiveness of its reorganized structure
and management, the impact of the Project on.agricultural develop-
ment in Senegal and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit, including its annual work programs and budgets-furnished
by it to the Consultative Group pursuant to Section 3.03 (a) of
this Agreement.
(b) ISRA shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or.threatens to interfere with the
progress of, the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by ISRA of its obligations under
this Agreement.
ARTICLE TI
Management and Operations of ISRA
Section 3.01. ISRA shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Associatipn for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. In the event that its headquarters are trans-
ferred, ISRA shall maintain the liaison office at Dakar referred
to in Part B (1) (b) of the Project.


﻿-6-
Section 3.03. (a) Each year, ISRA shall prepare a proposal
for its annual work program and its draft budget which shall show
a breakdown by research program, as well as proposed lists of all
vehicles, equipment and research supplies to be acquired for the
Project in the following year.
(b) Not less than four months prior to the end of its fiscal
year, ISRA shall furnish these proposals to its Scientific and
Technical Committee and to the Consultative Group for exchange of
views, and separately to the Association for its agreement.
(c) Following such agreement, ISRA shall furnish such
proposals to its Board of Directors for approval. Upon such
approval, ISRA shall carry out the work program in accordance with
the budget.
(d) The first proposals to be prepared in accordance with
paragraph (a) above shall pertain to the period July 1, 1982 to
December 31, 1982 and shall be furnished to the Association for
its agreement not later than April 30, 1982.
Section 3.04. (a) ISRA shall prepare a proposal for a cost
accounting system, suitable for its operations, and shall furnish
that proposal to its Steering Committee and to the Consultative
Group for exchange of views and separately to the Association for
its agreement by April 30, 1982.
(b) Following such agreement, ISRA shall furnish the propo-
sal to its Board of Directors for approval. Upon such approval,
ISRA shall start implementing the approved cost accounting system
by July 1, 1982.
Section 3.05. Not less than once per year, ISRA and its
Scientific and Technical Committee shall review with the Consul-
tative Group the staff training requirements of ISRA.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ISRA shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. (a) ISRA shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and


﻿-7-
expenses and related statements) and the Project Account for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon
as available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested, including a statement
as to whether the proceeds of the Credit have been used for their
intended purpose; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of
ISRA, the Project Account and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(b) The first year audited in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph (a) above shall be ISRA's fiscal year ending on
June 30, 1981, and all copies and reports pertaining to such audit
shall be furnished to the Association no later than April 15,
1982.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of ISRA thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
ISRA of this event.


﻿-8-
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For ISRA:
Institut S6negalais de
Recherches Agricoles
B.P. 3120
Dakar, Snegal
Cable address:                       Telex:
CHERCHAGRI                         3133 PLANCOOP SG
Dakar


﻿-9-
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed under
this Agreement on behalf of ISRA may be taken or executed by
the Directeur Gfnfral de l'ISRA or such other person or
persons as such Directeur General shall designate in writing,
and ISRA shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each
such person,
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By/7       ~
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
INSTITUT SENEGALAIS DE RECHERCHES AGRICOLES
Byiv
Authorized R7eesentativi


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" dated March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and civil works to be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, ISRA shall prepare and forward
to the Association, as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a
general procurement notice, in such form and detail and containing
such information as the Association shall reasonably request; the
Association will arrange for the publication of such notice in
order to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods and civil works in question. ISRA
shall provide the necessary information to update such notice
annually so long as any goods and civil works remain to be pro-
cured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods,
or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods
to the place .of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Contracts for civil works estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $100,000 each may be awarded on the basis of the
Borrower's local procurement procedures, provided, however, that,


﻿- 11 -
unless the Association otherwise agrees, the cost of such con-
tracts does not in the aggregate exceed $1,000,000.
2.   Unless the Association otherwise agrees, contracts for the
purchase of goods estimated to cost:
(a) less than the equivalent of $30,000 each may be procured
on the basis of solicitation of price quotations from at least
three suppliers; and
(b) between the equivalents of $30,000 and $100,000 each
may be procured on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised in
accordance with local procedures acceptable to the Association.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   With respect to all contracts for goods or civil works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, ISRA shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, ISRA
shall, before a final decision on the award is made,-inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalu-
ation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform ISRA and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.


﻿- 12 -
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, ISRA shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account, in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform ISRA and state
the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, ISRA shall inform the
Asso(iation of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform ISRA and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the    0      day of
198F                         SC    T
FOR SECRETARY


