OFFICIAL         CREDIT NUMBER 1176 SE
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Research Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                  /2           , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1176 SE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     /t$/ "2..               , 1982, between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Associa-
tion).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the Institut
S6n6galais de Recherches Agricoles, an ftablissement public a
caractere industriel et commercial of the Borrower (hereinafter
called ISRA), with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to ISRA the proceeds
of the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(C) for the purpose of assisting the Borrower in the prepar-
ation of the Project, the Association, pursuant to an exchange of
letters between the Borrower and the Association dated April 11,
1979, May 14, 1979, March 6, 1981 and August 5, 1981 has granted
to the Borrower an advance (hereinafter called the Advance) in
various currencies in an aggregate amount equivalent to one
million dollars ($1,000,000);
(D) the Association is prepared to refund the Advance out of
the proceeds of the Credit provided for herein;
(E) by agreement dated May 20, 1981, (hereinafter called the
French Grant Agreement) the Republic of France has agreed, in the
context of its Convention G6ngrale, to provide a grant (herein-
after called the French Grant) to the Borrower in an aggregate
principal amount of 2,957,000 French Francs to assist in financ-
ing the Project on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
(F) by agreement dated August 29, 1970, (hereinafter
called the First USAID Grant Agreement) the United States Agency
for International Development (hereinafter called USAID) has
agreed, in the context of the Borrower's Casamance Integrated
Development Project, to provide a grant (hereinafter called the
First USAID Grant) to the Borrower in an aggregate principal
amount of $23,710,000, approximately $2,700,000 of which is
to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions
therein set forth;


﻿-2-
(G) by agreement dated May 16, 1981 (hereinafter called the
Second USAID Grant Agreement), USAID has agreed, in the context of
its PL 480 Title III Project, to provide a grant (hereinafter
called the Second USAID Grant) to the Borrower, approximately
$3,200,000 of which is to assist in financing Part C of the
Project on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
(H) in the context of its Agricultural Research Project for
the Organization pour la Mise en Valeur du Fleuve Senegal, the
Borrower intends to contract from USAID a grant (hereinafter
called the Third USAID Grant) in an aggregate principal amount of
$13,000,.000, approximately $4,200,000 of which is to assist in
financ.ing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (hereinafter called the Third USAID Grant Agreement) to
be entered into between the Borrower and USAID;
(I) in the context of its Senegal Agricultural Research and
Planning Project, the Borrower intends to contract from USAID
a grant (hereinafter called the Fourth USAID Grant) in an aggre-
gate principal amount of $4,950,000 to assist in financing Parts
A and B of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (hereinafter called the Fourth USAID Grant Agreement) to
be entered into between the Borrower and USAID;
(J) by agreement dated April 8, 1980 (hereinafter called
the CILSS Grant Agreement), the Comitg Inter-Etats de Lutte
contre la Secheresse au Sahel (hereinafter called CILSS) has
agreed, in the context of its Projet de Recherche et Dfvel-
oppement de la Lutte Int6gree contre les Ennemis des Principales
Cultures Vivrieres dans les Pays du Sahel, to provide a grant
(hereinafter called the CILSS Grant) to the Borrower in an aggre-
gate principal amount of $3,076,157 to assist in financing the
Project on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
(K) the Borrower intends to contract from the United Nations
Interim Fund on Science and Technology for Development (herein-
after called UNIFSTD) a grant (hereinafter called the UNIFSTD
Grant) in an aggregate principal amount of $1,000,000 to assist in
financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (hereinafter called the UNIFSTD Grant Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and UNIFSTD; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon


﻿-3-
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
ISRA;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and ISRA of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(b) "Caisse d'Avance" means the account to be opened by
the Borrower pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (c) (ii) of
Section 3.01 of the Development Credit Agreement;
(c) "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
(d) "ISRA's Statutes" means the Borrower's Law No. 74-53
dated November 4, 1974, Decree No. 74-1122 dated November 19, 1974
and Decree No. 79-305 dated March 31, 1979, as such may be amended
from time to time; and
(e) "Consultative Group" means the Consultative Group on
Agricultural Research in Senegal, consisting of the Borrower,


﻿-4-
ISRA, the Republic of France, USAID, CILSS, UNIFSTD, the Associa-
tion and any other donor of assistance for purposes of agricul-
tural research in Senegal.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to seventeen million special drawing rights (SDR 17,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) After the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay
to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Advance withdrawn and outstanding and to pay any unpaid charges
thereon. Any unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of such
Advance shall automatically be cancelled on the same date.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association may otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Section 2.06 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1988 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Associatiin
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent


﻿-5-
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing November 15, 1991 and ending May 15,
2031, each installment to and including the installment payable
on May 15, 2001, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. ISRA is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or per-
mitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause ISRA to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable ISRA to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to ISRA on a non-refundable grant basis.
(c) Pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section, but without any limitation thereon, the Borrower shall,
for the purposes of the Project:


﻿-6-
(i) make necessary annual budgetary allocations, on the
basis of annual Project budget forecasts, which
shall have priority over any other research activi-
ties in the agriculture and livestock sectors;
and
(ii) open a Caisse d'Avance in the amount of CFAF
30,000,000 on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association.   Such Caisse d'Avance shall be
replenished by the Borrower to the extent that
documentary evidence is furnished by ISRA indicat-
ing that payments made from such Caisse were
properly incurred by ISRA in the carrying out of
the Project.
Section 3.02. Not later than three months prior to the
completion of each fiscal year of ISRA, the Borrower shall, in
accordance with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, convene a meeting of the Consultative Group to exchange
views on the progress of the Project, the performance of the
Borrower's obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
performance of ISRA's obligations under the Project Agreement, the
effectiveness of ISRA's reorganized structure and management, if
appropriate, the impact of the Project on agricultural development
in Senegal and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit, including ISRA's annual work programs and budgets fur-
nished to the Consultative Group pursuant to Section 3.03 (a) of
the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. Not less than once per year, the Borrower
shall, in accordance with terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, convene a meeting of the Consultative Group to review
the staff training requirements of ISRA.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, through its Ministere
responsible for water and its Ministare responsible for energy,
ensure that water and electricity services are extended to the
sites under Part C of the Project in Kolda, Nioro du Rip, Kaolack
and Richard Toll not later than March 31, 1982 or such later
date as may be acceptable to the Association.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes ,of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph'(h) thereof:
(a) ISRA shall have failed   o 'perform any of its covenants,
agreements or obligations under the Project Agreement;
(b) - an extraordinary situation shall, havq aripen which
shall make it improbable that ISRA will be  able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement;
(c) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution of ISRA or for the
suspension of its operations;
(d) ISRA's Statutes shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed, waived,,.or shall cease to be enforced, so as
to affect materially and adversely the carrying out by ISRA of its
covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in the Project
Agreement;
(e) subject to subparagraph  (ii) of this paragraph:
(i)  the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the French Grant, the First USAID Grant, the
Second USAID Grant, the Third USAID Grant, the
Fourth USAID. Grant, the CILSS Grant, the UNIFSTD
Grant or of any other grant or loan made to. the
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall
have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
French Grant Agreement, the First USAID 'Graqt
Agreement, the Second USAID Grait "'Agreement, the
Third USAID Grant Agreement, the.Fourth UASID Grant
Agreement,' the CILSS Grant Agreement, the UNIFSTD
Grant Agreement or any other agreement proViding
therefor, respectively;
(ii) subparagraph (i) of. this paragr4ph shall        ot
apply if:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure ,of te


﻿-8-
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
any such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower and ISRA from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement and of ISRA under the
Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to para3raph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (c) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and ISRA; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) ISRA's administrative structure has been modified
pursuant to an amendment to ISRA's Statutes (published in the
Borrower's Journal Officiel) satisfactory to the Association;
(b) the following staff referred to in paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement have been hired and are
in post: (i) the chief of the internal auditing and budgetary
control unit *and the senior research planning and evaluation
adviser at ISRA's headquarters; (ii) the head of ISRA's Production
Systems and Rural Technological Transfer Department; (iii) the
head of ISRA's Commodity Research Department; and (iv) the head of
ISRA's Support Services Department, the architect/planner and the
project coordinator.


﻿-9-
(c) the auditors referred to in paragraph (c) of Section
2.03 of the Project Agreement have been hired with qualifica-
tions and experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association;
(d) the Caisse d'Avance has been opened as provided in
paragraph (c) (ii) of Section 3.01 of the Development Credit
Agreement and the Borrower has furnished evidence satisfactory to
the Association that an initial deposit of CFAF 30,000,000 into
the Caisse d'Avance has been made;
(e) the Association has been notified by USAID, CILSS and
UNIFSTD that all conditions precedent to the initial disbursements
of the Second USAID Grant, the Fourth USAID Grant, the CILSS Grant
and the UNIFSTD Grant, respectively, other than the effectiveness
of this Agreement, have been fulfilled; and
(f) the Borrower has furnished to the Association a financ-
ing plan satisfactory to it for ISRA's operations and their
costs to December 31, 1984.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that Project Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by ISRA, and is legally binding
upon ISRA in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date    /L       /94   is hereby specified
for the purposes of Secti n 12(04 of the 6eneral Conditions.
Section 5.04. The provisions of paragraph (b) of Section 4.02
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date
twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be
the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister responsible for finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 10 -
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere de l'Economie et des Finances
Rue Charles Latne
B.P. 4017
Dakar
Republic of Senigal
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINIFINANCES                       512
Dakar, S6n&gal                     TRESOR SG
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives t.ereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By//        014-e-1
Authorize9lepresentative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
B y         /            ,   'C - /
/4   Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works and               8,090,000         86%
Site Development
(2) Vehicles and                    440,000  )      100% of for-
Equipment                               )      eign expendi-
)      tures and 90%
)      of local
)      expenditures
(3) Small farm equip-             1,140,000  )
ment and Research                       )
Supplies                                )
(4) Scientists and                3,660,000         100%
Consultants
(5) Training Costs                  270,000         100%
(6) Refunding of Advance            870,000
(7) Unallocated                   2,530,000
TOTAL        17,000,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied


﻿- 12 -
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:
(a) expenditures prior to September 8, 1981; and
(b) expenditures under Category (1) for civil works in
respect of Part C of the Project at Fanaye and Richard Toll
until the Association has been notified by USAID that all condi-
tions precedent to the initial disbursement of the Third USAID
Grant, other than the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been
fulfilled.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (M) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which, in the
opinion of the Association, are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no


﻿- 13 -
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
In accordance with the Borrower's decision to reorient
the nature of its agricultural research activities and to make
them more responsive and applicable to the constraints of the
producer, the Project constitutes the first phase of a long-term
support program to strengthen regional research capability in
Senegal.
The Project consists of:
Part A:   Research Programs
The establishment and implementation over a six-year period,
of:
(1) five   research  programs regarding crop/livestock
production systems: (a) at Fanaye (Senegal River
Valley) with emphasis on irrigated agriculture; (b) at
Nioro du Rip (South Groundnut Basin) with emphasis on
rainfed agriculture; (c) at Dahra (Sylvo-pastoral
zone) with emphasis on livestock production; (d) at
Djibelor (Lower Casamance) with emphasis on various
techniques for rice production; and (e) at Kolda (Upper
Casamance) with emphasis on livestock production;
and
(2) six mltidisciplinary research programs, nationally
coordinated, regailing the following priority commodi-
ties.1 groundnuts, cowpeas, millet, sorghum, maize and
.rice.
Part B:   Institutional Development of ISRA
(1) Strengthening of ISRA's headquarters through:
(a) the establishment, staffing and operation of:
(i) a monitoring and evaluation unit;
(ii) an internal auditing and budgetary control
Unit; and


﻿- 15 -
(iii) a macro-economics unit; and
(b) the establishment, staffing and operation of a
liaison office at Dakar.
(2) Reorganization of ISRA through:
(a) the establishment, staffing and operation of a
Technological Transfer Production System and Rural
Research Department, including:
(i) a central systems analysis group;
(ii) a support research liaison section; and
(iii) five research teams responsible for the imple-
mentation of the research programs on produc-
tion systems referred to in Part A (1) of the
Project;
(b) the staffing and operation of a Commodity Research
Department for the implementation of the research
programs on priority commodities referred to in
Part A (2) of the Project;
(c) the staffing and operation of a Livestock Research
Department; and
(d) the establishment, staffing and operation of a
Support Services Department in charge of research
station management and central laboratories,
including:
(i) a manpower development and training unit at
ISRA's headquarters;
(ii) a technical support unit at Dakar;
(iii) a documentation and publication unit at
ISRA's headquarters; and
(iv) a data processing and statistics unit at the
Centre de Recherches Oc6anographigues at
Dakar-Thiaroye.


﻿- 16 -
(3) Training of research workers and senior administrative
staff through the provision of fellowships overseas, workshops,
seminars and conferences in Senegal.
Part C:   Infrastructure
(1) Developing, rehabilitating and equipping ISRA's research
stations at Fanaye, Dahra, Bambey, Nioro du Rip, Kolda
and Djibelor including the construction of about 106
housing units (of which about 6 at Richard Toll and
about 18 at Kaolack) and about 11,400 m2 of offices,
laboratories, farm buildings and cattle and sheep
pens.
(2) Developing and equipping an experimental irrigation
perimeter at the research station at Fanaye (about 100
ha).
(3) Constructing and equipping a documentation and publica-
tion center at ISRA's headquarters.
T               *              *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1987.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foreging is a true
copy of the originalfin the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198
FOR SECRETARY


