Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9597
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SECOND BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2269-BR)
MAY 24, 1991
Agricultural Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EOUIVALENT WEIGHTS
Currency Unit = Brazilian Cruzeiro (Cr$)
Appraisal:                         Completion:
US$1.00   Cr$202.29                 US$1.00 = Cr$166.00
Cr$1.00   US$0.00494                 Cr$1.00 - US$0.00602
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR                                          PROJECT FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31                                                    April I to March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout the report.
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
CAR                Companhia de Desenvolvimento e Acao Regional (State Regional Development Company)
CERB               Companhia de Engenharia Rural da Bahia (State Rural Engineering Company)
CRIBA              Cons6rcio Rodoviario Intermunicipal da Bahia (State Intermunicipal Road Consortium)
EMATER-BA          Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensio Rural da Bahia
(State Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company)
EMBRAPA            Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria (Federal Agricultural Research Company)
EMBRATER          Empresa Brasileira de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural
(Federal Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company)
EPABA             Empresa de Pesquisa Agropecuaria da Bahia (State Agricultural Research Company)
FUNAI             Fundagio Nacional do fndio (National Indian Foundation)
FUNRURAL          Fundo Rural (Social Security Tax)
IBB               Instituto Biol6gico da Bahia (State Biological Institute of Bahia)
ICM               Imposto a Circulagio da Mercadoria (Value Added Tax)
INTERBA            Instituto de Terras da Bahia (State Land Institute of Bahia)
POLONORDESTE  Programa de Desenvolvimento de Areas Inmegradas do Nordeste
(Northeast Integrated Rural Development Program)
SEPLANTEC          Secretaria de Planejamento e Tecnologia da Bahia
(State Secretariat of Planning and Technology)
SUDENE             Superintend8ncia de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
(Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast)
TU                 Unidade Tecnica (Technical Unit)



FOR OFFCIA6L USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Offca e Of oftmcr.Cewdl
OpwatUm IvuWtion
May 24, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Brazil
Second Bahia Rural Development Proiect (Loan 2269-BR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a relort entitled "Project
Completion Report on Brazil - Second Bahia Rural Development Project (Loan
2269-BR)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office with
Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project
has been made by the OperawLons Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



BRtAZzIL                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SECOND BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2269 - BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ..................... . . . . . . . . . .. . . . .. . . . . .
EVALUATION SUMMARY .......         ............                   .ii.
PART I:         PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE_BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ....1
Project Identity        1.......... . .             .1
Project Background            1.. . . ... .....  I
Project Objectivesand Description.................  2
Project Design and OrganiziL..........                       3
Pxoject Implementation ...... . ..      . . .    ....        4
Project Results. .. ..........t..    . . . ....    ... O..*. 12
Riss..............ks............  16
Project Sustainability ....           ......... ...  16
Bank Performance                  ......17
Borrower Performance              .        ..17
Project Relationshipslationi..p.e....... .                 18
Consulting Services ... .. .      ... . ..18
Lessons Learned ..... .....             .     ..... ...  19
Project Documentation and Data. .... ........               21
PART II:        PROJECT REVIw EWRom TNE eORRowER's PERIpEcTIVE......... 22
Comments on Part I .....      .... ......... .   ........... . 22
*                       £r.eneral Considerations .... ............   .......... .... ..... 22
Conclusions,,Recommendations and Lessons Learned ..... 24
PART III:       STATISTI,AL INFORMATION ....................... ......... 26
Related Bank Loans   . .. ..         . .......... .. . 26
Project Timetable ........ ... . .. .            .  ...... 27
Loan Disbursement .. ....        . . . .  . ..... ..     .. 27
Project Implementation ...... ...... . ............... . 28
Project Coste and Financing ........................ . .. 30
Project Reoults .... ....        ... ............... ............ 31
Status of Covenants ............  ... .......... ..... . 33
Mission  Data ....... 0.........................................    34
Annexes ............  ................ #......... ............  35
MAPS
IBRD 16837
IBRD 16838
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



BRAZIL
SECOND BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2269-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Bahia
Rural Development Project in Brazil.  Loan 2269-BR, in the amount of US$67.8
million, was approved on April 26, 1983, to help finance che implementation of
this project, the total cost of which was estimated at US$173.4 million. The
Loan and Project Agreements are dated May 23, 1983. The Loan closed on
December 31, 189, after a one-year extension of the original closing date.
Final disbursement of loan proceeds took place on October 11, 1990; a total of
US$20.6 million was disbursed, and US$47.2 million was cancelled.
The PCR was prepared by the Agricultural Operations Division of the
Brazil Department in the Latin America and Caribbean Region. It is based on a
field visit in December 1990, the Staff Appraisal Report, the President's
Report, the Loan and Project Agreements, the Borrower's progress and final
reports by CAR and SUDENE, studies by the State of Bahia, Bank supervision
reports, project correspondence and internal Bank memoranda.



- iii -
BRA21L
LECOND BAHIA RURAL DEMELOPMENT EPROJZECT (LoAN 2269-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.        The Second Bahia Rural Development Project was the last in a series
of ten projects approved by the World Bank between 1976 and 1983, to support
integrated rural development in selected micro-regions of Northeast Brazil.
The project objectives were to raise the incomes and standard of living of
45,000 farm families, develop agricultural technology appropriate for the
project area and other semi-arid and arid parts of the Northeast, and further
advance methods to secure nd redistribute land to small farmers.
Implementation Experience
2.        At appraisal, project costs were estimated at US$173.4 million, and
it was expected that the Bank loan of US$67.8 million would finance 39% of
these costs net of taxes. In 1983 and 1985, the Bank agreed to use US$4.4
million of the proceeds of this loan to finance 100% of the costs of two UNDP-
executed technical assistance and training projects in rural development for
technicians throughout the Northeast of Brazil. At loan closing (December 31,
1989. with final disbursements on October 11, 1990). the Bank had disbursed
US$20.6 million, or 30% of the original loan, and some US$47.2 million were
cancelled. Final total project costs were estimated at us$34.4 million, or
20% of the original estimate, with the Bank loan financing 60% of total costs
including the two technical assistance projects. The Government contributed
only 13% of the counterpart funds agreed at appraisal.
Results
3.        The number of direct agricultural beneficiaries was 31% of the
appraisal estimate (about 14,000 farmers, compared with an original estimate
of 45,000). Incomes of project benoficiaries did improve, although not as
much as anticipated at appraisal: actual average family incomes are estimated
to have increased by about 65% of the appraisal estimate, or between Us$475
for rainfed farm units and US$1,700 for irrigated farms. Yield increases were
also less than estimated at appraisal, but still relatively good, ranging from
29% to 50% for rainfed farmers, and 19% to 100% for irrigated farmers. Yield
increases derived mainly from the introduction of disease and drought-
resistant varieties and better cultural practices for rainfed agriculture, and



- iv -
from the expanded use of fertilizers, pesticides and improved seeds in
irrigated areas.
4.        In aggregate terms, the total cultivated area increased by about 7%
(compared with 60% estimated at appraioa-), the number of cLttle by some 194%
(vs. the appraisal estimate of 208%), and the number of sheep and goat. by
some 64% (vs. 52% estimated at appraisal). The value of production increased
by 55% (compared with an appraisal estimate of 143%). Thfs appraisal report
estimated the ERIZ to be 16%. The recalculated rate of return at completion is
about 11%. Factors contributing to depress the ERR include the smaller than
anticipated number of farmers assisted by the project witk technical
assistance and credit, and the resulting smaller increase in area planted,
lower rate3 of yield improvements, and decreases in the real prices of key
project crops.
Sustainabilitv
5.        Finally, the project was marginally successful in improving access
to land and security of tenure for small farmers. The number of titles
awarded, the protection of communal lands, and the introduction of new and
more efficient methodologies and other forms of institutional strengthening
can be counted as project successes. However, quite a few of the properties
titled were too small to be economically viable; many of the small farmers
lacked the resources to register the titles, which therefore did not serve the
purpose of providing collateral for formal investment credit; and there was no
recovery of illegally occupied public lands for redistribution to small
farmers.
Findings and Lessons Learned
6.        The following were the main lessons learned in implementing this
project:
(a) It is important to evaluate the Government's actual commitment
to rural development and poverty alleviation, as indicated by
its willingness to provide the agreed counterpart funds. In
this case, cnly 20% of estimated project costs were actually
invested, with which about 31% of expected beneficiaries were
reached. In almost all categories, project achievements were
commensurate with the level of resources provided; the
financial rates of return at farm level were good; and the
returns to the national economy, as measured by the re-
estimated ERR and actual revenue generation, were less than
expected but still satisfactory. This suggests that the
project design was basically sound and targets attainable and
sustainable despite a very difficult macroeconomic
environment. However, counterpart funding was simply too
little and too late. In future, the Bank should be more
forthcoming in canceling loans where such an important gap
develops between needs and the availability of counterpart
funds, because of inadequate Borrower commitment.



- v -
(b) It is also essential to assess correctly the political will to
implement ambitious programa for improving access to land and
security of tenure for small farmers. Although this project
developed efficient methodologies for doing so, the ultimate
impact was undermined by a basic unwillingness to challenge
vested interests and by the counterpart funding problems
mentiocned in para. 6(a) above.
(c) Major changes in methodology need to be thoroughly discussed,
understood and agreed with the project executing agencies
before the start of implementation. This project was quite
successful in improving the techniques used in land
regularization and partly successful in introducing a more
efficient methodology for providing extension services to
small farmers. However, intended changes in the strategy of
providing rural health services, making low-cost spot
improvements to rural roads, and engaging local communities in
the financing and maintenance of rural water supply systems
were not really accepted by the executing agencies and were
therefore never implemented.
(d) When the success of a project is dependent on close
cooperation among many implementing agencies, the coordinating
entity must be able to attract and retain competent technical
and managerial staff, and it should have sufficient authority
(including control over budgetary resources and the right to
terminate the services of non-performing executing agencies
and make alternative arrangements) to ensure efficient
implementation.
(e) A well-planned monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system is also
indispensable to provide timely feedback on the pace and
quality of implementation, to identify changes in strategy or
content which may be necessary to achieve the project's basic
objectives, and to measure project impact as an aid to the
Government in determining whether the project should be
extended or replicated elsewhere. Although this was the last
in the series of ten POLONORDESTE operations, and the second
in the State of Bahia, coordination, management and M&E
arrangements were not well designed at appraisal and remained
weak throughout the life of the project.
(f) It is unrealistic to expect a high degree of community
participation in the planning and implementation of a project
for which the administrative/budgetary system is, itself,
extremely centralized. Although some implementing agencies
under this project made a legitimate effort to engage
communities in serious dialogue, project communications tended
to be top-down in nature. In part, this reflected
longstanding practices in dealing with the rural poor, but it
was also because the state institutions themselves lacked



- vi -
sufficient authority to in'luence regional and federal
decisions about the POLONORDESTE Program and therefore could
not offer local communities snuch real discration in de'isLon-
making. The aplit between financial responsibility and
control (federal) and manager'al responsibility (stats) was
clearly not conducive to efficient project implemontation and
high levels of local beneficiary participation.
(g) The Bank should pay much closer attention to the needs and
implementation problems of ongoing operatlons  when deciding
whether to commit additional funds for sJmilar new projects.
Despite the counterpart funding difficul-Les of the earlier
Paraguagu Rural Development Project in Bahia (Loan 1589-BR).
the Bank went on to finance this Second Bahia Rural
Development Project, and although the latter was experiencing
even more serious financial constraints, the Bank soon
approved an even larger statewide rural development project
for Bahia 'Loan 2761-BR). The statewide project had several
negative repercussions on the Second Bahia Rural Development
Project: Bank attention shifted and staff inputs were diverted
from supervision of the ongoing project to preparation and
appraisal of the new one; wlth only a alight increase in staff
and administrative resources, the unit responsible for
coordinating implementation of the ongoing project had to
divert its attention to monitor rural development activities
throughout the state and therefore also paid less attention to
this project area; and the increased competition for scarce
federal resources complicated the counterpart funding problems
of the ongoing project.



BRAZIL
SECOND BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 2269-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Proiect Identity
- Project Name:      Second Bahia Rural Development Project
- Loan No.:          2269-BR
- RVP Unit:          Latin America and Caribbean Region
Country Department I
- Country:           Brazil
- Sector:            Agriculture
2.   Project Background
2.01      The Northeast region of Brazil (which includes the nine states of
Bahia, Alagoas, Ceara, MaranhAo, Paraiba, Pernambuco, Piaui, Rio Grande do
Norte, and Sergipe) has been viewed as Brazil's foremost poverty pocket,
since the late 1800s. Although the Northeast had been the country's
wealthiest region during the sugar boom of the colonial period, growth
subsequently lagged and wide inter-regional income and socio-economic
disparities developed, as industrial, agricultural and commercial activities
shifted to the South. After a major drought struck the Northeast in the early
1970s, prompting an exodus of destitute rural families towards both the
already overcrowded slums of the region's larger cities and the major
metropolitan centers in the South, the Federal Government began to look more
*       actively for ways to improve basic living conditions and economic prospects in
the rural Northeast.
2.02      In 1973, the Government and the Bank initiated a dialogue on rural
development issues and strategies for the Northeast. This coincided with, and
was partially the result of, a growing interest on the part of the Bank and
the Government in poverty-oriented integrated rural development prcgrams. In
October 1974, the Program of Development of Integrated Areas of the Northeast
(POLONORDESTE) was created. It sought to increase the production,
productivity, incomes, and the living standards of smallholder families, by
combining the provision of agricultural support services, physical
infrastruc.re and social services in selected micro-regions. Over the
following decade, the Bank financed ten P-'NORDESTE projects in eight of the
Northeast states; the Second Bahia Rural ^velopment Project was the last in
this series.



- 2 -
2.03      The POLONORDESTE projects represented the "first generation" of
irtegrated rural development projects in Northeast Brazil. Reviews of
POLONORDESTE and otheL Northeast rural programs were carried out by the
G%veLnnment and the Bank during the 1980s. Drawing on these assessments, a
"second generation" of projects began in April 1985, in support of the new
Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP). Unlike the earlier POLONORDESTE
projects, which had focussed on specific micro-regions within each state but
were multisectoral and included a large number of components, the NRDP
projects were broader in that they covered much larger areas within states,
but financed only a limited number of components thought to be critical to
raising agricultural production. Under the NRDP, a regional land tenure
improvement project and ten state projects were approved and are currently
uinder implementation.
3.   Project Objectives and Description
3.01      The Second Bahia Rural Development Project sought to develop otne of
the pourest and driest parts of that state. In this respect, the project
differed from most of the earlier Bank-financed POLONORDESTE operatiors, which
had supported micro-regions considered to have better than average
agricultural potential. It was to be implemented over a five-year period in
43 municipalities (about 13% of the state' in Northeastern Bahia, where it
aimed to raise tne incomes and living standards of some 45,000 small farm
families with holdings under 50 ha, by p.oviding more secure land tenure;
stimulating production through increases in agricultural productivity and an
exoansion of cropped areas; and improving social services, physical
infrastructure, and public sector institutional capacity. The following were
the main project components!
(a)  Land Tenure Regularization and Redistribution, including the
titling of 55,000 legally occupied farms, and the reposeession
of some 37,500 hectares of illegallv occupied public land for
redistribution to small fai.nmers;
(b)  Agricultural Development, including the strengthening and
expanr in of rural extension, agricultural research, plant and
animal protection services, and provision of rural credit;
(c)  Physical Infrastructure, including the improvement of 1,000 km
of municipal roads and the strengthening of road maintenance;
(d)  Social Services, including improvement of the quality and
expansion of coverage of primary education and health care,
the construction of 100 rural water supply systems and the
improvement of hygiene in rural dwellings; ard
(e) Project Administration, including support to project
management and coordination, and monitoring and evaluation.



- 3 -
Activities complementary to the project, such as agro-industrial developraent
and farm price support programs, were to be funded by the government. Also,
in parallel to the project and without Bank financing, the Government
committed itself to resolve issues concerning the boundaries of AmeLindian
reserves for some 3,600 indigenous inhabitants of the project area.
4.   Prject Design and OrRanization
4.01      The proje:t was designed as an integrated rural development project
under the POLONORDESTE regional development program. Project design took into
*       consideration lessons learned from previous Bank-financed pto4ects under this
Program, including the first Bahia Rural Development Project (Loan 1589-BR),
particularly regarding the critical importance of addressing land tenure
problems affecting the agricultural performance and well-being of target group
farmers. As a result of the long-standi'ng dialogue between thie Bank and the
Government on more comprehensive ways to address .he issue of small farmer
access to land in the Northeast, this project made substantial provision for
new aerial photography and photo-restitution techniquee that were to be used
to clarify the land tenure situation in the project area, assist small farmers
in securing legal title to their land, and identify public lands for
redistribution to farmers with insufficient or no land.
4.02      As with the other POLONORDESTE operations, this project's
management and implementation arrangements were quite ambitious, given the
need for close interaction and ccordination among many different participating
agencies. The Bank and the Government believed, however, that experience with
the first Bahia project (Loan 1589-BR) had shown that inter-institutional
cooperation could be achieved, especially in the field, provided the State
Government assigned sufficient priority to the project, aad an improved
monitoring and evaluation system was developed to .trengthen project feedback
and decision-making processes.
4.03      In retrospect, project design was based on some important
*       assumptions that proved to be overly optimistic.  Among these were that: (a)
the Government would have the capacity and political will to launch a very
extensive land regularization program, including both titling of legal
occupants and recovery and redistribution to small farmers of public lands
irregularly occupied by large squatters; (b) Bahia's wcak i-nstitutional
capacity could be strengthened to the point of being able to implement a
complex project with many innovative proposals, ranging from a new rural
extension methodology to health delivery services not tested before in the
state; and (c) credit and counterpart funds would be available in adequate
amounts and in a timely manner, despite the worsening fiscal situation of
Brazil. In the event, although the state's capacity to implement land
regularization was greatly improved under the project, particularly in terms
of land titling, political support for large-scale land redistribution was not
sufficient. In reality, the project actualiy helpud to consolidate the
existing, unequal pattern of land occupation b; legalizing many farm units
which were too small to be economically viable. While institutional capacity
improvad markedly, it still proved to be too weak to implement all the new



ideas proposed by the project. Availability of credit was very limited during
most of the project period, and counterpart funding fell far short of needs
and was often severely delayed.
4.04      Project organization included a Technical Unit (TU) and executing
agencies at the state level, and the Superintendency for Development of the
Northeast (SUDENE) and the MinisLrv of Interior (MINTER) at the regional and
Federal level, respectively. Project management was the responsibility of the
TU. which had been specially created within the Company for Regioinal Action
(CAR), of the State Secretariat of Planning and Technology (SEPLANTEC).
Physical implementation of the various project components was the
responsibility of existing state institutions under contractual arrangements
(convgnios) with the CAR/SEPLANTEC. Policy decisions concerning
implementation of some components (i.e., irrigation, credit) and about the
POLONORDESTE Program in general, were normally taken either at the regional
level by SUDENE, or directly by MINTER. Community participation was to be
encouraged to help formulate local priorities, take part in the execution and
maintenance of some project activities, and monitor overall project impact.
These administrative arrangements were ineffective. The TU did not have
sufficient authority (particularly control over budgetary resources) to
enforce decisions on project execution and ensure interagency coordination.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements were not sufficiently detailed at
appraisal and remained weak throughout the project period. While some
implementing agencies, such as the extension service, made a legitimate effort
to engage communities in serious dialogue, project communications tended to be
top-down in nature. In part, this reflected longstanding practices in dealing
with the rural poor, but it was also because the state institutions themselves
lacked sufficient authority to influence regional and Federal cecisions about
the POLONORDESTE Program and therefore could not offer local communities much
real discretion in decision-making. Shortly after the start-up of
implementation, the administrative structure of this project had to be
integrated with that of the new NRDP regional program (para. 2.03). This
meant that, with only a slight increase in staffing, the CAR then had to
coordinate and monitor rural development activities throughout the entire
state and therefore could devote much less attention to this particular
project area.
5. Project Implementation
5.01      The Second Bahia Rural Development Project was approved in April
1983, signed in May 1983, and became effective in July 1983. During the early
years, implementation did not progress as anticipated, mainly because of
chronic shortages of counterpart funds, which were almost always released
late, compounded by inflation rates ranging from 100-4002 p.a.; inadequate
investment credit for smLl1 farmers in the project area; and the weak
performance of several key executing agencies, in particular those concerned
with irrigation, water supply and agricultural extension. While extension
performance picked up in later years, the quality of service by the agencies
responsible for addressing water resource problems remained extremely poor.
Implementation was expected to take five years, but the loan closing date was



- 5 -
extended by one year, until December 31, 1989. in %rder to complete some of
the project bgsic infrastructure, technical assistance, and training
activities. However, the one-year extension did not make it possible to meet
most original project targets, because of the acute funding shortfall. The
final disbursement of loan proceeds was made on October 11, 1990. By loan
closing, disbursements were US$20.6 million, or about 302 of the appraisal
estimate of US$67.8 million, and US$47.2 million equivalent was cancelled.
The final project cost was US$34.4 million, of which 60% was financed by the
Bank (v. about 392 expected at appraisal).
5.02      The Land Tenure Regularization and Redistribution component aimed
to improve access to land by small farmers in the project area through: (a)
systematic review and legal discrimination of claims to private ownership of
some 36,000 km2 of land; (b) confirmation of claims and boundaries, and issue
of titles for about 55,000 properties under 50 ha; (c) guarantee of continued
access by shepherd families to communal grazing areas; (d) acquisition through
legal action or purchase of some 37,500 ha to be resold on credit to 1,500
small farmers with insufficient land; and (e) institutional strengthening of
the state land institution (INTERBA).
5.03      At project completion, claims had been reviewed in detail
concerning alleged private ownership of about 6,500 km2 of land (18Z of the
appraisal target), covering some 32,500 properties (65Z of targets), and some
29,000 titles (about 50? of target) had been distributed. This, in itself,
was an important achievement when compared with previous experience in Bahia
and elsewhere in the Northeast. However, the project titled a large number of
small, economically unviable farm units. Titles needed to be recorded by the
local land registrars, but many small farmers did not have the resources to
complete that step. Therefore, their titles did not serve the intended
purpose of providing collateral against which banks would extend credit. On
the other hand, EHATER-BA reports that many farmers did become willing to
adopt new low-cost technologies, even without credit, once they had received
titles and were more secure about being able to stay on the lands they
occupied. Guarantees to shepherd families threatened with invasion of their
communal lands were more successful. Some 40,000 ha benefitting about 1,800
families were regularized, and more than 800 individual and 16 collective land
titles were issued. Security was provided individually to small plots to
produce food crops and communally to large tracts of land for sheep, goats and
cattle grazing. These groups were able to obtain formal credit for the first
time. Finally, some 6,000 ha of land, or 16? of targets, were identified for
purchase and redistribution, but none was actually sold or distributed to
small farmers.
5.04      From an institutional point of view, the project clearly helped to
develop Bahia's capacity to regularize its land tenure situation. The
introduction of new technologies to identify property boundaries and generate
information for the legal definition of claims, as well as the use of
computerized equipment to produce titles and accompanying cartographic data,
greatly increased the efficiency of the land regularization process. The
practical implementation of communal titling, not previously experimented with
in the state or elsewhere in Brazil, also provided a methodology and tools



- 6 -
that could be used in similar situations. Institutional and methodological
results from this project were later used in other parts of Bahia and in the
preparation and implementation of a regional Land Tenure Improvement Project
(Loan 2593-BR) for the Brazilian Northeast as a whole.
5.05      The Rural Extension component aimed to provide technical assistance
to farmers to improve their agricultural production through a moderate
expansion of the areas under rainfed and irrigated crops and reductions in
post-harvest losses. Farmers were also to be assisted in obtaining credit;
community groups were to be organized and trained on marketing and other
issues; and nutrition and home economics education were to be provided to
target group families. The project was also expected to pilot a new extension
methodology with some similarities to the training and visit system, in an
effort to improve the overall efficiency and effectiveness of the state's
rural extension service. By project completion, an average of some 14,000
farmers in the project area were receiving technical assistance annually (31Z
of the original target); 6,500 farmers had been assisted to obtain credit
(252 of the appraisal estimate); and training programs reached 1,000 farmer
leaders and 160 extensionists (262 and 76?, respectively, of the appraisal
estimates). Fifteen new extension offices had been established and 100
middle- and upper-level agricultural extension agents, and 25 middle- and
upper-level social extensionists were hired, compared to appraisal estimates
of 20, 115 and 43, respectively.
5.06      Extension efforts were hindered by scarce operating funds, low
salaries, limited rural investment credit and, during early project years,
inadequate interaction with the research service. By the end of the project,
however, the State Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company (EMATER-
BA) had succeeded in getting assisted farmers to adopt a number of low-cost
and low-risk technologies that helped to increase both the area planted and
yields of different rainfed crops. Better land preparation techniques,
including soil conservation, use of animal traction (many farmers already
possessed animals and therefore did not need to make new investments for this
purpose), introduction of organic material and fire control, as well as the
use of more adequate spacing, new disease- and drought-resistant varieties,
improved seeds (maize and beans) and planting material (manioc and cashew),
resulted in higher yields and incomes of assisted rainfed farmers in the
project area. In irrigated areas, EMATER-BA's advice on the use of
fertilizers, improved seeds, pesticides and cultural practices also increased
yields for onion, tomato, melon, watermelon, and red pepper. In terms of
animal production, EMATER-BA interacted with the State Biological Institute
(IBB) in animal vaccination campaigns, and animal health treatment and in the
introduction of improved breeds. It also recommended the introduction of
improved and drought-resistent pastures and forage (sorghum, palm) and the use
of fencing. As a result, cattle production, but particularly sheep and goat
production, improved substantially in the project area.
5.07      EMATER-BA never did fully adopt the modified training and visit
extension methodology which was to be piloted under this project; however, it
did shift from individual to group extension techniques utuing demonstration
farms. Although extension messages were not planned and diffused throughout



the project area on a rigorous schedule, towards the end of the project
period, EMATER-BA and EPABA were doing joint plannir.j of the extension
messages to be transmitted in each area throughout the year (para. 5.11).
5.08      Social extensionists assisted about 6,000 families, in cooperation
with the health and education services, which report that EMATER-BA played an
important catalytic role to their functions. Some 3,000 water filters and 300
pits were established by project assisted families; and nutrition habits
improved following the establishment of some 65 school gardens, 125 community
gardens and 1,900 family gardens. Social extensionists also helped to
organiz  -      ities to implement small works to ensure storage of drinking
water for the *-ought periods.
5.09      ARricultural Research under the project was to be complementary to
the Bank-assisted First and Second Agricultural Research Projects (Loans 1249-
BR and 2016-BR), and was to concentrate on the adaptation of varieties and
cultivation techniques to the climatic and soil conditions of the project
area. The strategy of research efforts was to improve dry-farming techniques
for existing production systems, with particular attention paid to reducing
the risks posed by inadequate and unreliable rainfall, and solving problems
associated with rearing of cattle, goats and sheep under semi-arid and arid
conditiorns. Fourteen researchers and their support staff were hired; 135
experiments were conducted: and 43 observation units and one small goat
research station were established (representing 742, 862 and 1002 of appraisal
targets, respectively).
5.10      In spite of a series of financial and institutional problems, the
State Agricultural Research Company (EPABA) achieved some important research
results under the project. New bean varieties resistent to diseases and
suitable for low fertility (low in P) soils were developed, as well as
recommendations on the use of inoculants and fertilizers and for spacing.
Attempts to introduce drought-resistant bean varieties were less successful.
In sorghum, both for grain and forage, research results defined adequate
spacing and planting density, fertilization (both P and N), and specific
recommendations on varieties appropriate for the project area. Research
recommendations were also made available on suitable varieties of commercial
crops (e.g., castor bean, sisal and jojoba). For livestock, EPABA developed
vaccines for prevalent goat and sheep diseases, and recommendations on
controlling animal parasites, using mineral and other food supplements, and
improving drought-resistent pasture varieties.
5.11      Interaction between Bahia's research and extension services started
slowly, but improved greatly in the final project years as the two entities
undertook joint planning and work in technology generation and diffusion and
better zoning of agricultural activities for the project area. Some of these
joint activities were based on the results of a natural resources study
(including soil classification, water resources availability, and physical and
chemical restrictions on their use) implemented by EPABA with project
financing. EPABA's research and demonstration units were used to organize
farmers and extensionist visits. More than 160 of these events were organized



during the life of the project. In addition, more than 40 publications were
produced and distributed to extensionists and farmers.
5.12      The Plant and Animal Health Protection component sought to improve
the productivity of the region's sheep and goat herds, and to provide rural
laboratory services for pest control and plant protection. All three new
offices proposed at appraisal were constructed and all veterinarians and
agronomists were contracted. Some 550,000 head of cattle belonging to some
13,400 farmers were assisted through vaccination and vermifugation campaigns,
and 7,000 farmers were registered and their herds monitored during the life of
the project. While precise figures are not available, the use of new methods
of animal disease diagnosis and control, vaccination and vermifugation
campaigns, and farmer education in epidemiology control and management
practices, contributed substantially to reducing previously high mortality
indices and improving animal productivity. In terms of plant protection, some
3,900 farmers with about 18,000 ha of crops were assisted during the project.
Some 13 campaigns for the control and eradication of toxic plants, use of
machinery and pest control chemicals, and other plant protection-related
subjects were conducted by the Biological Institute of Bahia (IBB) during
project implementation.
5.13      The Agricultural Credit component aimed to provide incremental
seasonal and investment financing for 26,000 of the 45,000 small farmers who
would be assisted by the extension service, and land purchase credit for 1,500
farmers who would benefit from project land redistribution activities.
Although the Bank had refrained from supporting credit under several earlier
POLONORDESTE projects because of policy disagreements with the government,
this project included a credit component because an understanding was reached
in January 1983 regarding the unification of special credit lines and the
gradual phasing out of agricultural credit subsidies. During the first few
years of the project, credit continued to be available for Northeast farmers
on preferential terms, but the volume was very limited due to a conscious
decision by Federal monetary authorities. As the special credit program dried
up, most project farmers were unable to access regular commercial credit,
partly because they lacked collateral due to their uncertain tenure status and
also because rapidly accelerating inflation, which frequently exceeded the
rate of increase of farm product prices, priced such credit beyond their
means. By the end of the project period, only 6,500 farmers had received
credit (25Z of the appraisal target).
5.14      The Small-Scale Irrigation component aimed to promote various types
of irrigation to overcome the inadequate and unreliable rainfall pattern,
which was the principal natural constraint to agricultural development in the
project area. Implementation was delayed, mainly because of the very weak
capacity of the state agencies responsible for irrigation development. In
1985 a special irrigation group was established in the Directorate of
Irrigation of the State Rural Engineering Company (CERB), with 15 senior
agriculturalists and four mid-level agronomists. Some 250 farmers
participated in irrigation planning and water management techniques training
programs (14Z of the appraisal estimate), and by the end of the project, 180
families were implementing irrigation schemes. Of these, 12 families were



-9-
part of two pilot group deep well irrigation systems established, and the
others practiced irrigation using surface water. EMATER-BA also assisted a
number of families who had acquired irrigation facilities without support from
the project (2,004 irrigated farmers, and 386 farmers with small reservoirs
and weirs).
5.15      The Municipal Roads component aimed to make localized improvements
to existing municipal roads and to upgrade the State's road maintenance
capacity. Mainly due to financiai constraints, only 390 kms (39Z of the
appraisal target) of roads were improved. Part of the problem was caused by
the State Inter-Municipal Road Consortium's (CRIBA) use of higher design and
construction standards for road improvements than had been anticipated at
appraisal, resulting in higher unit costs. None of the mechanized brigades
which had been planned to support implementation and maintenance of the road
improvements by the municipalities were established, also due to lack of
counterpart funding. Instead, feeder road improvements and maintenance were
implemented by private contractors, except for some 32 kms constructed and
maintained by the municipality of Euclides da Cunha. The participation of
more than one executing agency complicated implementation of municipal
institutional strengthening efforts. CRIBA was responsible for execution, but
CAR also dealt with the municipalities in establishing operational
arrangements for training of municipal staff and for road maintenance. This
led to duplication of some activities and conflicting project guidelines from
the state coordinating and executing agencies to the municipalities.
5.16      The Rural Water Supply component sought to provide an adequate
supply of good quality water for domestic use by financing the construction of
160 simplified water supply systems with standpipes (Type I), and 20 more
complex systems with house-to-house connections (Type II). Appraisal targets
were exceeded with the construction of 170 Type I systems, benefitting 8,500
families, but the objective of reducing operating costs by assessing and
collecting user fees and involving communities in the maintenance of the
systems was not achieved. The executing agency (CERB) failed to promote water
user associations before installing the systems and the communities continued
to view water supply as a Government responsibility. Consequently, many
project systems have been non-operational at one time or another, totally
depending on CERB's O&M capacity. None of the 20 more complex Type II systems
proposed at appraisal was constructed.
5.17      The Education component was to complement improvements that were
already being made to the formal primary education system in 27 of the 43
project municipalities under the Bank-financed Northeast Brazil Basic
Education Project (Loan 1867-BR), which, in turn, was based on innovations
that had been piloted under earlier POLONORDESTE projects. Qualitative
improvements were to be introduced in the remaining 16 municipalities, access
to schools expanded, and the administrative apparatus strengthened. Non-
formal education programs to reduce adult illiteracy and improve numeracy
skills were also to be implemented. At project completion, a total of 2,500
additional school places had actually been created (45Z of appraisal targets).
Three municipal supervisors and 130 teachers (43Z and 48Z of targets), and two
adult literacy supervisors and 45 teachers (40? and 64Z of targets) were



- 10 -
trained. Some 19,000 books, 23,000 packages of educational materials and 800
teacher manuals were distributed in the project area (272, 132 and 53Z of
appraisal targets). Only a little more than 100 persons participated in
vocational and adult literacy and numeracy courses (mainly due to distances)
in 11 municipalities of the project area. The additional infrastructure and
the distribution of books and school lunches helped to improve both education
and health conditions, resulting in higher average attendance rates and fewer
school dropouts. The project also introduced an innovative school calendar
adapted to the needs of the rural areas (i.e., with vacations scheduled during
periods of peak labor demand on the farms, rather than during traditional
vacation months in Brazil), which also contributed to reduce school drop outs.
However, financial difficulties, and the suspension of funding for the
component after the second-generation NRDP program was introduced, limited
these gains to a much smaller number of schools and beneficiaries than
anticipated at appraisal.
5.18      The Health and Sanitation component was to improve the coverage and
quality of primary health care services for the 45,000 project families.
Although some physical infrastructure and equipment was to be provided, the
main emphasis was to be on training human resources, improving supervision of
delivery systems, and modifying the traditional role of rural health
attendants. The project was also to support home improvements to improve
sanitary conditions and reduce Chagas disease. By project completion, six
health posts and one health center (202 and 332 of targets, respectively) were
constructed and equipped. Two of the nine sets of dental equipment planned at
appraisal were provided for health centers. Equipment and vehicles were
acquired for only two of the nine health supervision nuclei anticipated at
appraisal, and none of the bicycles and only 11 motorcycles for the rural
health attendants' domiciliary visits were acquired. Some 150 health
attendants (Q6Z of targets), 200 midwives (622 of targets), 60 sanitation
workers (902 of targets) and 11 health supervisors (402 of targets) were
trained; two seminars involving some 100 health professionals were conducted;
and manuals for rural health attendants were developed. Only 750 houses (of
the 18,900 proposed at appraisal) received sanitary improvements and these
were limited to pits; other home improvements to reduce the incidence of
Chagas disease were not implemented.
5.19      The execution of the health component was prejudiced by limited
counterpart resources. The shift of coordination responsibilities from the
state to the Federal level after approval of the NRDP (para. 2.03) virtually
paralyzed its implementation. The strategy of de-emphasizing physical
infrastructure in favor of human resource training, and adequate provision of
medical supplies and materials to improve the operations of existing
facilities was well understood and accepted at the State level. The use of
health attendants with motorcycles, bicycles, and health kits to do
domiciliary visits was not. At the time of appraisal, the approach of
aggressively seeking to extend health care through domiciliary visits had
never been tried in Bahia; staff of the State Secretariat of Health were
opposed and it was never actually implemented. However, the project did help
to improve the state health planning and supervisory systems, decentralize
administrative functions from the state capital to municipalities and local



- 11 -
level, develop methodologies for training human resources, and establish
operational routines that are now applied statewide by the Secretariat of
Health. The manuals developed by the project for rural health attendants are
today also used statewide.
5.20      Activities Complementary to the Project.  In parallel with, and in
support of, the project, the Government agreed to finance minimum price
financing schemes to assist farmers in marketing and Amerindian protection
activities to resolve reserve boundary disputes affecting indigenous
inhabitants of the project area. she former was expected to guarantee minimum
prices for agricultural products, usually set at 20? to 30Z below market,
through a nationwide storage financing and purchasing scheme. Although fiscal
constraints occasionally limited the resources available for the minimum price
program, in most project years farmers did use the scheme because the prices
paid for beans and corn exceeded production costs and actual market prices in
the project area. For manioc, however, production costs were normally higher
than the set minimum price, and a decrease in the area planted with manioc
resulted. The market prices of sisal and horticultural products were above
the minimum prices, and therefore project farmers had no difficulty selling
their output and did not resort to the guarantee scheme.
5.21      The Amerindian component sought to resolve disputes regarding the
boundaries of five Amerindian areas in three of the 43 project municipalities,
and to improve health and education conditions for the indigenous population.
Solution of these disputes was supposed to precede all project investments,
for indigenous and non-indigenous beneficiaries, in the municipalities
concerned. While some improvements were made in terms of health and education
conditions of the Amerindian population, and the number and intensity of
conflicts over land issues did decrease, the definitive boundaries of the
reserves were never established due to differences of opinion among the
National Indian Foundation (FUNAI), the State Land Institute (INTERBA) and the
National Institute of Colonization and Agrarian Reform (INCRA).
5.22      Project Management and Coordination.  Project management at the
State level employed 33 staff, of whom 26 were technical personnel, compared
to an appraisal estimate of 29 higher-level staff and 27 support staff. Three
higher-level staff who were to have formed a special project impact evaluation
unit were not hired, because CAR management decided instead to have one
central evaluation unit for all projects which it coordinated. This affected
negatively the TU's capacity to monitor project implementation properly and
evaluate project impact. CAR initially had problems with project and
interagency coordination, although the situation improved markedly after five
local CAR offices were established and a better system of interagency
cooperation and community participation in the field was implemented.
However, following the approval of the NRDP for Bahia, also financed by the
Bank, the quality of the project administrative structure and the methodology
of interagency and community participation in the field deteriorated, as CAR
monitoring and evaluation capabilities were effectively diluted among other
areas of the state.



- 12 -
5.23      Total Project Cost.  The total project cost was US$34.4 million, or
only 202 of the appraisal estimate of US$173.4 million. This was mainly the
result of the extreme shortage of counterpart funding from the Federal
Government throughout the life of the project. Aggregate disbursement of
US$20.6 million represented about 30% of the original loan amount and 60% of
the total project costs. The increased Bank participation, from the original
392, was partly due to agreements in 1983 and 1985 to use some of the proceeds
of this loan to finance 100% (US$4.4 million) of the costs of two UNDP
technical assistance programs for the whole Northeast region of Brazil.
Excluding these funds, the Bank financed 54% of the total costs of the Second
Bahia Project. The Federal Government contributed only 13% of the counterpart
funds originally agreed at appraisal and loan negotiations. The actual
project cost per beneficiary family was US$2,140, compared with an appraisal
estimate of US$3,850.
6.   Project Results
6.01      General.  The project helped to introduce a more efficient
methodology to accelerate the process of land regularization and titling,
aimed, in part, at reducing conflicts in areas where illegal land occupation
was creating serious social problems. It was ineffective in recuperating
illegally occupied public lands to be redistributed to farmers with little or
no land. In spite of serious shortfalls and delays in Federal counterpart
funding, adaptive research generated some important low-risk and low-cost
findings to improve crop production and animal husbandry practices that could
have an important economic impact on the future of the driest areas of Bahia.
The wider adoption of new technologies and cultural practices during the life
of the project was constrained by financial limitations on the extension
service and, in the case of higher-cost improvements, by the lack of
investment credit.
6.02      Project achievements in raising incomes and the standard of living
of target farmers were more modest than anticipated at appraisal.
Nevertheless, in absolute terms, per capita income increases were substantial
considering the overall poverty level within the project area. Incremental
employment generated directly by the project was about 5,000 person years.
6.03      With regard to other project objectives, the project did help to
strengthen the implementation of key state institutions, which may have a
wider impact than the project itself. These institutions, drawing on the
lessons learned during implementation, should be able to better plan and
implement similar projects in the state.
6.04      Production.  At appraisal, it was estimated that the project would
raise agricultural production through both a moderate expansion of cropped
area and higher crop yields, and increase animal production through better
animal husbandry and veterinary practices. SAR and PCR estimates of
incremental cropped area, and animal and crop output, are detailed on the next
page.



- 13 -
SAR ar.d PCR Estimates for Incremental Cropped Area
and Production at Full Development
SAR                                 PCR
Area      Production            Area             Production
('000 ha)    ('000 tons)          ('000 ha)        ('000 tons)
Beans           26.9            24.3                4.7             6.8
Corn            22.4            19.3                4.7             7.1
Hanioc           7.6            23.3                                5.4
Cowpea           4.7             4.6                 1/              1/
Sisal             -              3.8                                1.5
Castor Beans    5.1              4.7                0.5             0.5
Sheep/Goats 2/   -              57.1                               70.1
Cattle 2/         -             13.3                               11.4
Watermelons       .03            6.8               (0.1)             3.2
Helons            .2             2.2                0.2             2.5
Tomatoes          .4            15.8                0.4            13.4
Onions            .5             9.7                0.2             5.5
Green Peppers    .2              2.6
Sorghum          3.2             1.6
Bananas           .5            14.4
Impr. Pasture  27.6             -                  14.4
Total
Cropped Area 3/49.6                                 5.9
1/ PCR area and production of cowpea included under beans.
2/ Production for sheep, goats and cattle are expressed in '000 animals.
3/  Excluding area of corn intercropped with beans.
6.05      Total incremental cropped area was originally estimated to reach
about 50,000 ha over the pre-project situation.  The main increase was to come
from beans, corn and manioc (70Z), cowpea, castor beans and sorghum (262) and
high value horticulture crops (4Z). EMATER-BA data now estimates total
incremental c:opped area by project beneficiaries at full development to be
5,900 ha; this was only 122 of the appraisal estimate, but more or less in
line with the proportion of original total project costs that was actually
invested, and the share of project area fanmers who actually received
extension and some credit as compared with original targets. The incremental
5,900 ha derives mainly from expansion in the areas planted with corn, beans
and cowpea and with the planting of almost all anticipated area of high value
horticultural crops. Improved pastures were estimated at appraisal to
increase by some 28,000 ha. Only 14,000 ha or 502 of estimated targets are
now expected. However, due to better veterinary and animal husbandry



- 14 -
practices, the increase in the number of heads of sheep and goats is some 222
higher than appraisal estimates. The increase in the number of heads of
cattle is only 15S short of appraisal estimates.
6.06      Appraisal targets for increases in productivity proved to be
ambitious for most crops, as shown in Annex 1 and summarized belows
SAR and PCR Estimates for CroD Yields (tons/ha)
ADpraisal                            PCR
Without Project   With Proiect    Without Project  With Project
Beans               0.39              0.59             0.36             0.52
Corn                0.39              0.87             0.38             0.57
Manioc              2.16              3.13             2.29             3.11
Castor Beans        0.50              0.74             0.50             0.66
Sisal               0.72              1.00             0.68             0.88
Tomatoes           26.20 1/          33.30            12.00 1/         25.00
Onions             14.20             17.20            14.00            17.00
Watermelons        12.10             15.00            12.00            14.30
Melon               8.7              12.00             9.00            12.00
1/   iccording to EMATER-BA. the "without project" tomato yield estimates
used at appraisal were achieved only by a small number of agro-business
type enterprises using very modern technology. The lower "without
project" yields used at completion are based on EMATER-BA field data,
and more accurately reflect the experience of typical small farmers in
the project area.
Average yields were estimated at appraisal to increase between 21Z and more
than 100X, through introduction on new varieties, improved seed, use of
fertilizers, irrigation, and improved cultural practices. With the exception
of tomatoes for which yield increases at completion were greater than those
anticipated at appraisal, crop yields increased between 192 and 502. Yields
for all irrigated horticulture crops, for which technical assistance and
credit were available, reached appraisal estimates. For rainfed crops that
suffered shortages of investment credit, lower product prices and less
technical assistance, actual yield increases were lower than appraisal
estimates. As shown in Annex 2, the value of incremental project output at
full development is now estimated to reach US$14.6 million, or about 38Z of
the appraisal target of US$37.9 million. Prices for foodcrops such as corn,
beans, and manioc fell by 652, 402 and 302, respectively, in real terms
between initiation and completion of the project. Prices for horticulture
products were very close to those anticipated at appraisal, with the real
price of melon actually increasing by some 402.



- 15 -
6.07      Financial Performance.  At appraisal it was estimated that farm
family incomes at full development would more than double, with increases of
about US$720 and US$2,600 for farmers with rainfed land and irrigation,
respectively, and a weighted average annual increase of US$820. Price
projections and yield forecasts for most project products proved too
optimistic and income increases therefore varied between US$475 for rainfed
farm units and US$1,700 for irrigated farms, or about 652 of appraisal
estimates. The w-ighted average increase for all models was about US$530 per
family; while this is below the forecast, it is significant given the very low
pre-project income levels. The estimated financial rate of return at
appraisal ranged from 31X for farms with tubewell irrigation, to over 100l for
the small rainfed farmers in arid and semi-arid areas.  Although product
prices and yields were generally lower than forecasted at appraisal, they were
achieved with investments at farm-level that were far below appraisal
expectations. Consequently, in all farm models, the financial rate of return
was very close, matched or exceeded appraisal est_mates. A comparison of the
FXR estimated at appraisal with the eight models analyzed is shown in Part
III, Table 9.
6.08      Fiscal Impact.  At appraisal it was assumed that at full
development the marketing tax (ICM) would have produced annual incremental
revenues of US$4.17 million for the State of Bahia, and that incremental rural
Social Se%urity taxes revenues (FUNRURAL) would be US$1.0 million per year by
full development. At completion, incremental ICM revenues were estimated at
US$1.19 million and FUNRURAL revenues at US$365,000. In other words, total
incremental revenues are about 302 of appraisal forecasts, which is reasonable
considering that only about 20? of original total project costs were actually
invested.
6.09      Economic Rate of Return.  At appraisal the economic rate of return
(ERR) for directly productive project activities (representing 73Z of total
costs) was estimated at 16?. The analysis included 100? of the project costs
for land tenure regularization and distribution, adaptive research, animal
health and plant protection, and municipal roads, and 75? of the cost of
extension (excluding the social extension aspects) and 70? of project
monitoring and evaluation (excluding costs associated with coordination of
social components). Health, rural water supply and education components,
which have significant but not readily quantifiable benefits, were also
excluded. The benefits considered in the analysis included all incremental
production above the "without project" situation for the estimated 26,000
farmers that would obtain credit and an additional 5,000 farmers out of the
remaining 19,000 who would be reached by extension but would not receive
credit.
6.10      Under somewhat more conservative assumptions, the ERR was re-
estimated using 1989 constant prices. The benefits considered in the analysis
included only 70? of incremental production above the "without project"
situation of the 14,000 farmers assisted by EMATER-BA, on the assumption that
some incremental benefits may have been due to factors exogenous to the
project. Past expenditures, excluding taxes and duties, were calculated in



- 16 -
U.S. dollars and adjusted to !989 constant prices *si9ng the M.UV.V
deflator.  For lebor, a conversion factor of 50 was applied, as at apprAisal.
The prices of tradeable goods (corn, mast, siagl) and fertilizers were
calculated at 1989 prices using the World Bank's Comodity Price and Price
Projections ZAnnexes 3 and 4). The total value of icremental project
production was obtained by aggregating the output of the various farm models,
adjusted for actual changes in. cropped areas and yields, by the number of
assisted farmers shown Ti Ansne- 5.  The re-estimated ER is about 11  (Annex
6).  Factors contributing to depress the EPRR include the smaller than
anticipated number of farmers assisted by the project, lower rates of yield
improvement and decreases in the real. prices of key crops during the period
1983 to 1989.  Compensating factors which contributed positively to the ERR
included the drastic reduction in project cocts, lower investment maintenance
costs at full development, the successful expansion and relatively good prices
of horticulture crops, and the larger than anticipated expansion of sheep and
goat production.
7.   Risks
7.01      The main project risks were rightly identified at appraisal as
being: (a) the ability of project management to achieve the necessary
coordination among all executing agencies; (b) the technical and political
risks associated with the land tenure component, as the mapping methods that
were to be introduced were fairly complicated, and the polLtical pressures
from large land owners who could lose their land could slow implementation;
and (c) the risk associated with unusually adverse climatic conditions, as the
project area is prone to long periods of very low and erratic rainfall. On
the other hand, the impact which Brazil's deteriorating fiscal situation.
compounded by the low priority assigned to the project by the Federal
Government, would have on counterpart funding and hence project implementation
was clearly not appreciated at appraisal.
8.   Proiect Sustainability
8.01      It was assumed at appraisal that taxation from incremental project
production marketed inside and outside the state would produce annu&l revenues
sufficient to finance the recurrent costs required to maintain the
infrastructure and services established under the project. The lower actual
level of incremental rever.ues to the State of Bahia is proportionate to the
lower project investments (para. 6.08), but is certainly not adequate to
maintain the administrative apparatus and facilities which were put in place
in the expectation of supporting a much larger project. At farm level, the
project has generally been quite profitable and should therefore be
sustainable, particularly for those beneficiaries with secure land tenure and
1/ M.U.V. (Manufactured Unit Value) 1982 to 1989 as follows: 1982 - 1.447;
1983 = 1.484; 1984 - 1.511; 1985 = 1.495; 1986 = 1.264; 1987 = 1.156; 1988
1.063; 1989 = 1.0.



- 17 -
access to irrigation and credit, as well as those small farmers who adopted
some of the low-cost low-risk technologies developed under the project for
semi-arid and arid rainfed farming.
9.   Bank Performance
9.01      Throughout the life of this project, the Bank's involvement has
been consistent with average Bank inputs for agricultural projects in Brazil.
Initial ideatification, preparation and subsequent appraisal extended over a
period of two years and absorbed a total of 90 Bank staff weeks. A total of
27 supervision missions (of which 18 were one-person missions, often concerned
with only one or two project components) were fielded over a period of siX
years. Project coordinators report that, on some occasions issues and
problems identified by supervision missions did not receive adequate follow-
up. In particular, on probiems like shortages and delays in counterpart
funding and credit availability, the Bank should have taken a stricter
position in enforcing compliance with loan covenants. In addition, again
according to project staff, during the interim period of preparation,
negotiations and start-up of implementation cf the NRDP, the Bank did not
provide good supervision of this project; in particular, the Bank was
ineffective in dealing with non-compliance with contractual commitments
related to components not included in the statewuide NRDP (eg., health and
education), with the result that execution of both components stopped for all
practical purposes. In retrospect, the decision not to include this project
in the 1983 Special Action Program for Brazil, which increased the share of
project costs financed by Bank loans, although all other POLONORDESTE projects
which were ongoing at the time were included, further prejudiced the success
of this project's chances to succeed. In 1986, when the Bank agreed to
increase cost-sharing permanently to 50? for agricultural projects in Brazil,
it communicated to the Government its willingness to amend this loan.
However, apparently no follow-up action to formally amend the loan and
increase the cost-sharing was subsequently taken by either the Borrower or the
Bank. The Bank's decision to extend the loan closing date by one year, while
helpful, did not allow completion of original project targets because the
necessary counterpart funds were lacking.
10. Borrower's Performance
10.01     The Borrower cooperated closely with the World Bank and FAO/CP
missions during the preparation and appraisal of the project and was
supportive of supervision missions and open to suggestions for improvements.
However, the Borrower did not provide the required counterpart funding to the
project, partly because of the prolonged period of economic crisis and fiscal
constraints, but also because of the limited priority given to the project by
the Federal and (during some periods) State Governments. This resulted in
important delays and shortfalls in project implementation. Political
commitment to objectives of improving access to land and tenure security for
small farmers was not sufficient to effect any major changes in the basic
pattern of land occupation in the project area. The Government implemented,



- 18 -
although with some delays, the main loan and project covenants, except for
provision of counterpart funds and credit. Agreements related to protection
of the Amerindian population were only partially complied with. Regarding
project management, the Borrower performed as well as could be expected given
the organization and management structure of the project and the POLONORDESTE
Program, which were weak in terms of interagency coordination an decision
making. Within the limitations imposed by the financial/economic status of
the country, staff resources were reasonably deployed and trained.
11. Project Relationships
11.01     Relations between the Bank and the Borrower remained cordial
throughout the project period, perhaps to the detriment of the project. In
retrospect, although communications were open and usually constructive, the
Bank should have been more insistent with the Federal Government on the issue
of counterpart funding, with the State on implementation of land
regularization commitments and the quality of project monitoring and
evaluation generally, and with SUDENE on the quality of regional supervision.
12. Consulting Services
12.01     Consulting services included in the project for road design and
land regularization and distribution were procured from private firms selected
through local bidding; the quality varied, but was generally acceptable. For
project evaluation, hovever, the state assigned staff to the project rather
than retaining consult.nts.
12.02     In 1983, &r the request of the Government the Bank agreed to use
some of the proceeds of this loan to finance a Northeast Regional Training
Program on Project Prc.-atation, Administration and Evaluation.  The Program
was located in SUDENE, and implemented by the UNDP.  In 1985 the Government
requested, and the Banl cgreed, to expand this UNDP technical assistance to
include support to streig.::hen SUDENE's supervision of POLONORDESTE and NRDP
projects in all Northeast states, including the Second Bahia Rural Development
Project.
(a)  The Northeast Rhgional Training Program made an important
contribution to strengthening project preparation and
implementation capabilities in the Northeast, particularly at state
level. During its six-year duration, the program trained some
3,000 professionals through some 105 courses and seminars covering,
inter alia, the preparation and evaluation of rural development
projects, project management, financial administration, water
resources, land regularization, and agricultural technology
3eneration and diffusion. The training approach was very
pragmatic, using case studies from the Northeast states. The
Program left behind a series of publications and manuals (eg., on
monitoring, supervision and evaluation of projects; preparation and
appraisal of prujects; agricultural technical coefficients to be



- 19 -
applied when analyzing production alternatives for small farmers in
the Northeast; and management and financial evaluation of communal
projects). The Program was considered successful, both in terms of
its traini g achievements and the fact that it created a local
capacity to continue the Program once the international director
left. Performance has since deteriorated somewhat, as a
consequence of the overall management and financial problems of the
NRDP.
(b) The Technical Assistance Project had as its main objective to
strengthen the institutional capacity of SUDENE to monitor,
supervise and evaluate the impact of all rural development projects
being implemented in the Northeast of Brazil. The project extended
from 1985-90. It had a slow start, but ultimately was helpful in
consolidating methodologies for preparing and analyzing annual
operating plans for the rural development projects. It was less
effective in strengthening the institutional capacity of SUDENE to
supervise and measure the impact of POLONORDESTE and NRDP projects.
13. Lessons Learned
13.01     The following were thkt main lessons learned in implementing this
project:
(a)  It is important to evaluate the Government's actual commitment
to poverty alleviation and other project objectives, as
indicated by its willingness to provide the agreed counterpart
funds. In this case, only 20Z of estimated project costs were
actually invested, with which about 311 of expected
beneficiaries were reached. In almost all categories, project
achievements were commensurate with the level of resources
provided; the financial rates of return at farm level were
very good; and the returns to the national economy, as
measured by the re-estimated ERR and actual revenue
generation, were less than expected but still satisfactory.
This suggests that the project design was basically sound and
targets attainable and sustainable despite a very difficult
macroeconomic environment, but that counterpart funding was
simply too little and too late. In future, the Bank should be
more forthcoming in canceling loans where such an important
gap develops between needs and the availability of counterpart
funds, because of inadequate Borrower commitment.
(b)  It is also essential to assess correctly the political will to
implement ambitious programs for improving access to land and
security of tenure for small farmers. Although this project
developed efficient methodologies for doing so, the ultimate
impact was undermined by a basic unwillingness to challenge
vested interests and by the counterpart funding problems
mentioned in para. 6(a) above.



- 20 -
(c) Major changes in methodology need to be thoroughly discussed.
understood and agreed with the project executing agencies
before the start of implemei,tation. This project was quite
successful ini improving the techniques used in land
regularization and partly successful in introducing a more
efficient methodology for providing extension services to
small farmers. However, intended changes in the strategy of
providing rural health services, making low-cost spot
improvements to rural roads, and engaging local communities in
the financing and maintenance of rural water supply systems
were not really accepted by the executing agencies and were
therefore never implemented.
(d) When the success of a project is dependent on close
cooperation among many implementing agencies, the coordinating
entity must be able to attract and retain competent technical
and managerial staff, and it should have sufficient authority
(including control over budgetary resources and the right to
terminate the services of non-performing executing agencies
and make alternative arrangements) to ensure efficient
implementation.
(e) A well-planned monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system is also
indispensable to provide timely feedback on the pace and
quality of implementation, to identify changes in strategy or
content which may be necessary to achieve the project's basic
objectives, and to measure project impact as an aide to the
Government in determining whether the project should be
extended or replicated elsewhere. Although this was the last
in the series of ten POLONORDESTE operations, and the second
in the State of Bahia, coordination, management and M&E
arrangements were not well designed at appraisal and remained
weak throughout the life of the project.
(f) it is unrealistic to expect a high degree of community
participation in the planning and implementation of a project
for which the administrative/budgetary system is, Ltself,
extremely centralized. Although some implementing agencies
under this project made a legitimate effort to engage
communities in serious dialogue, project communications tended
to be top-down in nature. In part, this reflected long-
standing practices in dealing with the rural poor, but it was
also because the state institutions themselves lacked
sufficient authority to influence regional and Federal
decisions about the POLONORDESTE Program and therefore could
not offer local communities much discretion in decision-
making. The split between financial responsibility and
control (federal) and managerial responsibility (state) was
clearly not conducive to efficient project implementation and
high levels of local beneficiary participation.



- 21 -
(g) The Bank should pay much closer attention to the needs and
implementation problems of ongoing operations, when deciding
whether to commit additional funds for similar new projects.
Despite the counterpart funding difficulties of the earlier
Paraguagu Rural Development Project in Bahia (Loan 1589-BR),
the Bank went on to finance this Second Bahia Rural
Development Project, and although the latter was experiencing
even more serious financial constraints, the Bank soon
approved an even larger statewide rural development project
for Bahia (Loan 2761-BR). The statewide project had several
negative repercussions on the Second Bahia Rural Development
Project: Bank attention shifted and staff inputs were diverted
from supervision of the ongoing project to preparation and
appraisal of the new one; with only a slight increase in staff
and administrative resources, the unit responsible for
coordinating implementation of the ongoing project had to
divert its attention to monitor rural duvelopment activities
throughout the state and therefore also paid less attention to
this project areal and the increased competition for scarce
federal resources complicated the counterpart funding problems
of the ongoing project.
14. Proiect Documentation and Data
14.01     The Staff Appraisal Report and accompanying Working Papers would
have provided the necessary framework for the Borrower and the Bank to
implement the project, if adequate counterpart funding had been available.
Although the TU maintained some records, much information relevant to the
preparation of the PCR was not readily available. The implementing agencies
kept records suitable for ehort-term monitoring, mainly of phyeical and
financial results against targets, but they collected and retained little data
that would have facilitated both ongoing and post-project evaluation.



- 22 -
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVEV
1.   Comments on Part I
1.01      The factual information regarding project and country data was
prepared by the participating project institutions and included in working
papers prepared by the State TU and the Regional Coordination Unit at SUDENE.
The data were discussed and cross-checked in the field during the visit of a
Bank mission in December 1990, which prepared Part I of this PCR. This
information also served as the basis for the Tables presented in Part III.
2.   General Considerations
2.01      The first point to emphasize relates to the assistance which the
World Bank has been giving to the solution of one of the most serious
structural problems facing Brazilian society (rural poverty], which until
today has not received adequate political support. The rural development
programs have been one of the only systematic and continued government
interventions to solve the problem, and the main credit for the permanence of
these programs certainly belongs to the World Bank. This is important,
because the discontinuity of programs, and preoccupation with the immediate
and with commercial interests of contractors have been the main obstacles to
effective government action in the rural Northeast. On the other hand, the
World Bank's mistake of confusing integrated rural development and
institutional development should be mentioned, since this design weakness has
compromised the achievement of both objectives. General observations that can
be drawn from this and other POLONORDESTE projects are that: development of
the rural Northeast should be a national priority; programs directed towards
such development should have continuity; and the effectiveness and efficiency
of the programs should be perfected. Other general observations are that:
(a) Macroeconomic adjustment programs are also needed to make
rural development viable. High inflation rates prevent small
farmers from developing a capital base through credit. At the
same time, discussion of macroeconomic policies should take
account of regional considerations, especially of areas like
the Northeast, where the solution of chronic structural
problems is dependent on national policies.
(b)  Given the importance of the rural poor of the Northeast, both
in demographic terms and from the standpoint of the labor
force, rural development projects should be a priority of the
strategy for development of the Northeast.
2/ Unofficial translation of parts of Chapters 4 and 5: SUDENE, "Final Report
of the Northeast Bahia Rural Development, Loan 2269-BR, Recife, January 1991.



- 23 -
(c) The World Bank should also maintain its sectoral financing, be
it of agricultural research, extension or other activities,
with a view to supporting institutional development.
td) Rural development programs should comprise projects with well
specified objectives and which are limited, both in time and
space.
(e) An important part of the effort to improve rural development
programs and project performance should be oriented to
strengthening planning methods, procedures and operational
systems.
(f) It is absolutely necessary to carry out impact evaluation
studies of rural development programs, to provide feedback for
planning and reformulation of rural development policies.
(g) Finally, it is important to avoid using public resources for
activities which are only of a welfare nature, as such
activities encourage a sense of dependency on the part of the
community which undermines the rural development objective of
self-reliance.
2.02      In any evaluation of programs directed to attack rural poverty in
Brazil, it is necessary to consider their political support within the public
sector, especially from the bureaucracy with greater decision-making power.
Apparently, those who designed the rural development programs neglected to
consider this question. Although there is almost a general consensus about he
relevance of solving rural poverty in the Northeast, leading elites believe
that the solution to the problem lies in overall modernization of the regional
economy. Programs targeted on poverty are considered justified only as
compensatory or welfare efforts, or as a means to avoid a deterioration of the
situation in the interim untii the economy has been modernized and can absorb
the rural population. Most of these elites believe that the financial
resources invested in these programs could be better used by large, innovative
entrepreneurs who are leading the modernization process. However, existing
evidence shows that poverty is not decreasing as a by-product of economi^c
development, and that the model of modernization and growth is resulting in an
absolute increase in both rural and urban poverty. Small producers are victim
of the preconceived notion that they are inefficient and backward, with few
recognizing the role they play in the social and economic development of a
country like Brazil.
2.03      As a consequence, the finances devoted to the rural development
projects do not correspond to their political dimension. Hence the constant
shortages and delays in release of counterpart funds, and the lack of
commitment of executing agencies to the objectives and strategy of the
projects. It therefore seems that a prior condition for improving the
effectiveness of the rural development projects would be to increase societal
awareness of the problems and consequences of poverty, as well as to improve
the political process and the educational level of the population.



- 24 -
3. Conclusions. Recommendations and Lessons Learned
3.01      Although the Second Bahia Rural Development Project did not attain
all of its objectives, like other rural development projects it did succeed in
re-directing public resources to regions and areas of concentrated rural
poverty, compensating the secular process of income transfers from rural areas
to the capital cities. Along with these resources came increased access to
public agricultural services, mainly agricultural research and extension.
3.02      The economic impact of the project was minor, but clearly positive
due to: the greater multiplier effect of public expenditures in small rural
towns than in the capitals; improved productivity and yield. resulting from
the work of the agricultural research and extension servicers reduction in the
rate of rural-urban migration, which would have been more intense in the
absence of those employment opportunities created by the project; and
improvement of the social and economic infrastructure in an extremely needy
and drought-prone area.
3.03      Conclusions which can be drawn from the expetianue of the Second
Bahia Rural Development Project are that:
(a) Rural development projects need more explicit political
commitment to their objectives. State administrations tend to
support the projects, more as a source of funds than because
of the objectives.
(b) The Bahia project, like other similar POLONORDESTE projects,
aimed to strengthen state rural development institutions in
selected areas. Given the dimension of the poverty problem in
the Northeast, greater concentration on training and
institutional development might be more cost-effective and
have a broader and sustained impact, which does not always
occur with direct investment projects. It is difficult to
reconcile the need for institutional development with the need
for a strong coordinating unit in multisectoral projects
requiring a lot of inter-institutional integration.
Institutional development would be more easily handled xn the
context of a purely sectoral project.
(c) Another contradiction concerns the state and Federal roles in
the project, the latter being responsible for financing but
not for execution. The state, on the other hand, is sometimes
not strict enough in the criteria it uses for applying funds
which it receives on a grant basis or tries to submerge the
projects in programs of it. own, for which it uses Federal
funds.
(d)  Finally, since its formulation, the project has not had active
enough participation by the beneficiary population. Even
local political authorities, such as mayors and councilmen,
are kept at a distance by those responsible for project



- 25 -
execution. Rural labor unions and cooperatives, which have
participated as co-executors, have also not had a sufficient
influence on the project.
3.04      The above poiats do not negate the project concept.  In truth, the
contradictions mentioned are part of reality, and should be resolved through
new forms of public sector intervention. The institutional development
question should be resolved through either sectoral projects or public sector
modernization projects, with the contribution of the integrated development
pro.ects being to increase the demand for support services. The project did
induce better coordination Letween the Federal and state governments, and this
accomplishment should not be lost. However, since the political conditions
which prevailed when the project was conceived are no longer present, the form
of cooperation between the two levels of government needs to be updated. The
fact that the states now enjoy greater political and financial capacity does
not exempt the Federal government from its responsibilities concerning rural
development in poorer regions. To confine the treatment of rural poverty to
the state or local level would limit the solutions to problems which are
general in nature and with causes going beyond the states concerned.
3.05      The diagnosis and proposals contained in the Bahia Project reflect
the opinions of the regional technical and scientific community regarding the
problems of the semi-arid Northeast, but specific planning and implementation
guidelines are weak, so that the way in which interventions are carried out
does not guarantee that the investments will yield the expected results.
Experience also shows the need for more efficient monitoring and evaluation,
to obtain and store data and to be able to analyze and propose necessary
improvements. Since this has not received enough attention, time has been
lost in identifying problems and decision-making on necessary changes of
direction. Also, poor storage of information has caused a great loss of time
by those responsible for data collection.
3.06      The units responsible for coordination of development programs
involving numerous executing agencies should have adequate authority and
technical capacity to perform their functions and ensure the necessary
cooperation and complementarity among components. Finally, the
institutionalization of the executing agencies is seriously compromising the
results of the rural development programs.  The need to strengthen public
agencies working with small farmers is recognized, but the right to receive
funding and execute project works should be contracted only to agencies
meeting criteria of technical ability and cost, with payment dependent on
confirmation of works and tasks performed. Implementation of a service
contract system should be possible, since financial procedures now permit
disbursement on the basis of demonstrated demand.



- 26 -
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A. Related Bank Loans
Table 1: IBRD LOANS RELEVANT TO THE PROJECT
Yonr of
Loan Number                    Purposo                        Approval        Status
Loan 1689-BR                   To support rural               1978            Completed
Bahia Rural Development        development in                                 In 1988. PCR
Project - Paraguagu            the Par&guanu Basin.                           lssued In 1987.
Loon 1688-BR                   To strongthen EMBRATERs'       1978            Completed
Agricultural Extension         capability to provide more                     in 1985. PCR
Project I                      efficient and *ffective                        Issued In 1987.
extension services on a
national scale.
Loan 1249-BR                   To strengthen the              1978            Completed
First Agricultural             agricultural research                          I 1988.  PCR
Research Project.              capability of EMBRAPA In                       issued In 1984.
the North, Northoost and
Center West.
Loan 1887-BR                   To lmprov- the coverage,       1980            Completed In
North East Brazil Basic        quolity and efficioncy                         1987.  PCR
Education Project.             of basic education In                          Issued In 1989.
the 9 Northosetern states.
Loan 2018-BR                   Continuation of the Bank'    1981              Completed
Second Agricultural            support to agricultural                        In 1987. PCR
Roesrch Proj3ct.               research In Brazil by                          issued In 1989.
further increasing EMBRAPA'e
capacity to conduct sound
agricultural research.
Loon 2593-BR                   To secure land ownorship       1985            To be completed
National Land Administration  to small farmers In                             In 1991.
Program                        Brazil's Northeast Region,
Northeast Region Land Tenure  many of whom would also
Projoet                        benefit from complementary
activities under Bank-
finaneod Northeast Rural
Development Projects.
Loan 2781-BR                   The project aims to Increase  1987             To be comploted
North East Rural               agricultural productivity In                   In 1995.
Development - Bahia            the State and to support
poverty alloviation and
Institution building
objectivoo.



- 27 -
B. Proiect Timetable
Table 2: PLANNED. REVISED AND ACTUAL DATES OF PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                   Date Planned            Revised Date           Actual Date
Identification <1>    September 1981                                  September 1981
Preparation (2>        January 1982                                   January 1982
Appraisal              September 1982                                 September 1982
Loan Negotiations      March 1983                                     March 1983
Board Approval         April 1983                                     April 1988
Loan Signature         May 1988                                       May 1988
Loan Effectiveness    July 1988                                       July 1988 (8>
Loan Closing           December 1988           Decomber 1989          December 1999
Loan Completion        March 1988              March 1990             March 1990
(1> Projoct identification made by World Bank and FAO/CP personnel.
(2> Preparation made with FAO/CP assistance.
(3> With retroactive financing starting October 1, 1982.
C. Loan Disbursement
Table 8: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(USI1 million)
FY1984  FY1OBS  FY1986  FY1987  FY1988  FY1989    FY1990
Appraisal estimate              4.80    17.60   82.80   48.20   83.00   67.80
Actual                          6.43      8.21   10.27   12.18   17.04   20.89 1/ 20.80 2
Actual as X of Estimate       118.10    48.60   81.50   26.20   27.00   80.00    80.38
1/ US584 million of the loan was cancelled effective June 1989.
If Final disbursement against the loan was made on October 11, 1990.



- 98 -
D. Project Impleontation
TABLE 4: KEY PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION INDICATORS
SAR      CUMULATIVE I
COWPONENTS                       UNITS     TARGET  IACHIEVEMENTSI
!-------------------------------------------------- --------- ---------- ------------
JAGRICULTURAL SERVICES                             |
1. LAND REGULARIZATION                                                        0640
- Land Discrimination                             km2      I  860 0            0sW
-Properties Discriminatod                        IN*           eo6,oo       82,600
- Title* Issued                                  INo           65,000       28 00
I    LAND REDISTRIBUTION                                     I          I            I
l - Land Recovered Through                         IHN       l  18,75W I           0
I  Discrimination/Expropriation                    I
I - Land Purchansd                                  Ha.          18.760        2,960 I
- Irrigabl  Land Redistributed                    Hr            2 600 1
- Drylend Redistributed                          8H5. ,69009                     e
12 RURAL EXTENSION                                                                   T
Farmers Provided with Technical Ascistance     :No           4S00         14 10I
I - Farmers Provided with Credit                   INO.          28,000 T       ,501
Local Extension Offic                          I No.             201          15I
- Farm Leaders Trained                            No            8,800        1      I,00
- New Extension Officers Trained                  No.             211          18
- Additional Extension Staff Employed:           I                           1
middl, and upper level extensionisto          INo.      1      148          109
m middle and upper level sociTl oxtenslonists   INo.         I       47 I         25
IS. ADAPTIVE AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH                 T         I          I            I
- Addlilonal Staff Employed:
Sentor Levol                                  INo.               6           14
Junior Level                                  Io. .             isI
Field Laborer.                                INo.              121          2
I   Adminstrative Assistant*                       IN.                6            a
I  ECopt Rimeroch St  tion                         INo.               I            I
I - Exp rents Conductd at R  oarch Station         INo              26.          18
-Observation Units                                 No.             s            48
14. ANIMAL HEALTH AND PLANT PROTECTION
- Offices Established                               No                a 8
l - Technical Staff Hlred:                         I                  81
Agronomists                                   INo       I                    12
Veterinarians                                 INo.      I       12 7|0
- Farmers Assisted                               INo.          26,000
IPRODUCTION INFRASTRUCTURE                         I                  S I
16. SMALL-SCALE IRRIGATION
Training Programs for Staff:                             I       141
Upper Level Agriculturalists                  INo.              14           16
Middle Level Agronomists                      iNo.      1       40 I         6a
Farmers                                        No            1,809          260
- Doep well Communal Irrigation Systems           No                2            2
18. MUNICIPAL ROADS IMPROVEMENT                    I         I          i
l- Existing Municipal Roads Improved                Km            1,00  I        8901
-Vehicles                                        INo                  1          0
- Mechanized Brigades c                                                  .N  . 41 
a: Additional staff Including sonlor and Junior level.
b: Total number of techniclns trained.



- 29 -
D. Project Implementation (contod.)
TABLE 4: KEY PROJECT IWLEMENTATION INDICATORS
SAR     CUMULATIVE
COMPONENTS                      UNITS    TARGET  ACHIEVEMENT
SOCIAL INFRASTItUCTURE
7. RURAL WATER SUPPLY
- Sliplifl*d Type I Wster Supply System          No.             16           170
- Complex Type II Watei Supply Systom            No.              20            2
8. EDUCATION
- Muntetpoiltiet  Assuto d                       No.1  l1
- Constructlon and Equiping of Ono
Classroom Rural Schools                        No.              B            B1
- Construction and Equiping of
Contoens for Existing Schools                  No.             100           77
- Training of Staff:
Municipal Teachers                            No.             270         I1O
Municipal Supervisors                         No                7            a
Adult Llteracy Techers                        No.              70           46
Adult Literacy Supervisors                   INo .                 I         2 
- Persons for Vocational Tralning                No.            200           too
- Person. for Adult Literacy and Numeracy CourseoINo.           2600 1       1101
- Study on Manpower Nbeds                       INo.               1 I          0 1
9. HEALTH AND SAOITATION                          I
- Construction and Equipping of Health Posts     No.               o            68
- Construction and Equipping                     I
of Type I Health Contoro                       No.               8            1
l- Construction and Equippingof °tI                      
Health Supervision Nuclei                      No.               91           21
- Existing Health Centers to be Equipped         I         I          l
with Dental Equipment                          No.               9            2
- Training of :                                       I Ij
Rural Health Attendants                      INo              16 I         15  I
Health Supervisors                             No.             28 1
midwives                                     INo              825          200
Sanitation Supervisors                         No              67           60
-Retraining of:                                    .101
Rural Health Attendants                       No              4221          560 1
Health Supervisors                           INo               a 66 I       10 I
Sanitation Workers                           INo        l     838 l         40 
M- otorcycles                                              I No .6              1
-Care                                             IN                 9            2
-Slcres fNoor                                                  16
-    acrie for First B years for:                No.
Rural Health Attendants                      INo.             156 1        166 1
Health Supervisors                           iNo.              281          11
-------------------------------------------------I---------   I ----------I -----------I



- 30 -
E. Proiect Costs and Financing
Table 5t PROJECT COSTS
(1.15 millIion)
SAR Estimats <1>       X    Actual            x
A. Aorleultural Servlees
LaA.  r nure Regularization    21.4           16.8    4.0           11.8
Rural Extenaion                19.8           14.6    9.2            28.7
Adaptivo Resoarch               2.8            1.9    1.8             8.8
Animal Heolth and Plant
Protection                      2.1            1.5    0.4             1.2
Sub-Total                 UV3           881    M                W I
B.     Agricultural Credit             46.2          88.8    2.4             7.0
C.     Production Infrastructure
SAall-Scale Irrigation          2.8             1.7   1.0             2.9
Municipal Roads                18.0            18.2   8.8            11.0
Sub-Total                 20.8            14.9   4.89          1.99
D.     Social Dovolopment
urel Wta  r Supply              8.1             6.0   1.9             6.6
Education                       4.8             8.5   0.8            2.8
Health and Sanitation           4.9             8.6   0.4             1.2
Sub-Total                  I7 8          TNT   I7,              9_.0
E. Project Management                   8.6            4.9   4.7            18.7
F. Technical Assistance                 4.6           18.1
0. Total ProJeet
Basiieline Costs              189.8           100.0  84.4           100.0
Physical Contingencies          8.2             8.0
Price Contingencies            29.4            21.f
Total Project Costs      178.4(2>        127.8   84-.4        li7i:
<1> Excluding US20.2 million front-end fee on loan.
(2> Including about US2a.6 million of local taxes.
Table 6: PROJECT FINANCING
Source                                Planned                     Final
(USlmtillioYn)   (       (USamillion)      (X)
World Bank Loan               67.8 <1>   89.0             20.6 <2>    69.9
Covernment of Brazil          105.6       61.0            18.8         40.1
Total:                173.4      100.0            84.4       100.0
(1> Includes US80.2 million front-end fee on loan.
(2> Includes USS0.2 million front-end fee on loan and US4.6 million for UNDP
technical assistance for the Northeast Region of Brazil.



- 31 -
F. Proiect Results
Table 7: DIRECT BENEFITS OF PROJECT
Indicators                    UnitO          ADDralsl       At Full DOeVlonmnt
Fare Famile                   No.            46,00                   14,000 <1>
Annual Incremental
Family Incom                  USS                620                    630
Total Annual Incroental
Value of Production           US8'900         a7,soe                 14,600
Land Titlos                   No.             6655.6                29,000
Land Redistribution           He.            J7,600                 -
Total Incremental
Cultivated Are nli.                           "8,se                  10.600
Iner emental School Places    No.             56W0                   2,U00
Increontal On-Farm Jobs                       11,50                  6,000
(1) Assisted directly on the form by EMATER.
Table 8S ECO.OMIC IMPACT
Aopr~ I *n 1    PCR
Economic Rate of Return                              lex              llX
Underlyino Assumptions
Annual IncrowmntzP Produ, Ion <1>
Beann                         100  tons       24.8            6.8
Corn                                         19.8             7.1
Manloc Flour                                  28.8            5.4
Sisal                                         8.6             1.5
Castor BSens;                                 4.7             0.6
Watermelons                                   6.8              .
Melons                            *2.2                        2.5
Tomatoes                                      15.6           18.4
Onions                                         9.7            5.5
Shp/Goate                     1600 animals   67.1            70.1
Cattle  po18.8                                               11.4
<1> Incremental production at full development.



- 32 -
Tablo 9: FINANCIAL IMPACT
S.A.R.            PCR
(U)
Financial Rate of Returns
- Rainfed Models:
A.  ot  1-J ha)                       )100           >100
S. Sisal (1-1  ha                     >100            (1>
C. Sisal  1-SU ha)                      71             48
0. Castor (1-10 ha)                    (1>           >100
E. Maize/BSen. (10-10 ha)               U              so
F. Mlze/Sean  (1-16 ha)               (1>           >1n
- Irrigated Models:
0. Surface Irrigation                  (1)            <1>
H. Tubewell Irrigation                  31           >10
i0 No rate of return was calculated so Incremental ncome always positivo.
Table 10: Studie
Studis               Purpose              Status               Impact
Evauation by private     To evaluate         Complted only       Used for Improvement
consultants of           effectivenes        for the communal   In design and Implementation
Implementation of        and direct and      grazing land        of tbh  component during last
land tenure regulari-    Indirect impact     componnt.           two years of project.
zation component.        of the different
aspces of the
component.
Natural Reourcoe         Evaluate soil and   Complted.           Used to undertake Joint
Study of the project     water rosoures                          planning and work In
area by EPABA.           avallability end                        technology generation and
physical and                           diffuston between EMATER-BA
chemical constraint.                   and EPARA, and better zoning
of the project area                    of agricultural activities in
to proposed solutions                  the project area.
a*nd recomendations.



- 33 -
G. Status of Covenants
Table 11: COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN COVENANTS
SECTION/COVENANT                                 COVENANT DATE              STATUS OF COMPLIANCE
Project Agreement
2.01       Provide Bank with annual              December 16 each year      Complied, but often
(c)        operating plans                                                  with delays.
2.06       Insurance of Imported goods           --                         Complied.
2.06       State to maintain r eords to          --                         Complied with
(b/i)      monitor project progress                                         difficulty.  Date
collected do not
always allow adequate
analysis.
2.08       Quarterly Progress Reports            Within 8 months after      Complied, always with
(b/ll')                                          end of quartor             delays.
8.01       State and executing agencies to       --                         Coaplied.
(a)        maintain separate accounts
8.01       State and executing agencies          Until one year after       Complied.
(b)        maintain all project expenditure      complotion
records
8.02       Audit accounts by Independent         No later than 4 months    Complied. Cenerally
(a/b)      auditors and present report to        after closing fiscal       with delay.
Bank                                  yer
8.03       Project facilities to be properly    --                          Complied.
maintained
Loan Areement
8.01       Ensure timely avallability of         --                         Not compiled because
credit                                                          of the country's
financial constraints.
Only 6X of anticipated
credit noed were
prowided
8.02       Provide Bank detailed annual work    Each December 15            Complied, but often
plan                                                             received with delays.
4.02       Provide assistance for Irrigation    --                          Partlilly complied
Investment credit                                               with.  Credit was
available for about
half of proposed
target.
4.08       Maintain Minimum Price Financing      --                         Complied with
Scheme (CFP) In full operation in                               difficultioe and
the project area                                                searce success.
4.04       Resolve Amrindin Issues before        --                         Partially complied
starting project activities In                                  with.  Part of
areas of conflict                                               conflicts reduced and
In other areas project
activities not
Implemnted.
4.05       Provide audit special account         4 months after closing    Complied.
flscal year.



- 34 -
H. Use of Bank Resourcoe
Table 12: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of ProJect CYCle                                 In Staff Woeks
Through Appraisal                                              90.4
Appraisal Through Board Presentation                           76.2
Board Approval Through Effectiveness                            2.6
Supervision                                                   92.0
TOTAL                                                260.0
Table 18: MISSIONS
Month/   No. of   Days In                         Performance    Types of
Throuch Appraisal        Year   Persons    Field    Specialization        Rating Status  Probles
Identification           9/81         2         S0   a/
9/81        4               b,/o
Preparation               1/82        6         80   c/,d/te/
4/23        6         76
/82         1          5   f/
Final Preparation        7/82         6         so   */1h/1J/dk/
Appraisal                9/82        11        140   a/#c/#d/-e/
t /pg/k/
4/88        1          2   J/
6/88        1          8   I/
Supervision               7/88        2         15   */,k/                      (1)          (a)
10/88        1          8   g/                        (C)
11/88        1          7   m/                         (1)          (a)
8/84        1          8   m/                         (2)          (a)
6/84        1         10   n/                         (e)
11/84        8         17   a/.f/Ig/                   (2)
5/85        1          7   */                        (2)           (a)
6/86        1          2   I/                        (C)
8/86        2          6   d/                         (s)
11/86        1          6   f/                         (e)
8/86        8         19   d/,k/                      (8)          (b)
/86         2          9   g/,k/                      Ce)
9/86        2          2   a/                         (a)
10/86        4         20   a/,k/                      (8)          (b)
11/86        1          4   a/                         (W)
1/87        1          8   f/                        (C)
2/87        1          6   d/                         Ce)
6/67        8         27   a/,k/                      (2)          (c)
7/87        1          2   s/                         C.           (d)
11/87        4         11   a/,k/                      (2)          (d)
12/87        1          7   d/                         (e)
8/88        1          2   g/                         Cs)
4/8e        1         10   k/                         C.)
6/86        1          5   d/                         (e)
6/68        8         15   a/,k/                      (2)          (e)
11/88        1          5   a/                        (C)           (d)
4/89        2          5   */,k/ ke)
11/89        1          2   a/                         (8)          Ct)
619
Specialization: a/ Economist, b/Div. Chief, c/Irrigatlon Spec., d/Transport Specialllt,
e/Financial Analyst, f/Health Specialist, g/ Educator, h/Lawyer  I/ Rural Extension Spec., J/
Anthropologlot, k/ Agrlculturalist, I/ Land Specialist, m/ Rural Development Specialist, n/
Agronomist.
Pertormance Ratings: ld mproving; 2aStationary; 8.Deterlorlating; *eNot Rated (partial
supervision only)
Problems: (a) Shortage of federal funds; (b) Persistent counterpart funding delays, poor
lmplemntatlon and coordination of project; (c) Counterpart funding problem and disbursement
delays; (d) supervision of T.A. component only; (e) due to slow lmplementation, mission
recommends extension of closing date by one year; (f) Loan closing, December 81, 1989.



- 35 -
Annex 1
BRAZIL
SECOND BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SAR Yield Estimates               PCR Yield Estimates
Without     With                  Without      With
Project  Project        X         Pro]ect  Proloct        X
-tnsn/-ha--   --- ---tono/hu -   --- 
Deen.                       9.89      0.59       51           0.86      0.52        44
Corn                        o.89     0.87       128           0.S8      0.57        s6
Mantoc Flour                2.16     8.18        45           2.29      8.11        86
Cowpea                      0.81     0.68        87                       V
Sisal                       9.72      1.00       89           0.18      018         29
Castor Deens                0.60     0.74        48           6.56      0.66        82
Watermelons                12.10    15.00        24          12.00     16.20        27
Melons                      8.70    12.10        89           9.00    12.00         84
Tomatoos                   26.20    38.89        27          12.00    25.00          a
Onions                     14.20    17.20        21          18.560    17.60        Be
Croen Poppers              10.00    14.20        42
Sorghum                              0.61
Bananas                             80.00
Source: Staff Appraisal Report; FISGE, EMATER-DA.



- 36 -
Annox 2
BRAZIL
SECOND BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Incer.mntel Annual Productlon at Full Developent
SAR Estimates                           PCR Estlmtes
Farm-Cat.                               Form-Cat.
Production               Va_u-            Production              Volvo
('000 tons)       (USe million)           ('90W  ton,)     (USS atillon)
Beans                             24.8               16.76                  6.77               s.9n
Corn                              19.8                2.48                  7.06               0.92
Manloc Flour                      28.3                5.94                  6.46               1.81
Cowp.s                             4.6                2.09                    1/
Sisal                              8.8                0.84                  1.54               0.15
Castor Beaen                       4.7                1.40                  0.62               9.14
Sh-ep/Goate 3                     67.1                1.18                 70.0S               1.86
Cattle t/                         18.8                1.01                 11.40               2.49
Watermelons                        6.8                0.77                  8.20               0.22
Melons                             2.2                0.88                  2.62               0.48
Tomato"                           165.                1.60                 13.87               2.00
Onions                             9.7                1.68                  5.40               1.04
3reon Poppers                      2.6                0.46
Sorghum                            1.6                0.17
Bananas                           14.4                2.14
Tot l                                           87.90                                    14.60
y Included with beans
/ 'l00 of animls.



- 37 -
A3n*x 8
BRAZIL
SECOND BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Economic Price Dorivation
(USa/ton)
SPECIFICATION                                    MAIZE              SISAL               BEEF
Inteornational Market Price 3/                    1i0                 540              1,O96
quality Price Adjustmnt 3/                                           (64)
Ovorseao Transport and Insurance                    64               (60)                 60
Price at Port of Salvador                          168                420              1,170
Transport to Project Ara                            20               (U)                  40
Sub-Total                                     188               8a8               1,210
Conversion Factor for Proessing 0                                     60s
Converted Prices                                   168                198              1,210
Taxes (ICU and FUNRURAL)                                               29
Farm-Cate (Economic Pries)                         188                169              1,210
Financial Prices                                   180                166              1,810
Convorsion Factors                                1.41               1.89               0.91
/ For maize prices based on World Bank projected prices.  For sisal average London prices,
for beef average Argentina price (soureo: Caceta M-erantil).
21 16X reduction In priceo for quality adjuatAmnta.
V/ Processing costs since the former sells siesl on the farm.



- 38 -
Annex 4
PIAZI6
SECOND BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Economic Price of Fertilizer
Potassium
Ureo       Chloride
---(IS/E;n)-y-- 
World Bank Price Projections I/                           179             so
Oversea Transport and Insurance                            80             of
CIF Price Salvador                                        259            176
Port Handling, Storagg and Loses                           so             s0
Transport to Project Area                                  20             20
Farm-gate Pric                                            889            26
Financial Price                                           289            2oo
Correctilo  Factor                                       1.47           1.28
jj Based on World Bank price projectlons bulleting of January 1099.



Annex 5
BRAZIL
SECOtN BAMIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Participating Farmers Directly Assisted by Extension Service
Farm Model/Crop                                 Years        1               2              3               4               S              8
Rainfed Models
A. Costs (1-60 ha)                                       487             934           2336            2802           4623            4670
B. Stsal (1-t1  ha)                                       92             184            480             S52            911             920
C. Sisal (1-50 ha)                                        68             136            340             408            673             e80
0. Castor (1-16 ha)                                      120             240            800             720           1188            1200
E.  laiz./Beans (10-6  ha)                               320            640            1600            1920           3188            3200
F. MizefBe0ns (1-10 hb)                                  280             s6e           1400            1680           2772            2800
Irrigated Models
0. Surtace Irrigation                                    e6             120             300            36e             694             6o0
H. TubevelI Irrlgtion                                     6             10              26              30             50              50
Total                                                1412           2'24            7060           8472           13979           14120



SSCQ SI4IA M*ML GDELOPWlT PRUJET
PROJECT CO ETIU REPORT
Cost sad Seon*    fcio. csc Al, Iv;
Year             1         2        3        4        5         6         7        8        9      10       11       12       13      14       1s       16       17       1s       19      20
* CROSS FAR!I
BBEPITS           0.0    654.3  2031.7  3267.8   6206.6   756s.3   9082.9  9367.6  9387.6  9367.6  9367.6  9367.6  9367.6   9M7.6                7.6  9367.6   967.6   937.6  936.6  9367.6
RIUARIZATION    676.5   2363.3  1598.6   806.6    104.5           94.6       0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
RURAL EXTESSION   430.5   1316.4  160.9  2513.4   1963.0   1701.3    860.7   850.7   850.7   6S0.7   650.7   650.7   6.7   65O.7   60.7   650.7   650.7    850.7   630.7   650.7
ADAPTIVE RESEsARC   59.4    234.8   338.5   S64.3    177.7    114.6          o.o      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
M.ANT/ANIMIAL
PROTECTION         41.7    117.4    86.2    91.0        79.5      19.1       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
SKALL-SCALE
IRRIGATION        135.4       1.6    31.1   114.1       70.9      97.1       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
PMICIPALt ROADS  1906.4      56.3   713.7   178.1   1912.9    609.7    551.9   651.9   551.9   551.9   661.9   S61.9   351.9   S51.9   531.9   551.9   561.9   s51.9   531.9   631.9
ADMINISTRATIN       6.5    548.2   700.4  1379.6    663.1    27. 1           0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Ts"-'CAL
ASSISTMOCE P0)    0.0         0.0     0.0      0.0    315.6    619.2    406.5        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0
VmESTPt COSTS  366.6    s90.6  1316.2   649.6   1705.2    32t.8   16.6    96.6   104.4   120.4   218.0   278.0   451.7   36.9   SS0.2   279.0   120.8   120.    120.3  1918.2
PRFXI6TION CaSTS    0.0    374.4   996.9  1404.4   2423.2   2616.4   3546.4  8567.1  3567.1  3S67.1  U867.1  5587.1  3567.1  38S7.1  5857.1  3s57.1  3587.1  8587.1  SS87.1  3S67.1
* TOTAL COST    -3725.2  -5603.0  -7422.5  -7703.1  -9336.7  -7197.9  -6512.1  -8066.3 -5094.1  -5110.2  -5207.7  -52.7  -5441.4  -ss2t.6  -s53.9 e       268.7  -5110.2  -5110.2  -5110.2  -071.6
TOTAL NEr
8B ErTS         -3725.2  -4948.7  -S530.8  -441S.3  -3229.6    38e.4   3570.8  4281.3  4273.5  4257.4  4159.9  4104.9  39e 2.2  4041.0  3627.7  4096.9  4257.4  4257.4  4257.4  62S9.1
Ra6t of return - 10.7
Switching values for opportunity cost of capital - 12.0S
PRESEIT VAUJES  SITCHIN  VALUES
* CROSS FARM 8ENEFITS          42750359.45               8.7
LAND RtlLARIZATION             -4246968.76             -37.0
RURAL EKTB%SION                -9031911.32             -17.4
AOAPTIVE RtESEARCH             -1023980.75            -153.8
PLANT/ANIMAL HEALTH             -304798.44            -S15.8
SMALL-SCALE lRRICATION          -306274.55            -513.3
MIICIPAL ROADS                 -5719041.45             -27.3
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION         -2360740.99             -66.6
TEONICAL ASSISTANCE (LIP)       -778019.15            -202.1
FARHES/ SNVE51TmNT COSTS       -3765827.66             -41.8
FAFERS/PRCDCTrI6# COSTS       -16766i0S.65              -9.4
WITtS  PROJECT BALANCE            0.00               ---
NET BALANCE            -lS72215.27



__________  _______               ________    _______________         _____________________________                          IBRRD 16837
PE_   NA  --t BUC0                                                                     38' 37'                                                                                                  JANUARY 1963
P E R N A M  a u co 0.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I9
~~~~~~~P  E  R  N  A  M    B  U  C    O </.0 otesBai
Abar~~~~~~~~~ ~Northeast  Bahia
-S            4 0   0   #z*E  A  /   Abores >4;,                                              RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
) Aonsos                                                                           1                        Rdelos®          -3-                                           Area   of  Project  Activities
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
itravorro  A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rrso  ~~~ra;6C                                                      I6
*Coro~~~o  ~ ~ ~ ~.feorroch /         \        roi                  ,r,a,Project Activirties:
N    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*                                                N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n-Project Area Boundary
N1    JM a \                 ;          r so             <   Ebot ocUeUr                   \                                                                A Areas of Concentration
elsa,                                                                                                         Glarra          ~~~~~~~~~~~~ALAGOAS
-     do Borrfr-n sA                              )     /_                 /(/|\9ewr   5O                                                                 i    t     tALA    OA S                                    (peeelmrlry defrn/troe}
*C~~~Pd\60  '1,  1                               2      \\?Srarrrorrrrrre       5T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O~~       ~~                               PhNora S Ara  ob  covered by
\_S   8   pGPo\x    n  i6             1   \          Pctcimt        7  2   |   \    )   /             Pxulc tfonso        X                                     first yecr oif proeci          :~~~~~~~~~~irstyea,of pojec
, rNC                                     s    JeoySe                                                                       1-0- ri 00                                               Plannrinrg Zone Boundorres
J                                                                                                                                                                       3_                   Selected Roads
Aroer of lotinleoro l ocoIr 050I~0O  i         04C &e5Or                 \                                                                                 Sonta Brigido             @            Municipail Coptol)
*  ttogrorsol Cooedr,rorcerK ...m    0  50  1i/                                                                                                                                                                        Selected Towns
*Reg-onr1 C.     o      dnrr      nMlsOiss   -\'/t / .,_ --5f RivO
/ ~~~~~~~~0RN  6960                                                                                                                   ----  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Municipal Bovedo'ies
enrersOANIIAO  P AU  B ER   SUCO                                                                                                                                                                                 State Boundaries
AARANHAO~ ~ ~ - P I A                                                                                                                                                            A                                                                      rOd0
r  C                                                                                                    J~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eees&ob4  'edro Alexrondre
'XwANeS f   h<                ', 'cotg ci \r.r                                                                       -       <                                  RourOvo   ~~'-  InternotIonel Boundaries
.10           3 0UAR A
S                                                 a. ;. V                         ;                                                                 An.          S
i<1 -8-- 1;--__-C aJ \ocot ;0@ ;MlSo
j B          Hi           A                               CZ-reeteeevo  .      S enh   D DBof f                      Sot ,
Sotoorior*     D      Anb lA t:; Concelc/io    c  ,_ rltega .3   7   *.r r A ri I .e neos
1hfo, i e      - c)   f K 1Atee(1           1500 m30h Fn200FuSof TIe  l'er sdGiJ d mamledutomSmcrhE an¶f   l 4
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C.Ide eiCa
,  \ / ^iGrids.'da ^g   .1" 0   iOOD                                 4D                                                   _      -~~~~~~~~~~~~~baong
Crior 0    00   200    ,sere                                       a                                     do                                                                                                           0       00210
_______________________________________________                                                                            0  <            'V0 00 r                                                                      60 8e,oo0
coroosra ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~ ~ ~ ~                                          Over, ~~~~~~~~~~~~t        r         c                 /-ItaprcuriA                                     0            20            40)          60
srroreiooS   ~A I                                                                                                                                        torve   .14MILE S
RA  Z I L. N             O-,                                                               9osoeeor           .4               elAndo0  e
1~~ RQ_L -IAOrAletirol6nr  o                                                                                                      ~                                                                                   A   /       0   n   t  0c
merrubO  1.   ~~ ~              de,Ode,e~~ erecoieoer,rerrae~ Iat    I.,ae  he  ttI    CocrBdrcit                     0eerlBrteahdaoe0                                                                        C  6   02  07
SOerCA   Or/losS          ~~~~~1000
jVe, OS                   46'                                         36'                                          25                                           20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7



IBRD I
P E R N A M B  U C 0                                                                 .                                            Sr                                             3                                                            JANUARY
BRAZIL
a      PERNAMBUCO                                     (~~                                                                                                                 Northeast Bahia
X                                                                                                           *...Jt /.S    ><,9  X... PERNAMBUCO        .  ,   Abar.                                                    RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJEC
\;~~~~~-~~~ ~~~~  I~~~~Ao~~~~GOAS                                                      /  ~ ~~~~~~~~~~,    ~~~~,, eliAgricultural Potential as Defined
) gI                      \ /         trrocir6   csD /X)                                                \.... .             by Dependable Rainfall
07roo                                                                 H~0/~o-Porlada                                  -argreaves, f974
J, .  -.-  -                         .        i .                        /                                   aoIe/                                                       tiO      .t,.                                            uh
A                                                                                                                                                     .                                                                Climatic areas:
Pr5rdn crJ'o!ino                                                                                                                0Macure .Z                                                                      . :.  Very anrd
B Art       e         sioots m o To,0m-1ms0_                                                                         50 loo \  /  eJuremrxl I  /  ,  rGlra. /                      ALAGOAS                                 Semar,id
EORGIPE/                      2'- /I
\.                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~          ~         ~~~~~~~Patcmute0/  , //       Is                                               .      Subliumid
PE44                                                                                                                             zea i -1                             A
PE                                                                 aoin°>           ~ + 8          5 *           -,^                                                                                                                 Romfl in m,lmees
Cr,oroirno -' 3  ili..,                                                                                                                                                           ,.'              >.......s                       Aprilor  -o July "5probablity
{.    on. J,   s       ....    p                                                             hIT N...,                                                                                                                                   mpTront   rainfaF[ll s $tdE @KdAUSIVe ff The h5hh°°5o o ny f
so                  x,~~ 7           Juremal \                        (     ,.ridaDecember-March,75% probabilit
! '50 ....                  ,_,                                                                                                                                  . tn . th {5 1.- @tSo/ S h   IO    I  
Prof NE >50 eraSers  0110    OS   OS                     \,.< ~~~~~~~~~~~    /     '~~~ua                      S                                      .                                            Winter rainfall
________________________PERN                  __                                    }                    T Ml. O                                                                      IC                                            Summer roanfall
P I AUErNTIANS                                                                                 Ros'O 1000
1NON>'                                                                                                     /       i                                                        .1     * ,     0-
1.*V0,CROJETf         is                                                  7r                                                                                            N  22\~ doloneRnr
AREA                                    C                                                      I--Protect boundary
K....        /                                    l,                                                                                               Municipal boundaries
S  ~~~~~~~~\ 0.fogugraro~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tt bounarie
B~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~aodr~~~iri A(H1                                                             ',     \         ..irt~S'                                                                                            International boundories
'~~~ A  Pi~~~~~.L~~~NS<~~~'ThN  ¶1                                            Pa~~~~~~ripiranga
21~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
It'to                                                         5i       ' ~  ~iber          a bol       SERGIPE
00,1., 0  55  Ore ~    J                                                                                                                       f4oOi   itJ
_FORSi Q.~~   .-SR.GOSN                              Jacabina0                                                                                                                                   K.7S L  I~NI...ra- 5  20  40      50       to      i50
OSON                                                                                           .rX~~N~i CAN  ''..,  Orita                              doaSo                  I cu~ru                     W M., Y            040e
B R   A  Z   I  L                                                                                           I    r/f4ppftrii,                    t'>                ~N
-IS  (..t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                      .    ~~~~~~~~~r  ~~~~~~j    t1 ~~~~~~~~~Rio Real
Bro,iErS ~~~~~~~~~~~  Sotoodor                                                 S ~~~~~~~~~~~doCoite    0
C.01 ~ O'                                            F-aoaAr=oa: Or erorrooa 0 r ooao SorO o  o                                                                              lnhambupe
/    .oR.Gir./      3i.10 i>igiSa  rmud>oormdaai,So corra05>uora>



