Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4249b-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
SECOND BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - NORDESTE
April 1, 1983
Projects Department
Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and mnay be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                    Brazilian Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1.00                   Cr$202.29 1/
Cr$1.00           -       US$0.00494
Cr$l million                    US$4,943,398
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout the report.
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Brazil           =       January 1 to December 31
POLONORDESTE Program           =       April 1 to March 31
Project Year                   =       April 1 to March 31
>/ lExchange rate at time of appraisal (September 1982). The exchange
rate in January 1982 was US$1.00 = Cr$ 134.40.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
BNDES            Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social
(National Bank for Economic and Social Development)
CAR              Companhia de Desenvolvimento e Acao Regional
(State Regional Development Company)
CERB             Companhia de Engenharia Rural da Bahia
(State Rural Engineering Company)
CPATSA          Centro de Pesquisa Agropecuaria do Tropico Semi Arido
(Center for Agricultural Research in the Semi-Arid Tropics)
CRIBA            Consorcio Rodoviario Intermunicipal da Bahia
(State Intermunicipal Road -Consortium)
EMATER-BA       Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural da Bahia
(State Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company)
EPABA            Empresa de Pesquisa Agropecuaria da Bahia
(State Agricultural Research Company)
ETAL            Equipe Tecnica de Acao Local
(Community Action Team)
FIBGE            Fundacao Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estadistica
(Institute of Geography and Statistics)
FUNAI            Fundacao Nacional do Indio
(National Indian Foundation)
IBB              Instituto Biologico da Bahia
(State Biological Institute)
ICM              Imposto a Circulacao da Mercadoria
(Value Added Tax)
INPC             Indice Nacional de Precos ao Consumidor
(National Consumer Price Index)
INTERBA          Instituto de Terras da Bahia
(State Land Institute)
ISEB             Instituto de Saude da Bahia
(State Health Institute)
MCR              Manual de Normas e Instrucoes de Credito Rural
(Manual of Norms and Instructions for Rural Credit)
POLONORDESTE   Programa de Desenvolvimento de Areas Integradas do Nordeste
(Northeast Integrated Rural Development Program)
PROHIDRO        Programa de Aproveitamento de Recursos Hidricos
(Water Resource Development Program)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
PROTERRA        Programa de Redistribuicao de Terras e de Estimulo a
Agro-industria
(Land Redistribution and Agro-industrial Modernization
Program)
PROVARZEAS      Programa Nacional de Aproveitamento Racional de Varzeas
(National Floodplain Development Program)
SEC             Secretaria de Educacao e Cultura
(State Secretariat of Education)
SEPLANTEC       Secretaria de Planejamento e Tecnologia
(State Secretariat of Planning and Technology)
SERTANEJO       Programa Especial de Apoio ao Desenvolvimento da Regiao
Semi-Arida do Nordeste
(Special Program for the Development of the Semi-arid Region
of the Northeast)
SESAB           Secretaria de Saude da Bahia
(State Secretariat of Health)
SSIG            Grupo Especial de Irrigacao
(Small Scale Irrigation Group)
STC             Secretaria de Transportes e Comunicacoes
(State Secretariat of Transport and Communications)
SUDENE          Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
(Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast)
TU              Unidade Tecnica
(Technical Unit)



BRAZIL
SECOND BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - NORDE STE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ....................................                  1
A.  Agriculture in the Economy .............................                  1
B.  Rural Development in Northeast Brazil ....                ..............  1
C.  Government Development Strategy for the Rural Northeast.    2
D.  Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector ....               ........   3
II.  THE STATE OF BAHIA AND THE PROJECT AREA                                        4
A.  The State ..............................................                  4
Location and Natural Features  .........................                4
Social and Economic Conditions  ........................               4
Rural Development in Bahia and Bank Participation in
the Paraguacu Project ...............................                5
B.  The Project Area .......................................                 6
Location and General Features  .........................               6
Social and Economic Characteristics  ...................               7
Agricultural Production ...............................                7
Land Tenure ...........................................    8
Agricultural Services  .................................               9
Agro-Industry .........................................                 10
Physical Infrastructure  ...............................                10
Social Services .......................................                11
Amerindians and Amerindian Reserves  ...................                11
III. THE PROJECT ................................................                   12
A.  Introduction ...........................................                  12
Origins ...............................................                 12
Objectives and Brief Description ......................    12
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Brazil during September 1982. The mission comprised Messrs. J. Coates, 0.
Echeverri, C. Emanuel, and J.C. Sallier (Bank), and Ms. F. Maundrell and
Messrs. D. Cremont, J. Hojman, J. Landers, T. Ramos-Saco and J. Sagiv
(Consultants).



(ii)
Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
B.      Detailed   Features    ......................................                                                           13
Land Tenure Regularization and Redistribution ....                                                     .....    13
Rural   Extension   .......................................                                                           15
Adaptive   Agricultural   Research   ........................                                                         17
Animal   Health   and   Plant   Protection   ....................                                                     18
Agricultural   Credit   ...................................                                                          18
Small-scale   Irrigation   ................................                                                          20
Municipal   Roads    .......................................                                                         21
Rural  Water   Supply   ....................................                                                          23
Education   .............................................                                                            24
Health   and   Sanitation   .................................                                                         25
Project   Management    .....................................                                                        26
C.   Activities  Complementary  to  the Project  ....                                                   ............           26
Minimum   Price   Financing   Scheme   ........................                                                       26
Amerindian   Assistance  ..................................                                                          27
IV.      PROJECT   COST   AND   FINANCING   ................................                                                             27
Cost   Estimates    ........................................                                                         27
Financing   ............................................                                                              27
Procurement    ..........................................                                                            29
Disbursements    ........................................                                                             30
V.        PROJECT   IMPLEMENTATION   ....................................                                                                 31
Organization   and   Management    ..........................                                                         31
Community   Participation   ..............................                                                           32
Annual   Planning   and   Budgeting   ........................                                                        32
Operating   Agreements    .................................                                                          32
Monitoring,   Evaluation   and   Reporting   .................                                                        33
Accounts   and   Auditing   ................................                                                         33
VI.      PRODUCTION,   DEMAND   AND   MARKETING   ...........................                                                            34
Production   ...........................................                                                             34
Demand,   Markets   and   Channels    .........................                                                       35
VII.   FINANCIAL   ANALYSIS    ........................................                                                                   35
Illustrative   Farm   Types    ..............................                                                         35
Producer   Income   ......................................                                                           36
Fiscal   Impact    ........................................                                                           37
VIII.ECONOMIC   BENEFITS   AND   JUSTIFICATION    ........................                                                                38
Economic   Rate   of   Return   ..............................                                                        38
Employment    ...........................................                                                            40
Environmental   Impact   .................................                                                            40
Impact   on   Women   ......................................                                                          41
Project   Risks    ........................................                                                           41
IX.   SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  ....                                                            ......            42



(iii)
Table of Contents (continued)
ANNEX:
1.   List of Working Papers and Key Documents in Project File
SUPPORTING TABLES:
1.   Project Area Municipalities by Planning Zone, Showing Area and
Rural Population
2.   Physical Targets for Land Component
3.   Design Standards for 'Spot Impro-vements' on Municipal Roads
4.   Agricultural Credit Requirements
5.   Project Costs and Annual Phasing
6.   Disbursement Allocation by Category
7.   Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
8.   List of Executing and Collaborating Agencies
9.   Key Indicators for Monitoring and Evaluation
10. Estimated Annual Project Participant Production at Full
Development
11. Summary of Land Use, Labor Use, Income and Rate of Return of
Illustrative Farm Types
12. Principal Current Farming Systems
13. Potentially Useful New Crops
14. Input-Output Coefficients per Hectare for Annual Crops
15. Economic Analysis of Project Costs and Benefits
16. Principal Prices Used in Financial and Economic Analysis
CHART:
1. Project Coordination and Management Chart
MAPS
1.   Area of Project Activities (IBRD 16837)
2.   Agricultural Potential as Defined by Dependable Rainfall
(IBRD 16838)



I



BRAZIL
SECOND BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - NORDESTE
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Agriculture in the Economy
1.01      Although its relative importance in the Brazilian economy has
gradually declined, agriculture remains an important sector, employing 36%
of Brazil's labor force and contributing over 10% of the total GDP and
about half of total export earnings. Some 36% of Brazil's 1980 population
of 119 million now live in rural areas, compared to 39% in 1970. The
average annual agricultural growth rate in the decade to 1980 was just over
5%. Brazil is the world's largest exporter of coffee and orange juice, the
largest producer of sugarcane, and the second largest producer of
soybeans. Other major agricultural exports include meat and fish products,
cotton, peanuts, cocoa, castor oil, and sisal. In most years, Brazil is
self-sufficient in basic food production, except for wheat.  Bad crop years
result in periodic imports of basic food crops such as maize, rice and
beans. Most of the productivity gains, expanded production areas, and
increased market integration experienced in the recent past have occurred
in the south and center-west of the country, while the north and northeast
have largely continued to use traditional agricultural practices with
rudimentary technology.
1.02      Agricultural development has been assigned a high priority in
Brazil's 1980-85 development plan. It is given a key role in the
Government's efforts to reduce inflation, through expanded food production
and to improve the balance-of-payments, through increased production of
export crops and energy substitutes. To help achieve these objectives, the
Government has continued its support for special regional programs, despite
high inflation and public sector deficits which have caused restraint in
public expenditure elsewhere. The Government is also trying to reduce the
very high agricultural credit subsidies, an instrument used extensively in
the past decade.
B. Rural Development in Northeast Brazil
1.03      Since the late 1800s, the Northeast has been officially viewed as
Brazil's foremost "problem area." The country's wealthiest region during
the sugar boom of the colonial period, the Northeast subsequently lagged
behind as industrial, agricultural, and commercial activity has shifted to
the south. Wide inter-regional income and socio-economic disparities have
persisted-over many decades. Today, with 35 million inhabitants and nearly
30% of the nation's total population, the Northeast accounts for only 13%
of the national product, and over 70% of the families in the region are
considered poor. The average annual population growth rate was 2.2%
between 1970 and 1980, and half the population is rural. A major rural
exodus took place during the 1970s. The region includes the states of



2
Maranhao, Piaui, Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba, Pernambuco, Alagoas,
Sergipe, Bahia, and the Federal Territory of Fernando do Noronha. The
combined area is some 1.5 million km2 or 18.2% of the country's total land
area.
1.04      The Northeast is extremely heterogeneous in terms of climate,
topography, vegetation and economic and social characteristics. The zona
da mata, a narrow but fertile coastal strip ranging up to 150 km in width,
contains one-third of the regional population and a major proportion of
industry and plantation agriculture (largely sugarcane and cocoa).
The agreste is a transitional zone contiguous with semi-arid areas,
dominated by mixed farming for the domestic market as well as the raising
of beef and dairy cattle. The sertao, comprising some 750,000 km2, but
only sparsely populated is the largest of the sub-regions and the one most
prone to periodic droughts. Annual rainfall ranges from 250 mm in the
driest areas to over 1,000 mm in the humid uplands, which permits a diverse
rural economy with extensive cattle-raising and the harvesting of
drought-resistant native plants in the semi-arid areas, and the production
of fruits,-vegetables, manioc, sugarcane and other crops in the cooler,
more humid uplands.
1.05      As of the late 1970s, agriculture provided employment for some
6.6 million persons, or 54% of the regional labor force. Between 1970 and
1979, real value-added in agriculture increased at an average annual rate
of 4.9%, a rate almost identical to that achieved by all Brazilian
agriculture over the same period. The sector, however, is characterized by
low labor productivity; in 1979, agriculture accounted for only 16% of the
regional product.  In addition, average crop yields are among the poorest
in Brazil. Attempts to increase regional production and productivity are
constrained by a multitude of factors, including, inter alia, relatively
poor natural resources, a concentrated pattern of land ownership,
inadequate agricultural research and extension, inefficient marketing
networks and limited access, especially on the part of poorer farmers, to
rural credit and social services.
C.   Government Development Strategy for the Rural Northeast
1.06      Two basic approaches to development in the rural Northeast are
now in use. The first focuses on the integrated development of specific
subregions. This approach, as exemplified by the Northeast Integrated
Rural Development Program (POLONORDESTE), concentrates on increasing the
production and productivity of small farmers by combining the provision of
agricultural support services with physical infrastructure and social
services. The second is largely concerned with alleviating the effects of
the recurring droughts which affect much of the region. This involves
several parallel programs which attempt to provide temporary drought relief
assistance and to increase and improve the use of scarce water resources,
and include the Emergency Drought Relief Program, several irrigation
programs, the Special Program for the Development of the Semi-arid Region
of the Northeast (SERTANEJO), the Water Resource Development Program
(PROHIDRO), and the Semi-arid Tropics Research Program. The Government is
currently involved in an intensive evaluation of the impact of its various



special programs, and in the formulation of a regional development
strategy, which would consolidate the various activities.
D.   Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector
1.07      The Bank has so far made 25 loans, totalling US$964.1 million,
for agriculture and rural development in Brazil. These include two,
amounting to US$119.2 million, for agro-industries; two, totalling US$60.5
million, for livestock development; one for US$18.2 million for grain
storage; two amounting to US$100 million for agricultural research; one for
US$100 million to improve agricultural extension services; and 17 totalling
US$566.2 million, for various settlement, irrigation and rural development
projects, 12 of which are located in the Northeast. 1/ In addition, there
have been three loans totalling US$196 million for fertilizer production; a
loan of US$19 million for a nutrition research and development project; a
loan of US$32 million for a Northeast basic education project; and two
loans, totalling US$165 million for secondary and feeder roads. An
agricultural development project in Amazonas and a rural development
project in Maranhao were recently approved by the Board. Recent rural
development projects with land regularization activities include: the
first Bahia, first Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba and Sergipe Rural
Development Projects. The second Ceara, Piaui and Maranhao Rural
Development Projects provide support for the review of land ownership
documentation, titling, and development of new state land institutes.
1.08      The Completion and Project Performance Audit Reports issued for
the grain storage and livestock development projects reveal significant
differences which developed between the Government and the Bank regarding
interest rate policy, leading to some cancellation and/or early repayment
of the loans. Completion and Project Performance Audit Reports were
recently completed for an agro-industry credit project and the Alto Turi
land settlement project.  Implementation of the agro-industry project was
hampered by frequently shifting Government policies which included the
development of subsidized competing credit programs. These problems have
since been corrected and a follow-up project is proceeding satisfactorily.
The Alto Turi settlement project raised settler incomes beyond
expectations, but was less successful in the areas of environmental
protection, community organization, and strengthening of cooperatives.
These shortcomings are being addressed under a follow-up project.
1/   A preliminary evaluation of impact is provided in Report No. 3938-BR
"Rural Development Programs for Brazil's Northeast: An Interim
Assessment," issued on February 7, 1983.



-  4 -
II. THE STATE OF BAHIA AND THE PROJECT AREA
A.   The State
Location and Natural Features
2.01      Bahia with 560,000 km2 is the largest of the nine states in the
Brazilian Northeast. It is bordered on the east by the Atlantic Ocean; on
the south by Minas Gerais; on the west by Goias; and on the north by the
other northeastern states of Piaui, Pernambuco, Alagoas and Sergipe. The
three climatic zones discussed for the region as a whole (para 1.04) are
present. The Sao Francisco river which cuts the state from south to north,
separates the eastern two-thirds, an area of traditional settlement, from
the western third, which is practically unoccupied and has a frontier
status. Over half the state, the central and northern sections, is
considered sertao, with rainfall of 200 to 900 mm/annum, and constitutes a
third of the so-called "Poligono das Secas," the area of the Northeast
which suffers from chronic drought problems. The eastern and southern
sections of the state, with higher rainfall levels of 1,000 to 2,000
mm/annum, and fertile soils, are the main agricultural areas.
Social and Economic Conditions
2.02      Although Bahia's current population of 9.5 million has grown at
2.4%/annum over the last decade, a little above the regional and national
averages, the urban population of 4.7 million has grown at 4.2%/annum,
compared to 0.9% in the rural areas, suggesting a large rural-urban
migratory flow. The population density of 17 inhabitants/km2 is the third
lowest in the Northeast. Salvador, the administrative and service center
for the state, and one of the oldest cities in the country, has a
population of 1.8 million, making it the second largest in the Northeast.
2.03      Ownership of land is highly concentrated, with 1.3% of the
548.100 establishments (in 1975) controlling 39% of the area under farms.
Farms under 50 ha represent 84% of the total number of holdings, but only
19% of the total area. Although 84% of the farmers are classified as
owners, few have legal title to their properties. Use of land under farms
is not intensive, with only 10.5% under crops, and 44% under natural or
planted pasture. Bahia is the largest producer of cocoa, castor beans and
sisal in the country. These three cash crops account for 32% of the total
cropped area in the state. The three main subsistence crops, manioc, corn
and beans, account for another 46% of the area under crops, with the
remaining 22% going to sugarcane, coffee, tobacco, irrigated vegetables and
fruits.
2.04      The agricultural sector employs 54% of the economically active
population (1970), followed by various services (35%) and industry (11%).
However, the agricultural sector has only a small (12%) and declining share
of state GDP, which had been growing at 12%/annum between 1970 and 1975,
but which has slowed recently due to the country-wide recession. The State
Government Budget in 1982 was in the order of US$1,250 million, the largest
share going to Administration and Planning (30%). Agriculture-related



-5  -
activities account for a very reduced 3%. The state's resource base is
still weak. The major sources of funding are: (a) local taxes (52%), of
which the Value Added Tax (ICM) is the most important; (b) transfers of
federally administered funds (33%); and (c) borrowing from domestic or
international sources (15%).
Rural Development in Bahia and Bank Participation in the Paraguacu Project
2.05      The continued flow of destitute families from rural areas into
the overcrowded slums of Salvador and other large cities of the region has
induced the State Government to look for ways of improving living
conditions and economic prospects in rural areas. The State has already
initiated five rural development projects under the POLONORDESTE program.
In addition, there are various SERTANEJO program nucleii in action around
the state. Rural water-related investments are being financed under the
PROHIDRO program, and the State is financing a rural development project
for farmers and fishermen in the vicinity of the large, man-made Sobradinho
lake on the Sao Francisco river.
2.06      The Bank has been supporting rural development in Bahia since
1978 through the Bahia Rural Development Project-Paraguacu (Loan 1589-BR)
signed July 19, 1978. Although slowed at inception because of the changes
in the administration of the State Government, progress in execution has
been acceptable. Appraisal targets for extension have been surpassed, with
some 20,000 farmers currently receiving assistance under the project. The
various agricultural support components are progressing favorably, except
for those related to land, where titling procedures are very slow, and a
land redistribution mechanism still has to be set up.  Although behind
target, the social development activities are being implemented fairly
satisfactorily. Items which have been less successful (for various
technical and administrative reasons) such as the construction of multi-
purpose dams, the refurbishment of several small (but rather complicated)
irrigation systems and the constructlon of small warehouses, will not be
included under the new project. Some 28% of the loan has disbursed to
date, well below the 85% estimated at appraisal. The slow rate of
disbursement is attributable to delays in initial counterpart funding,
start-up problems in execution, and delays in the disbursement request
procedures, which have eroded the value of the original expenditures. Most
of these problems have now been largely treated. As evidence of its
commitment to this approach, and to the Paraguacu project, the State
Government is preparing a request to extend the loan.
2.07      Experience gained under the Paraguacu project has had important
institutional benefits. Teams in the State Secretariat of Planning and
Technology (SEPLANTEC) and the various executing agencies have been
trained in the concepts of regional planning: the integration of services,
the targe-ting of activities, the annual planning and evaluation process and
the identification and solution of problems. Now, all the agencies
involved in agricultural development agree on the need to work with the
small farmer to solve the social and economic problems in the State.
2.08      Lessons learned from the implementation of the Paraguacu project
have influenced the design of the proposed project in the Northeast of
Bahia.  This has resulted in:  (a) the decentralization of project



-6-
administration and the centralization of the evaluation tasks; (b) the
emphasis on land tenure regularization, titling and land redistribution;
(c) the move to strengthen backup technical support for the field level
extensionist and increase the coverage of the extension service; (d) the
attempt to make the collaboration between extension and adaptive research
more systematic; (e) the focus on localized road improvement and
maintenance rather than construction; and (f) the move to reduce the number
of health posts and put the health attendant on a door-to-door visit
program.
B. The Project Area
Location and General Features
2.09      The project area of 76,600 km2 in the Northeast of Bahia, 13% of
the state, is bounded to the north and west by the Sao Francisco river, on
the south by the Irece and Paraguacu rural development projects, and on the
east by the states of Sergipe and Alagoas (See Map IBRD 16837).  The area
is the driest in the state. It is characterized by a hot arid to semi-arid
tropical climate, with high summer temperatures, moderate winter ones,
low-moderate rainfall, high annual evapotranspiration and low relative
humidity. Rainfall characteristics dominate other major parameters in
determining agricultural aptitude. The unimodal winter rainfall of the
arid northern 60% of the project area, with between 300 and 500 mm/year,
most of which occurs between November and April, is derived from
thunderstorms and is highly irregular. The predominantly bimodal rainfall
pattern of the southern half of the region of 500 to 900 mm/annum, has 50
to 75% of the precipitation concentrated from April to July, the main
cropping season, with the remainder falling between November and March
(chuva das trovoadas), a minor cropping season.
2.10      The project area lies within the 'Poligono das Secas' and
includes a transition agreste area in the southeast and southwest, where
topography is mildly undulating. The remainder of the region is typical
sertao, a flat terrain with occasional hills rising abruptly 200 to 300 m,
covered with xerophylous caatinga vegetation. The valleys of the two
itinerant rivers which flow west-east across the area, the Vaza-Barris and
the Itapicuru, are used for irrigation when water is available. The
northern perimeter of the region, along the Sao Francisco river, has good
soils, and water is drawn from the river for the irrigation of individual
plots and for large irrigation schemes managed by the federal Company for
the Development of the Sao Francisco river valley. The southeast quadrant
of the project area has sedimentary rock formations with fairly good
acquifers, which could be tapped for small-scale irrigation.
2.11      Soils of the project area, other than in the sedimentary region,
are of igneous origin, and vary dramatically over short distances.
Agricultural aptitude studies show 16% of the area as class 2, regions good
for annual and perennial crops with moderate restrictions; 13% of the area
as class 3, with more severe restrictions for annual crops; 59% of the area
suitable only for artificial or natural extensive pastures; and 12% not
suitable for agricultural purposes. For planning purposes, the area was
divided into seven sub-areas (Table 1 and Map IBRD 16838).



-7-
Social and Economic Characteristics
2.12      The population of the area, some 1.1 million in 1980, is
distributed roughly according to agricultural potential.  Thus the more
densely populated areas lie along the river Sao Francisco (the towns of
Juazeiro and Paulo Afonso), and in the southwestern (Senhor lo Bonfim)
and the southeastern (Ribeira do Pombal) regions. Some 70% of the
population is rural, an index well above the 50% average for the state.
Growth from 1970 to 1980 was of the order of 2.5%/annum. Urban areas grew
at 4.4%/annum, however, compared with a rural rate of 1.7%/annum,
indicating a fairly high shift in the population from rural to urban areas.
2.13      Underemployment in rural areas is high.  Agriculture is the
sector which generates most employment by far, with 77% of the
'economically active population.' However, agricultural employment is only
seasonal, with family wage earners required to travel within the region or
to other parts of the country in the off-season to obtain work. Employment
in industry accounts for 8% of the economically active population and the
service and Government sector for the remaining 15%. One-half the
population of over 10 years of age is considered economically inactive.
2.14      The region is one of the poorest in the state, making it a
natural focus for efforts at poverty alleviation and income redistri-
bution. Although it had 22% of the farms in the state and 15% of the rural
population, it produced only 12% of the value of state agricultural
production in 1975. The region produced only 3% of the ICM and other taxes
collected in the state in 1975. The value of agricultural output per
person occupied in this activity was on the order of US$220/annum, only 65%
of the equivalent figure on a statewide level, indicating lower crop values
and levels of productivity in the region.
Agricultural Production
2.15      Traditional small-farm subsistence crops are the main products,
with beans, corn, and manioc covering 75% of the cropped area. The region
is one of the principal producers of corn and beans in the state,
containing 39% of the statewide area planted to these two crops. The
principal cash crops of the region are sisal and castor-bean, with 20% of
the total cropped area in the region and 28% of the statewide area planted
to these two crops. The 3,500 ha under irrigation, and the small areas
under tobacco, sugarcane, cotton and other products occupy the remaining 5%
of the cropped area.
2.16      Small farmers also obtain additional income in the off season
from collecting native products growing wild. Of these, the harvest of
wood (especially umbu) and ouricuri nuts (from palms), and the production
of charcoal are the most important.
2.17      Livestock in the region is characterized by the importance of
sheep and goat stock. With 961,000 and 1,166,000 animals, respectively,
they represent 43 and 45% of the state herds. Cattle rearing, however, has
more economic weight in the region. The stock of cattle, with 1.2 million
head and the 414,000 pigs account for about 12% of the state herds.



Livestock are reared on an extensive basis, as the natural and artificial
pastures have a very low carrying capacity in the arid climate. The total
area under crops is estimated at 435,200 ha, and the area under pasture at
1,173,200 ha, of which 35% is improved (planted) pasture.
2.18      Comparisons of area cultivated and volume of annual production
for the project area and the state using the average of the annual amounts
for 1977 to 1979 are given below:
Project Area
Project Area              State            as Proportion
Crop                    Production             Production           of State (%)
ha       ton          ha         ton         ha      ton
Beans                140,045   45,507       379,133    161,619        37     28
Manioc Root           35,653  529,084       293,000  4,493,000        12     12
Dry Sisal Fiber       72,145   43,580       130,000      87,487      55      50
Corn                149,582   89,579        363,903    239,566       41      37
Castor Beans          14,761   14,841       183,900    160,779         8      9
Sweet Potato           2,394   21,024         8,498      77,158      28      27
Irrigated
Vegetables 1/        3,457   18,106        22,606    120,631       15      15
Tobacco Leaf           2,781     1,829       48,200      38,166        6      5
Potatoes                 519    1,918         2,041       8,290      25      23
Sugarcane              1,532   35,630        78,900  3,080,533         2      1
Seed Cotton            1,280       888        4,500       2,430      28      37
Cocoa                      -         -      404,941    277,164         -      -
Others                11,069         -      347,744            -
Total            435,218              2,267,366                   19
1/   Tomatoes, onion, watermelon and melon.
Source: FIBGE and SEPLANTEC.
Land Tenure
2.19       The region is characterized by the overwhelming number of very
small farms (minifundios), especially in the higher rainfall regions of the
southeast and southwest. The ownership and occupation of land is
concentrated. Farms under 50 ha in size represented 93% of the
establishments in the region in 1975, but only 34% of the total area under
farms, whereas farms of over 500 ha, under 0.5% of the total number of
farms, controlled 26% of total area (see table below). Average farm size
is small. The average size of farms under 50 ha was 8 ha, and the average
size for -the region was 22 ha, half the statewide parameters.



Number and Size of Holdings in the Project Area (1975)
Average
Farm Size           Number of Farms              Total Area           Farm Size
No.            %            '000 ha   %              ha
0   - 10 ha        83,502         70              294.1   11             3.5
10  - 50 ha        27,787         23             612.4   23             22.0
50  - 100 ha        4,544          4             321.1   12             70.7
100 - 200 ha        2,323          2             322.4   13            138.8
200 - 500 ha        1,312          1             391.4   15            298.3
500 +                 540          -             689.4   26          1,276.7
120,008        100           2,630.8  100             21.9
Source: FIBGE.
2.20      Some 89% of farmers in the region are classified as owners.  This
is misleading, however, as less than 15% of these owners have legal title
to all their land, often having only an escritura of dubious legal value
covering a portion of the total farm area. The rest are either squatters
(10%), or full-time sharecroppers or renters (1%). The tenuous nature of
the ownership documentation, however, makes land tenure regularization
imperative if farmers are to be encouraged to make permanent improvements
in their farms. Steps would be taken under the proposed project to resolve
this problem (paras 3.05 to 3.11).
2.21      There are three main types of land tenure systems within the
project area, each linked to a broad category of production system. The
first, which operates over most of the land with rainfed cropping
potential, is individual operation of fenced blocks of land for crop and
livestock production on the farmer's own account. A farmer sharecrops when
he has insufficient land to provide for his own needs.  The second major
system of land tenure is common in the unfenced caatinga area, where
livestock rearing (goats, cattle or sheep) is the main activity. Groups of
50 to 300 families each live together on fundos de terra, large tracts of
land, originally under individual ownership, whose boundaries and legal
ownership rights are extremely ill-defined and often date back to titulos
de posse extended by the Portuguese Crown to an original owner. These
farmers normally have a 2 to 4 ha house plot for subsistence crops and
fodder, and they shepherd the animals that pasture, unrestricted, in the
common grazing land. These lands are now being encroached upon and fenced
in by neighbors, depriving the shepherd families of their livelihood. This
type of grilagem is the principal source of land disputes in the region.
The third land tenure system applies to irrigated agriculture, particularly
along the Sao Francisco river, where it is estimated that some 70% of the
farmers.are sharecroppers working between 1 and 3 ha of land, growing
onions, garlic, tomatoes, and other high value vegetables.



- 10 -
Agricultural Services
2.22      Agricultural extension services in the area have traditionally
been oriented toward the preparation of credit requests and, until
recently, favored the larger farmers. The initiation in 1981 of a small
rural development project in 16 of the 43 municipalities of the area,
funded by the National Bank for Economic and Social Development (BNDES) and
POLONORDESTE, permitted an increase in the number of extensionists oriented
toward small farmer development. The State Technical Assistance and Rural
Extension Company (EMATER-BA) now operates 31 municipal offices, linked to
four regional centers, with some 53 extension agents working with small
farmer problems. Agricultural research facilities, maintained by the State
Agricultural Research Company (EPABA) in Ribeira do Pombal and Nova Soure,
Queimadas and Itiuba, work on adapting nationally proven varieties and
techniques to local conditions. The region is fairly well served by the
official banks, with 13 regular agencies and 11 "advanced agricultural
credit posts" of the Bank of Brazil, as well as three Bank of the Northeast
of Brazil, and 30 Bank of the State of Bahia agencies. Some US$20 million
in official small farmer rural credit was committed in the project area in
1981, assisting some 13,000 farmers. Due to the size of the region, and
the poor quality of transportation services, access to credit is still
costly and difficult for small farmers. Agricultural inputs are provided
through a network of private suppliers, and by the State Agricultural
Mechanization and Input Supply Company. The state-owned crop storage
capacity of 5,450 tons distributed across five warehouses is underutilized,
due to poor location, and high transport and storage costs. The biggest
users are farmers receiving financing under the Government-administered
Minimum Price Scheme.
Agroindustry
2.23      The main industrial activity relates to the processing of
agricultural products, and the extraction of minerals. Facilities are all
privately owned. The 1,420 industrial entities employed 6,500 persons in
1975. Food processing is concentrated in the municipalities of Senhor de
Bonfim and Juazeiro, where there is a large meat-packing plant. The
principal sisal processing facilities are located in Valente and Conceicao
do Coite. Tanning of goat hides for export is also important.
Physical Infrastructure
2.24      The trunk road network is adequate, but maintenance capabilities
for state and municipal roads are weak. The area contains some 1,200 km of
federal roads (24% of the state network), 1,300 km of state roads (10% of
the state network), and 15,000 km of municipal roads (15% of the state
network). Municipal roads link rural centers and small hamlets (povoados)
with state and federal roads, most being no more than earth tracks, 4.0 m
wide with no drainage system. Traffic is light and seasonal. Very few
would carry over 15 vehicles a day during peak harvest season. Electricity
is provided from the hydroelectric station at Paulo Afonso. Although most
municipal centers are connected to the grid, rural electrification is only
beginning, with 940 km of transmission lines installed and 411 km under
construction. Currently, the State Rural Engineering Company (CERB) has
built and maintains 127 of the smaller rural water supply systems in the



- 11 -
region. The State Water Supply Company maintains the larger systems,
covering 26 municipalities.
Social Services
2.25      The region is fairly well covered with health infrastructure,
with 163 health posts, 70 centers, and 37 hospitals with 1,100 beds (1 per
1,000 inhabitants). There are some 14,000 inhabitants/doctor, twice the
statewide average. Infectious diseases and parasites are the biggest
causes of child mortality. Although the overall formal primary education
matriculation rate of 79% appears to be fairly good (in terms of the
Northeast of Brazil) it conceals a rural matriculation rate of 65%. Over
half the potential students live in rural areas. Teacher qualifications
are poor, with 41% not having finished the first four years of primary
school. Over half the population is illiterate. Schools are inadequate
(over 63% of the one-classroom schools operate in teachers' houses) and the
drop-out and repetition rates are high (first grade enrollment makes up
over half of school enrollment). The Bank-financed Northeast Brazil Basic
Education Project (Loan 1867-BR) is active in 27 of the 43 municipalities
of the project area, reinforcing municipal education entities, constructing
schools, training teachers and distributing teaching-learning materials.
Amerindians and Amerindian Reserves
2.26      There are some 3,700 Amerindians in the project area.  Some 67%
of the Amerindians are Kiriri and live in the reserves of Mirandela (in
Ribeira do Pombal) and Massacara (in Euclides da Cunha). The Pankarare,
with some 21% of the Amerindian population live close to Gloria, and a
definitive reserve for them is being identified. The Tuxa, with 12% of the
Aimerindians, are located close to the town of Rodelas, and would have to
relocate when the town is moved, due to the flooding that would occur with
the completion of the Itaparica dam, currently under construction on the
Sao Francisco river. These Amerindian tribes have been exposed to the
national culture for many generations, and are fully acculturated and
Portuguese speaking. Most of them are small farmers, similar to the
non-Amerindians in the region.
2.27      The formal definition of the limits of the various reserves is
underway, and the Mirandela reserve was delimited under a National Indian
Foundation (FUNAI) decree in mid 1981. The area defined as part of the
Mirandela reserve, however, included the land farmed by numerous small
non-Amerindian farmers, often for several generations. After the formal
limits of the reserve were drawn by FUNAI, tension between Amerindians and
non-Amerindians has increased, as has the pressure to remove the
non-Amerindian farmers. The case of the non-Amerindian farmers (some
10,000 people) is being defended by the State of Bahia, which has a
different interpretation of the documentation used in the initial
definition of the size of the reserve. Discussions are underway, and a
joint State/FUNAI Commission has been formed to review the land issues and
to come to a mutually acceptable conclusion on the size of the reserves and
on a plan for the removal of non-Amerindian squatters (para 3.45).



-  12  -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Introduction
Origins
3.01      The State has given high priority to the support of small farmer
agriculture through integrated rural development projects (para 2.05). In
light of the positive experience with the Bank-financed Paraguacu project
(paras 2.06 and 2.07), a similar project covering the 43 municipalities of
Northeast Bahia was prepared in 1979. A reduced program covering only 16
municipalities was started in 1980, with financing from POLONORDESTE and
BNDES. Bank involvement was delayed pending satisfactory progress in the
implementation of the Paraguacu project. With guidance from Bank and
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program preparation missions starting in 1981,
the project was designed and components prepared by the State Government
for Bank appraisal in September 1982.
Objectives and Brief Description
3.02      Project objectives are to:  (a) raise the incomes and living
standards of some 45,000 small farm families with holdings of under 50 ha
in the 43 municipalities of the Northeast of Bahia; (b) expand employment
opportunities in rural areas; and (c) increase agricultural production,
especially of basic foodstuffs.
3.03      To attain these objectives, the project would focus on:
(a) land tenure activities, starting with a general cadastral survey,
that would permit the titling of 55,000 legally occupied farms,
and the repossession of some 37,500 ha of illegally occupied
public land for redistribution in favor of small farmers;
(b) strengthening the rural extension, agricultural research and
plant and animal protection services, extending coverage and
improving mutual feedback and support;
(c) the improvement of 1,000 km of municipal roads and the
strengthening of the road maintenance capacity;
(d) the improvement of quality and expansion of coverage of primary
education and health care, the construction of 100 rural water
supply systems and the improvement of hygiene in rural dwellings;
and
(e)  support to project management and coordination, including moni-
toring and ongoing evaluation.
Project execution would be coordinated by a Technical Unit (TU) within
SEPLANTEC. Additional support activities such as funding for
agroindustrial development and price support mechanisms as well as
incremental recurrent costs not financed by the project would be provided
by Government.



-  13  -
3.04      Project activities would focus on selected rural communities and
districts with concentrations of small farmers and reasonable production
potential, as was the case in the Paragaucu project.  Insecurity of tenure
would be reduced by providing titles for legally occupied land.
Agricultural development is constrained by the availability of water. The
risks of failure of annual subsistence crops due to drought are
significant, even in the more humid parts of the area. Research has begun
to develop some improved cropping practices and selected varieties which
can reduce these risks and raise incomes from rainfed crops at minimum
extra cost. Corresponding low-cost improvements are possible in livestock
output, principally through improved feed and attention to animal health.
Combined with increased planting of drought-resistant cash crops such as
sorghum, castor bean and cowpea, these measures could allow 45,000
small-scale producers to improve their standard of living and promote the
gradual transition from subsistence to commercial farming.
B. Detailed Features
Land Tenure Regularization and Redistribution
3.05       In response to the increasing pressures on land in the region,
and in view of the disincentive to investment and agricultural development
inherent in situations where claims to ownership are uncertain, the project
would: (a) systematically review the claims to private ownership, through
the process of "discrimination," 2/ of some 36,000 km2, implying some
60,000 properties; (b) confirm the claims and boundaries, and issue titles,
for some 55,000 properties of under 50 ha; (c) guarantee the continued
access of shepherd families, practising extensive sheep and goat husbandry,
to their communal grazing lands; and (d) obtain through legal action or
purchase, some 37,500 ha to be resold on credit to 1,500 small farmers with
insufficient or uncertain access to land.  Physical targets for the
component are provided in Table 2.
3.06      The component would be managed by the State Land Institute
(INTERBA), which was strengthened under a previous Bank project, with the
assistance of the state Regional Development Company (CAR) in the land
redistribution aspects. Services which the Institute cannot execute for
itself, would be contracted out to private firms. The focus of the
component would be on the process of "discrimination," and on the use of
more efficient aerophotogrammetric procedures for systematically reviewing
property boundaries, relating properties to the country's basic geodesic
network, calculating the area and configuration of properties for titling
purposes, and establishing and maintaining an up-to-date property cadaster
of the region, as described in the Supplementary Staff Working Papers
(Annex 1),. Areas to be discriminated would be those with the greatest
potential for agricultural development (zones 5, 6 and 7), but would also
2/   Discrimination, or 'discriminatoria' in Portuguese, is used here to
refer to the legal process of review and verification of the validity
of existing claims to land by private parties. Land for which no
private claim is validated reverts to the State by default.



- 14 -
include areas where conflicts are causing serious disruption. Provision
has been made for discrimination of the strip of irrigable land along the
Sao Francisco river, and of the communal grazing areas around Uaua.
3.07      To facilitate the discrimination process and the establishment of
coherent cadastral records, aerial photography techniques would be used.
INTERBA would initially contract aerial photography coverage of 55,000 km2
at a scale of 1:60,000, and 23,000 km2 at a scale of 1:30,000. From these
photographs, orthophotos at scales of 1:5,000, 1:10,000 and 1:20,000 and
controlled photomosaics at a scale of 1:50,000 would be produced for the
different project areas, depending on the density of land occupation and
the nature of identifiable landmarks. Orthophotos combine the metric
precision of a map and the detail of an aerial photograph, which
considerably reduces the need for extensive conventional topographic work,
and increases the quality and accuracy of information on land occupation.
Titles would be issued for a nominal fee to all occupants having valid
claim to 50 ha or less. The total cost of discrimination and titling would
amount to approximately US$285/farmer.
3.08      The regularization of tenure of communal grazing lands (fundos de
pasto) presents special legal problems. Communities involved range in size
from 50 to 500 families, and in area from 3,000 to 30,000 ha per
community. Under the State Land Law, 500 ha is the maximum area which may
be titled under normal procedures in the name of any one entity, with the
limitation rising to 3,000 ha under special procedures. The individual
titling of areas much in excess of those already used for houseplots and
subsistence agriculture could threaten the viability of existing production
systems, as access to range lands and water points would be reduced.
Communal title (condominio pro-indiviso), which appears to be the most
promising solution, is as yet untried under these circumstances.
Meanwhile, the threat of encroachment on such lands makes immediate action
necessary. In response to this problem, the project would finance two
economists/sociologists from SEPLANTEC who would be based in Uaua and would
be responsible for further investigation of the problem, the design of
feasible solutions, and the field work necessary to permit their
implementation, including the necessary community organization work. The
project would also finance research into alternative legal procedures for
titling the communal grazing lands.
3.09      An important objective of the discrimination process is the
identification of public lands for redistribution to farmers with
insufficient land. In addition, other land with agricultural potential
would be identified for purchase, primarily in the semi-arid and sub-humid
sedimentary areas, and along the Sao Francisco river, to support the
development of small-scale irrigation. The Government would finance a
revolving Land Fund of US$3.71 million, to be used both for land
acquisition and, where necessary, for compensation for improvements to be
paid to farmers who are dispossessed following discrimination. The Land
Fund would be administered by the CAR. It has been estimated that some
37,500 ha would be acquired, with land obtained from repossession, costing
about US$100/ha, and outright purchase costing some US$500/ha. Land
obtained in this fashion would be resold to some 1,500 selected small
farmers who would obtain land purchase credit from official banks
(para 3.21). This credit would be used to replenish the Land Fund.



-  15  -
3.10      A management unit, responding directly to the Executive Director,
would be established within INTERBA to deal exclusively with the
discrimination and titling component of the project. This would include a
sub-unit to deal with the data processing and automatic drafting procedures
used to produce the property maps which support the land title
documentation. Two consultants would be engaged for a total of 45
man-months to specify the equipment and programs required.  Three
additional attorneys would be attached to the Legal Department
(Procuradoria Juridica), with the responsibility of pursuing those cases
referred for judicial procedures by the Special Commissions charged with
deciding on the validity of land ownership claims. INTERBA would be given
additional strength in this regard, if it were designated the State
Government's legal representative for land issues. The project would
finance an additional 105 staff, of whom 92 would work permanently in the
field.
3.11      Assurances were given by the State Government at negotiations
that: (a) the Land Fund would be adequately funded and maintained fully
operational for the complete project execution period; (b) the
responsibility for representing the State Government on land-related issues
had been legally conferred to INTERBA and a Land Prosecution Unit
established within INTERBA's Legal Department by March 31, 1984; (c) the
measures satisfactory to the Bank for guaranteeing extensive livestock
rearing on communal pastures (fundos de pasto) by small farmer communities
would have been applied to a minimum of three fundos de pasto by December
31, 1984; (d) a minimtm of 200,000 ha had been discriminated, 5,000 farms
titled, and 200 farmers provided with land under the discrimination and
Land Fund procedures by December 31, 1985; and (e) an in-depth evaluation
of the effectiveness of each of the various aspects of the land tenure
regularization component would be undertaken by an external consultant and
made available to the Bank by March 31, 1986. It is a condition of
disbursement for the component (excluding aerophotogrammetric work) that
the agreement establishing the Land Fund had been modified to provide for
the participation of CAR.
Rural Extension
3.12      Under the rural extension component, to be executed by EMATER-BA,
technical assistance would be provided to some 45,000 farmers.
Complementary assistance would be provided in obtaining credit, in
organizing community groups to work on marketing and other issues, and in
providing education in nutrition and home economics. These activities
would complement assistance already provided under the Bank-assisted
Agricultural Extension Project (Loan 1568-BR) for items such as central
administration and training facilities, which have a more general
state-wide impact. The project would finance: (a) the establishment of 20
new local extension offices; (b) vehicles and equipment for the expanded
extension system; (c) initial training and indoctrination courses (540
hours) for 211 new social and agricultural extension agents during the
first four years of the project and one shorter refresher course (90 hours)
for each of these extension agents; (d) training courses for some 3,800
farmer leaders; and (e) salaries of incremental staff and incremental
operating costs of local offices. The agricultural extension staff would
be increased from 53 to 168 upper and middle level extension agents
(including seven subject matter specialists), and from seven to 54 upper



-  16  -
and middle level social extension agents. Administrative and support staff
would go up to 99. The project would finance the extension personnel who
had already been employed for a year during the existing POLONORDESTE/BNDES
rural development project, as they would work full-time with the same
clientele and receive retraining and support.
3.13      EMATER-BA has worked in the region for many years providing
assistance to large landowners, principally for livestock rearing. With
the initiation of rural development projects in the region, more attention
was given to the needs of the poorer small farmers. During an exercise
undertaken during project preparation to test new techniques in extension
methodology, the Center for Agricultural Research in the Semi-arid Tropics
(CPATSA) participated for the first time in the training of the extension
agents, a successful experiment much appreciated by the field staff. Under
the project, these innovations would be developed into a system akin to the
training and visit system, whereby extension work would be divided into
two-week cycles, with the priority topics for that time determined in
periodic meetings which would include extension agents, subject matter
specialists, and adaptive research and CPATSA personnel, when possible.
Extension agents would work through selected farmers, identified for their
agricultural expertise and status within the local community. It is
expected that each extension agent would have an impact on a minimum of 360
farmers. This could increase depending on how many farms he can visit
during the eight working days in the field available in each two-week cycle
and the number of family, neighbors, and friends each selected farmer
influences. With about 100 middle level extension agents and 25 equivalent
upper level agents (who number 68, but who also have administrative and
advisory duties, as the heads of the local/regional extension offices, or
as subject matter specialists), a minimum of 45,000 farmers would be
reached by the extension service, of whom 26,000 would take credit. These
would include 5,000 selected farmers worked with directly, the 1,880
farmers working with irrigation, and 50% of the remaining clientele.
Credit requests would be prepared by specially trained upper level
extension agents who would also provide farmers with training in farm
management. As the extension methodology to be used under the project is
innovative for Northeast Brazil, it would be introduced on a pilot basis in
six municipalities in the Ribeira do Pombal area during the first year,
evaluated and adjusted, and then gradually extended to the remainder of the
project area.
3.14      Technical assistance would focus on:  (a) simple methods to
improve yields, such as improving seed varieties, land preparation
techniques, improved spacing and fertility improvement practices (para
7.03); (b) diversification into more drought-resistant crops such as
sorghum and cowpea; (c) simple improvements in the management and feeding
of livestock; and (d) investment in dams, pumps, and wells to permit
irrigation and allow some degree of independence from the extremely
unreliable rainfall. The extension service would draw on results from the
vigorous research program at CPATSA in Petrolina just north of the project
area, where a large amount of practical information is now being genera-
ted. The adaptive research efforts of EPABA will also contribute to the
solution of production problems. EMATER-BA's demonstration programs under
the existing POLONORDESTE projects have made a good start at implanting
known solutions with sorghum, animal traction, double row planting of
manioc, contour planting, insecticide application and other techniques.



-  17  -
3.15      Social extension agents would hold monthly meetings to be
attended by the families of the farm community as well as other village
level agents for health and education. Farmer associations to market goods
or purchase inputs, to maintain and operate the rural water supply systems,
or to develop artesan activities would be formed. In addition, social
extension agents would provide nutrition education and training in home
economics to the women in the community.
3.16       The State Government agreed at negotiations that the evaluation
report on the introduction of the extension system in the pilot area in the
first year of the project would be sent to the Bank for review by June 30,
1984.
Adaptive Research
3.17      Complementing the Bank-assisted First and Second Agricultural
Research Projects (Loans 1249-BR and 2016-BR), agricultural research under
the project would concentrate on the adaptation of varieties and
cultivation techniques to the conditions in the project area. The
variability in climate and soil conditions and the need to improve research
support for agricultural extension in a region with difficult agricultural
problems justify the strengthening of the research network and a small
expansion into the problems associated with rearing of goats and sheep in
the central sertao. The project would finance: (a) construction costs,
vehicles, and equipment for a small goat research station in Uaua; (b)
salaries and incremental operating costs for an additional six senior and
13 junior level staff, 12 field laborers, and five administrative
assistants; and (c) three training sessions per annum for the research
staff.
3.18      The executing agency would be EPABA, which has already received
assistance under the Paraguacu project. EPABA already operates a newly
completed research station in Ribeira do Pombal and sub-stations in Nova
Soure, Queimada, and Itiuba, which undertake variety and fertilizer trials
for the traditional crops in the area: corn and beans. Work on sorghum
has also been initiated. The focus is on improving dry-farming techniques
for existing production systems, and testing new crops, varieties and
techniques to reduce risks to cropping due to inadequate and unreliable
rainfall, as well as to improve yields. Priority would be given to the
solution of specific problems identified by EMATER-BA in the course of its
field work. Attention would be given to evaluating the performance of:
(a) drought-resistant grains, such as sorghum; (b) pastures and
drought-resistant forage crops such as 'palma'; (c) improvement of soil
characteristics and fertility through incorporation of organic matter and
the introduction of a legume fallow; (d) definition of the residual impact
and economic value of various levels of phosphate fertilizer on short
cycle annuals, following fertilized manioc and castor; (e) test production
of jojoba, mungbean, safflower, lima bean and other potentially adaptable
crops in each climatic zone; and (f) production and conservation of forage
crops and food supplements for livestock, with emphasis on sheep and goats,
in the dry periods of the year. Some 250 experiments would be undertaken
at the various research stations. Observation plots would also be located
on private farms, with EPABA observing and recording results. The research
staff would participate in the meetings of the extension staff to review



- 18 -
and define the extension program and to provide training to extension
agents in aspects of crop production and back-up assistance in resolving
problems that escape the expertise of the subject matter specialist.
Responsibility for supporting extension agents in aspects related to animal
health or plant disease and pest control would be with the State Biological
Institute (IBB). Assurances were given by the State Government at
negotiations that EPABA would publicize annually the research results
obtained in the project area during the preceding year.
Animal Health and Plant Protectiorn
3.19      In an effort to improve the productivity of the region's sheep
and goat herds, and to support the extension service with laboratory
services for pest control and plant protection, the project would finance
the expansion of IBB's services with: (a) the establishment of three
additional offices in the project area; and (b) an additional eight
agronomists and 12 veterinarians, plus support personnel.
3.20      The IBB would be the executing agency.  Support for livestock
improvement activities would be provided through the three new offices in
Uaua, Chorrocho and Curaca which are all in prime sheep and goat-rearing
areas. The veterinarians would strengthen capabilities in these three
offices as well as at the other offices in Juazeiro, Senhor do Bonfim,
Ribeira do Pombal, Nova Soure, Euclides da Cunha, Jeremoabo, Conceicao do
Coite and Queimadas and provide specialized assistance to EMATER-BA in the
field of animal health.  The IBB would give courses to groups of farmers in
disease identification and prevention, and animal nutrition; undertake
vaccination campaigns, and provide emergency veterinary assistance for sick
animals. Plant protection would be enhanced by the presence of an IBB
entomologist in the various offices, which would also each have simple
laboratories for preliminary analyses. More sophisticated diagnoses of
pest problems would have to be undertaken at IBB's Salvador laboratories.
It is a condition of disbursement for this component that IBB, EPABA,
EMATER-BA and SEPLANTEC had signed an agreement defining IBB's role in
providing plant protection and animal health under the project, and the way
in which its activities would complement and be integrated into the work of
the extension and research services.
Agricultural Credit
3.21      Agricultural credit would be provided to some 26,000 small
famrers (para 3.13) as follows: (a) incremental seasonal credit of US$20.4
million to meet input and labor costs for annual crop production, and
maintenance and harvest of perennial crops; (b) regular on-farm investment
credit of US$13.7 million to finance land clearing, fencing, on-farm
storage and other on-farm improvements, purchase of ploughs, carts, pumps,
wells and other irrigation and farm equipment, on-farm and off-farm
irrigation works, acquisition of livestock and the establishment of pasture
or perennial crops; and (c) land purchase credit of US$11.1 million for the
acquisition of 37,500 ha to benefit some 1,500 farmers.
3.22      Credit would be provided by the Government banks which operate in
the area: the Bank of Brazil, the Bank of the Northeast of Brazil and the
Bank of the State of Bahia. The extension agents financed under the



-  19  -
project would assist farmers in formulating and executing their investment
plans, and in initiating a relationship with the official banking system.
Procedures for obtaining credit have been greatly simplified over the past
few years, including the use of a group credit application for small
working capital loans, and a reduction in the requirements for collateral
and guarantees for the small loans envisaged under this project.  Access to
the official banking system is fairly good, due to the recent proliferation
of Bank of the State of Bahia agencies, and the significant number of
"advanced agricultural credit posts" managed by the Bank of Brazil.  The
principal problems faced in recent years have been the capacity of the
agencies to process requests generated by project beneficiaries in a timely
fashion, and the availability of funds for both working capital and
investment purposes when required.
3.23      Credit requirements were calculated under the same methodology
used by the official banks in the project area, as required under the
"Manual de Normas e Instrucoes de Credito Rural" (MCR) issued by the
Central Bank of Brazil. The amount to be financed per hectare of a given
crop is determined by the Valor Basico de Custeio, an index which is
adjusted periodically to reflect the impact of inflation on production
costs, and which includes differentials for varying productivity levels.
The amounts provided for subsistence crops typically cover the cost of
purchased inputs, and some 50% of the labor costs, which in the case of
most subsistence crops goes towards financing consumption by the farm
family during the production cycle. The allocation for a hectare of
intercropped beans and corn is about US$150 equivalent at the lowest
productivity levels, rising to US$240 equivalent for the productivity
levels of most of the project beneficiaries.
3.24      The rationalization of agricultural credit policies, particularly
the phasing out of credit subsidies, has long been the primary agricultural
policy issue pressed by the Bank in its policy dialogue with Brazil. The
Bank withdrew from further financing of credit components in rural
development projects, in May 1980, as a result of lack of progress on this
issue. In January 1983, the Bank reached an understanding with the
Brazilian authorities on the phasing out of agricultural credit subsidies.
Charges for agricultural seasonal and investment credit would be based on a
correction factor for outstanding loan balances derived from the National
Consumer Price Index (INPC), and an interest rate of 5%. Charges for
credit in the North and Northeast would be somewhat lower than for the rest
of the country, and for 1983/84 would have a correction factor for loan
principal of 55% of the projected increase of the INPC, and a 5% interest
rate. The correction factor for principal would rise to 65% of the
increase in the INPC in 1984/85, and continue to rise as a proportion of
the INPC. Rates for both seasonal and investment credit are expected to be
moved in parallel through 1985. Moreover, the Government has announced
that as of July 1, 1983, the rates for all current "special" credit lines
will be unified at the above rates, eliminating the current multiplicity of
rates and terms for special regions and purposes.
3.25     Assurances were given by the Federal Government at negotiations
that: (a) the Central Bank shall enter into agreements with the
participating banks to ensure that credit would be extended to project



-  20  -
beneficiaries under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and in
accordance with the lending policies and procedures set forth in the MCR;
(b) the allocation of credit resources to the agencies of the participating
banks would be sufficient to cover the yearly requirements of project
beneficiaries in the area of influence of each agency, and these
allocations would be reviewed with CAR by December 31 of each year, and
sent to the Bank for comment by January 31 of each year; (c) adequate
credit resources would be available to implement the irrigation component
according to targets established in paragraph 3.30; and (d) that lending
policies and procedures set forth in the MCR which are applicable to the
subloans financed under this project would not be substantially amended in
a manner which in the Bank's opinion would adversely affect the execution
of this component. Assurances were provided by the State Government that a
Project Credit Statistics and Monitoring System would be set up by the
Technical Unit not later than March 31, 1984, and that it would, on a
yearly basis, evaluate the implementation of the project credit component.
Small-scale Irrigation
3.26      Under this component, various types of small-scale irrigation
systems would be promoted in an attempt to overcome the main constraint to
agricultural development in the region: the inadequate and unreliable
rainfall pattern. Financing would be provided for: (a) a small-scale
irrigation group; (b) a training program in irrigation planning and water
management techniques for 14 upper level agriculturalists, 40 middle level
agronomists, and 1,880 farmers; and (c) a pilot program of two deep well
group irrigation systems.
3.27      The implementation of this component would be coordinated by a
State Small-scale Irrigation Group (SSIG) to be established within the
State Secretariat of Agriculture. Staff would be drawn from EMATER-BA,
EPABA, INTERBA, and the Technical Units coordinating rural development
projects within SEPLANTEC. This group would consist of eight upper level
staff, 10 middle level agricultural technicians, and four support staff.
The group would oversee a three-pronged approach to improving the quality
of small-scale irrigation and expanding this type of agriculture under the
project.
3.28      First, SSIG would give training courses to the research and
extension personnel working in irrigation, as well as to farmers (in 10-day
courses), focusing on the practical aspects of water management under
irrigation, as well as on techniques for making the best use of scarce
water resources.
3.29      Second, technical support would be provided for farmer groups
interested in small group irrigation schemes fed from tubewells in the
sedimenta.ry basin of the southeast of the project area. SSIG would assist
in: (a) the identification of the areas with adequate potential for
developing private small-scale irrigation; (b) the organization of the
farmers' groups and the regularization of the land tenure situation; (c)
the design of civil works and complementary installations; and (d) the
supervision of construction and collection of water-use fees to cover
investment and operating costs. The training of farmers would be undertaken
as the initial aspect of SSIG's involvement.  In addition to the purely



-  21  -
technical assistance aspects of this activity, the project would finance
the installation of two small pilot group tubewell irrigation schemes in an
effort to make the system work and set up the various coordination
mechanisms. Each tubewell (an estimated 100 m in depth) would irrigate
some 15 ha, using a sprinkler system, which would maximize the efficiency
of water use and the number of farmers to be served.  The land would be
purchased using the Land Fund (para 3.09). Some six farm families would
benefit from a tubewell, each with an irrigated parcel of about 2 ha.
Farmers working in the two pilot tubewell schemes financed under the
project would pay water-use fees, which would cover the operating costs of
the scheme and provide the funds to repay the SSIG and the State Government
for the value of the investments they were using.
3.30      Third, SSIG would provide technical assistance to farmers and
rural service organizations (EMATER-BA, CERB) in the design, financing and
operation of three types of small, private irrigation schemes: (a) group
tubewell irrigation schemes in the Tucano Sedimentary Basin, under which an
estimated 64 systems would be installed, providing 960 ha of irrigated land
for 480 families, at a total investment cost of US$3.9 million; (b) systems
using rivers and lakes to irrigate lands on a private or group basis, under
which an estimated 400 farmers would be assisted and an additional 800 ha
irrigated at an investment cost of about US$2.1 million; and (c)
complementary irrigation systems using small catchment basins of about 3 ha
and an artificial pond of about 3,000 m3 to provide water to rainfed crops
when a water deficit occurs at any point in the cropping period (after the
initial rains have filled up the pond).  About 1,000 farmers would be
assisted by providing complementary irrigation for some 2,000 ha at an
investment cost of US$2.2 million. Sources of funding for the investment
credit requirements of these activities include the locally funded
PROHIDRO, PROVARZEAS, and POLONORDESTE credit lines.
3.31      At negotiations, assurances were provided by the State Government
that: (a) an agreement be signed prior to March 31, 1984 with the
Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast (SUDENE) to ensure the
inclusion of the project area in programs under its control providing
resources for small scale irrigation; (b) the SSIG would be fully staffed
and operational by March 31, 1984; and (c) prior to the construction of
each of the two pilot small-scale tubewell irrigation schemes, the land to
be irrigated would be titled to the beneficiary farmers and the beneficiary
farmers would be organized into a group, with statutes establishing
procedures and responsibilities for assessment of water charges, operation
and maintenance of the system, and repayment of the funds invested in land
and irrigation installations; and (d) funds repaid to SSIG from the users
of the two pilot schemes would be used in the establishment of a further
pilot irrigation scheme.
Municipal Roads
3.32      This component would improve access to selected areas of priority
agricultural activity by providing localized improvements on existing
municipal roads and the State would be supported in its efforts to organize
and improve its municipal road maintenance capacity.  In implementing this
component, the concept of 'spot improvement' to low class access roads
would be developed within the state roads sector, and the capability to



- 22 -
design and execute these works would be strengthened.  The project would
finance: (a) the engineering, supervision, and construction of 'spot
improvement-type' civil works on about 1,000 km of existing municipal
roads; (b) equipment and spare parts for four mechanized brigades to carry
out road maintenance directly and to support the implementation of 'spot
improvements' through force account when required; and (c) six vehicles and
their operating costs for the State Intermunicipal Road Consortium (CRIBA)
supervision teams.
3.33      Roads to be improved under the project represent only 7% of the
15,000 km of municipal roads in the project area. The main effort would be
directed to building drainage systems and to gravelling the impassable
sections with as little earthworks as possible. With the assistance of
Bank preparation missions, CRIBA has developed a draft guideline, an
important step in providing norms for working with this relatively new
concept of 'spot improvements.'
3.34      CRIBA would coordinate the execution of the component.  The
annual program would be agreed on with the project Technical Unit (para
5.02). CRIBA would then carry out the preliminary road inventory; contract
the detailed road inventories, determine the need for, and extent of,
detailed designs; contract out the works via competitive bidding or
delegate construction to the municipalities; and supervise implementation
of these works. Civil works under the component would be carried out by:
(a) the municipalities, mainly by force account but with the possible
assistance of small contractors (estimated at 20% of the program); (b)
the municipalities, but with the assistance of the State Secretariat of
Transport and Communications (STC) (estimated at 10% of the program); or
(c) contract to CRIBA for lots of about US$500,000, geographically
concentrated to attract small or medium sized contractors (estimated at 70%
of the program). CRIBA's fees would be limited to 5% of the value of the
agreement under mode (a) above, and 10% of bills presented under mode (c).
Road maintenance would be the responsibility of the municipalities, with
the assistance of a new maintenance organization to be established within
the STC. The project would reinforce the STC's capabilities through the
purchase of four mechanized brigades to be used only on the municipal road
network in the project area.
3.35      Assurances were provided by the State Government at negotiations
such that: (a) the roads would be improved according to the general
design standards in Table 3; (b) prior to the initiation of any
project-financed road improvements, the STC would enter into agreements,
satisfactory to the Bank, with the municipality, defining road maintenance
responsibilities, procedures for transfer and maintenance of equipment, and
sources and levels of funding for the maintenance of municipal roads
undergoing improvement; (c) prior to acquisition of the equipment and spare
parts for the four maintenance brigades, in any case not later than June
30, 1985, the State would establish an organization,satisfactory to the
Bank, to oversee municipal road maintenance; (d) the project Technical Unit
would employ a competent engineer familiar with road construction to
supervise this component; and (e) roads improved under the project would be
adequately maintained. It would be a condition of disbursement for this
component that the final version of the Guidelines for Execution of Spot
Improvements on Municipal Roads had been received by the Bank and found
satisfactory.



-  23  -
Rural Water Supply
3.36      The inadequate supply of good quality water for domestic use, as
well as for agriculture, is one of the chronic problems facing rural
inhabitants in the region. In response to this, the project would finance
construction of 160 simplified (Type I) water supply systems with
standpipes and construction of 20 more complex (Type II) water supply
systems with house-to-house connections.
3.37      CERB would be the executing agency and would build the proposed
systems in selected villages of between 100 and 2,000 inhabitants that are
the sites of complementary project services such as health care or where
community organization activities are being promoted by the extension
service.  It is expected that 153 of the systems to be built would use
tubewells as a source of water, with depths ranging from 70 to 100 m. Some
20 of the systems in the more arid regions would use collector ponds with
runoff basins, to provide water for some 200 people per system.
Distribution systems would be designed for an average flow of 50 liters per
capita per day, adequate to meet essential requirements. In communities
with under 1,500 inhabitants, Type I systems would be installed, whereas
the 20 largest communities would receive a Type II system. The Type I
system includes a well and pump, a storage tank, and a distribution network
and standpipes. The location of these standpipes is crucial as it
determines the amount of water carrying necessary. The cost of the systems
without the well or other source investments vary between US$23,900 for a
Type I distribution network, and US$48,800 for a Type II system. Well
costs vary between US$7,600 and US$32,500, depending on well depth and the
type of rock. The per capita costs of the complete system average between
US$40 and US$60.
3.38      Water supply systems would not be built until the recipient
community was organized to operate and maintain them.  This has been the
weakest point in the execution of similar programs, due mainly to the lack
of coordination between the entity charged with working with the community,
and the institution charged with building the systems. Under this project,
the social extension agents of EMATER-BA, with assistance from other
members of the regional Community Action Team (ETAL) (para 5.02) and the
local municipal administration would be responsible for organizing the
villages. CERB technicians would be obliged to discuss the design of the
system and the location of the wells and the standpipes with the recipients
and to include their recommendations, if feasible, in the final plan.  CERB
would train two operators, resident in the village, for each system.
Operating costs amounting to some US$4.50/family/year would be covered by
the local user association, or by the municipality should this association
default. Annual maintenance would be provided by CERB operating out of a
newly established regional center in Ribeira do Pombal.  The costs of this
maintenance service would be borne by the State Government.
3.39      Assurances were provided by the State Government that:  (a) prior
to the installation of a rural water supply system: (i) an association of
users would be constituted which would participate in the design and
installation of rural water supply systems and would supervise routine
maintenance; and (ii) it had entered into an agreement with the
municipality providing for the assessment of user charges; and (b) by March



-  24  -
31, 1984, the project Technical Unit would employ an experienced sanitation
engineer to supervise execution of this component.
Education
3.40      The project would complement improvements already being made to
the formal education system in 27 of the 43 municipalities of the project
area under the Northeast Brazil Basic Education Project (Loan 1867-BR). It
would do this by improving the quality of the primary education (grades 1
to 4) provided in the remaining 16 municipalities, expanding access to
schools and strengthening the administrative apparatus. On the non-formal
side, adult literacy and numeracy courses would be provided across the
entire region. The project would finance: (a) the construction and
equipping of 80 one-room rural schools in the 16 municipalities mentioned
above (see Table 1), providing an additional 5,600 student places under
double shift use; (b) the construction and equipping of 100 canteens for
existing schools; (c) the training of 270 municipal teachers and seven
supervisors; (d) the provision of teaching and learning materials
consisting of about 71,000 textbooks for students, 175,880 student kits,
and 1,500 teachers manuals;   (e) strengthening  the administrative and
supervisory services of the State Secretariat of Education (SEC) at central
and regional levels; (f) training for adult literacy and numeracy courses
for 2,500 persons; (g) training for the 70 teachers and five supervisors
who would provide these courses; (h) teaching and learning materials for
these courses: 9,800 textbooks, 19,600 learning kits and 140 teachers
manuals; (i) a study on manpower training needs in the project area; and
(j) vocational training courses for some 2,000 persons.
3.41      The SEC would be responsible for execution of the component
through its Integrated Action Unit. The location of the schools and
canteens to be constructed would be determined from a school mapping
exercise using agreed-on criteria.  Schools and canteens would be
constructed by force account by the municipalities, under an agreement with
SEC, as is the case with other Bank-financed projects in this sector in
Bahia. Schools of.121 m2 would cost an estimated US$10,800 and canteens
US$1,380 each to construct. Training of teachers would include instruction
in the use of the new curriculum developed under the Bank-financed
Northeast Brazil Basic Education project. In the area of non-formal
education, the project would respond to the extremely low adult literacy
rate, only reaching 55% in a few municipalities and as low as 10% in
others, by providing 1,200 hour accelerated supplementary education courses
through SEC, designed to bring students up to the equivalent of a 4th grade
level of verbal and numerical skills. Clients for these courses would be
youths too old for the appropriate grade level, and adults, with some
initial literacy training who want to consolidate their skills. The
vocational training provided under this component would be of a
non-agricpltural nature and its detailed content would be determined from
the manpower study to be undertaken in the first year of the project.
Where necessary, specialized training agencies would be contracted to
provide the courses.



-  25  -
3.42      Assurances were provided by the State Government at negotiations
that:  (a) the results of the school and canteen mapping exercise for the
16 municipalities which would benefit from construction under the project
would be provided to the Bank by March 31, 1984; (b) prior to the
initiation of construction of any school, satisfactory evidence of the
acquisition of the respective construction site would be furnished to the
Bank; (c) standard site plans for the proposed schools and canteens would
be sent to the Bank for review by March 31, 1984; (d) prior to the
construction of project schools and canteens, SEC would enter into an
agreement with the Federal School Lunch Program and the municipality in
question to ensure adequate provision of school lunch supplies; (e)
teachers trained under the project would have at least four years of formal
education, would be appointed in the project area for a minimum of two
years and would be remunerated in line with the regional minimum wage;(f)
the manpower study to determine vocational training needs would be provided
to the Bank by March 31, 1984.
Health and Sanitation
3.43      The coverage and quality of primary health care services for
45,000 families in the project area would be improved through: (a)
construction and equipping of 30 health posts and three Type I health
centers and dental equipment for nine health centers; (b) training of 156
rural health attendants, 28 health supervisors, 325 midwives and 67
sanitation supervisors and production of related curricula and training
materials; (c) retraining of 422 rural health attendants, 68 health
supervisors, and 338 sanitation supervisors; (d) purchase of equipment and
vehicles for nine health supervision nucleii, including 55 motorcycles and
nine cars; (e) purchase of bicycles and equipment for the 156 rural health
attendants; (f) providing salaries for 156 raral health attendants and 28
health supervisors for the first three years of the projeo~t; (g)
strengthening of the central coordination capabilities, with the
establishment of an information system for primary health care services,
seminars on primary health care and an evaluation study on the performance
of rural health attendents; (h) covering various operating expenditures for
the health component, including per diems, vehicle maintenance and rental
of supervision facilities; and (i) purchase of materials for the
construction of sanitary improvements to 18,900 homes, including pit
latrines and minor household repairs, in order to reduce the incidence of
'chagas' disease.
3.44      The State Secretariat of Health and its subsidiary, the State
Institute of Health (SESAB/ISEB), which function as one entity, would carry
out the proposed activities. The project would modify the traditional role
of the rural health attendants. They would live in the villages and make
systematic house-to-house calls by bicycle. Services provided in this way
would include: vaccination, nutrition surveillance, treatments for easily
identified symptoms, and screening for risk factors in pregnant women.
Under the new system, each rural health attendant would be responsible for
visiting between 80 and 160 families every two months. Clustered
populations of 1,000 to 2,000 people would require two rural health
attendants and for those between 2,000 and 3,000, there would be three. If
two or more population clusters are found within a radius of six km and



- 26 -
with more than 2,000 people, then a health post would be constructed.  No
health centers would be constructed in villages with less than 3,000
people.  The rural health attendant would also cooperate with the
interdisciplinary ETAL team (para 5.02) in community organization
activitives. An evaluation of the impact of the first year's experience
with the revised work methods of the rural health attendants would be
undertaken by the SESAB/ISEB in collaboration with the project evaluation
unit in SEPLANTEC. The sanitation improvements, aimed primarily at
improving household hygiene and reducing the incidence of 'chagas' and
other diseases, would be undertaken with groups of families trained and
organized under the guidance of sanitation workers. Training of the field
personnel in the project would depend on the completion of the various
manuals, the rural health attendant manual being the most important. The
improved monitoring and supervision system would rely heavily on the nine
supervision nuclei to be established. All health workers would be
responsible for keeping the health information system up to date.
3.45      At negotiations, it was agreed with the State Government that:
(a) the final draft of the rural health attendant manual would be provided
to the Bank by March 31, 1984; (b) prior to construction of any health post
or health center, evidence of the acquisition of the construction site
would be furnished to the Bank; and (c) the evaluation of the first year's
experience with the revised rural health attendant work methods would be
provided to the Bank by June 30, 1984.
Project Management
3.46      Overall project management and coordination would be the
responsibility of a TU within the CAR (paras 5.01 and 5.02). A separate
unit within the CAR would evaluate the long term project impact; three
upper level staff would be hired, and support personnel, equipment and
operating costs for evaluation activities would be financed under the
project. Project coordination activities would be decentralized, with the
creation of four regional offices which would absorb 24 of the 29 upper
level staff to be financed under the project.  In addition, the project
would finance 27 support staff, 12 vehicles, equipment and operating costs.
D. Activities Complementary to the Project
Minimum Price Financing Scheme
3.47      The Crop Financing Commission operates a nationwide storage
financing and crop purchase scheme, based on minimum prices set
for each region and readjusted periodically. The guaranteed purchase price
is usually 20% to 30% below market. Storage financing and crop purchases
are handled through the Bank of Brazil, usually utilizing the official
Government storage companies. Due to the importance of the scheme to the
farmers in the project area, particularly for beans, corn, and sisal,
assurances were obtained from the Federal Government at negotiations that
it would take all steps necessary to maintain such crop purchase and
financing mechanisms as exist, fully operational in the project area.



-  27  -
Amerindian Assistance
3.48      Areas inhabited by Amerindians would be assisted under the
project in a fashion similar to that envisioned for areas with other small
farmer communities. However, implementation of these activities would
either be the responsibility of FUNAI, or, in the case of specialized
extension, education, or land tenure regularization assistance, of the
agency responsible for the component in the project, under agreement and in
close coordination with FUNAI. However, a precondition to any project-
related assistance to these areas would be a clarification and resolution
of the disagreements involving the size of the various reserves, occupancy
by non-Amerindians,and the location of their limits, as any project
investment in these areas would otherwise exacerbate disputes. Assurances
were provided by the Federal Government at negotiations that the areas of
Mirandela (in Ribeira do Pombal), Massacara (in Euclides da Cunha) and
Brejo do Burgo (in Gloria) all currently occupied by Aimerindians and
non-Amerindians, would not benefit from project-financed activities until
an action plan satisfactory to the Bank to resolve outstanding problems of
reserve definition and non-Amerindian occupancy had been agreed on by FUNAI
and Federal and State Governments, and implementation of this plan had been
initiated.
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
Cost Estimates
4.01      Total project cost over the five-year investment period (April
1983-March 1988) is estimated at US$173.4 million including a foreign
exchange cost of US$25.5 million, or about 15%, and taxes of about US$3.5
million. Physical and price contingencies are equivalent to 6% and 22% of
baseline costs, respectively. Physical contingencies of between 5% and 15%
were added to the baseline costs of each component. Price contingencies
were calculated in US dollar terms, based on international inflation rates
estimated at 8% for calendar year 1982 and 1983, 7.5% for 1984, 7% for
1985, and 6% from 1986 on. It was assumed that periodic local currency
devaluation would compensate for differences between projected US dollar
inflation and local inflation rates. Project costs are summarized in the
table overleaf, and annual phasing of investments is shown in Table 5.
Financing
4.02      The proposed Bank loan of US$67.8 million to the Federative
Republic of Brazil would include US$0.2 million to cover the cost of the
front-end fee assessed by the Bank, capitalized at the request of
Government, and US$67.6 million which would finance 50% of total project
costs net of taxes for the first two years of project execution, and 35% of
net of tax costs thereafter. This would include the total foreign exchange
component of the project, plus about US$42.1 million equivalent of local
costs.  The loan would be for 15 years, including three years of grace.
The balance of project financing would be provided by the Federal and State
Governments through the POLONORDESTE special program, and the regular
budgets of the agencies involved. In addition, the Government would
finance essential complementary items, such as teacher salaries, health



-  28  -
Total Project Costs
(US$'000)
Project Activity                                                         % of Total       %
Baseline   Foreign
A.  Agricultural Services              Local        Foreign   Total         Cost      Exchange
1) Land Tenure Regularization
and Redistribution             19,243       2,138    21,381          16         10
2)  Rural Extension                17,405       2,373    19,778          14         12
3)  Adaptive Research               2,336          259      2,595         2         10
4)  Animal Health and Plant
Protection                      1,878         209      2,087          2         20
Sub-total                      40,862        4,979   45,841         34          11
B. Agricultural Credit
5)  Incremental Seasonal Credit 17,366           3,065   20,431          15         15
6)  Investment Credit              12,339         1,371   13,710         10         10
7)  Land Purchase Credit           11,100           -     11,100          8          -
Sub-total                      40,805        4,436   45,241          33         10
C.  Production Infrastructure
8)  Small-Scale Irrigation         1,992           352      2,344         2         15
9)  Municipal Roads               12,060        5,940    18,000          13         33
Sub-total                    14,052         6,292    20,344         15          31
D. Social Development
10)  Rural Water Supply             6,040        2,013       8,053         6         25
11)  Education                      4,117           727      4,844         3         15
12)  Health and Sanitation          4,146           732      4,878         4         15
Sub-total                    14,303         3,472    17,775         13         20
E.  Project Management                  5,899          656      6,555         5         10
F.  Total Project
Baseline Costs                   115,921       19,835   135,756         100         15
Physical Contingencies             6,990         1,233      8,223         6         15
Price Contingencies               25,032         4,417    29,449         22         15
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS              147,943        25,485   173,428 1/   128           15
G.  Front-end Fee on Loan                -             200        200
H.  Total Financing Required          147,943       25,685   173,628
1/ Includes about US$3.5 million of local taxes.



-  29  -
attendant salaries after the third year, and road maintenance, not included
in project costs financed by the Bank. Assurances were given at
negotiations by the Federal and State Governments that adequate counterpart
funding would be made available as needed for the effective and timely
execution of the project and adequate maintenance thereafter and that they
would arrange for the timely acquisition and necessary financing of
additional land or rights of way required for the project.
4.03      To ensure timely and effective implementation, and especially to
take advantage of the 1983 growing season, which starts in April, start-up
activities such as employment and training of extension and land institute
staff, the formulation and contracting of various land related activities,
and various engineering designs for municipal roads have already been
initiated or would be initiated in the first half of 1983. Retroactive
financing of up to US$3.0 million is proposed to help cover eligible
expenditures made after October 1, 1982, but before loan signature.
Procurement
4.04      Road Works.  Civil works for the municipal road component, which
would be relatively simple and often in somewhat remote areas would be
executed in three modes: (a) some US$10.5 million (without contingencies)
would be contracted out by CRIBA under competitive bidding procedures in
lots of about 40 km costing some US$500,000; (b) up to US$3 million would
be carried out by force account by municipalities with adequate financial
and administrative capabilities, under implementation agreements signed
with CRIBA; these agreements would have a maximum implementation period of
six months, and a maximum value of US$200,000 equivalent, averaging about
US$75,000 equivalent; municipalities could sub-contract parts of the work
under local competitive bidding procedures, which are acceptable to the
Bank; (c) up to US$1.5 million would be carried out under force account by
the STC in those cases in which no contractor has bid for the job and the
municipality in question is unable to undertake the works. Brazil has a
competitive local construction industry which is capable of carrying out
project works. Although foreign firms would not be excluded from bidding
on the portion to be contracted, none is likely to be interested.
4.05      Other Civil Works, Equipment and Services.  The road construction
and maintenance equipment, including spare parts, estimated at US$3.0
million, would be procured on the basis of local competitive bidding,
nationally advertised. Again, foreign firms would not be excluded, but are
unlikely to be interested. The aerial photogrammetry for the land tenure
regularization and redistribution component, including training in the use
of the photographs for cadastral and discrimination work, (about US$5.7
million without contingencies) would also be procured on the basis of local
competitive bidding. Civil works of an extremely small and scattered
nature, as required for the research, rural water supply, health and
sanitation and education components (about US$8.5 millon), would be
executed by force account with the participation of the beneficiary
communities in certain cases. The miscellaneous equipment, materials and
vehicles required by the project, totalling some US$4.3 million, are almost
all locally produced and readily available. Such items, which would be
purchased by the several executing agencies in various locations over the
five-year execution period, would be procured in accordance with Government



- 30 -
procurement procedures, which are acceptable. Consultancy services,
totalling some 2.5 man-years and US$0.2 million, to provide technical
assistance in road design, project evaluation and land tenure
regularization and distribution would be procured in accordance with the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" (August 1981). The cost of such consulting
services, which are expected to be procured locally, would range from
US$2,000/month to US$10,000/month, depending on the specialty.
4.06      Contract Review.  For contracts estimated to cost the equivalent
of US$500,000 or more, and for civil works and equipment for municipal
roads and the photographic surveys and equipment for the land tenure
regularization component, the Bank would review and approve ex-ante
standard procurement documents and specifications and, for the equipment,
also the bid evaluations and award recommendations. Awards for the other
civil works, equipment and services would be reviewed on an ex-post basis.
Assurances would be sought at negotiations that procurement would be
carried out as specified in this and the preceeding two paragraphs.
Disbursements
4.07      The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed against all
project expenditures except for the purchase of land, compensation for
improvements to land recovered by Government, incremental seasonal credit,
and land purchase credit. The disbursement rate would be equivalent to
100% of the cost of: (a) the priority aerial photography, photo-resti-
tution work and related training, needed to commence land titling and
redistribution under the land component (US$5.7 million); and (b)
consultancy services for the land and project evaluation components of the
project (US$0.2 million). Disbursement would be equivalent to 42% of
actual costs of all other eligible expenditures (Table 6) until March 31,
1985; after this date the disbursement rate would be reduced to 39%.
Disbursements for works carried out by force account and operational
expenses would be made under Statements of Expenditure initiated by the
various implementing agencies and certified by the TU.  Supporting
documentation would not be submitted to the Bank, but would be made
available for inspection during project supervision missions. Standard
documentation such as contracts and receipts supporting disbursement
requests for civil works, vehicles, equipment and technical assistance
would be submitted to the Bank with the dibursement request. Disbursements
are expected to take about six years. As noted in Table 7, the
disbursement schedule reflects the disbursement profile for previous
agricultural projects in Brazil, adjusted to take into account improvements
likely to result from the establishment of the Special Account (para
4.08). The project completion date would be March 31, 1988, and the
closing date of the loan would be December 31, 1988.
4.08      In order to reduce Government prefinancing requirements, a
Special Account would be opened in the Central Bank, with an initial
deposit of up to US$5.0 million. The Government may request the Bank to
make advance payments in dollars from the loan account into this Special
Account. Withdrawals in cruzeiros from the Special Account would be made
on the basis of the Statements of Expenditures forwarded to the Central
Bank. Conversion from dollars into cruzeiros would be made at the exchange



-  31  -
rate that prevailed on the date the expenditures were made.  The Central
Bank would send the statements to the Bank, which would then replenish the
Special Account.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Organization and Management
5.01      The proposed project would be part of the POLONORDESTE program,
supervised by the SUDENE, attached to the Ministry of the Interior, in
collaboration with the Secretariat of Planning of the President, and the
Ministry of Agriculture. At the State level, POLONORDESTE activities
within Bahia are coordinated by SEPLANTEC, within which CAR has been
established to bring the Technical Units for the various projects together
under one roof, provide them with administrative support, and coordinate
policies regarding the various executing agencies.
5.02      The TU would be the main planning and supervisory body, and would
fulfill the following functions: (a) identification and/or taking steps to
resolve problems in project implementation and deviation from originally
agreed project objectives; (b) consolidation of annual operating plans; (c)
monitoring of physical and financial progress in project execution; (d)
ongoing evaluation of project impact; and (e) preparation of trimestral and
other monitoring reports. In order to decentralize decision making and
increase the involvement of TU personnel in the field problems of
execution, four regional offices would be created within the first three
years of the project, at Cipo, Juazeiro, Senhor do Bonfim and Paulo
Afonso. Each would have five professional staff: one coordinator, and one
supervisor each for: (a) extension and research activities; (b) credit and
marketing related activities; (c) education, health, water supply and other
socially oriented activities; and (d) the methodology used to integrate the
various activities at the community level, and improve community
participation.   In addition to reviewing progress in their components,
each of these five members of the regional TU would be responsible for
overall project execution in two or three municipalities. They would head
municipal interdisciplinary teams, the ETALs, composed of the local social
and agricultural extension staff, the education and the health supervisory
and local staff, and local INTERBA staff where available, which would
develop local leadership and encourage participation and commitment to
project activities.  Assurances were provided by the State Government at
negotiations that it would (a) establish and fully staff: (i) the
headquarters office and two field offices in Cipo and Juazeiro by March 31,
1984; (ii) the regional office in Paulo Afonso by March 31, 1985; and (iii)
the regional office in Senhor do Bonfim by March 31, 1986; (b) maintain the
project TU with qualified staff and resources for the full implementation
period of the project; and (c) provide financial and technical support to
other State agencies participating in the project.



-  32  -
Community Participation
5.03      Activities of the project would focus on particular communities
within each municipality, to be chosen after a survey undertaken by the
TU. Priority would be given to communities with a large concentration of
farmers with farms under 50 ha, reasonable agricultural potential, and
responsiveness to efforts at organization. Monthly community meetings
would be held by the ETAL to: (a) obtain feedback on the impact of project
action; (b) organize local dwellers to take action on problems which the
project would not address directly, such as marketing of agricultural
produce, bulk purchase of seeds and fertilizers, and development of artesan
production; (c) encourage participation in the design, construction and
operation of items such as rural water supply systems; and (d) eventually
organize a 'community council' to provide some direction and leadership in
community affairs. The discussion of the next year's operating plan (para
5.04) would start at the village level, with the planning team from TU
conducting community level meetings to review the previous year's
activities and formulate priorities for the coming year.
Annual Planning and Budgeting
5.04      Review and adjustment of the targets and costs established
initially at appraisal would be carried out through the annual planning and
budgeting process. For each POLONORDESTE fiscal year (April 1 to March
31), an annual operating plan is prepared, adjusting initially agreed
targets and activities to actual circumstances and implementation
possibilities. To help assure adequate and timely budgetary support, the
State furnishes to the regional and Federal authorities, by May 1 each
year, its preliminary estimates of the next year's budget required for this
project. By September 30 each year, the Federal authorities notify the
State of the preliminary financial allocations for the next fiscal year for
the project. After this, each participating agency prepares a detailed plan
of activities and expenditures for the following fiscal year, assisted by
the TU. By November 30 of each year, the plans should be consolidated by
the TU, ensuring their internal consistency and their integration into
other special programs and development plans under execution in the State.
Annual plans would be forwarded to the State Management Council and SUDENE
for confirmation and approval.  These plans serve as the basis for the
yearly budget allocation. Assurances were provided at negotiations by the
Federal Government that the proposed annual operating plans would be
submitted to the Bank no later than December 15 of each year for review and
comment and that the Bank would be advised of the approved plan by the-
beginning of the applicable POLONORDESTE fiscal year.
Operating Agreements
5.05     ^ The TU would enter into a written execution agreement for each
component with each of the executing agencies involved as is customary in
Brazil in this type of project (Table 8). Receipt by the Bank of the
respective satisfactory signed execution agreement would be a condition of
disbursement for each component. These agreements would provide guidelines
and key targets for the execution of the component, procedures regarding
disbursement of funds, reporting requirements and needs for collaboration
with other entities.



-  33  -
Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
5.06      A project monitoring system, based on that currently being used
successfully in the Paraguacu project would be established and managed by
the TU and would provide for the collection and analysis of information to
compare project achievements with targets, alert management to problems as
they may emerge, and provide a basis for the annual planning exercise.
Initial indicator and time-phased targets established prior to project
execution, by component, would provide a benchmark for comparisons to
targets adjusted during every annual planning exercise and to actual
results (Table 9). Execution information would be provided to the TU by
the executing agencies on a quarterly basis to be consolidated and
submitted to SUDENE. An annual review of project impact on agricultural
activities would be held at the end of the production cycle. Project
attainment of objectives in health, education and community development
would also be reviewed annually by TU staff and SUDENE. These periodic
impact reports would be incorporated into the regular quarterly project
reports as they are completed. Assurances were given by the Federal
Government that quarterly monitoring reports would be provided to the Bank
not later than three months after the end of the respective POLONORDESTE
fiscal quarter.
5.07      Evaluation activities would be periodic in-depth attempts to
assess the effect project financed services and infrastructure development
are having on the natural environment and on the incomes and welfare of
those families the project is supposed to assist.  These studies would be
undertaken by a centralized unit within CAR, to which this project would
contribute three upper level and two middle level professional staff.
Evaluation work would focus on:  (a) a survey of the current social and
economic situation of the beneficiary small farmers; (b) a mid-term review
of project execution as of March 31, 1986; and (c) a completion report
giving an assessment of overall project impact, to be provided to the Bank
within 6 months of the final completion date of the project. The
evaluation unit would also be responsible for ad-hoc special studies to be
commissioned during project execution.  Certain studies could be contracted
to competent outside consultants or institutions.  It was agreed with the
State Government at negotiations that the results of the baseline study,
the mid-term evaluation review, and a project completion report would be
provided to the Bank by March 31 of 1984, December 31, 1986 and June 30,
1989, respectively.
Accounts and Auditing
5.08      Each of the participating agencies would maintain separate
accounts of its project expenditures, which would be audited annually by
the central Secretariat of Internal Control of the Federal Ministry of
Finance, according to standard Government practice, which is satis-
factory.  Copies of the audit report on the various participating agencies
would be provided to the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal
year of the POLONORDESTE program. This audit report would also convey the
auditor's opinion (and comments as necessary) on the methodology employed
in the compilation of the Statements of Expenditures, their accuracy, the
relevance of supporting documents, eligibility for financing in terms of
the project's legal agreements, and the standard of record keeping and



- 34 -
internal controls related to the foregoing. The Special Account (para
4.08) would be audited by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank and
the Government. Assurances to this effect were obtained from the Federal
Government during negotiations.
VI. PRODUCTION, DEMAND AND MARKETING
Production
6.01      At full development (year 10), the annual incremental production
generated by the project is estimated as follows:
Crops             Units               Area  Production    Value
(ha)   (Units)   (US$ million)
Beans             '000 tons           26,900    24.3        15.76
Corn              '000 tons           22,420    19.3         2.48
Manioc Flour      '000 tons            7,670    23.3          5.94
Cowpea            '000 tons            4,690     4.6         2.09
Sisal             '000 tons              -       3.8         0.34
Castor Beans      '000 tons            5,110     4.7         1.40
Sheep/Goats       '000 animals           -      57.1         1.13
Cattle            '000 animals           -      13.3         1.61
Watermelons       '000 tons              360      6.8         0.77
Melons            '000 tons              160      2.2        0.38
Tomatoes          '000 tons              440    15.8         1.56
Onions            '000 tons              480     9.7         1.68
Green Peppers    '000 tons               160     2.6         0.45
Sorghum           '000 tons            3,160     1.6         0.17
Bananas           '000 tons              480    14.4         2.14
Improved Pasture                      27,590       -          -
Total Area Cropped 1/                 49,590                   -
Value of Annual
Incremental Production
at Full Development (US$ million):                          37.9
1/ Excluding corn which is intercropped with beans.
6.02      The impact of the project on agricultural production is expected
from an increase in the productivity of crops and livestock (para 7.03); a
moderate expansion in areas of crops in rainfed and irrigated regions; and
a reduction in post harvest losses. The expected production increases are
expected to come from an equivalent 31,000 farms assisted under the project
(para 8.03). At September 1982 farmgate prices, incremental annual
production at full development is expected to amount to US$37.9 million.
Of this, some 64% is due to the main subsistence crops in the region:
beans, corn and manioc flour; 11% would come from other rainfed crops such
as sisal, castor, sorghum and cowpea; 18% from irrigated fruit and
vegetables, and 7% from increased livestock production (Table 10).



-  35  -
Demand, Markets and Channels
6.03      Marketed produce, mainly traditional food crops such as beans,
corn and manioc flour would be consumed in the larger cities in the project
area such as Juazeiro, Paulo Afonso, Senhor do Bonfim, and Ribeira do
Pombal, with a total urban population of 300,000, or be transported to the
larger urban markets of the region. These include the cities of Recife,
Salvador, Aracaju, and Maceio, with a total population of 4.9 million,
growing at around 4.0% per annum.  Similarly, the incremental production of
irrigated vegetables, a small proportion of State production, would either
go to processing facilities in Pernambuco or would be sold in the major
urban areas of the region. The small incremental production of sisal would
be easily absorbed by the existing processing industries in Salvador.
Developing a market for sorghum has been a. long term concern of
agricultural development policymakers in the Northeast of Brazil and action
would be taken under the project to further this (para 3.14).
6.04      Private intermediaries are the main channel for the marketing of
the project's foodcrops. Produc.e is usually purchased at the farmgate, or
at the weekly market, by truckers who then sell to the large supermarket
chains, or at the CEASAs (wholesale markets) of the large coastal cities.
Manioc root is normally processed into flour at the farm level and then
sold. Channels for all these products are closely tied to traditional
financing agents (such as local store owners) to whom production is owed
for consumption financing received prior to the harvest.  Collection,
transportation, and distribution are fairly efficient, with intermediaries
responding quickly to price differentials. A certain degree of
monopsonistic market power has held farmgate prices below what they would
be with additional competition among intermediaries. The project would
attempt to increase this competition by improving access through municipal
road improvements, making increased market information available through
the extension service and radio programs and facilitating the entry of new
intermediaries, including the Government food supply companies.
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
illustrative Farm Types
7.01      The farm level impact of changing cultivation techniques proposed
under the project was analyzed using nine farm types: six rainfed and
three irrigated, to represent the various climatic conditions and farming
systems encountered in the region. These are based on various field
surveys by SEPLANTEC and EMATER-BA, and secondary data from the Institute
of Geography and Statistics (FIBGE). Assumptions for on-farm development
trends are described in detail in the Supplementary Staff Working Papers
(Annex 1), and a summary of the changes in land use, labor use and farm
income by farm type is provided in Table 11.
7.02      Estimated financial rates of return range from 29% for the farm
type with irrigation from a salvage pond to over 100% for the small farmers
in the sertao. The reason for the very high returns to on-farm investment
in the sertao, is that the "without project" production and income levels



-  36  -
are very low, and on-farm improvements are minimal. The main investments
which contribute to growth are the off-farm services financed under the
project.
7.03      The main sources foreseen for increases in net farm income from
rainfed crops are, inter alia (a) improved and treated seed for beans,
corn, cowpeas, castor and sorghum; (b) substitution of sorghum for maize
and cowpea for beans in arid areas; (c) improved planting practices,
including spacing, especially for manioc; (d) strategic use of fertilizer
(chiefly P) on low risk crops such as manioc and castor beans; (e) improved
weed control with animal traction on all crops; (f) partial substitution of
manual preparation by ploughing; (g) use of early winter ploughing on light
soils; (h) improved insect control; (i) contour planting; (j) row planting;
(k) use of the mechanical hand planter; (1) use of legume fallows; and (m)
increased use of manure. Livestock productivity should improve due to the
increased use of supplemental feed, improved veterinary health practices,
and improved pastures. Crop yields were estimated by climatic zone. As
rainfall is the major factor affecting agricultural production, a climate
classification based on the availability of dependable rainfall in the
growing season was used as a basis for estimating crop and livestock
performance (Map IBRD 16838). Projected crop yields are below levels
attained by the most progressive farms in the area and are averaged over
years of adequate and inadequate rainfall. Average yield increases were
related to the impact of the technical package to be extended and are
proportionately smaller as rainfall limits agricultural production.
Estimates also reflect constraints posed by soils, difficulties in
obtaining inputs and support services, and the typical farmers' managerial
capacity. A summary of the current principal farming systems, potentially
useful new crops, and agricultural input-output coefficients is given in
Tables 12, 13 and 14.
7.04      Minimum investment levels have been assumed for rainfed types.
Given the high risks attached to agriculture in the project area, farmers
are likely to be wary of making substantial investments at the outset of
the project. Major items of investment are: fencing to support livestock
improvement, metal silos for on-farm storage of beans, and, in the case of
the larger farmers, cattle, draft animals and equipment. High levels of
investment are incurred only by the irrigated farm types, where pumping and
water distribution equipment, wells or dams are purchased, thereby
achieving much greater levels of crop security.
7.05      Prices were based, where possible, on the average real price over
the past three years. For beans, an adjustment was made for seasonal price
variations, and the price of manioc costs was adjusted to reflect the costs
of processing the root into flour. Maize and sorghum were valued at the
minimum price, and other prices were adjusted to reflect normal price
relationsthips.
Producer Income
7.06      The estimated weighted average income of the targeted beneficiary
families of about US$730 in 1982, equivalent to a percapita income of
US$120 (for a family of six, the average in the area), is below the US$330
percapita rural poverty level for Brazil.



-  37  -
Estimated Farm Family Income from On-farm Agricultural Activities
(US$ September 1982)
Farm Type                      Pre-       At Full    Estimated   of
Project  Development   Number    Total
A.  Rainfed
Goats, 1-50 ha, Very Arid           369          733         6,330      20
Sisal, 1-10 ha, Arid                550          859         3,150      10
Sisal, 10-50 ha, Arid             1,552        2,063         1,060       3
Castor, 1-10 ha, Subhumid           703        1,510         3,290      11
Corn/Beans, 10-50 ha, Subhumid  1,060          2,080         4,740      15
Corn/Beans, 1-10 ha, Subhumid       653        1,545        10,550      35
Weighted Average:                 685        1,396        29,120      94
B.  Irrigated
Surface Irrigation                3,103        5,656            400      1
Shared Tubewell                     653        4,959           480       2
Salvage Dam                       1,060        2,509         1,000       3
Weighted Average:               1,391        3,804         1,880       6
Overall Weighted  Average:               727        1,540        31,000    100
At full development (year 1992), the weighted average annual farm family
income would more than double, to US$1,540, or US$260 per capita, a level
which is still below the poverty line. The only families able to rise
above the poverty line would be those able to invest in irrigation
facilities and the larger rainfed farmers in the 10 to 50 ha size category,
some 24% of the beneficiary population. Actual family incomes are
undoubtedly higher than the above levels, however, as unemployed family
members find work on other farms or in cities. An important contribution
of the project is to increase the security of income in that adoption of
drought-resistant varieties and techniques would guarantee at least a
minimum level of production of subsistence crops.
7.07   The returns to family labor days on-farm go up only slightly in the
arid rainfed areas and remain in the US$3.50 to US$4.75/day range (above
the local daily wage of US$2.50), although actual labor use goes up 30 to
50% (thereby increasing annual income). In the sub-humid rainfed areas,
where land availability is more of a constraint, and returns per hectare
are higher, returns per family labor day go up substantially to the US$6.20
to US$7.0/day range.  Returns in the irrigated models are in the
neighborhood of US$10/family labor day.
Fiscal Impact
7.08    Substantial fiscal benefits would be obtained from the taxation of
incremental project production marketed inside or outside the state. At an
average rate of 11% on the adjusted value of marketed produce, the
ICM tax would, at full development, produce annual revenues to the State of
Bahia in the order of US$4.17 million. This compares to an estimated
US$3.18 million in recurrent costs required to maintain the infrastructure
and services established under the project. Incremental rural Social
Security revenues (FUNRURAL), levied at 2.5% on the value of production,
would amount to some US$1.0 million per year by full development.



- 38 -
7.09    It is not the Government's policy to directly and fully recover the
investment costs of special development projects directed principally to
lower income segments of the population. However, the above mentioned
annual tax revenues directly related to production increases would
represent a substantial contribution to Government revenues. In addition,
Brazil's various road user charges and taxes can be expected to help
recover road investment and maintenance costs; also, irrigation and water
supply tariffs would recover at least the operating and maintenance costs
of these services. As to the rural credit (amounting to some US$45.2
million) financed by the project, the Federal Government's intention to
reduce the existing interest rate subsidies (para 3.24) would result in a
gradual increase in the real recovery rate on this component.
VIII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Economic Rate of Return
8.01      The economic rate of return for the directly productive aspects
of the project (representing about 73% of total project costs) has been
estimated at 16%. For various other aspects of the project, such as the
health, rural water supply and education components, which have
significant but not readily quantifiable benefits, no economic rate of
return was calculated. The details of the cost and benefit streams assumed
in the economic analysis are given in Table 15. Other details of the
economic analysis are available in the Supplementary Staff Working Papers.
(Annex 1).
8.02      The cost stream used in the evaluation of productive activities
included:  (a) all the phased on-farm incremental investment and operating
costs of the different farm types; (b) off-farm investments and incremental
operating costs directly related to agricultural development during the
project period; and (c) recurrent costs of services and maintenance of
infrastructure after five years of project implementation, necessary to
sustain projected development. The cost stream thus includes 100% of the
project costs for land tenure regularization and distribution, adaptive
research, animal health and plant protection, and municipal roads, 75% of
the cost of the extension service (leaving out the social extension
aspects) and 70% of project management and evaluation costs, leaving out
costs associated with coordination of social components.
8.03      In evaluating project benefits, it was assumed that only those
farmers taking credit, estimated at 26,000, would actually have a
development pattern similar to that projected in the various farm types.
It was estimated, conservatively, that the remaining 19,000 farms to be
reached by the extension service would have development levels equivalent
to only 25% of that projected in the farm types. Thus, an equivalent 5,000
farmers was added to the 26,000 to arrive at the 31,000 equivalent farm
types used to evaluate project benefits from increased agricultural
production. It is likely that the impact on these 19,000 farmers would be
substantially larger, and that project investments would have a positive
influence on the agricultural production of most of the 120,000 farmers



-  39 
resident in the region.  Project municipal road improvements are expected
to have a beneficial impact on all who live in the project area, increasing
access to services, facilitating the outflow of production, and improving
the likelihood of adoption of more productive farming techniques.
Improvements in health, education and rural water supply services are also
expected to benefit at least the 45,000 farmer families targeted by the
extension service. Taking these families as a basis, project cost per
family is US$3,850, including price and physical contingencies.
8.04      The efficiency prices used in the economic analysis for those
goods traded on the international market were derived from their CIF or FOB
value adjusted to take into account transport, handling and insurance
costs. Of the products produced under the project, Brazil is a net
exporter and international market leader for castor oil and sisal and a net
importer of maize and meat. Brazil also imports fertilizer and diesel
fuel, an important input in irrigated farms whose prices have also been
adjusted to international levels. Non-traded goods such as beans, cowpeas,
sorghum, manioc flour and irrigated fruit and vegetables were valued at
local farmgate prices, which have been assumed to adequately reflect their
economic value. Most of these prices would remain stable over the next
decade. When available, prices for future years have been estimated in
1982 constant terms according to trends projected by the Bank Economic
Analysis and Projections Department. Financial and efficiency prices are
given in Table 16. Labor was priced at 50% of the market wage to reflect
the large-scale unemployment among rural workers and underemployment in
farm families in Brazil, exacerbated by the recent slowdown in the normal
growth of economic activity in the country. The foreign exchange content
of both project costs and benefits was adjusted upward by 20% to reflect
trade distorting tariffs, subsidies, advance import deposits, export taxes
and quantitative restrictions.
8.05      To measure the impact of possible changes in the assumptions
underlying the project's stream of costs and benefits, several sensitivity
tests were made. The results of the most significant are as follows:
Sensitivity Tests on the Internal Economic Rate of Return
(in %)
Best Estimate:           16     Benefits down 50%
and costs stable:   7
Costs up by 20% and             Benefits lag 2 yrs
benefits stable:      14        and costs stable:   13
Benefits down by 20%            Costs up 20% and
and costs stable:    13         benefits down 20%:  11
8.06      The estimated economic rate of return of the project is fairly
insensitive to possible variations in costs and benefits. Experience with
past projects in the area has shown that the major risk is one of drought
and a consequent reduction or postponement of benefits. Although project
yield levels have already included an allowance for drought, it can be seen
that a 20% reduction in benefits, or a two-year lag in the generation of



- 40 -
those benefits, would not take the economic rate of return below 13%. The
diversified nature of production reduces the vulnerability of the project
to the collapse of the price of one product in particular.  In order to
test the locational effects of project investments, an economic analysis of
the incremental production to accrue from a given area, against project
investments in that area, was undertaken.  The results are given below and
show that all the planning zones have an economic rate of return of over
13%, except for the very arid sub-areas 1 and 2.  Here, the productive
returns to the minimal investment necessary to regularize the tenure
situation of the communal grazing lands for sheep and goats, coupled with
the minimum necessary extension, research and roads investments, all under
15% of total respective component costs, are marginal, but are justified in
terms of reducing social tension in the area and providing employment.
Economic Rate of Return, by Sub-area
Economic Rate
Sub-area             Climatic Zone                 of Return       No. of Farms
1 and 2   Arid Unimodal/Very Arid                11                 3,250
3         Very Arid/Arid Unimodal                 14                1,590
4         Mixture of all Zones                    20                1,650
5         Semi-Arid/Sub-Humid                    20                12,280
6         Semi-Arid/Arid Transitional             13               10,440
7         Semi-Arid/Sub-Humid                    14                 1,790
Overall                                              16               31,000
Employment
8.07      The project area has traditionally supplied labor to other areas
in Brazil. Much migration now appears to be of a temporary nature, with
men frequently leaving their families during slack periods of the year to
return at planting time. The project would generate an additional
requirement of the equivalent of some 11,500 full employment man-years on
the farms to be assisted. More than 85% of this would be employment on the
rainfed farms. Virtually all would contribute to reducing the off-farm or
underemployment of farm families. Only the equivalent of 780 full-time
jobs would be created for hired laborers, of which approximately half would
be required for expansion and intensification of surface irrigation. In
addition, increased production of sisal would provide the equivalent of 230
man-years of employment annually for primary processing of sisal.
Increased levels of commerce would also generate a modest increase in local
employment.
Environmental Impact
8.08      The project would have a significant beneficial impact on the
project area environment. The gradual shift from slash and burn
agriculture to sedentary cultivation incorporating crop rotations and
restoration of fertility through use of fertilizers, would help stabilize
land use while generating greater incomes. The change to secure tenure in
itself could be expected to lead to more careful stewardship of the natural



-  41  -
resources. Within the farms, the encouragement of practices such as
contour farming, rotation of crops with pasture including legumes, and the
establishment of farm woodlots, all would contribute to environmental
protection, though it must be accepted that their adoption would be slow.
Although the project would encourage use of inorganic and organic
fertilizers, the levels of application would be so low in relation to plant
needs as to avoid significant runoff losses. The envisaged minimal
herbicide use under the project would be carefully monitored by EMATER-BA
extension agents, and its use tested by EPABA prior to recommendations.
Impact on Women
8.09      Women play an important role in most aspects of the agricultural
cycle, with the exception of land clearing and fencing. Women and children
are also employed in the production of manioc flour for family consumption
(one of the crops given priority under this project), and play a
predominant role in the care of livestock and poultry owned by the family.
In addition to the production-oriented activities of the project, the
supplementary education and vocational training aspects could redound in
increased employment opportunities for women.  The health component, with
its emphasis on providing assistance to pregnant mothers and infant
children, is targeted on the needs of women in rural areas. Similarly, the
installation of water supply systems would reduce the distance water has to
be carried, traditionally a woman's or a child's task, besides improving
drinking water quality. Women participated and, indeed, directed the
preparation team, and would be included on the implementation team,
ensuring that continued attention would be given to the role of women in
the project.
Project Risks
8.10      The project is complex, and the solution of production and
marketing problems, and the development of community support for the
various new ideas being brought in would depend on the successful
interaction of many different agencies, and the intelligence and
resourcefulness of numerous field agents. Failure to fulfill targets in
one sector, makes achievement of objectives in other sectors more
uncertain. Therefore, the project monitoring, feedback and decision
processes have to operate smoothly in order to obtain the desired
objectives. Experience with the previous Bank-financed rural development
project in the state (paras 2.05 to 2.07) has shown that such
interinstitutional cooperation can be achieved, especially at the field
level, with positive results. Institutional weaknesses have been
identified at appraisal and steps would be taken to strengthen them.
8.11      The land tenure component has certain technical and political
risks. The mapping methods to be introduced would be fairly
sophisticated. Also, political pressures from large landowners who would
stand to lose land illegally occupied could slow implementation.   These
issues have been discussed at length with State and Federal Government
authorities, and the risks have been accepted in order to act on the main
structural problem holding back small farmer development.



- 42 -
8.12      The risk due to unusually adverse climatic conditions also looms
large. The area is prone to long periods of very low and erratic rainfall.
Although this factor has been taken into consideration at every stage of
the planning process, the possibility of a sustained multi-year drought
still remains, which could substantially reduce the project's productive
impact. The potential benefit to low income rural dwellers to be obtained
from the productive and social investments make this project attractive,
and the various risks enumerated above worth taking.
IX. SUMMARY OF ASSURANCES TO BE SOUGHT AND RECOMNENDATION
9.01      Assurances were given during negotiations by the Federal
Government that:
(a) (i) the Central Bank would enter into agreements with the
participating banks to ensure that credit would be extended to
project beneficiaries under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, and in accordance with the lending policies and
procedures set forth in the MCR; (ii) the allocation of credit
resources to the agencies of the participating banks would be
sufficient to cover the yearly requirements of project
beneficiaries in the area of influence of each agency, and these
allocations would be reviewed with CAR by December 31 of each
year, and sent to the Bank for comment by January 31 of each
year; (iii) adequate credit resources would be available to
implement the irrigation component according to targets
established in paragraph 3.30; and (iv) that lending policies and
procedures set forth in the MCR which are applicable to the
subloans financed under this project would not be amended in a
way which in the Bank's opinion may adversely affect the
execution of the credit component (para 3.25).
(b) it would take all measures necessary to maintain minimum price
mechanisms in the project area (para 3.47);
(c) an area that could become an Amerindian reserve would not benefit
from the project until an action plan to resolve outstanding
problems had been agreed on and implementation started (para
3.48);
(d) adequate counterpart funding would be made available, and that
arrangements would be made for the timely acquisition of land or
rights of way required (para 4.02);
(e) proposed annual operating plans would be submitted to the Bank no
later than December 15 of each year for review and that the Bank
would be advised of the approved plan by the beginning of the
applicable POLONORDESTE fiscal year (para 5.04);
(f) quarterly monitoring reports would be provided to the Bank no
later than three months after the end of the respective
POLONORDESTE fiscal year quarter (para 5.06);



-  43  -
(g)  participating agencies would maintain separate project accounts
audited annually according to practices satisfactory to the Bank
(para 5.08).
9.02      It was agreed during negotiations with the State Government that:
(a)  (i) the Land Fund would be fully operational for the complete
project execution period; (ii) the responsibility for
representing the State Government on land related issues had been
legally conferred to INTERBA and a Land Prosecution Unit
established within INTERBA's Legal Department, by March 31, 1984;
(iii) the measures satisfactory to the Bank for guaranteeing
extensive livestock rearing would have been applied to at least
three communal pastures by December 31, 1984; (iv) a minimum of
200,000 ha had been discriminated, 5,000 farms titled, and 200
farmers provided with land under the discrimination and Land Fund
procedures by December 31, 1985; and (v) an evaluation of the
effectiveness of the land tenure regularization component should
be undertaken by an external consultant and made available to the
Bank by March 31, 1986 (para 3.11);
(b)  the evaluation report on the introduction of the extension system
in the pilot area in the first year of the project would be sent
to the Bank for review by June 30, 1984 (para 3.16);
(c)  EPABA would publicize annual research results; (para 3.18);
(d)  a Project Credit Statistics and Monitoring System would be set up
by March 31, 1984 (para 3.25);
(e)  it would execute the small-scale irrigation component according
to the provisions in para 3.31;
(f)  it would execute the municipal roads component according to the
provisions in para 3.35;
(g)  it would execute the rural water supply component according to
the provisions in para 3.39;
(h)  it would execute the education component according to the
provisions in para 3.42;
(i)  it would execute the health component according to the provisions
in paragraph 3.45;
(j)  counterpart funding would be available as needed for the timely
execution of the project and adequate maintenance thereafter and
arrangements for the timely acquisition of land or rights of way
required would be made (para 4.02);
(k) procurement procedures would be as specified in paragraphs 4.04
through 4.06;



-  44  -
(1)  it would establish the headquarters office and two field offices
in Cipo and Juazeiro by March 31, 1984, a field office in Paulo
Afonso by March 31, 1985, a field office in Senhor do Bonfim by
March 31, 1986, maintain the TU with qualified staff and adequate
resources, and fully support other State agencies in the
execution of the project (para 5.02); and
(m)  the results of the baseline study, the mid-term evaluation
review, and a project completion report would be provided to the
Bank by March 31, 1984, December 31, 1986 and June 30, 1989 (para
5.07).
9.03      Conditions of disbursement would be:  (a) for the land tenure
regularization component (excluding aerophotogrammetric work), that the
agreement establishing the Land Fund had been modified to provide for the
participation of CAR (para 3.11); (b) for the animal health and plant
protection component, that an agreement be signed between the IBB, EPABA,
EMATER-BA and SEPLANTEC, defining the practical methods whereby IBB's
activities would complement and be integrated into the work of the
extension and research services (para 3.20); (c) for the municipal roads
component, the receipt by the Bank of a satisfactory final version of the
Guidelines for Execution of Spot Improvements on Municipal Roads (para
3.35); and (d) for each component, the receipt by the Bank of the
respective satisfactory signed component execution agreement (para 5.05).
9.04      With these assurances and conditions, the proposed project would
be suitable for a Bank loan of US$67.8 million equivalent. The term would
be for 15 years including a three-year grace period.
April 1983



ANNEX 1
- 45 -
BRAZIL
SECOND BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT-NORDESTE
List of Working Papers and Key Documents in Project File
1) State Government of Bahia: "Proposal for an Integrated Rural
Development Project in the Northeast of Bahia".
Volume I and II          : Historical and Economic Analysis
Volume III               : Land Ownership and Use
Volume IV                : Marketing and Markets
Volume VI                : Project Concept and Rationale
Volumes VII through XVII:  Proposed Investment Activities by
Component
2) State Government of Bahia: "State Government Budget - Exercise
1982 - Law No. 3,951 of November 26, 1981" - in 2 volumes.
3) FIBGE: "Anuario Estadistico do Brasil", 1980
4) IBRD: Report No. 3928-BR - "Rural Development Programs for
Brazil's Northeast: An Interim Assessment", June 29, 1982.
5) FAO/CP Working Paper No. 30/81 "Brazil: Bahia Rural Development
II; Land Tenure and Titling", December 7, 1981.
6) FAO/CP Working Paper Bahia II "Farm Models and Provisional
Economic Analysis", March 1982.
7)  IBRD:  Supplementary Staff Working Papers
1) Project Area Summary Data
2) Land Tenure Regularization and Redistribution
3) Rural Extension
4) Adaptive Agricultural Research
5) Plant and Animal Protection
6) Small-Scale Irrigation Systems
7) Municipal Road Improvements
8) Rural Water Supply
9) Education
10) Health and Sanitation
11) Project Management
12) Marketing Channels, Demand and Prices
13) Agricultural Development and Production Technology
14) Producer Income, Cash Flow Analysis and Employment
15) Economic Analysis
16) Agricultural Credit



-4 6--
BRAZIL                                                  Table 1
SECOND BAHlA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - NORDESTE
Project Area Municipalitien by Planning Zone,
Showing Areas and Rural Population
Total Area  No. Rural       Rural         No. 2/   1975         %          No. 2!    1980         Z
Municipio   FamIlies   Population         -ot.      Area    coverage       Est.      Area    coverage
'000   ha   (1980) 1/   DensitY                   '100 ha                           '000 ha
hab/km
loin1 1
Abate                 147.9       1,248         5.1            976      2.3        2           910       30.4       21
Cura,a                670.9       2,680         2.4          3,021    80.7        12         2,776       89.1       13
Jaguarari             257.4       3,035         7.1         2,787    47.6         19         2,372      60.2        23
Juazeiro              693.9      9,006          7.8          4,293     72.2       10         6,521      68.1       10
Sub-total         1,770.1    15,969           5.4        11,077   202.8        12        12,579      247.8       14
Zone 2
Chorrocho             257.3       1,561         3.6          1,426    14.3         6         1,792      55.6        22
Macurate              210.8       1,145         3.3          1,043      6.4        3         1,030       9.5         5
Baua                  312.8      2,636          5.1         2,325    40.8         13         2,542      71.5        23
Sub-total           780.9      5,342          4.1         4,794     61.5         8         5,364     136.6       17
Zone 3
Gloria                186.8       1,464         4.7          1,456      6.5        3         2,071      10.8         6
Jeremoabo             544.8       4,745         5.2         4,080   161.9         30         4,590    215.6        40
Rodelas               282.3         462         1.0            460      4.6        2           498       6.1        2
Sub-total         1,015.9      6,671          3.9         5,996   172.9         17         7,159     232.5       23
Zone 4
Coronal Joao Sa        81.9       1,838        13.5          1,659    64.7        79         1,927      72.1       88
Paulo Afonno          101.8       1,527         9.0         1,291      13.3       13         2,010      45.9       45
Pedro Ale-andre       118.6       1,505         7.6            946    64.0        54         1,237      73.1       62
Santa Brigida          59.5      1,211         12.2            830    32.8        55         1,115      54.0       91
Sub-total           361.8      6,081         10.1         4,726   174.8         48        6,289      245.1       66
Zone 5
Antas                  47.7       2,943        37.0          2,156     39.3       82         3,380      64.5      135
*Biritinga               56.5      1,579         16.8         1,325    34.5         61         1,787      50.0       88
*Cicero Dantan          112.9      4, 586        24.4         5 ,665    59.0        52         5,419      7'.0       70
* Cipo                   16.8         699        25.0            832      7.6       45           891      13.2       79
*Eaclides de Cunha   526.6         6,676          7.6         6,513   182.2         35         6,463     205.5       39
* Itapicuru             150.8      2,806         11.2         2,469     51.7        34         3,000      93.5       62
* Nova Sore             65.8      2,863         26.1         3,367      71.1      108         3,767      89.S      136
* Olindina               47.8      1,751         22.0         1,848    36.6         76         2,015      47.2       99
Paripiranga           112.0      5,039-        27.0         6,025    91.1         81         6,621     101.4       98
* Ribeira do Amparb    95.8        3,6s6         33.1         4,115    53.6         56         4,475      91.7       96
o Ribeira do Pombal    90.0        5,431         36.2         6,343    77.1        F6          6,915    1l1.5       123
Tucano                243.6    41971           12.3         4,349   102.1         42        4,044    139.2         57
Sub-total         1,566.3    43,033          16.5        45,007   805.8         51         48,776 4,084.5        69
Zone 6
* Araci                 168.5      4,386         15.6         3,922     93.1        55         4,337     112.4        67
Cansaanao             131.7       3,508        16.0         4,141    60.2         46         4,417      13.2        71
* Conceicao do Coite   83.2        4,947         35.7         1,624    85.1       102          4,575      67.1       105
Itiuba                158.8      4,317         16.3         4,294     98.9        62         4,436    123.9         78
Monte Santo           323.7       6,546        12.1         7,073   106.2         33         7,614     142.8        44
* Queimadas             271.1      3,505          7.8         2,992   141.0        52          3,996     212.6        78
Quijingue             214.0      3,134          6.8         3,175    92.2         43         3,415     117.0        55
*Retirolandia            24.0      1,394         34.9         1,470    22.1        92          1,268      19.8       83
*  Santa Lao            165.9      2,600          9.4         1,347   111.6        67          1,516     128.4       77
Senhor do Bonfin    234.3        4,031         10.3         4,320    83.6         36         5,566     5'1.4        39
*Teofilandia             21.6      2,265        62.9          2,248    35.2       163          2,334      37.6      174
*Valente                 79.7      2,814        21.2          2,148    63.5        80          2,053  _64.8          91
Sub-total         1,876.5    43,447          13.9        42.754   992.6        53         45,529  i,231.0        66
zone 7
Antonio Goncalves    26.6         1,419        19.4         1,419      16.1       60         1,139      26.2        99
Caeo                   49.4         816        17.2            816    57.0       115         1,123      55.4      112
Caldeirao Grande       78.2         805        16.6            805    49.9        64         1,836      b2.8       S0
Pindobag,              97.5      1,812         26.6         1,612     60.0        62         3,235      77.1       79
Saude                  40.4         802        14.5           802    37.4         93        1118       37 5       93
Sub-total           292.1      5,654        20.0          5,654   220.4        75        8_456    259.0          89
TOTAL               7,663.6   130,285          10.2       120,008 2,630.8         34       134,152  34,36.5        45
1/ Average family aie taken -s 6.
2/ Fare Establishments
Source: IBGE, 1975 Cenaus
1980 Census Preliminary Synopsis (figures compiled by CEPA/BA and SEPL7NTEC)
* Denotes one of the 16 municipalities with construction of primary schools under the
Education Component



Table 2
- 47 -
BRAZIL
SECOND BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - NORDESTE
Physical Targets for Land Component
Y   E   A   R
1        2         3         4         5      TOTAL
Discrimination and Titling
Field Survey (farms)              10,000   15,000   15,000   15,000    5,000   60,000
Discrimination (farms)              5,000   15,000   15,000   15,000   10,000   60,000
Demarcation (farms)                 5,000   10,000   15,000   15,000    5,000   50,000
Titles issued (number)                0     15,000   15,000   15,000   15,000   60,000
State lands identified   (ha)
for redistribution                 0       5,000    7,500    6,250         -    18,750
Land Residtribution
Land purchased (ha)                4,000    5,000    3,500    3,500    2,750   18,750
Land recovered
through discrimination (ha)        0       3,000    7,500    7,000    1,250   18,750
Land redistributed
-  irrigable             (ha)      400       600       600       600      300    2,500
-  dryland               (ha)    1,000    4,000   10,000   10,000   10,000   35,000



Table 3
-48 -
BRAZIL
SECOND BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - NORDESTE
Design Standards for 'Spot Improvements' on Municipal Roads
Description                           Spot Improvements
Design speed (km/h)                        Not applicable.
Minimum radius for horizontal              No improvements unless exceptional
curves (m)                              conditions required widening at
curves.
Maximum grade %                            No improvements unless road-bed
material and grade combine to make
ascent impossible.
Minimum platform width (m)                 4.00 m plus ditches,
Stream crossing                           Culverts and fords unless depth and
duration of high water dictates a
bridge.
Surfacing 10 to 15 cm thick               Spot selected materials were
essential for vehicular passage.
Right of way (m)                          Existing width (10 to 20 m) to be
maintained.
Minimum culvert diameter (m)               0.80 (0.60 in exceptional cases).
Bridges                                   Reinforced concrete or metal
(DNER or DERBA standards).
Source: CRIBA and Mission



-49-                                                      Table 4
BRAZIL
SECOND BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - NORDESTE
Agricultural Credit Requirements
(UsS 'o000)
I           TI          III          IV          V           Total
Rainfed Area:
No. of farms w/credit (incremental)            4,350        4,940        5,970        4,340       4,520        24,120
No. of farms w/credit (cumulative)             4,350        9,290       15,260       19,600      24,120
Total Seasonal Credit                          2,062        4,746        8,482       11,811      15,296
Incremental Seasonal Credit                    2,062        2,684        3,736       3,329        3,485       15,296
Total Investment Credit                           772       1,725        2,347        2,184       1,752        8,780
Subtotal 1/                               2,834        4,409       6,083        5,513        5,237       24,076
Irrigated Area:
No. of farms w/credit (incremental)                90         320          510          540         420        1,880
No. of farms w/credit (cumulative)                 90         410          920        1,460       1,880
Total Seasonal Credit                            338        1,089        2,366        3,862       5,135
Incremental Seasonal Credit                      338          751        1,277        1,496       1,273        5,135
Total Investment Credit                          308          616          924        1,233       1,849        4,930
Subtotal -/                                 646        1,367       2,201        2,729        3,122       10,065
Land Purchase:
Ha sold -/ (incremental)                  1,400        4,600       10,600      10,600       10,300
Land Purchase Credit                        414        1,361        3,138       3,138        3,049
Subtotal                                    414        1,361       3,138        3,138        3,049       11,100
Total Credit Requirements
Total Seasonal Credit                          2,400        5,835       10,848       15,673      20,431
Incremental Seasonal Credit                    2,400        3,435        5,013        4,825       4,758       20,431
Investment Credit                              1,080        2,341        3,271        3,417       3,601       13,710
Land Purchase Credit                             414        1,361        3,138        3,138       3,049       11,100
Baseline Incremental Credit Requirements       3,894        7,137       11,422       11,380     T11,408       45,241
Price Contingencies                           152          859        2,311        3,219       4,106       10,647
Total Incremental Credit Requirements          4,046        7,996       13,733       14,599      15,514       55,888
1/ Incremental requirements:  Incremental Seasonal Credit plus Investment Credit
2/ At average price of US$296/ha.



-50-                                                   Table  5
BRAZIL
SECOND BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - NORDESTE
PROJECT COSTS AND ANNUAL PHASING -
( US$  '000
--- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- -- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- -- --Ba-- -e---- -e aForeeFo          gng
YEAR            1983        1984         1985        1986        1987       TOTALS                 Cost %            Exchange %
PROJECT ACTIVITY
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES
LAND TENURE RED'N             9991         4605        2279        2568         1938       21381                   16                   10
RURAL EXTENSION               2932         3653        4203        4704         4286       19778                   14                   12
ADAPTIVE RESEARCH              893          473         409         410          410        2595                    2                   10
PLANT/ANIMAL PROTECTIOt        352          324         496         451          464        2087                    2                   10
SUBTOTAL                   14168         9055        7387        8133         7098       45841                   34                   11
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
INCR, SEASONAL CREDIT         2400         3435        5013        4825         4758       20431                   15                   15
INVESTMENT CREDIT             1080        2341         3271        3417         3601       13710                   10                   10
LAND PURCHASE CREDIT           414         1361        3138        3138         3049       11100                    8                    0
SUBTOTAL                    3894        7137        11422       11380        11408       45241                   33                   10
PRODUCTION INFRASTRUCTURE
SMALL SCALE IRRIGATION         381          369         463         576          555        2344                    2                   15
MUNICIPAL ROADS               1071         1971        B043        5055         1860       18000                   13                   33
SUBTOTAL                    1452         2340        8506        5631         2415       20344                   15                   31
SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE
RURAL WATER SUPPLY            1170         2198        2256        2037          392        B053                     6                  25
EDUCATION                       619        1040        1416        1187          582        4844                     3                   15
HEALTH AND SANITATION          783         1021        1405        1016          653        4878                     4                  15
SUBTOTAL                    2572         4259        5077        4240         1627       17775                   13                   20
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
MANAGEMENT/EVALUATION         1078         1251        1424        1415         1387        65555                    5                  10
TOTAL PROJECT
BASELINE COSTS               23164        24042       33816       30799        23935      135756                  100                    15
2/
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES        2128         1538        1907         1631        1019        8223                     6                   15
PRICE CONTINGENCIES   -        986         3080        7227        9174         8981       29449                   22                    15
TDTAL PROJECT COSTS            26278        28660       42950       41604        33936      1734284-/               128                    15
1/   Phased  according  to  the POLONORDESTE  fiscal  year,  which  starts April  1,  and  ends March  31.
2/ Physical contingencies were added to baseline costs at 5% for the education and project
management components; 6% for rural extension; 7% for the adaptive research, small-scale
irrigation, water supply and health and sanitation components; 10% for the animal health
and plant protection, and the municipal roads component, and 15% for the land regularization
and redistribution component.
3/   Price  contingencies were  calculated  in US$  dollar  terms,  based  on  international  inflation
rates estimated at 8% for calendar year 1982 and 1983, 7.5% for 1984, 7% for 1985, and 6%
from 1986 on. It was assumed that periodic local currency devaluation would compensate for
differences between projected US$ dollar inflation and local inflation rates.
4/   Includes  US$ 3.5   million  in  taxes.



-51-                                   Table 6
BRAZIL
SECOND BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - NORDESTE
Disbursement Allocation by Category
Amount
of the
Loan Allocated         , of Expenditures
Category                                           (US$ '000)             to be Financed
(1)  Land Tenure Regularization (except              9,000                     42%
for compensation for improvements
on land recovered from irregular
occupiers, land acquisition, and
expenditures under categories (2)
and (3) below.
(2)  Aerial photography and photogrammetry           5,700                    100%
work for Land Tenure-Regularization.
(3)  Consultants services for Land Tenure               200                   100%
Regularization and Project Management.
(4)  Rural Extension Services                       10,200                     42%
(5)  Adaptive Agricultural Research                  1,300                     42%
(6)  Animal Health and Plant Protection              1,100                     42%
(7)  Small-Scale Irrigation                          1,200                     42/o
(8)  Municipal Road Improvement                      9,600                     42%
(9)  Rural Water Supply                              4,100                     42%
(10)  Education                                       2,500                     42%
(11)  Health and Sanitation                           2,500                     42%
(12)  Project Management and Evaluation               3,400                     42%
(13)  Agricultural Credit 2/                          6,800                     42,,
(14)  Deposit in Special Account                      5,000
(15)  Fee                                               169
(16)  Unallocated                                     5,031
TOTAL                                   67,800
1/ Until March 31, 1985, when those categories with a rate of 42% will change to 39%.
2/ 42% of amount disbuirsed by participating banks for project sub-loans.



Table 7
- 52 -
BRAZIL
SECOND BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT-NORDESTE
Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
(US$ millions)
Cumulative
Calendar           Quarter          Disbursed           Amount        Balance of
Year             Ending         During Quarter    Disbursed 1/         Loan
1983             Sept. 30            3.0               3.0 2/          64.8
Dec. 31            0.5                3.5             64.3
1984             March 31           0.5                4.0             63.8
June 30            0.8                4.8             63.0
Sept. 30           3.5                8.3             59.5
Dec. 31            3.3               11.6             56.2
1985             March 31           3.2               14.8             53.0
June 30            2.8               17.6             50.2
Sept. 30           3.5               21.1             46.7
Dec. 31            3.7               24.8             43.0
1986             March 31           4.0               28.8             39.0
June 30            3.8               32.6             35.2
Sept. 30           4.2              36.8              31.0
Dec. 31            3.8               40.6             27.2
1987             March 31           3.8               44.4             23.4
June 30            3.8               48.2             19.6
Sept. .30          3.8               52.0             15.8
Dec. 31            3.8               55.8             12.0
1988             March 31           3.5               59.3              8.5
June 30            3.7               63.0              4.8
Sept. 30           3.0              66.0               1.8
Dec. 31            1.8               67.8              0.0
1/ Based.on disbursement profile for Agricultural Sector in Brazil,
adjusted to condense the distribution into five and a half years.
Adjustment justified especially in light of establishment of Special
Account which would   facilitate timely and full intended disbursements.
2/ Disbursement of a portion of the amount allocated to the Special
Account.



Table 8
-  53   -
BRAZIL
SECOND BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT-NORDESTE
List of Executing and Collaborating Agencies
Executing                  Collaborating
A.  Project Activity/Component             Agencies                     Agencies
Land Regularization and
Redistribution                 INTERBA, CAR               INCRA
Rural Extension                  EMATERBA                   EPABA, IBB
Adaptive Research                EPABA                      EMBRAPA, IBB
Animal Health and
Plant Protection               IBB                        EPABA, EMATERBA
Agricultural Credit              Bank of Brazil
Bank of Northeast Brazil
State Bank of Bahia
Small-Scale Irrigation           SSIG                       EMATERBA, EPABA, INTERBA,
Secretariat of Agric.
Municipal Road Improvements      CRIBA                       Secretariat of Transport
and Communication,
Municipalities
Rural Water Supply               CERB                       EMATER, ETAL
Education                        SEC                        Municipalities
Health and Sanitation            SESAB/ISEB                 Municipalities
Project Management               TU/CAR                      SEPLANTEC, SUDENE
B. Parallel Activities
Minimum Price Program            CFP                         BB, Bahia State Warehouse
Company
Amerindian Protection            FUNAI                       INTERBA



-54-                                                                Table 9
Page 1
BRAZIL
SECOND BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - NORDESTE
Key Indicators for Monitoring and Evaluation
Principal Objectives                               Key Quarterly Indicatora                         Indicators for On-going Evaluation
1. Land Tenure Regularization
-  Provide security of tenure to small farmers.         -  Farms discriminated                         -  Production response to security to tenure.
-  Obtain and redistribute land to sharecroppers        -  Farns demarcated                            -  Reduction in loan of social tension over land
und farmers with inadequate aroounts.               -  Farms titled                                 -  Increase in investment
-  Hectare purchased                           -  Inprovements in land use techniques.
-  Hectare recovered throught
discrimination
- Land redistributed
- irrigable
- dry
- Fundos de pasto legalized
2. Rural Extension
-  Formation of farmer groups, in order to              -  Number of local offices operational.        -  Productivity levelt for crops.
transfer new agricultural techniques.               -  Nbrber of fans level agricultural            -  Number of far-ern adopting new tecnbiques.
-  Increase use of modern inputs.                          extensionsists.           .                 -  Area planted by crop.
-  Assist farmers to obtain credit.                     -  Number of social extensionists.             -  Satisfaction with extension service.
-  Introduce improved far  management.                  -  Number of groups assisted.                  -  Farmers in each sie category being assisted.
-  Increase efficiency and outreach of extension        -  Nunber of farm families assinted:           -  Use of modern inputs.
service.                                                -  through groups                           -  Participation of women in productive process.
-  Motivate farmers to one groups and                      -  individually                             -  Use of farmers groups for other cooperative
associations to solve development problems of        -  Number of rural credit requests                cornunity projects.
no-nity.                                                prop-sed:                                   -  Acceptance/impact of nutrition, health education
-  with investment                             training.
-  with only working capital                -  Extension cosponent cost/farmer assisted.
-  Number farmers trained.
-  Number group meetings.
-  Number demonstration plots.
3. Adaptive Research
-  Adapt selection of varieties and cultivation         -  Nuber emperiteotation plots.                -  Relevance of experiments to needs of snail
techniques to region.                               -  Number observations plots.                      farmers.
-  Investigate potential new crops or varieties.       -  N-unber experiments:                         -  Extension service acceptance and ase of research
-  initiated                                   results.
-  Develop techniques to permit sustainable long           - concluded                                 -  Quality of research being undertaken.
term exploitation of region.                        -  Number professional staff contracted.
-  Number "field days" held.
4. Plant and Animal Protection
-  Improve livestock health and productivity.           -  No. farmers trained.                         -  Improvement in goat/heep herd health.
-  5uppert extension service is pest control.           -  No. vaccines given to:                      -  Improvement in incidence of pests.
- goats                                     -  Extension satisfaction with support.
- sheep
- bulls
- No. lab. diagnoses for extension
service.
- No. farm visits paid.
5. Agricultural Credit
-  Finance inputs and investments to permit             -  Number and volune of seasonal               -  Area financed by crop
an increase in agricultural productivity                credit loans                                -  Increase in productivity  of financed
and an expansiun in cultivated ares.                 -  Number and volume of investment                non-financed activities
loans                                      -  Area of land cold to farmers
-  Number of farmers receiving credit   -  Bank agencies involved
-  Number and volume of land purcanae    -  Extenaion service support fur credit
loans                                           system
- Average processing times far seasonal
and investment loans.
6. Small Scale Irrigation
-  Eitend the areas irrigated by private small          -  No. farmers assisted in:                     -  Crop yields in irrigated areas.
farmers.                                                -  surface irrigation                       -  Expansiun in areas.
-  improve small farmer irrigation a.d water               -  tubewell irrigation                       -  Financial returns  fron irrigation.
management techniques.                                  -  salvation pond irrigation                -  Organization problems in tubewell commusal
- No. trainees in irrigation:                      irrigation.
- extension service
- research service
- small farmers
- Areas under irrigation assisted by
project, by crop.
7. Nunicipal Roads
-  Improve quality of municipal roads to                -  Sm of municipal road:                        -  Proportion of municipal road netunrk being
all-weather passage.                                    -  with engineering designs cempleted.          maintained.
-  Improve road maintenance capability of the              - with improvement construction              -  Small farmer benefitted by roads improved under
municipalities.                                            initiated                                    project.
-  with construction completed              -  Actual all-weather access provided.
-  Re of municipal road wich received           -  Average traffic on selected roads.
routine maintenance services.               -  Maintenance cost/km.
- in last month
- in last 6 months
- construction cost/km



Table 9
-55-                                                            Page 2
Prinicipal Objectives                                  Key Quarterly Indicator                            Indicators for On-going Evaluations
o Education
-  Inc-re,ase ru,ral primary school matriculation          -  Number of schools/classrooms                    -  Drop-out rate fo,r students.
rarios to irousi,d 704.                                 constructed-                                       -  Acceptance ni use of new curric-lum.
-  Improve the quaLity of naral primary                    -  Number of teachers trained.                     -  Quality of teacher training.
edaat ion.                                              -  Number of students in school.                   -  Retention of trained teachers.
-  Matriculation ratio area (7-14 years           -  Comeunity participation  in maintenance of schools.
old).                                          -  Frequency anld quality of supervisIon.
-  Z of aLl teachers with teaching
certificate.
o.   ealth
-  Improve the c-ecrage of preventive health               -  Number of health posts/health centers:    -  Families in area if inflience of health p sat
services.                                                  -  initiated                                       centers.
-  Ipins--  the qualtiy of and access to curative              -  constrcted                                  -  Numher of medi-al consuiltations.
health sercies.                                             -  in f,ill use                                -  Frequency and quality of supervision.
-  Number of health post at!endants               -  Ease of iacess to services.
employed.                                      -  Quality o)f medical attendance.
-  Nlmber of attendants trained-                  -  Redulction  in child mortality, diarrhea
-  Number of families reached in reguilar             incidence.
vioitstion by health past attendants.          -  Quality of  ttrendant training.
-  Permanence of health attendants.
-  Commnunit  support for health prst.
. Rural Water Supply
-  Expand qvailabiLity of gocd quality drinking            -  Nuedir of water-supply systems:                 -  Change ;t inciden-e of water-borne disease.
woter in smill nrral ce-inunities.                         -  located and designed                         -  Number of 'amilies henefitted from projeCt
-  Redoro incidlenc  .f water-borne disease in                 -  imitiated                                      systems.
ra.ral Areas.                                              -  completed and functioning                   -  Proportion  if total naral population with piped
-  Number of system  operitors trained.               drinking water.
-  Number of water associations formed.           -  Average cust/ssystem.
-  Number of systems receiving routine            -  Average cost/beneflciary.
maintenance in past:                           -  Quality of maintenance.
-  month                                       -  Comnmni ty support for system.
-  6 months                                    -  Average cist/heneficiary.
-  Quality of maintenance.
- Community support for system.
11. Project Management
-  Integrate tie various project activities.               -  Time between end of reporting period,           -  Accaracy, relevance, timeliness of quarterlv
-  Solve problems of execution, between agencies,              and issuance of qoiartelry report.                 reports.
a,d between local, state and federal levels.            -  Number of PMU staff field visits in             -  Effecti euess of PYL personnel in identifying and
past nonth, quarter.                              solving prble-s.
-  Farmers interviewed for the on-going           -  Qualitv of quarterly reports and on-going
evaluation.                                       evalution reports.
- Quality of relationship between PlC staff And
executing Sgencies.



BRAZIL
SECOND BAHIA RIURAL DEVELOPMFNT PROJECT-NORDESTE
Estimated Annual Project Participant Production, at Full Development 11
Without Project                     With Project                  Incremental
Crops             Units         Area       Yield   Production   Area         Yield   Production    Area  Production   Value 5/
(ha)    (tonsh7a)  (Units)        (ha)    (tons/ha)  (Units)         (ha)   (Units)   (IJS$mill)
Beans              '000 tons    42,760       0.39      16.8       69,660      0.59       41.1        26,900    24.3       !ii.76
Corn              '000 tons    42,760       0.39      16.8        65,180      0.87      36.1         22,900    19.3        2.48
Manioc Flour       '000 tons    14,0402/   2.16        18.8       21,710 2/  3.13        42.1         7,6702/  23.3        5.94
Cowpea            '000 tons       7,040     0.31        2.2       11,730      0.58        6.8         4,690      4.6       2.09
Sisal             '000 tons    13,750       0.72        9.9       13,750      1.00       13.7           -        3.8       0.34
Castor Beans      '000 tons       3,620     0.50        i.8        8,730      0.74        6.5         5,110      4.7       1.40
Sheep/Goats 3/   '000 animals        -        -      109.2            -        -       166.3            -       57.1       1.13
Cattle 3/   -    '000 animals        -       -        12.3            -       -         25.6            -       13.3       1.61
Watermelons        '000 tons        480      12.1       5.8          840      15.0       12.6           360      6.8       0.77
Melons             '000 tons         80       8.7       0.7          240      12.1        2.9           160      2.2       0.38        I
Tomatoes          '000 tons         160      26.2       4.2          600      33.3       20.0           440    15.8        1.56
Onions            '000 tons         480      14.2       6.8          960      17.2       16.5           480      9.7       1.68
Green Peppers     '000 tons          80      10.0       0.8          240      14.2        3.4           160      2.6       0.45
Sorghum           '000 tons          -       -          -          3,160       0.51       1.6         3,160      1.6       0.17
Bananas            '000 tons         -        -          -           480      30.0       14.4           480    14.4        2.14
Improved Pasture                 34,440       -          -        62,030       -          -          27,590       -         -
Total Area Cropped 4/            82,490       -          -       132,100       -          -          49,610       -         _
Value of Annual
Incremental Production
at Full Development
(US$ million)          37.9
1/ Production of all goods expected to reach full development by the year 2000.                                                        s
2/ Number represents area actually under manioc.  As manioc is an 18-month crop, the area under the crop is larger than    o
the area actually harvested in a given year.
3/ Sheep, goats and cattle raised on native pasturelands, for which pastures improved under the project area a source
supplemental feeding.
4/ Excludes corn, as it is intercropped with beans. Also excludes improved pasture.
5/ At local market prices



tRAZIL
SEQ3OND BAHIA RURAL DEVEL0PMENT PROJECT - NORDESTE
Summary of Land Use, Laor Use, Income  and Rate of  Return of Illustrative Rainfed Farm Models
A, I - 50 ha                 B, I - 10 ha                 C, 10 - 50 ha                  D, I - 10 ha                   E, 10 - 50 ha                F, I - 10 ha
Very Arid                      Arid                          Arid                        Subhumid/                      Subhuialid/                  Subhumid/
Arid Unimodal                Transitional                  Transitional                     Semi Arid                      Semi Arid                   Semi Arid
Goats                        Sisal                         Sisal                        Castor                       Maize/beans                 Maize/beans
Pre      Full                Pre      Full                 Pre      Full                 Pre       Full                 Pro       Full               Pre      Full
Project   0ev                Project   Dev.                Project   Dev.                Project   Dev.                 Project   Dev.               Prjeect   Dev.
Land Use (ha)
Maize/beans                                  1.0       1.0                1.4        1.4                1.9       1.9                 1.0        1.6                 2.0        3.9               1.3       2.5
Sorgum/Cowpea                                 -        0.3                 -        0.3                 -         0.3                  -          -
Manioc                                       0.2       0.5                0.5       0.5                0.9        1.2                 0.3        0.5                 0.7        0.7               0.5        1.0
Cowpea                                      0.5        0.2                0.5        1.0               0.2        1.0                  -          -                   -          -                0.1       0.2
Cash Crop                                     -        0.6                1.0        1.0              10.0       10.0                 1.1        1.5
Pasture/fodder                                -        0.4                 -         0.2                 -        3.1                  -          -                  6.0        9.5                -        0.1
Fallow/caatinga                            35.8       34.5                1.3       0.8                9.6        4.6                 1.7        0.5                13.4        8.0               2.3       0.5
Total Land Area                            37.5       37.5                4.2        4.2              22.4       22.4                 4.1        4.1                22.1       22.1               4.1        4.1
Land Under Cultivation                       1.7       3.0                2.9        3.4              12.8       16.5                 2.4        3.6                 8.7       14.1               1.8       3.6
Area Cropped                                 1.7       2.6                3.4        4.2              13.0       14.4                  2.4       3.6                 2.7        4.6               1.9        3.27
Labour Use (mon/days)
Total Requirement:
Family                                    106        187                159       210                335        434                 161       280                  26i5       294               149       248
Hired                                      -          -                  -         -                  -          -                   -          -                   -          14                -          -
Per ha cropped                             62         62                 47        48                 26         30                  67         78                  98         67                78         67
Ne t Fa rm  Income_( S $( )
Per Family                                   369       733                550        859               1552      2063                 703       1510                1060       2083               653       1545
Per Capita                                    61       122                 92        143                259       344                  117       252                  177       347               109        257
Per Family Labour/day                       3.48      3.92              3.46       4.09                4.63       4.75                4.37       5.39                4.00       7.07             4.38       6.23
a X
Financial Rate of Return                         100I                            100%                          71%                              2/                           50%                         2/
NPV of Incremental Income
Stream at 16% (US$)                           1386                            1535                        2574                           3940                           2104                        4118
1  Castor
2/ No rate of return as Incremental Income always positive.



Table 11
-58-                                Page 2
BRAZIL
SECOND BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - NORDESTE
Summary of Land Use, Labor Use, Income and Rate of Return of Irrigated Models
MODEL G                  Model H                   MODEL J
Surface Irrigation           Tubewell               Crop Salvage
Pre-   Full            Pre-   Full             Pre-    Full
Land Use (ha)            Project Develop.       Project Develop.         Project Develop.
Tomato                     0.4     0.6            -       0.75            -        -
Onion                      1.2     1.5             -      0.75            -        -
Water Melon                1.2     1.5             -      0.5             -        -
Melon                      0.2     0.6             -       -              -        -
Pepper                     0.2     0.6            -        -              -        -
Bananas/beans               -       -              -      1.0             -        -
Beans (irrigated)           -       -             -        -              -       4.0
Rainfed Crops               -       -              -       -             2.7      2.6
Pasture/fodder              -       -             -        -             6.0      9.5
Total Land Area            3.0     3.0            -       4.0           22.1    22.1
Land Under Cultivation   2.0       3.0             -      2.0            8.7    14.1
Area Cropped               3.2     4.8            -       3.0            2.7      6.6
Labor Use (man days)
Total requirement:         594     894             -      504            265      323
Family                   451     535            -       489            265      289
Hired                    143     359            -        15             -        34
Per ha cropped           186     186            -       168             98       49
Net Farm Income (US$)
Per family              3,103   5,656              -    4,959          1,060   2,509
Per capita                 517     943            -       867            177      418
Per family labor day    6.88   10.57               -   10.14            4.00    8.68
Financial Rate of Return                                  31%                      29%
NPV of Incremental Income Stream
at 16% (US$)                   12,470                11,658                   2,490
S/ No rate of return because incremental income always positive.



BRAZIL
SECOND BEAH  RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - NORDESTE
PRINCIPAL CURRENT YA ING  SYSTEKS
PLANTING                                                         LEVEL OF
FARM SYSTEM           CLIMATIC ZONE           FARM SIZE            CROPS             SEASON              LIVESTOCK            PASTURE/FORAGE           MECHANISATION            MAJOR TECHNICAL CONSTRAINTS
(HA)
Type A                                                                                                 Comm.unal
A                      UNIMODAL                0 _ 50             Cowpea                SR               Goats*               Caating A Scrub               None               1.  Rainfall 2. Dry season
'VA and AU)                               Manioc                SR                Sheep                (Palma)                                         stock feed  3. Inadequate
500 us/year                            Maize/beans           SR                (Cattle)                                                             subsistence fond due to lack of
(Sisal)              SR                                                                                     drought resistant crops 4. Stock
(Castor)                                                                                                    water 5. Animal health. 7. Plant
diseases and pests.
Type B
B                      TRANSITIONAL            I -  10            Sisal*                p                Sheep                Fallow, crop                  None               1. Rainfall 2. Soil fertility
(AT)                                      Nl-ioc                SB./WA            (Qoats)              residues                                         (short fallow period) 3. Lack of
500 -  550 us/year                     Cowpea                SR/WR                                                                                  drought resistant food crops
Maize/beans           WR                                                                                     4. Dry season stock feed 7. Plant
disease and pests.
Type C
C                     TRANSITIONAL             10 - 50            Sisas*                P                Beef Cattle*         Native pasture,              (Animal             1. Rainfall 2.Dry season stock feed
(AT)                                      Manioc                SR/WR             (Sheep)              Sisal interrows                  Traction)       3. Stock water 4. Lack of drought
500 - 550 mu/year                      Maize/beans           WR                                    Fallows, crop                                    resistant food crops 6. Animal
Cowpea                SR                                    residues. Palma                                  health 7. Plant diseases and Pests.
(Elephant Grass)
Type D
D                      BIMODAL (East)          1 - 10             Maize/Beans*          WR               (Sheep)              Fallow. crop                  (Animal            1. Rainfall 2. Soil fertility
(SA and SH)                               Manioc                SR/WR             (Goats)              residues                         Traction)       (short fallow period) 3. Plant
550 - 900 mm/year                      Castor*/beans         WR                                                                                     diseases and pests 4. Lack of
Castor*/cowpea        SR                                                                                     improved seed. 5. Health 6. Stock
(Tobaccn)            SR                                                                                      water.                                           'S
Tyve E
E                      BIMODAL (East and West)                   Maize/beans*          WR                Beef Cattle*         Native and improved           (Animal            1. Rainfall 2. Dry season stock
(SA and SH)              10 - 50          Manioc                SR/WR             (Sheep)              pastures, fallows,               Traction)       feed  3. Animal health 4.  Soil
.550 -  900 m/year                                                              (Dairy Cattle)       crop residues                 Tractor            fertility 5.  Plant diseases and
(Elephant grass                                 pests 6. Stock water 7. Lack
sugar cane)                                    of drought resistant crops.
Type F
F                     BIMODAL (West)           1 - 10            Maize/beans*          WR                Sheep                Fallows, crop                (Animal             1. Rainfall 2.  Soil fertility
Maninc                                  (Goats)             residues                         Traction)       (short fallow period) 3.  Plant
Cowpea                                                                                                       diseases and pests 4. Lack of
(Tobacco)                                                                                                    drought resistant crops 5. Dry
(Sweet potatoes)                                                                                             season stock feed 6. Animal health
7. Stock water.
G                      UNIMODAL
(Independent)           Z                 Tomato                W/S               None                 None                          Tractors           1.  Pest control 2. Disease control
Onion                 W/S                                                                 (Animal            3.  Total dynamic pumping head
Watermelon            S                                                                      Traction)       4.  Labor availability 5. Soil
Melon                 W                                                                                      fertility (optimal fertilizer level
Bell Pepper           S                                                                                      levels) 6. Lack of high-profit
(Garlic)             W/S                                                                                     soccer irrigated crop options
(Beans)              S                                                                                       7. Irrigation techniques
(Cotton)             W/S                                                                                     8. Quality of produce 9. Timing
(Other vegetables)  W                                                                                        of planting for best markets.
* Principal cash revenue.    Brackets denote minor activity undertaken by few  farmers.
(D
SR B       Sumer rains        WR -   Winter rains
W     =   Winter irrigation S  B      Sumer irrigation
P     -   Permanent crop



BRAZIL
SECOND BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - iORDESTE
Potentially Useful New Crops
Planting      Climate Zone                                                                               Planting    Climate Zone
Crop         Season        Adaptation        Evaluation                                               Crop            Season       Adaptation       Evaluation
Sorghum    fR/SR-/          all              Very drought resistant; can be inter-                    Groundouts   Late WR/SR   SA/SH              No apparent reason for not growing thls
cropped easily.  High yielding adapted                                                                crop, probably just not traditional.  S
open pollinated varieties available.                                                                  market exists in Juazeiro and Salva2t>
Initially, marketing may be restricted.                                                               Low efficiency home production of oil 's
Can substitute maize in human food and                                                                possible.  This crop is probably the best
produces ratoons and straw for animal feed.                                                           N fixer of available short cycle legume
food crops. Adapted varieties of varying
Pearl                                                                                                                                               cycle length exist.  This crop is ideal
Millet      WR/SR           All except SH  Very recent introduction, the most                                                                       for animal traction and the crop residues
drought resistant of all grain crops                                                                  make good animal feed.  Seed availability fair
available. Seed in short supply, ratoons
and straw can also serve for animal feed.                Sunflower    WR             SA/SHl           Adapted hybrids exist, seed availability
Needs only 200-300 mm rainfall to produce                                                             is good in South of Brazil.  High qaulity
a full crop and tolerates low fertility.                                                              oilseed crop, quality reduces with high
Very short cycle.  Could be planted in                                                                temperatures due to increased linoleic
July after main crop winter annuals or                                                                acid content.  Winter season is thus ad-
in summer.                                                                                            vantageous.  Can be easily intercropped.
Jojoba      WR              All              Once established, very drought resistant                 Soybean      WE              SH               Oilseed crop, excellent market.  Hand
perennial.  Produces oilseed for sperm oil                                                            harvesting is arduous thus lower yields
for substitute.  Large plantings being                                                               in SA probably not attractive.  Very
initiated in NE Brazil.  Seed supply                                                                  disease resistant and more drought resis-
extremely reduced and expensive.                                                                       tant than common beans.  Excellent varieties
available, could intercrop with maize.
Cuar    Late UIR/SR         All              Short cycle legume grain 70-80 days.                                                                   Excellent nitrogen fixer.
Highly drought resistant.  Gum from the
grain used for oil drilling - high export                Pigeon Fea  SR/WR           AU/AB            Bushy perennial legume grain crop.  Quite
value.  Adapted varieties and market                                                                  drought resistant, needs heavy soils in
available through Sao Paulo.  Could be                                                                AU/AB.  Beans eaten green, no market potentisl
planted in July, after maincrop winter                                                                whatsoever at present.  Can be grazed or
annuals, or in summer.                                                                                cut as emergency stock feed, not very
persistent.
Sesame  Late WR/SR          All except
SH (WR)         Short cycle drought-resistant oilseed.                   Mug bean   SR/WR             All              Short cycle annual legume grain used for
Good market in South.  Adapted deiscent                                                                bean sprouts.  Not currently grown in
varietles tested at CPATSA, seed may be                                                                Brazil, no adapted varieties or seed
in short supply.  Grains are edible  Should                                                            available at present.  Good alternative to
be planted June/July in WR.  70-80 day cycle.                                                          cowpea.
"Fava" or   WR              SA/SH            Well suited to the heavy bottom soils,
Safflower                   All except.    Short cycle, very drought resistant                        Lima bean                                     needs maize intercrop to climb on.
SH              oilseed.  High quality oil, not known                     Phaseolus                                    Medium cycle, very drought resistant.
in Brazil-market, needs developing                       Lunatu,;                                      Seed availability good in S. Ceara.
(in South). Had harvest impeded by
spiky flower heads. Needs absolute dry
for harvest. No information on varieties.



BRAZIL
SECOND BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - NORDESTE
Input Output Coefficients per Hectare for Annual Crops
Beans..                     Corn                       Mauioc                     Cowpea                       Castor                       Sisal
INPUTS                          Unit             Pre.Proj.   Pull Dev.   Pre.ProJ.   Full Dcv.           Pre.Proj.   Pull D-v.  PPre.Proj.  PFull Dev.    Pre.ProJ.   Pull Dcvi. Prc. aro.                 Full.D.
Labor  :  Human                   Mandays               39-47         36-47            - 4/          - 4/    89-15810/    107-17610/    25-33             24-33         81-100         60-107          14             16
Animal                Days                                  411/            ---                                                    -             -             -              -11
Machinery                         Tractor hours          3      9/    6       9/       -            -            .3  9/       2.2  9/         -             -             -              -
Seeds                            kg                     20-25         20-25            8             8          -              -            16-30         16-30 6/       2.0            2.5             -
Percentage Improved          7                        -          25-20            -            20          -               -              -          20-25           -            20-50            -              -
Pesticides/Fungicidea 2/         kg/l                   .4-2.5 9/  1.5-3.3 9/          -             - - 4/      .5         2.0-3.0         .2-.7         .7-3.2          -          1.2-3.2            -              -
Fertilizer                       kg                       -             -              -             -          -           300    6/         _      -                    -          200      5/        -              -
YIELDS
With Project Yields:
Subhumid/semiarid            ton                    .45         .65            .45           .60-.63      2.5            3.6           .38-.42       .58-.65          .60           .85 8/         -              -
Arid                         ton                   .15-23        .18-.30       .17-.27       .2 -.35   1.0-2.0 3/   1.3-2.753/    .30-.35           .40-.48          -               .60          .8             1.0
Without Project Yields at
Pull Development:
Subhueid/Seeiarid            ton                       -        .34-.53           -          .34-.51       -           2.13-2.95          -         .34-.38          -               .51                          -
Arid                         ton                       -         .11-.17          -          .13-.21       -            .85-1.73/         -          .27-32          -               -             -               .72
Sorghum               Tomato  12/                Onios  12/               Watermelon  12                 Melon  12/              Green Peppers  12/   Banana 12/
INPUTS                          Unit             Pull Dev.   Pre-Proj.   Pull Dev.   Pre-Proj.    Pull Dcv.   Pre-Proj.    Pull Dev.   Pre-Proj.    Pull Dev.   Pre-Proj.    Pull Dev.   Full Dev.
Labor  :  Human                   Mandays                41-60         190             210           259         260           127             187           141          151           156            154           88  13/
Animal                Hour                                          -             -             -             -             -                    -             -              -             -
Machinery                         Tractor hours            -           6.75           6.75          5.25         5.25          5.25           5.25         5.25          5.25           6.75           6.75          -
Seeds                            kg                     6 - 5            .4            .4           3.0          3.0           1.5            1.5          2.0           2.0             .4             .4         1,700 14/
Percentage Improved          %                     30-20            -              -            -             -            -              -             -2
Pesticidea/Yungicides 2/         kg/l                  1.8-3.0         8.4           11.25         10.50        14.0           9.5           14.25         8.25         11.0            7.5           10.0          8.0
Fertilizet                        kg                                   900           1,215           750         900           600             800          750         1,000           900          1,200          925
Farmyard Manure                   ton                                   8               8            -            -             4               4             5           R              8             8             -
Diesel fuel (for irrigation)  L                                        350             350           450         450           350             350           250          250           350            350         2,200
YIELDS
With Project Yields:
Subhumid/semiarid            toe
Arid                         ton                   .45-.60        25-28         31-35       13.5-15         16-18        12.0               15         9.0          12.0           10.0           14.0            30
Without Project Yields at
Pull Development:
Subhumid/Semiarid            ton                      -             -              -            -             -             -             -                           -              -              -
Arid                         ton                      -             -           25-28           -        13.5-15           -            12.0            -            9.0             -            10.0
Note:  Inputs and yields given in ranges.  Arid regions in general use lower levels of input., and provide lower yields than the semi-arid sub-humid aoeas.
1/  Intercropped with corn.  The manpower use and other inpute are shown as allocated to beans.
2/ Includes insecticides and farsicides.
3/  Yield enpreased as manioc flour.  Divide by .27 to get manioc root equivalent.
7/ Included with beans, with which it is intercropped.
S/ In the seni-arid and sub-humid area only simple auperphoaphate.
6/  Seed requirements are much less when intercropped with castor bean.
7/  Intercropped with beans.
8/  First and second year castor yields are similar.
9/  Only in model E, the large farm in the sub-humid/eali-arid area.
To/ Includea labor required to grind and bake the maniac root into flour.
01/ Only in model F, the small farm in the sub-humid/aeei-arid area.
12/ Irrigated.
I3/ The first year would require 156 manday. and 1.5 tona of fertiIizer, for planting.
14/ Banana suckers.



-62-
Table 15
BRAZIL
SECOND BARHI RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - NORDESTE
ECONOMIC ANALISIS OF PROJECT COSTS AND BENEFITS
ECONOMIC PRICES
(CR 000 000)
YEAR             1983         1984          1985         1986         19871        1?98          1989         1990         1991
ON FARM BENEFITS
NET ON FARM BENEFITS           -2.36.57      -444.33      -226.81       374,66       12-79.69     2909.88      3737.04      4030.82       4198.14
OFF FARM COSTS
LAND TENURE REG'N              2380.30       1079.80       539.30       606.60        460.10         0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
RURAL EXTENSION                  492.30       5212.40      684.50       800.50        729.80       531.20       425.00        318,70       212.50
ADAPTIVE RESEARCH               170.50        140.40       104,70        90,20         90.10        66.30        53.10        39,80         26.50
PLANT PROTECTION                 79.80         73.50      1112.40       102.20       105.20         74.50        59.60        44.70         219.80
IRRIGATION                       46.50         70.10        89,20       109.00       106.90          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
MUNICIPAL ROADS                 253.70        466.80      1905.10      1197.40        440.60       206.70       206.70       206.70        206.70
MANAGEMENT/EVALUATION            160.10       186.10       212,20       210.80        209.90       164.60       131.70        98.80         65.90
TOTAL OFF FARM COSTS           3583.20       2539.10      3647.40      3116.70      2142.60       1043.30       876.10       708.70        541.40
NET PROJECT BENEFITS          -3819,77    -2.983.43    -3874.21    -2742.04         -862.91       1866.58      2860.94      33212.12     3656.74
YEAR             19921        1993          1994         1995         1996         1997          1998   1999-21007
ON FARM BENEFITS
NET ON FARM BENEFITS           4230.69       4278.45      4284.55      4361.49       4446.87      4538.38      4595.45      4663.10
OFF FARM COSTS
LAND, TENURE REG'N                 0.00         0.00         0,00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
RURAL EXTENSION                 106.20          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0. 00         0.00
ADAPTIVE RESEARCH                 13.30         0.00         0.00         0.00          0. 00        0.00         0.00         0.00
PLANT PROTECTION                  14.90         0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
IRRIGATION                        0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.I00
MUNICIPAL ROADS                 2-06,70       206.70       206.70       206.70        206.70       206.70       2-06. 70     2106.70
MANAGEMENT/EVALUATION             321.90        0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
TOTAL OFF FARM COSTS            374.00        2106.70      2106.70      206.70       206.70        206.70       206.70       206.70
NET PROJECT BENEFITS           3856.69       4071.75      4077.85      4154.79      4240.17       4330.68      4388.75      4456.40
INTERNAL RATES OF RETURN FOR NET STREAMS



-63-                              Table 16
BRAZIL
SECOND BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - NORDESTE
Principal Prices Used in Financial and Economic Analysis
(Cr. $ 000/ton)
(in constant September 1982 prices)
Selected Products                    Financial                Efficiency Prices
1982          1995
Beans                                131.0                    131.0         131.0
Maize                                  26.0                    34.4          41.7
Sisal                                 22.5 (1982)              47.9          23.5
28.0 (1985+)
Castor                                60.0                     79.7          79.7
Cowpea                                91.7                     91.7          91.7
Sorghum                               22.0                     22.0          22.0
Manioc Flour                          51.5                     51.5          51.5
Beef                                 297.0                    218.8         246.9
Goat Meat                            222.2                    222.2         222.2
Tomato                                20.0                     20.0          20.0
Onion                                 35.0                     35.0          35.0
Watermelon                            23.0                     23.0          23.0
Melon                                  35.0                    35.0          35.0
Pepper                                35.0                     35.0          35.0
Banana                                30.0                     30.0          30.0
1/
Selected Inputs -
Single Superphosphate                 54                       41            48
Ammonium Sulphate                     54                       50            68
6-24-12                               66                       71            86
Diesel (Cr$/litre)                    84                       86           106
Tractor hour                        2,500                    2,500         2,500
Labour  2/                            500                      250           250
1/ In Cr$/kg.
2/ In Cr$/manday without food
SOURCE: Bank Mission.



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST BAHIA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Coordination and Management Chart
|SUDENE|
STATE SECRETARIAT OF
PLANNING AND TECHNOLOGY
REGIONAL
DEVELOPM1ENT AND   _ _  ._
ACTION COMPANY
ADMINISTRATION                                            PROJECT IMPACT
AND FINANCIAIL UNIT -                                          EVALUATION
ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT                                             UNIT
PROJECT
TECHNICAL UNIT
INFRASTRUCTURE         AGRICULTURAL          AGRICULTURAL              EDUCATION     'HEALTH SERVICES          LAND TENURE
CONSTRUCTION       PRODUCTION SERVICES   SUPPORT SERVICES                and         Health,                 REGULARIZATION
Roads, Schools,     Extension, Research,   Credit, Input               COMMUNITY      Sanitation, Rural    AND REDISTRIBUTION
Health Posts        Plant and Animal        Supply/Seeds,                                                                          l
_______________      Protection             Marketing,                                                        T Purchase L
Storage                                                         _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
REGIONAL OFFICES
in Cipo, Juazeiro,
I Paulo Afonso,          I                 l
I Senhor do Bonfim
EXECUTING AGENCIES AND MUNICIPALITIES



IBRD 16837
P E R N A  M  B U CO                                                                    40                                                                                          38JANUARY 1983
S  {'~~~~'~~)~~  f/>v?   s-' ~~~~P E R N A M B U C O                                                                                                                                                               B RS  A Zotes Iahi
/                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~Northeast Bahia
J/            7    odolahs                                                        RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rojo < J;,u?,o   )   Pfl?  \")                                @-  I-r-.     /                   7 -/ Aodelcasv                                                 < \            Area of Project Activities
fii/t -i AVx>                                          9                                       \  {UrOCO  CwoirrochdJ@//              \                                    OPeneoo 9XHPetroldnd a ,/1          Project Activities:         V
V...  "'-"*  ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     PrjetAreas toudr
.-' $3E1Srz\   2__  {   $   )   /  /      -5                     Jf       '   tMOcu4re?  \           \         /\        /                                 [  v    A       of Concentration~~~~~Areasof Cncentojio
ww   d(4 btJnisin --N-l   z  <  j   1} /   (                    /' <      roo z | \  *yoc;; J  /     J-2 ;S j 8    @           A L A G O A S                          (prelinninory defithon)~~~~(prliminay d-fi,tion
I_  x   t       's\    Oonror~ /_C E A uS-                               PfuM,~fansf '                                                                                                                ortlhophotos and discriinated in
N---- ~~~~~~~~~..  c IGO  B                                                                                   /                                                    first year of project~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~irt  e.   o   pojc
/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-c-u ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7                                                                           PlIa n n n 9Zones
r-                                     I                                                  E~~~~~~~n    ro~~~~~0nuoRo~~~~~~crioBoa;kV.- "                          PI-Ining Zone Boundarres
'>_, fn                                                        f, f  FO(,,                                   s ut                    JJm? CC  - a  S  flanc \ ,   .w  Em                a 3  i  Selected  Roads
L _ j A.e~ssof Inl ueVrc  r o,ele, l i J  qn ioo        ,,   ffi 100  5obioit,nhe      .0          (            \r~roa                                                                                                   0 -t   l   f  { e:r d::  \      Selected  Towns
''uo-o     0~-         sReio C    soo 50                                                         e>       /          U                                                      prs
_-                                                      -   Municipol Boundaries
p o i  I"    ,J                                                                        B,nderoo                                    \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .       Os,\,,  State Boundaries
ensmo.b8 0        Pedro Alexandre
5      Cr                                                                                                                                                                                          ---  C   E   TInternotionol BounIdaries
\4z,     a               H         A CA    Ri' -
- ''     O U3<                                                                                                                                                        "'N ,5"lA- ?WE4e, "' \^4,)E 5    
z   v   n   _O  ,  (3yAlente > } iL ' vV FOfinfdif 3> ~~~~~~tEi<d. S.h*                                    no
B     A      H     I      A                                                        no DSmpr Do Bonfr,,n
7       1                             rM                       /'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bo'                                   -og. 
'  ~   0   GOA 200  Buso                                               p Sa~de~t1            );,:                                'Bo            -'d    Tuan !',,,                                                                                                   i  L- '-
MINAa .                                                                                                                                                          be d r            r Ko .v e ,TF-
0dsHLEv        t5Ir    CwrE>sTt Cdronsi,  Se ndtew  dssSOlc dnppsu                                                                                                  nobp 
K  q   I v  gr)  I r                                                                                                                                             I  emstres 0   15,0  "0 ,3 ?0, ns the par! 11  I   he             W0AW eanh  and  the rzlEro:ahWul Fnrnce CnrporaLLm me {udpme2040J    508  
<~~~~~~ k                               :  :  i 11           Cs  D 1   pe   -z l ol  a                               "I    I    voet                      Ir csprzr ,s -u.                                                                                  1dr
Go.s u\T        9                                                                                40'                                           3T                                           3d0  00/ ,%                                KILOMETERS
--c4c    -"ISP                                                                                                                                                                1 G.osp  ~r,,    ar  tpor                      60
B             L 7     Oco                                                                                  -IToilns.R   o
irtiig
'~~ ~  ~                                                                                   Coroceicoo do/ost                    't8






IJRD 16838
_  ___  b  3f'                                33                                                          JANUARY 1983
P E R 11 A M U 11 C 0
x N&$ '  ' t   04 XJJ                    PERN AMBU CO                                                  _                                                                                                        BRAZIL
N                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PER NAMBUCO                    &(i>;are3 sc>                                                                                       RALNortheast Baihia
RRLDEVELOPMENT PROJECT
f-(. ,~/ _ 1e v"'   ;.sE ,   V9)@AtonstPtAL.GOAS |\          (fiT       ~        /              oS      ,/Rodelas,                                                               Agricultural Potential as Defined
B '9    A   '   H                 t           %         \                                         /s '9                               /0Cttrrocho        \.._.>            -   />                        \  _  _             by Dependable Rainfall
9\                       .                      o/!0\0               N       .       /                 "*}""'"""k      IPetaroland PatamutrO// 1\ 9                                      ) i Hargreaves, 1974
B                H N                BHeFN'.' ;=3'                                                                                                                                             /                                 Cl matic areas :
_  er st me   x,p   lsvJ                             ^ ~~~~f<X                                                    k }                                                 /      _/I> x
.Mscurer' .                                                                           V-i VP, y a r aid
_R_ PrrfNESert*-<f                                                                                                                                                                                                 \/D2'-\      -,,,  G on5 =  SAr e
!                                        5211a.MaueO  _. ..  Nf \~Z                                                                                           ALAGOAS                                Semiarid \     -    ISm
-~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~M  Ye                                                              ""       ,,1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Paul                                    S ubhernid
WA [U REAkiriJ                B                                                                       K          44'Varzea: yt>.j-..  16;Y~e~o  PatamUte0//  /  AEon  )t"'                            Rainfall in millimeters
DEPEND NG t,[ T| NE,               cM                             -                                      I2                                        .                                                                                  ifll--   -11,Emteas
'NATer VA  loo                                                                                                                                -Jod Em.'                                                                             Toa -1  .\      Oad  oirne>                /       9  
DnaRACTEEiUT (5              tt            iI d                                                                                                                                                                                     Toa If monthly pa nEall
U,  er:o loo  200 ,              '                            Y rS--0em==-                                                                     II   -  - ,R                                                                   Apr I- Jaly, -l  75% prababily t
S   _-t         Zr3P SA;__a\                                                                                            \1 1- /                      I                        1. 2.;1 
a"                   /                                      Ro                                                    A            Z I        I      _-,\  -   Total of monthly ramfina
03:3CC                       _         _                 N.                                   4              /   /                                                          a.      San a trigida                                December March /t   p  2f35   _rrrj%robabIty
PrCE NUoEUnrier -      ,'    " -                                                                                   28au--                                                                     EUeioc -                 - Winter rainfall
____           _________                                             ____lsi    -Siro                                                    <-- g t                                        Nt 2 6 F8rtno/'!*rast-                            Cc7.
;. Ca1LE  ,Ip    a7t> ,/f                                                     \/e /D r,                                                            Jeremoob m D         Pedro Alemandrd the              Sa 5Summer rainfall
;\ /) /:lomee                                         <A                     i       /2oo  Rn -wears
PIALJI                               Sont. R.,.qj1,q                                                                                       we~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0i0 "  0  Towns
N  :~~~~~  iycflcc,/   It  C,                        I   ~    ~ ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~                                            a  ~~~~~U ~-"--Project boandairy
/  7'     f  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3                                                                                                                                     \6'6. IJaoa     e" I-           Manicipal boemndiec
*  N /  e'  ,  .   uzi !'e 1sw} SISIUY C1 d.Jw 1_ sDuty ur HI!V mdmmcorl Jr .geararinct i , 6UCh                                                  bou60 S  -  S ndaries
/                              5' /Kd A    V-         :         86'0 IOdO                                            92       t232I
B      .A                             U     I    A                                                                    OS--i- anntnrna tion NK' /                                           arioi
StiNUS HERa S                                                                             'Si) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~od   Pp,3oVlho '2
z  ailingee  F  3,0  100 ~ ~   ~     ~    ~ ~ ng
M NAS GFRA[s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ PiUddPUgu
_____~~~~                                                                                                                                  ~ INrne  6oc% -"   T 3cn            ERGIPE
0SJ~~~~dJe ~~~~~i                               C                                                      SERGIPE~ti i tP
__________              a             7  Calde r6d1               /                          -.--~~~~~~~~~~-cuqe~~,,,, ~100 2E     )29
/iiiT505T~~~~~~~~  cttC                           ,-<                             I                                  I~~~~~~~~R   17-
seLeenia '>    u\xiEtjC.,                                   Jacobaina03                   260                                  /\      Arai           laea-8l5 taIc 
a,  aevanA       ''                                                     ~~~~        ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ ~~~~~~61  Sainta LuzO                                                      Md Saef7    U  a  U  20         40            UU
C    B    R    A    2    i   I                                                 -         38 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Valente~                       .',
B            A    Z         I"'             ,                                                                   eiT.ni\ ~                         I"0
(                                            .           i       i        -fl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i RaealR'-               -
irs.  -,,  Bane                                                                       /   0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9                                                                      -
7   .r7                                                                                                 a~~~~1 -..-    Of-



