Document of
The World Bank                                   E     CO?'t
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3511-BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$67.8 MILLIOI
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF BAHIA
April 4, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 82                       March 31, 1983
Currency Unit = Cruzeiro (Cr$)                   Cr$
US$1        = Cr$179.80                        Cr$415.46
Cr$1        = US$0.0056                        US$0.0024
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
POLONORDESTE FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
Dollar equivalent figures in this report are based on1 the dollar-cruzeiro
exchange rate as of September 1982 (US$1.00 = Cr$202.29), the date of the
base cost estimates.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CAR           Companhia de Desenvolvimento e A,cao Regional
(State Company for Regional Development and Action)
CRIBA         Consorcio Rodoviario Intermunicipal da Bahia
(State Intermunicipal Road Consortium)
EMATERBA      Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural da Bahia
(State Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company)
EPABA         Empresa de Pesquisa Agropecuaria da Bahia
(State Agricultural Research Company)
FUNAI         Fundagao Nacional do Indio
(National Indian Foundation)
IBB           Instituto Biologico da Bahia
(State Biological Institute)
INTERBA       Instituto de Terras da Bahia
(State Land Institute)
POLONORDESTE  Programa de Desenvolvimento de Areas Integradas do
Nordeste
(Northeast Integrated Rural Development Program)
SEPLANTEC     Secretaria de Planejamento e Tecnologia
(State Secretariat of Planning and Technology)
SSIG          Grupo Especial de Irriga,cao
(Small-Scale Irrigation Group)
STC           Secretaria de Transportes e Comunicar,oes
(State Secretariat of Transport and Communication)
SUDENE        Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste
(Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast)
TU            Unidade Tecnica
(Technical Unit)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






BRAZIL
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN THE STATE OF BAHIA
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount:                US$67.8 million equivalent including capitalized
front-end fee of US$0.2 million
Terms:                 Repayable in 15 years on a fixed amortization
schedule, including 3 years of grace at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Project Description:  The proposed project would support activities designed
to raise the incomes and living standards of some
45,000 small farm families operating farms of up to 50
ha. This would entail (i) improving land tenure
security and redistributing public or purchased land to
those currently having insufficient land; (ii)
improving the outreach, relevance, and effectiveness of
research and extension with a view to further
developing and disseminating drought-resistant
agricultural production techniques; and (iii) expanding
and upgrading social services and physical
infrastructure in the area. Project activities would
be focused on areas with concentrations of small
farmers and reasonable production potential. About
26,000 small farmers out of the total 45,000 to be
broadly affected by project activities are expected to
adopt the full range of technical recommendations and
would be the major source of the project's incremental
production.
Risks:                 Success of the project is predicated on timely delivery
of the right services. Appropriate interaction of the
various executing agencies will therefore require
attention and effort on the part of project
management. Institutional weaknesses have been
identified at appraisal and activities to be financed
under the project have been designed to bring about the
required improvements. These aspects will be closely
monitored and evaluated during project implementation.
Project design has emphasized community organization
and development actions as well as introducing new
ideas in a gradual fashion, after appropriate testing
and evaluation. Finally, the risk due to unusual
adverse climatic conditions also looms large. The area
is prone to long periods of very low and erratic
rainfall. This factor has been taken into
consideration at every stage of the planning process
and water saving techniques, drought-resistant crops
and irrigation would be promoted as much as feasible.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:
-------US$ Millions--------
Local     Foreign      Total
Agricultural Services
Land Tenure Regularization
and Redistribution                       19.2        2.1         21.3
Rural Extension                            17.4        2.4         19.8
Adaptive Research                           2.3        0.3          2.6
Plant/Animal Protection                     1.9        0.2          2.1
Sub-Total                                  40.8        5.0         45.8
Agricultural Credit
Incremental Seasonal Credit                17.4        3.0         20.4
Investment Credit                          12.3        1.4         13.7
Land Purchase Credit                       11.1        -           11.1
Sub-Total                                  40.8        4.4         45.2
Production Infrastructure
Small-Scale Irrigation                      2.0        0.3          2.3
Municipal Roads                            12.1        5.9         18.0
Sub-Total                                  14.1        6.2         20.3
Social Development
Rural Water Supply                          6.0        2.1          8.1
Education                                   4.1        0.7          4.8
Health and Sanitation                       4.2        0.7          4.9
Sub-Total                                  14.3        3.5         17.8
Project Management
Management/Evaluation                       5.9        0.7          6.6
Baseline Costs                              115.9       19.8        135.7
Physical Contingencies                      7.0        1.2          8.2
Price Contingencies                        25.0        4.5         29.5
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                         147.9 /1  25.5         173.4  1
Front-End Fee on Loan                         -          0.2          0.2
Total Financing Required                    147.9       25.7        173.6
/1 Including about US$3.5 million of local taxes.



- iii -
Financing Plan:
-------US$ Millions--------
Local     Foreign      Total
Government                                 105.8        -          105.8
IBRD /2                                     42.1        25.7        67.8
TOTAL                                      147.9        25.7       173.6
Estimated Disbursements:
----------US$ Millions Equivalent---------
Bank FY                    1984 /2  1985   1986   1987   1988   1989
Annual                      4.8      12.8   15.0   15.6   14.8    4.8
Cumulative                  4.8      17.6   32.6   48.2   63.0   67.8
Rate of Return:                    16% for the directly productive components,
covering 73% of total project costs.
Appraisal Report:                 Report No. 4249b-BR, dated April 1, 1983.
/2 Includes front-end fee of about US$0.2 million.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN OF US$67.8 MILLION
TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE STATE OF BAHIA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
loan to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$67.8
million including a capitalized front-end fee of US$0.2 million to help
finance a second rural development project in the State of Bahia. The loan
would have a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with interest at
the Bank's standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1
2.        The most recent economic report entitled "Economic Memorandum on
Brazil" (Report No. 3275a-BR dated May 29, 1981) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on June 26, 1981. Missions to prepare a country
economic up-date were in Brazil in May-June 1982 and in January 1983; their
report is expected to be available shortly. Part I of this report as well
as the country data sheets attached as Annex I reflect the findings and
projections of those missions.
3.        The present Government, headed by President Figueiredo, took
office on March 15, 1979, for a six-year term.  Much of its attention has
had to be devoted to grappling with inflation and a difficult balance-of-
payments situation. Major economic priorities of the Government include
the growth of agriculture, reduced dependence on imported petroleum,
expansion of manufactured exports, and increasing domestic savings, while
at the same time improving the situation of Brazil's economically most
disadvantaged population. Success on these fronts is crucial to the
solution of the inflation and balance-of-payments problems, as well as to
the sustained improvement of living standards and better income
distribution. In mid-November of 1982, Brazil held its first major
1/   Part I of this report is reproduced without substantial changes from
the corresponding part of the President's Report on the Water and
Sewerage Sector Loan (Report No. P-3470-BR dated March 1, 1983).



- 2 -
elections since the mid-1960s.  Opposition candidates have captured the
governorships of several key states, but no immediate impact is expected on
national or state economic policies.
Economic Performance
4.         Prior to the sharp worsening of its terms of trade in 1973,
occasioned by the quadrupling of the price of imported oil, Brazil had
enjoyed a period of rapid economic growth in the context of declining
domestic inflation and a significant liberalization of both foreign and
domestic trade. After 1973 successive Brazilian governments attempted to
cope with the constraints placed on the economy by the worsened
terms-of-trade, while maintaining a high rate of growth of output and
employment. Although aggregate demand management was somewhat erratic, the
general policy tendency through 1980 was characterized by large credit and
tax incentives to industry and agriculture, particularly for export expan-
sion and import substitution; growing direct state economic activity;
intermittent controls on prices and interest rates; rising import barriers;
heavy foreign borrowing; and an intensifying effort to reduce the growth in
energy consumption and substitute domestic energy resources for imported
petroleum.
5.        Although reduced from the 11% annual growth of the 1967-73
period, GDP grew at a still remarkable 7% average annual rate from 1974
through 1980. The merchandise trade deficit, which had ballooned to US$4.7
billion in 1974, was eliminated by 1977 as a consequence of a 52% nominal
increase in exports and an absolute reduction in imports. Over the entire
1974-80 period, nominal exports rose 153% as compared to an 82% increase of
imports. Non-oil imports rose only 32%. However, the rapid accumulation
of external debt, which rose more than 3-1/2 times, the compression of real
imports, and the intensification of inflationary pressures increased the
economy's vulnerability to the further sharp increase in petroleum prices
and the rise in interest rates which occurred in 1979 and 1980. Thus, over
those two years, the current account deficit more than doubled to reach
US$12.4 billion, and international reserves fell by US$5 billion. Domestic
inflation accelerated to 110%.
6.        In response to the deteriorating balance-of-payments situation
and domestic inflation, the primary immediate objective shifted from growth
to stabilization. Monetary correction and exchange rate adjustment, which
had lagged behind inflation in 1980, were brought back into line with
inflation. Interest rate controls were removed f rom commercial bank
lending, and the rate of credit expansion was severely limited. The
intention was both to dampen aggregate demand and to encourage capital
inflow. Although still highly subsidized, the interest rates charged on
official loans were also increased, The previously eliminated tax incen-
tive to exports was temporarily restored, and the financial transactions
tax applied to foreign exchange operations for imports was raised from 15%
to 25%.



7.        As a consequence of these measures, GDP declined by 2% in 1981,
with the industrial sector in and around Sao Paulo particularly hard hit by
high interest rates and declines in capital goods and consumer durables
purchases. But the trade balance improved from a negative US$2.8 billion
in both 1979 and 1980 to a positive US$1.2 billion, and the current account
deficit was reduced, despite a US$3 billion increase (to US$9.2 billion) in
net interest payments abroad. Contributing to the trade surplus was a 33%
increase in manufactured exports and the further contraction of petroleum
imports. International reserves rose US$600 million, to the equivalent of
4 months of goods imports (compared to 3.6 months coverage at the end of
1980). Domestic inflation fell to 95%. The policy measures introduced and
the ensuing balance-of-payments improvement served to sustain the
confidence of the international bankers, and no problems were experienced
in raising the US$10 billion in required net borrowing during 1981.
1982 and Prospects for the Future
8.        The slowdown of international trade caught up with Brazil in
1982, with declining commodity prices and severe difficulties in several of
the heretofore fastest growing markets for its manufactures. As a result,
nominal exports declined by 13% in 1982 relative to 1981. Imports were
also down, resulting in a US$775 million trade surplus, which was
significantly below earlier expectations. At the same time, the
international financial community reduced its lending to Brazil following
first the war in the South Atlantic and, later, the Mexican liquidity
crisis, and Brazil was forced to increase its short term borrowing and draw
down its reserves in the last quarter of 1982. The current account deficit
for 1982 totaled US$14.5 billion, GDP growth was nil, and inflation
accelerated slightly to just below 100%.
9.        The country faces a difficult period of adjustment in 1983.  The
Government's 1983 austerity program, which will receive assistance from the
IMF on the order of US$5.4 billion (including both compensatory financing
and Extended Fund Facility) over 1983-85, is designed to meet its debt
servicing obligations in the face of reduced external financing from
commercial banks. A major objective for 1983 is to generate an increased
trade surplus of US$6 billion, thereby reducing its current account balance
of payments deficit and its external borrowing requirements. Measures have
been announced to reduce the consolidated federal public deficit, restrain
monetary and credit expansion, reduce interest and commodity subsidies, and
temporarily impose stricter, emergency-oriented, import restrictions.
Indexation of wages has also been reduced below 100%. In order to increase
the competitiveness of exports, and to help lower domestic interest rates,
the cruzeiro was devalued by 30% in February 1983 in place of the earlier
stated intention to accelerate the crawling peg. Henceforth, the cruzeiro
will be devalued in line with domestic inflation, implying some additional
real depreciation. With these policy changes, the Government expects



- 4 -
inflationary pressures to abate by the end of the year,2/ though
accompanied by continued recession and probably higher unemployment.
10.       In order to achieve the objectives of the IMF-sanctioned
austerity program for 1983, Brazil will require the continued support of
the international financial community. To this end, the Government has,
since end-December 1982, been negotiating a four-point financial assistance
plan with foreign commercial banks. These negotiations were completed at
the end of February. The banks agreed to (a) make new loans in the
aggregate of US$4.5 billion, (b) roll over for an additional 8 years US$4
billion of medium- and long-term loans falling due in 1983, (c) make
available up to US$9.4 billion in short-term commercial credits
(substantially exceeding an earlier target of US$8 billion), and (d)
restore to approximately US$7.5 billion the level of deposits held by
foreign banks in overseas branches of Brazilian banks (falling short of the
original US$10 billion target). Once these arrangements had been made, IMF
assistance was approved on February 28, 1983.
11.       Brazil's balance of payments would benefit from a continuing fall
in the LIBOR and in world petroleum prices. Because about 70% of the
country's medium- and long-term debt bear variable interest rates, each 1%
drop in LIBOR would mean a savings of about US$500 million. For each
dollar reduction in the price of a barrel of oil, the imported oil bill
would fall by US$300 million at current consumption levels.
12.       Savings on imported oil could be even greater as domestic oil
production increases and energy conservation continues. Since 1973 Brazil
has made major efforts to reduce petroleum imports. Investments in
exploration have been accelerated, and foreign companies have been invited
to drill under risk contracts with PETROBRAS, the state oil company.
Investments have also been undertaken to develop the nation's hydroelectric
potential, and to substitute alcohol for gasoline. Efforts are also being
made to induce energy conservation, particularly through pricing policies.
As a result of these, and other, policies, domestic gasoline consumption
was reduced by 20% between 1979 and 1981, and domestic petroleum
production increased by 41% from March 1980 to March 1982. Despite these
encouraging results, dependence on imported energy remains formidable.
Petroleum and petroleum derivative imports totaled US$10 billion (51% of
total imports) in 1982.
13.       In view of the balance-of-payments constraint, Brazil must
continue to experience a period of careful demand management. Maintenance
of international competitiveness through the exchange rate, and realistic
prices and interest rates should help to promote rmore efficient resource
2/ Owing to the effects of the February devaluation, however, overall
inflation for the year is not expected to show improvement over 1982.



- 5 -
allocation favorable to both export growth and efficient import
substitution. Public investments will continue to be constrained by
reduced resource availabilities over the next several years. The
development of domestic energy sources, export promotion, agriculture, and
the stimulation of domestic savings will continue to require priority
attention.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
14.       With reduced but reasonably satisfactory access to external
capital, Brazil may aim for some growth in 1983-87, with a GDP decrease in
1983 followed by recovery in 1984 and gradually increasing growth to about
5% by and beyond 1986. Such a scenario should be compatible with a falling
current account deficit through 1986.
15.       The Government expects gross M&LT commercial bank borrowings to
be limited to US$10 billion in 1983, a reduction of 20% relative to 1982.
Such borrowings imply projected net M&LT borrowings of US$5.6 billion,
constituting an 8% increase in Brazil's gross M&LT external debt. In the
event of greater external resource availability, some build-up of reserve
levels and/or relaxation of import restrictions is expected. By 1985,
projected net M&LT borrowings should fall below the 1983 level.
Consequently, the net debt service ratio is expected to decline from 81% in
1982 to approximately 60% in 1986.
16.       The sensitivity of Brazil's balance of payments to exogenous
factors such as petroleum prices, international interest rates, and world
market conditions makes projections subject to a wide margin of error.
Also, the present scenario depends on Brazil's ability to reduce the
consolidated public sector deficit, expand manufactured exports in a weak
world economy, and attain continued access to international commercial bank
lending. These objectives will not be easily achieved. Moreover, tangible
results of the austerity program are not likely to be seen until the latter
part of 1983. Instances of short-term cash flow problems, therefore,
cannot be ruled out. However, the Brazilian economy remains dynamic,
diversified, and relatively resilient, and policy-makers have repeatedly
demonstrated their ability to adjust to changing circumstances. With the
Government's commitment to the austerity program in 1983 and IMF support,
Brazil should be able to make the adjustments needed to cope with adverse
international circumstances and to reorient the economy toward a more
efficient development path for the remainder of the decade. Thus, Brazil
remains creditworthy for new borrowing on conventional terms in the amounts
indicated above.
Poverty Alleviation Programs
17.       Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the Government has made substantial efforts to relieve



poverty. The educational system has been rapidly expanded, giving rise to
increased enrollment rates and reduced illiteracy. Social security
health programs have been strengthened and extended to rural areas, and
upgrading and expanding previous health services for the poor have received
much Government attention. Increased Government efforts have also been
directed to low-cost housing programs for the poor and the improved
provision of water and sewerage services.3/ In part as a reflection of
these and other programs, there are some indications, based upon
preliminary estimates from the 1980 demographic census, of substantial
living standard and welfare improvements during the 1970s. Considerable
absolute real income gains were realized by all income decile groups.
Unlike the 1960's, the poor do not seem to have been left behind by the
rapid economic growth experienced during the 1970s. Non-income gains, as
reflected by improved access to public services, declining infant
mortality, and increased durable consumer goods possession by households,
also attest to significant poverty reduction during the decade.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRLAZIL 4/
18.       By September 30, 1982 the Bank had made 116 loans to Brazil,
amounting to US$6,998.9 million (net of cancellations), of which 62 were
not yet fully disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150
million per year, reaching US$202 million in FY76, and US$472 million in
FY82. The undisbursed amount as of September 30, 1982 was US$3,401.9
million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and notes on
the execution of ongoing projects.
19.       Over the FY77-81 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from
US$425 million to over US$800 million per year. In FY81, eight loans
totaling US$844 million were approved. In FY82, eight loans totaling
US$722.1 million have been approved. So far in FY83 five loans totaling
US$989.7 million have been approved, US$8.9 million for a project to help
finance the preparation of future investment project in the metropolitan
region of Fortaleza and Salvador in Northeast Brazil, US$304.5 million for
an iron ore mining project in the Serra dos Carajas, US$154.0 million for
third secondary and feeder roads project, US$220.0 million for a second
3/   For a more detailed account of these efforts, see "The Distribution
of Income in Brazil" (Staff Working Paper No., 356, dated September
1979) and "Brazil - Human Resources Special Report" (Report No.
2604-BR, dated July 13, 1979).
4/   Part II of this report is reproduced without substantial changes from
the corresponding part of the President's Report on the Water and
Sewerage Sector Loan (Report No. P-3470-BR dated March 1, 1983).



- 7 -
development banking project, and US$302.3 million for a water and sewerage
sector project. The documents for a loan of US$400 million for a third
agro-industries credit project are being distributed at about the same time
as this project. Work is advanced on the third phase project of the
Northwest region development program, and on a market towns improvement
project in the State of Parana.
20.       Brazil's external public and private debt outstanding and
disbursed is estimated to have been US$61 billion at the end of 1981. The
Bank's share in total outstanding debt is estimated at 4.2% while its share
in total debt service has remained constant at 2%. These percentages are
not expected to rise significantly in the next five years.
21.       As of September 30, 1982, IFC commitments to Brazil totalled
US$851.0 million, of which US$572.5 million had been sold, repaid or
cancelled. Of the balance of US$278.5 million, US$211.5 million represent
loans and US$67.0 million equity. A summary of IFC's investments as of
September 30, 1982 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
22.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Govern-
ment achieve important development objectives which are inter-dependent.
One lending objective in Brazil is to help intensify the efforts of the
Government to increase the productivity of the lowest income segments of
the population, to broaden the opportunities open to those groups, and to
improve their living conditions. It is to these ends that the proposed
project is directed. Previous loans for nutrition, primary education,
vocational training, agricultural research, agricultural extension, polder
construction in the lower Sao Francisco river basin, and integrated rural
development were designed to assist low-income groups in rural areas,
especially those in the northeast and the northwest. Loans for water
supply and sewerage projects in the state of Minas Gerais, in greater Sao
Paulo, in the Northeast and in the South, loans for urban transport in
several major cities, a loan for sites and services and low-cost housing,
and a loan for urban development in medium-sized cities are assisting the
improvement of the living conditions of the urban population, particularly
of the urban poor.
23.       Another lending objective in Brazil is to support institutional
development and policy reform, establish adequate coordination and control
within the public sector, and help maximize public savings and ensure
that they are used economically through rational selection of projects.
This institution-building objective is particularly important in the
proposed project which seeks to build up planning and administration
required at the state and local levels for agricultural and rural
development activities. It is expected that the experience gained from
this project could be applied in suitable areas elsewhere in the state.



- 8 -
Loans for urban ,development, electric power, railways, industrial finance,
highways, agricultural research and extension, rural development, water
supply and sewerage, and for alcohol and biomass energy development also
have important institution-building objectives.
24.       Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange
constraint on development by supporting projects designed to increase
Brazil's export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic pro-
duction for imports. With respect to increasing export capacity, several
loans to BNDES designed to strengthen industrial development and increase
its efficiency have been made. Lending for the electric power sector also
supports this objective, since it is based on hydroelectric energy, and its
development lessens the need for petroleum imports. The alcohol and
biomass energy development project addresses the need to restrict growth of
petroleum imports. Much of the Bank-assisted investment in the transport
sector -- railways, ports and highways -- is designed to facilitate the
economical flow of exports.
25.       A final objective is to provide part of the medium- and long-term
capital inflows needed to sustain growth and achieve employment creation
and regional development objectives. Continued lending by the Bank in
Brazil is regarded by the international financial community as a sign of
confidence in Brazil and encourages others to contribute to the country's
development. In some sectors, especially in electric power and industry,
Bank participation has helped Brazil obtain additional resources in greater
amounts from bilateral credit agencies and private financial institutions
than may otherwise have been provided. Since 1976 through June 30, 1982,
ten co-financing operations, for about US$560 million, have been arranged
and signed with private financial institutions and several further
operations are in preparation.
26.       Brazil is obviously undergoing a period of major difficulties,
in large part as a result of external events. Major efforts have already
been made by the Government to respond and adjust to these circumstances
and the Bank wi:Ll endeavor to frame its lending so as to be as supportive
as possible.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agricultural Sector Performance, Constraints and Policy
27.      Agriculture continues to be an important sector in the Brazilian
economy.  It employs about 36% of the economically active population, and
contributes about 10% of the GDP and half of export earnings. Brazil is
the world's largest exporter of coffee and orange juice, the largest



producer of sugar cane, and the third largest producer of soybeans. In
most years Brazil has been self-sufficient in basic food production except
for wheat. The average annual agricultural growth rate in the decade to
1980 was about 5%. Agricultural development has been assigned high
priority in Brazil's 1980-85 development plan, to help reduce inflation
through expanded food production and to improve the balance-of-payments
through increased production of export crops and energy substitutes.
28.       Constraints on agricultural production, particularly for
small-scale farmers, include: limited access to institutional credit,
extension services, and modern agricultural inputs; inadequate supporting
services and infrastructure for marketing, storage and transport; and
uncertain land tenure and highly uneven land distribution. Brazil has
traditionally relied on an expansion of its development frontiers to
increase its agricultural production. This trend is likely to continue in
the decades to come, despite productivity gains expected from stepped-up
investments in agricultural research.
29.       An aspect of Brazil's agricultural policy has been the provision
of agricultural credit at subsidized interest rates which, with the high
level of inflation, are negative in real terms. The subsidies were
introduced to induce an expansion in agricultural production by offsetting
the high cost of inputs and by giving special assistance to disadvantaged
groups. The Government's efforts to remedy the increasingly apparent
economic and administrative drawbacks of the system were stepped up
recently as the Government initiated a program to reduce the public sector
deficit. A series of measures for reducing agricultural subsidies were
adopted in late December 1982. The 1983 monetary budget introduces, for
the first time, partial monetary correction for rural credit (70% of
correction plus 5% interest for most of the country). The Government has
further indicated that it intends to phase out major agricultural credit
subsidies over the next five years.
Rural Development in Northeast Brazil
30.       Brazil's Northeast region has a combined area of about 1.5
million square kilometers, or 18.2% of the country's total land area. The
region has a population of about 35 million (1980), nearly 30% of the
national total, of which half is rural. Much of the region has a semi-arid
climate with periodic droughts, and there are extensive areas of poor
soil. Nonetheless, the Northeast is a significant agricultural region,
with a large share of the national production of cocoa, cotton, manioc,
beans, and sugar. Although some crops (such as sugarcane) are grown
predominantly on large farms, basic food crops are produced mainly by small
farmers who lack access to adequate production services and inputs and
marketing networks. Moreover, the insecurity of land tenure and lack of
access to land have compounded these difficulties and are considered to be
major constraints on small farmer investment and increases in productivity.



- 10 -
31.       Various programs have been directed at speeding economic
development in the northeast.  Substantial fiscal and monetary incentives
have been made available for both industry and agriculture. Two basic
approaches to development in the rural Northeast are now being followed.
The first focuses on the integrated development of specific subregions.
This approach, as exemplified by the Development Program for Integrated
Areas in the Northeast (POLONORDESTE), concentrates on increasing the
production and productivity of small farmers by combining the provision of
agricultural support services with physical infraslructure and social
services. The second is largely concerned with alleviating the effects of
the recurring droughts which affect much of the region. This involves
several parallel programs which attempt to provide temporary drought relief
assistance and to increase and improve the use of scarce water resources.
The Government is currently involved in an intensive evaluation of the
impact of its various special programs, and in the formulation of a
regional development strategy, with a view to better integrating these
programs and reinforcing Government interventions in the rural Northeast.
Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector and POLONORDESTE
32.       Bank-assisted operations in Brazil's agricultural sector combine
an area development approach, which focuses on poor rural areas in the
Northeast and Northwest, with a functional approach designed to further
needed institutional and policy improvements. To date, the Bank has made
25 loans totalling US$964.1 million for agricultural and rural development
in Brazil. Of these, fourteen were for rural development; two each for
irrigation, livestock development, agro-industries and agricultural
research; and one each for land settlement, agricultural extension
services, and grain storage. In addition, Bank loans for fertilizer
production, nutrition research and development, and secondary and feeder
roads are having a direct impact on agricultural production and rural
development. The Completion and Project Performance Audit Reports issued
for the grain storage and livestock development projects noted significant
differences between the Government and the Bank regarding interest rate
policy, leading to some cancellation and/or early repayment of the loans.
Completion and Project Performance Audit Reports have been recently issued
for the first agro-industries credit project and the Alto Turi land
settlement project. It appeared that implementation of the agro-industries
credit project was hampered by frequently shifting Government policies
which included, especially after 1973, the rapid development of subsidized
competing credit programs. These problems, however, have since been
corrected and a follow-up project is proceeding satisfactorily. The Alto
Turi settlement project was found to have benefitted a substantial number
of settlers, raising their cash incomes beyond initial expectations. The
project was less successful on such aspects as environmental protection,
community organization and strengthening of credit and marketing
cooperatives. These shortcomings are being addressed under a follow-up
project.



- 11 -
33.       The Bank has actively participated in the rural development
effort in northeast Brazil since 1973, especially through the POLONORDESTE
program. Nine of the fourteen Bank-financed rural development projects in
Brazil are supporting the implementation of this program. Bank assistance
to the program aimed at helping the Government to sharpen the focus of
efforts on behalf of the rural poor and to integrate better development
activities. The initial strategy called for concentrating development
on selected geographical areas while promoting the establishment of an
effective administration for the program. Although it is still too early
to assess the overall impact of these Bank-funded efforts, an interim
assessment by the Bank5/ has found that they have significantly
contributed to orienting productive components toward small farmers and
services toward the rural poor. There is a consensus that small
land-owning farmers have improved their incomes while landless farmers have
not shared significantly in these improvements. Also good progress has
been made by several of the northeast states in improving their planning
and execution capability for rural development projects. The greatest
shortcomings in execution were in the areas of land and water access and
usage, coordination difficulties associated with the multi-component
projects, funding shortages and delays in the release of funds to the
project level, and financing, staffing and administrative problems within
the Superintendency for the Development of the Northeast (SUDENE), the
federal agency entrusted with the overall management of POLONORDESTE.
Efforts to correct these shortcomings are currently underway. SUDENE is
improving its organization and staffing in the face of continuing salary
problems. Also, release of local matching funds to the projects has been
more timely in recent years. Finally, the newer Bank-financed projects are
addressing the issues of land and water access in a more comprehensive
manner. The dialogue currently underway between the Government and the
Bank on means for improving strategies and interventions for the rural
Northeast is expected to lead to the definition of a program which would
allow Bank support to be directed to subregional tranches or time slices of
such a redefined program and to other complementary approaches to assist
the region's rural poor.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.       The project was identified by a World Bank/FAO/CP mission in
October 1982 and was appraised in September 1982. Negotiations took place
in Washington from March 8 to 11, 1983 with a Brazilian delegation led by
Dr. Carlos Roberto Cristalli of the Federal Secretariat of Planning. A
Staff Appraisal Report, entitled "BRAZIL - Northeast Bahia Rural
5/   Rural Development Programs for Brazil's Northeast:  An Interim
Assessment (Report No. 3938-BR, dated February 7, 1983).



- 12 -
Development Project" (Report No. 4249b-BR, dated April 1, 1983) is being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Supplementary data are
provided in Annex III of this report.
35.       The first Bank-financed rural development project in the state of
Bahia (Loan No. 1589-BR of July 19, 1978) focused on part of the Paraguacu
river basin. After initial delays due to changes in the State Government
in mid-1979, project execution has proceeded at a fairly satisfactory
pace. An exception is the land component where titling procedures are slow
and a land redistribution mechanism still has to be set up. Substantially
lower than anticipated disbursement of loan funds is partly attributable to
shortcomings in internal arrangements for processing disbursement requests
for rural credit. These project execution problems are being corrected
however. Experience gained by the various participating agencies and
lessons learned from the implementation of this first project have been
reflected in the design of the proposed project.
The Project Area
36.       The state of Bahia is the most populous (9.5 million inhabitants
in 1980) and largest (560,000 km2) of the nine Northeast states. Almost
half the state, the central and northern sections, is an arid and semi-arid
zone located in the "Drought Polygon". The eastern and southern sections,
with higher rainfall (1,000-2,000 mm per year) and fertile soils, are the
main agricultural areas. The state of Bahia is Brazil's largest producer
of cocoa, castor beans and sisal, these three crops accounting for 32% of
the total area cropped in the state. The three main subsistence crops,
manioc, corn and beans, account for another 46% of the area under crops,
with the remaining 22% going to sugar cane, coffee, tobacco, irrigated
vegetables and fruits. However, the agricultural sector, which employs
about 54% of the state's economically active population represents only a
small and declining share of the state GDP (12% compared to 35% for the
services sector). Agriculture in Bahia is largely characterized by low
levels of technical skill, highly concentrated ownership of land, and
a confused land tenure situation. Support for small farmers comes
primarily from the POLONORDESTE program which is aLssisting five ongoing
rural development projects in the state (including: the first Bank-financed
rural development project).  Various other special programs are providing
limited assistance to small-scale irrigation and rural water schemes.
37.       The project area of about 76,600 km2 (IBRD Map No.16837) is 13%
of the state's total land area. It lies in the dry northeastern section of
the state. In the northern half of the area, annual rainfall varies
between 300 and 500 mm, most of which occurs between November and April and
is highly irregular. The southern half of the area has an annual rainfall
of between 500 and 900 mm and two cropping seasons. About 60% of the area
is accounted for by soils suitable only for artificial or natural extensive
pastures. Soils of moderate to limited fertility make up some 30% of the
area. The remaining 10% of the area is accounted for by soils unsuitable



- 13 -
for agriculture. The project area's population is estimated at 1.1 million
(1980) of which 70% is rural.
38.       The main economic activity in the project area is agriculture
which employs an estimated 77% of the area's economically active
population. Underemployment is high and agricultural employment being only
seasonal, large numbers of the farming population seek employment outside
the area during the off-season. About 75% of the estimated 435,200 ha
under crops is devoted to beans, corn and manioc. The main cash crops are
sisal and castor bean. There are some 3,500 ha of irrigated crops. About
1,170,000 ha is under natural or planted pasture. Sheep and goat are
reared on an extensive basis as pastures have a very low carrying
capacity. The distribution of land is highly skewed in the project area.
Farm units of less than 50 ha represent about 93% of total units but
account for only 34% of the farm area. Farm units larger than 500 ha
represent about 0.5% of total units and occupy some 26% of farm area. The
average size for farm units of less than 50 ha is 8 ha. Some 90% of the
project area's farmers are classified as owners but most of them lack
proper titles, and land disputes are widespread.
39.       Productive and social infrastructure and services in the project
area are deficient. The extension services have not traditionally been
oriented toward the problems of the small farmers. Most municipal roads
connecting the rural centers with the trunk road network are no more than
earth tracks in a poor state of repair. Education facilities and programs
are generally deficient and teacher qualifications are poor, especially in
the rural areas.
Project Concept and Objectives
40.       The state of Bahia has given high priority to improving living
conditions and economic prospects among the rural poor by extending the
positive results obtained under ongoing rural development efforts to other
suitable areas in the state. The area of the proposed project, with its
sizeable low-income population, has reasonable development prospects.
Despite its difficult environment, available cost-effective agricultural
technologies and practices could allow the area's small farmers to improve
their productivity and incomes, gradually moving from subsistence to
commercial farming. The proposed project would contribute to bringing
about these improvements by supporting activities designed to raise incomes
and employment levels and improving living conditions of some 45,000 small
farm families operating farms of up to 50 ha. About 26,000 small farmers
out of the total 45,000 to be affected by project activities are expected
to adopt the full range of technical recommendations and account for the
major source of the project's incremental production. The project would
also aim at improving the state's capability to plan and execute similar
projects elsewhere in the state.



- 14 -
Project Components
41.       The project would include:  (a) strengthening and expansion of
land tenure regularization activities, and land redistribution to small
farmers; (b) strengthening of rural extension, agricultural research, plant
and animal protec:tion services and provision of rural credit; (c) improve-
ment of municipal roads and strengthening of road maintenance capability;
(d) strengthening of primary education, health, and sanitation infra-
structure and services; and (e) establishment of project management and
coordination, including monitoring and evaluation. The project is expected
to be carried out over a period of about five years beginning April 1,
1983.
Land Tenure Regularization and Redistribution
42.       In order to help clarify land tenure situation in the area and
assist small owners in securing legal titles to their land, the project
would help finance a land tenure regularization program covering some
36,000 km , implying some 60,000 properties. Land tenure regularization
activities would include scrutinizing land claims, identifying legal claims
and public lands, and subsequently demarcating and legalizing ownership.
The land rights of some 55,000 project farmers would be legalized and they
would be provided with individual property titles. Shepherd families would
be provided with appropriate tenure rights guaranteeing their continued
access to their communal grazing lands (Schedule 2, para. A(b) of the draft
Loan Agreement). Identified public lands would be redistributed to farmers
with insufficient or no land. In addition, some 37,500 ha of land would be
purchased under the project for redistribution to about 1,500 farmers.
Land acquisition costs would be entirely financed by the Government through
a recently established Land Fund. Bank credit for land purchase would be
available to project farmers. The component would be managed by the State
Land Institute (INTERBA), which would be strengthened under the project.
INTERBA would establish a special management unit for project purposes.
Its legal department would be reinforced and given the responsibility for
representing the state on land-related cases (Schedule 1, para. 1(b) of the
draft Project Agreement). Additional staffing, consultancy services,
equipment and vehicles, aerial photography and photo-restitution work would
be financed under the project. An in-depth evaluation of the effectiveness
of each of the various aspects of the land tenure regularization component
would be undertaken and the results of this evaluation would be made
available to the Bank by March 31, 1986 (Schedule 1, para. l(e) of the
draft Project Agreement).
43.       Rural Extension.  The State Rural Extension Agency (EMATERBA)
would be upgraded to provide technical assistance to some 45,000 small
farmers, of which about 26,000 would be more directly assisted. It would
also promote community organization activities, edlucation in nutrition and
home economics. Emphasis would be placed on improved training, closer
linkage between research and extension. A system akin to the training and
visit system would be introduced, first on a pilot basis and then gradually



- 15 -
extended after appropriate evaluation and adjustments. The establishment
of local offices, equipment and vehicles, staff and farmer training, and
incremental staff and operating costs would be financed under this
component.
44.       Adaptative Agricultural Research.  The adaptive research program
to be implemented by the State Agricultural Research Agency (EPABA), would
complement ongoing research activities under two Bank-financed research
projects (Loans 1249-BR and 2016-BR). Emphasis would be placed on
improving dry-farming techniques for existing production systems and
introducing new drought-resistant crops. The proposed component would help
finance the establishment of a small goat research station. Other items to
be financed include incremental staffing and operating costs and training
activities.
45.       Animal Health and Plant Protection.  The proposed component would
help expand the activities of the State Biological Institute (IBB) by
providing laboratory and plant protection and pest control services
required for the project's livestock development and extension activities.
Three local offices and additional technical and support staff would be
provided. IBB's activities under the component would complement the work
of the extension and research services.
46.       Agricultural Credit.  Agricultural credit would be provided to
some 26,000 project farmers to whom the full range of technical
recommendations would be directed. Incremental credit requirements have
been estimated at US$20.4 million (exclusive of contingencies) for seasonal
credit, US$13.7 million for on-farm investment credit and US$11.1 million
for land purchase credit. Credit costs have been included in the base
project costs upon which Bank financing is computed. However, to simplify
disbursement processing and control, Bank funds will be disbursed against
the investment credit component only. For most of the recently approved
rural development projects, agricultural credit was excluded from Bank
financing because of the high interest rate subsidies associated with these
credit programs. However, as noted in paragraph 29, the Government has
recently introduced measures and policies which would result in a drastic
reduction of these subsidies and a more efficient allocation of
agricultural credit resources. Starting July 1983, project farmers will be
charged an interest rate of 5% based on a principal corrected by 55% of the
expected change in the consumer price index for both investment and
seasonal credit. The correction index applied to the principal will be
adjusted semi-annually. The Government has indicated its intention to
increase gradually the adjustment to the principal to reach 85% of the
consumer price index by 1986/87. Credit would be provided chiefly by the
Government banks which maintain an adequate network of agencies or
"advanced credit posts" in the project area.  The extension services would
assist project farmers in preparing credit applications. Small farmers'
access to rural credit has been made easier by several procedural
simplifications introduced over the past few years. These include group



- 16 -
credit applications for small working capital loans and a reduction in
collateral and guarantee requirements for small loans. The Federal
Government would ensure that adequate credit was made available in a timely
manner to the project beneficiaries. Credit allocation proposals for
bank agencies participating in the project's credit programs would be
reviewed with the Project Unit by December 31 of each year. These
proposals would be submitted to the Bank by January 31 of each year
(Section 3.01(d) of the draft Loan Agreement). To help monitor the
implementation of the credit component, a project credit statistics and
monitoring system would be set up by the Project Unit no later than March
31, 1984 (Schedule 1, para. 10(b) of the draft Project Agreement).
47.       Small-Scale Irrigation.  Various types oiE small-scale irrigation
systems would be promoted under the project. These would include group
tubewell irrigation schemes, river and lake-based irrigation schemes and
complementary irrigation systems using small catchment basins and an
artificial pond. A total of about 3,800 ha would be developed under these
schemes benefitting some 1,800 farmers at an investment cost ranging from
US$1,100 to US$4,100 per ha. Implementation of this component will be
coordinated by a Small-Scale Irrigation Group (SSIG) recently established
within the State Secretariat of Agriculture. SSIG would be fully staffed
and operational by March 31, 1984 (Schedule 1, para. 5(a) of the draft
Project Agreement). This group would be mainly responsible for (i)
promoting irrigation training courses for research and extension personnel
and farmers; (ii) providing technical support for farmer groups interested
in group tubewell irrigation; and (iii) providing technical assistance to
farmers and rural service organizations in the design, financing, and
operation of private irrigation schemes. The installation costs of two
pilot communal tubewell irrigation schemes (excluding land acquisition
costs) would be financed under the component. These costs as well as the
schemes' operation and maintenance costs would be recovered through water
charges. The investment costs for subsequent wells and all other
irrigation schemes would be financed under existing official investment and
working capital credit lines.
48.       Municipal Road Improvements.  The component would include a
program of localized improvements on 1,000 km of existing municipal roads.
The state's capacity to maintain municipal roads would also be
strengthened. The State Intermunicipal Road Construction Consortium
(CRIBA) would coordinate the implementation of the component. CRIBA has
developed guidelines for these localized improvements which would primarily
involve graveling of impassable road sections and building of drainage
systems. Road maintenance would be the responsibility of the
municipalities, with the assistance of a new maintenance organization to be
established within the State Secretariat of Transport and Communication
(STC). The component would provide for the purchase of equipment and spare
parts for four mechanized road maintenance brigades under STC. Prior to
initiating the municipal road works provided for under the project, the
state would enter into agreements with each of the municipalities concerned



- 17 -
for purposes of defining execution procedures and maintenance
responsibilities and funding (Schedule 1, para. 6(b) of the draft Project
Agreement).
49.       Education.  The activities of the Bank-financed Northeast Basic
Education Project (Loan No. 1867-BR) would be extended to 16 municipalities
located in the area of the proposed project which were not included in that
project. Also adult literacy and numeracy and vocational training courses
would be provided across the entire project area. Items to be financed
under the component include construction of about 80 new rooms providing
additional 5,600 student places, construction of 100 canteens for existing
schools, training for teachers and supervisors, educational materials, and
a study on manpower training needs in the project area. The State
Secretariat of Education would be the executing agency. Location of
schools would be based on the results of a school mapping study which would
be provided to the Bank by March 31, 1984 (Schedule 1, para. 8(a) of the
draft Project Agreement).
50.       Health, Sanitation and Rural Water Supply.  Health infrastructure
in the project area is fairly adequate. The component would therefore
focus on improving the operation of the system and the quality of
services. It would provide for training of midwives, health attendants,
sanitation workers and supervisors. Basic primary health care services
would be provided by health attendants through systematic house-to-house
calls. Sanitation improvements would aim at improving household hygiene
and reducing the incidence of chagas disease. Materials for the
construction of sanitary improvements would be provided. The State
Secretariat of Health would be the executing agency. The project would
also provide for the construction of 160 simple water supply systems and 20
larger systems with house-to-house connections. The State Rural
Engineering Company would be the executing agency. The proposed water
supply systems would be built in villages where health care and community
organization activities are being promoted. Prior to initiating
construction of water supply facilities in any municipality, a users'
association would be created with the assistance of the social
extensionists. This association would participate in the design and
installation of the system and supervise routine maintenance. Financing of
the system operating costs would be the responsibility of the users'
association or the municipality concerned (Schedule 1, para. 7(a) of the
draft Project Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
51.       The total cost inclusive of farm credit of the proposed five-year
project is estimated at US$173.4 million equivalent, of which about
US$25.5 million would be foreign exchange equivalent. The total includes
about US$3.5 million equivalent in local taxes. Physical contingencies
were estimated at about 6% of base costs (September 1982). Price
contingencies equal to 21% of base costs plus physical contingencies were



- 18 -
calculated in U.S. dollars for both foreign and local costs on the
following basis: 8% in 1982 and 1983, 7.5% for 1984, 7% for 1985, and 6%
from 1986 on. A breakdown of the estimated cost is; shown in the Loan and
Project Summary on page iii. The proposed loan of US$67.8 million, which
includes about US$0.2 million for the capitalized front-end fee, would
finance about 40% of the net-of-tax project cost covering 50% of project
expenditures during POLONORDESTE fiscal years 1983 and 1984 when the full
impact of the IMF-sanctioned austerity program will be felt, and the
regular 35% in the subsequent years. It would cover the foreign exchange
component and US$42.1 million equivalent (about 28%) of local costs.
Higher initial disbursements and the financing of a share of local costs
will ease the implementation of this poverty allev:iation-oriented project
which the Government considers of sufficiently high priority to proceed
with in spite of the reduction in public expenditures being undertaken as
part of the austerity program.  Retroactive financ:Lng of up to US$3.0
million equivalent would be permitted to help cover eligible expenditures
incurred after October 1982. The Federal Government would contribute the
balance of the project cost.
52.       Procurement.  Civil works for relatively simple municipal road
construction and improvement would be procured following local competitive
bidding procedures with works suitably grouped into packages. Where the
remoteness or size of works so dictates, force account would be permitted
up to a maximum of US$4.5 million (excluding contingencies) out of a total
of US$15.0 million. Since individual construction works would be of minor
size, scattered and diverse, foreign contractors are not expected to be
interested, although they would not be excluded. Construction of various
buildings in different components and other scattered and small
construction works (about US$8.5 million) would be executed under a
combination of self-help and force account. Road construction and
maintenance equipment and related spare parts (US$3.0 million) would be
procured after local competitive bidding advertised nationally. Foreign
firms not already represented in Brazil would not be interested.
Miscellaneous equipment, materials, and vehicles (totalling about US$4.3
million) needed by various participating agencies, and to be acquired over
the five-year execution period, would be procured in accordance with
acceptable local procurement procedures. Contracts for aerial
photogrammetry work and related training and technical assistance
(totalling about US$5.7 million) would be awarded following local
competitive bidding procedures.
53.       Consultancy Services.  About 10 man-years of consultancy
services, for a total cost of US$0.2 million equivalent, would be required
to help strengthen institutions involved in project execution, support the
implementation of project activities, and provide staff training. The cost
of such services, exclusive of contingencies, would range from US$2,000 to
US$10,000 per month including individual fees, travel and local
allowances. It is expected that most consultants could be contracted from
within Brazil. The selection, qualifications, experience, and terms and



- 19 -
conditions of employment of these consultants would be in accordance with
Bank policies and procedures (Section 2.02 of the draft Project Agreement).
54.       Disbursements.  The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed
against all project components, except for the incremental seasonal and
land purchase credit components. The percentages to be disbursed under
eligible components have been adjusted accordingly and would be as follows:
(a) 100% of expenditures for aerial photography and photo restitution work
and consultancy services for the land and project evaluation components,
and (b) 42% of expenditures for all remaining project components through
March 31, 1985, and 39% of expenditures thereafter. In order to reduce the
interval during which the Government would finance the Bank's share of the
project costs with its own resources, the Government may request the Bank
to make advance payments in U.S. dollars from the loan account into a
Special Account to be opened in the Central Bank (Section 2.03 of the draft
Loan Agreement). The Government would be entitled to make withdrawals in
cruzeiros from the Special Account upon submission of withdrawal
applications to the Central Bank. Conversion from U.S. dollars to
cruzeiros would be made at the exchange rate that prevailed on the date the
expenditures on the project were made. The Central Bank would forward the
withdrawal applications to the Bank, which would then replenish the Special
Account. Supporting documentation for minor civil works by force account
and for investment credit, salaries and operational expenses would not be
submitted to the Bank, but would be retained by the agency responsible for
their certification and would be made available for inspection by the Bank
during project supervision missions. Standard documentation covering
contracted civil works, vehicles, equipment and technical assistance would
be submitted to the Bank. Disbursements would be conditional upon receipt
by the Bank of satisfactory evidence that (a) the contract between IBB,
EPABA, EMATERBA, and the State Secretariat of Planning and Technology
(SEPLANTEC) had been signed, for the animal health and plant protection
component; and (b) the guidelines for execution of spot improvements on
municipal roads had been finalized, for the municipal roads component. An
additional condition of disbursement for each component would be that the
component execution agreement or arrangement had been finalized (para. 4 of
Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement). The loan is expected to be fully
disbursed by December 31, 1988.
Accounts and Audit
55.       Participating agencies would maintain separate accounts of
project expenditures, which would be audited annually by independent
auditors satisfactory to the Bank. Copies of the participating agencies'
audited statements would be provided to the Bank within six months of the
end of the POLONORDESTE fiscal year. These reports would include an
opinion (and comments as necessary) on the methods employed in the
compilation of the statement of expenditures, their accuracy, the relevance
of supporting documents, eligibility for financing in terms of the
project's legal agreements and the standard of record-keeping and internal



- 20 -
controls related to the foregoing (Section 3.02 of the draft Project
Agreement).  The Special Account would be audited by independent auditors
satisfactory to the Bank (Section 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Organization and Management
56.       Administration of the proposed project would be an integral part
of the state POLONORDESTE organizational framework. All POLONORDESTE
activities within the state are coordinated by the State Secretary of
Planning. A Company for Regional Development and Action (CAR), attached to
SEPLANTEC, has been established to oversee the implementation of the
various POLONORDESTE projects, provide them with administrative support and
coordinate policies regarding the various executing agencies.
57.       A Proje ct Technical Unit (TU), within CAR, would be the main
supervisory body responsible for the overall coordi nation, planning,
monitoring, and evaluation of project activities. Four TU regional offices
would be established with a view to decentralizing as much of the
decision-making as possible for both the coordinati ng and executing
agencies. Each regional office would have five professional staff, each
responsible for overseeing the execution of specific project components
and, in addition, coordinating project activities in a number of
municipalities. The State Government would establish and fully staff the
headquarters and the regional offices in the municipalities of Cipo and
Juazeiro by March 31, 1984. The regional offices in Paulo Afonso and
Senhor do Bonfim would be established by March 31, 1985 and March 31, 1986,
respectively (Schedule 1, para. 10(a) of the draft Project Agreement).
Each agency partiLcipating in the project would prepare a detailed plan of
activities and expenditures for the following fiscal year. TU would
consolidate these into annual operating plans. The proposed annual
operating plans would be submitted to the Bank no Later than December 15 of
each year for review and comments. TU would enter into written project
execution agreements or arrangements with all the executing agencies
involved. These arrangements would provide guidelines and targets for the
execution of each component, understandings and procedures regarding
disbursements of funds, reporting requirements and a framework for
collaboration with other entities.  Similar execution agreements or
arrangements would also be entered into by the executing agencies and the
collaborating agencies or the municipalities and local entities outlining
their respective responsibilities in the specific area of collaboration.
Agreements with participating municipalities would spell out their
responsibilities and funding requirements with respect to the operation and
maintenance of project-financed facilities.
58.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  A project tm,nitoring system based on
that currently being used under the Bank-financed first rural development
project, would be established and managed by TU. This system would feed
into the POLONORDESTE program monitoring system. Information provided by
the executing agencies would be consolidated by TU into quarterly



- 21 -
monitoring reports which would be sent to the Bank no later than three
months after the end of the quarter. TU and the executing agencies would
develop standardized monitoring procedures and manuals. Evaluation of the
project activities would be the responsibility of a specialized unit within
CAR. The project would provide for the strengthening of this unit.
Evaluation activities would consist of baseline, ad hoc, mid-term, and
completion reports and studies.  The results of the baseline study and
mid-term evaluation review would be provided to the Bank by March 31, 1984
and 1986, respectively (Schedule 1, para. 10(c) of the draft Project
Agreement).
Benefits and Justification
59.       The proposed project would help improve crop and animal
production of poor farmers who at present barely meet their subsistence
needs. The technology these farmers utilize can be considerably improved
with relatively low additional inputs and investment at the farm level.
Total annual incremental production from the project at full development
(by 1992) would amount to about US$37.9 million (at September 1982 farm
gate prices). About 64% of this total would correspond to the main
subsistence crops (beans, corn and manioc) with the remainder coming from
the various livestock and fruit and vegetable products generated. There
are solid market opportunities for the incremental production to be
generated by the project. The region's urban areas are ready markets.
Improved transport infrastructure is expected to raise the producer's share
of the price payable by the ultimate consumer.
60.       At full development, the weighted average annual farm family
income (in September 1982 terms) would more than double, increasing from
US$120 per capita at present to US$260 per capita for the average
six-member family, a level still below the estimated relative rural poverty
per capita income level of US$330 for Brazil. However, about 25% of the
beneficiary population, with farms in the 10-50 ha size category or served
by irrigation facilities, would be able to rise above this poverty line.
The intensification of cultivation would create employment for an
equivalent of some 12,000 fully employed field workers per year entirely
drawn from family labor. In addition, the equivalent of about 800
full-time jobs would be created for hired laborers, of which approximately
half would be required for the irrigation scheme.
61.       Substantial marketing tax revenues would be derived from
project-generated production. Some US$4.2 million per year would accrue,
at full development, to the State Government, while an estimated US$3.16
million equivalent in recurrent costs would be required to maintain the
infrastructure and services established under the project. The Federal
Government generates some US$1.0 million per year in incremental rural
social security revenue. The operating and maintenance cost associated
with project transport and water supply services would be recovered from
the beneficiaries through user charges and tariffs. Taking the full number



- 22 -
of 45,000 families targeted to benefit from the various project activities
into consideration, project cost on a per family basis is US$3,850.
62.       Economic Rate of Return.  The economic raLte of return for the
directly productive aspects of the project (representing about 73% of total
project costs) has been estimated at about 16%.  For various other aspects
of the project such as education, health, and rural water supply
components, which have significant but not readily quantifiable benefits,
no economic rate of return was calculated. The cost stream included all
on-farm incremental investment in infrastructure and services directly
related to agricultural production and the recurrent cost of maintaining
these services during the 25-year period of analysiLs. The benefit stream
included incremental agricultural production from the project's 26,000
direct beneficiaries.  It was estimated that the remaining 19,000 farmers
who would be reached by the extension service would have development levels
equivalent to only 25% of that of the direct beneficiaries. Incremental
production attributed to them has been computed accordingly. Labor was
priced at 50% of the market wage to reflect the presvalence of large-scale
unemployment and underemployment in the area. The relative value of
foreign exchange costs and benefits was adjusted upward by 20% to take
account of various taxes, subsidies and non-tariff restrictions. The
estimated rate of return of the project is fairly insensitive to possible
variation in costs and benefits.  A reduction of 20% in benefits or a
two-year lag in the generation of these benefits would not lower the
economic rate of return below 13%. A combined 20% increase in costs and
20% reduction in benefits would bring the rate of return down to 11%.
Impact on the Amerindian Population
63.       The project area has long been settled and the living conditions
and economic activities of the estimated 3,600 Amerindians in the project
area are similar to those of the other small farmers to be assisted under
the project. These Amerindians are fully acculturated and Portuguese-
speaking. However, the National Indian Foundation (FUNAI) initiated in
1981 a review of the formal limits of the various Amerindian reserves; the
redefined limits of one of these reserves in the project area included the
land farmed by rnumerous small non-Amerindian farmers, often for several
generations.  Tension between Amerindians and non--Amerindians has
increased, as has the pressure to remove the non-Amerindian farmers.
Discussions are underway between the state and FUNAI to review the land
issues and to come to a joint conclusion on the si ze of the reserves and on
a plan for the removal of non-Amerindian squatters. No project-financed
activities wouldl be initiated in any such areas until a satisfactory plan
of action to resolve outstanding problems of reserve definition and
non-Amerindian occupancy has been provided to the Bank, and implementation
has been initiated (Section 4.04 of the draft Pro:ject Agreement). The
agricultural and social support services offered under the project would be
made available to the Amerindians in coordination with FUNAI's own
assistance program for the project area's AmerindiLans.



- 23 -
Risks
64.       Success of the project is predicated on delivery of the right
services at the right time. Appropriate interaction of the various
executing agencies will therefore require unrelenting attention and effort
on the part of project management. Institutional weaknesses have been
identified at appraisal and activities to be financed under the project
have been designed to bring about the required improvements. These aspects
will be closely monitored and evaluated during project implementation.
Project design has emphasized community organization and development
actions as well as introducing new ideas in a gradual fashion, after
appropriate testing and evaluation. Finally, the risk due to unusual
adverse climatic conditions also looms large. The area is prone to long
periods of very low and erratic rainfall. This factor has been taken into
consideration at every stage of the planning process and water saving
techniques, drought-resistant crops and irrigation promoted as much as
feasible. However, the potential benefits to be obtained from both
productive and social investments make this potential risk worth taking.
PART VI - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of
Brazil and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the State of Bahia
and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
66.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Conditions of disbursement are listed in paragraph 54.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATIONS
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
68.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 4, 1983
Washington, D. C.



ANNEX I
-24 -                                                           Page 1 of 5
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SUEET
BRAZIL                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE AES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                 - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            8512.0                                  MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCWfE             MIDDLE ID0041
AGRICULTURAL    2195.0                1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN              EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   320.0        570.0    2050.0                     1902.0                    2323.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       374.6        540.9    1018.3                    1259.5'                    2107.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 71513.0        95322.0  118667.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 46.1           55.9       67.6                      65.7                      47.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        176.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          281.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          8.4         11.2       13.7                     35.2                       83.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       44.1         48.2       53.1                     92.5                      155.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           43.6         42.7       39.2                     39.7                       31.1
15-64 YRS.                           53.8         54.3      56.8                      56.1                       61.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     2.6          3.0        4.0                      4.2                         7.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                3.0          2.9        2.2                       2.4                        1.6
URBAN                                5.5          4.8        4.1              ,       3.8                        3.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       42.6         37.3       29.5                      31.4                      23.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       13.1         10.6        8.7                       8.4                        9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.0          2.6        2.0                      2.1                        1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..        111.0     203.6/c
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            89.0        102.0      124.0                    110.0                      116.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    107.3        104.3     110.6/d                   108.4                      125.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            64.8         62.0      64.4/i-                   66.0                       92.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         35.7         34.4      35.9/d                    34.0                       35.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       19.4         12.5        7.2                       5.6                        9.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    54.7           58.9       62.8                     64.2                       67.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PEh
THOUSAND)                            118.2         98.6       77.4                     64.2                       65.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         55.0       77.1/e                   65.6
URBAN                                 ..         78.0       87.0/e                   78.9
RURAL                                 ..         28.0       56.8/i                   43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 *-         58.0      64.8/e                    59.3
URBAN                                 ..         85.0       83.7/i                   7'i.3
RURAL                                 ..         24.0      31.7/e                    30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            2561.2       2123.8    1700.0/f                  1617.3                     1105.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       2772.1       1112.3     822.0/1                  1063.5                      634.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              307.0        269.0     247.7/e                   477.4                      286.8
URBAN                              325.6        322.6         ..                    679.8                      192.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                   1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..         18.0         ..                     27.3                       20.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SUZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.1          4.8        4.9/e
URBAN                                 ..          4.6       4. 7?/i 
RURAL                                 ..          5.2        5.3/ie
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..          1.1
URBAN                                 ..          1.0
RURAL                                 ..          1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               38.7         47.6       63.O/e
URBAN                                 ..         75.6      84.9/e
RURAL                                 ..          8.4       19.2/e



- 25 -                                                         ANNEX I
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICA. ,RS DATA SHEET                                 Page  2  of  5
BRAZIL                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)  -
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA.& CARIBBEAN            EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 95.0        125.0      89l0/d                   104.3                     102.9
MALE                  97.0       125.0       90.0/d                  106.4                     107.1
FEMALE                93.0       125.0       87.0/d,g                103.3                       99.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 11.0         26.0      32.0/d,                   41.3                      60.2
MALE                  11.0        26.0       30.O07d                  40.4                      66.4
FEMALE                10.0        26.0       35.0/d,                  41.8                      54.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (D OF SECONDARY) 18.6           16.7       58.Od,g                 33.7                      31.6
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            33.1         28.0      22.9/d                    29.9                      25.8
SECONDARY                          12.5         13.2      14.57d                    16.7                      22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        61.0         66.2       76.4/e                   79.1                      75.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          7.7         24.4      53.6/e                    42.8                      51.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         66.4        123.8     300.3                     270.5                     157.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         16.8         64.0     128.7                     107.7                     123.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  53.7         35.8      44.5                      63.7                     112.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  5.0           2.0        1.8                      2.7                       4.0
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    22978.5       29557.2   43796.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   17.2         20.1      27.5                      24.4                      36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              51.9         45.6       29.9                     31.3                      38.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 14.8         18.3      24.4                      23.9                      25.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                32.1         31.0       36.9                     33.6                      44.5
MALE                                  52.7        49.3       53.1                     50.4                      56.3
FEMALE                               11.2         12.6      20.5                      16.8                      32.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.4         1.4        1.2                      1.3                       0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  60.0          63.5      62.Ol/c
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.8           3.2       2.8/i.
IDWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   10.8           9.0       9.4/l.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..     150.0/d                   184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US5 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     465.0/d                   518.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..     332.0/d                   371.1                     406.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1975; /d 1977; /e 1976; /f 1974.
/g   Beginning 1973 primary and secondary educations cover age groups 7-14 and 15-17 instead of 7-10 and 11-17
in earlier years; therefore most recent estimates are not comparable with earlier data.
May, 1982



- 26 -                                                                             ANNEX I
or aocaai afauloinPage  3  of  5
Meee     eg-     t q55 "goS   4940ftf Loftlm pSeta,lly j.ad   tbs mest Stnotbeflaal   MAd  gellol. it  bedd alsS b. Mt.4 that abet -y mgt be ilat.r
atlsot.ty  aLWaL  bee-Seo  tbs Look .i 5bododLbod m401 tatalbeas d  -tsset .s sa  by dllf-era   aa.mtis  Se                             Ch.a11  b  da.".  Tbs  55  dtt. 55
thld-,ac  asts.L to ds.ettho   doiNG of ofteftft * 1.41.0. t-ssd. -Ad  hbasataesls. nasal. 5cr diff.ooge. btetesa  aaadrtte.
The tedCoote s-nap s.- (19 h -bs-areay asxofg athb saJftt benstr sad (2 a Comely 39dep ctnt odeeho blabsho CI annosga tee  ba US . . C y gas..p
of abs =Iftl     O5Ctt  lasas    foe   'Vto  Iaaeon   oil sep-goa.." SC.*t eh-f  'KoMl. Issa  g.fh Afttt  ad siddi. U.,a to aede. beasac  of etfses
as-i  . caltal a .tiesla).  L. abe .1fLrmo  St"            o the aC ts.Came -   "Is  a  -ightad ant tboodl.. -n   fat  -eh imito,aa  -A  et-  ay   mba
1.1anty af tPe Coseare"  L. Ia  r.w b,epo  d.. Lfn abet 1.sdl.... .  SList  'h. aa.-rae of casats   --Se  abs Ldl--taar  dad   as ths aaLlbility of d.aa
sa   s  naia.    -onc.                 be -aenlae  Je Alae   sactssa at  -s  LadIa r a. metkaf.  Tbat, aOt e af  saly usful L. tasprleg tbs -eI- of
O.  LL.ossta  S aLeS eme  abs  -st 7f  sd tetfosne,   Vop.s.
AW(C  ..asa NW       .                                                                                                          -ftl  ots   adarl- aedla    ftl
Total - T.Wa  saffet. sa    mpcWtaSi   lead aa   ad teleA  -a...; 1979 data.                          .  e  int l ift'ld by Ctol  Csstan   asc f haspit:l tedsC
bAlA,&; atal - lasima. af serlsalaafl  r.-  oaad tmsrsrlly at pr--semty                          -.ealootI  1o pthlltsa  9f p1l.-  as-sr1. sad   mC1eLaad beepitl sa Q s
tat  -~pt. ps Cse.sabe  s.d kiatba  getdss o-  La 11. falls.; 1979 da.g.                       hAbllln-al-              WePaIX.tsa .tcls t. sa-blisadats              C.iatyuOfed
by at least  -s pby.Ilac. B.tablihoooet p-andias p,Sna1p.lly ...aCo-
3M` PUGo TP.,S5     at  is             . -,aaeL-C..as   t .caset   b..ra   palo... c.al-           d.Ia  oaf  5t5 set              R-1ie.ba     beaPIttaL. bes-..,. i-tld. tiadltb
ulatdb   a    staaa   ft.as   as LrlI Beleatla 1C_ 1970-40 basIs); 1940.                         aM  sadiIs   dcCestt p.ae-oo,lp  a.fafa  by a pby.lol   tb.t by
1970. lad 1940 data.                                                                             indloa  asaatoet. sa...  adodge. stc.) Aiha Uf.,  aptas   ces
d"C.. a.d P-anda a Ilal" d Cas af ssdlcal fasllltta..  Vs, stai.-
fEttM M  IttqT      PUg 101     - Adaoa-I astlo    f coarcIaL sacto  (cool                         t1talps1     a. osb- h.eapitals Llalod. W.   hracpI/.Vrlbopt.ls.
an Nlrtas      I-tr f.n  a -Ia So. sad hydra', auci-  aad g .. html  lat-                     sd total boeplatsa. loCal of cora  be-pital  ad  sdtcal -ad ec .aratty
attalty) a. klloars.. of.caleql.ltPat cOpila; 1960, 1970, aed 1979                               Oasa   Spaciallaadbaptl  sf5 itatldd onlY osd-rttl
~.aa.                                                                                              5fl         6-pist.1 Ld-Toas1 _iae  of "aL..155o50o   or dtcorlh-s.
freptl~i41aded y toe. oaro Tbade.
POPULAOTION  VITAL. 7IA I.TCS
latl Paoaala,RId  a t b.ee.e  -. d   f JlaI  1; 1960. 1970. sW1 1940                   ___I_G
dota.                                                                                                                  I~!eA.tbdl.aq   e   e.bLd- totl.  obe   adttl
ltba  atuatsaIseaqt  f  Wsei) - Bell0 of oabaa ac ftsl. poPaleatos;                                   of               t 4a   sdndal dabt   tL.sa qeata
d leffaetdfaaaeo   t 1fat4 in  offt .Coatblyof datC.                                           Seel t      alt mg .I.   A bselrd   of 1.d9s  sy o  -y  -e  be facIdod Ia
ase   osf9.;1960. 1970. ad  1940 deta.                                                tbe be..ebeld fsr  castiat-Lts  paspas...
- Cufvnas  pa,aetlt d  p-alatiasoo  u. bssd  -s IN                  beCtp.s    e   osS   llabs   dttlsspa                             conaate
ftal.  pop Colala  by age ad a. ad thLlt sartelltY ad  f-rility Cato.                       adollage. t.op.attelp,  OmsalIlSp  -Ia." oe.-J,obobot ectfootas    sad
ffalanttos p_bfat:..  f a, om.ftaly  -ats   cf lea of tbfs  L-1.l ooe-                      -scplsd Pest..
let Ilfe sopef acy sa brt"b itEoracle  aUth o              P.,ty    .ar   C.sltts d Usas:: flatrkllL..   $rtea   of OsIaa      oa.aaa   a   oa
1ss. 0.4 fs.nlo lIf. .epeat-Io atbllislas at 77.5 yast..  Tb. par-Centladeliavb   attoyIalla mresusPf.as
Isat  tot tort1iltla,ft. alas M bta a,s  InI.. s5.alaa deote.o Is                          f tota. l,borb. 0.4 roosL d-1ASIloS  secll
fact  -tostt  Ls cbas asa4e     ted o at abs  ti-..*caLsatls  of Se'ttlity              EDUCATION
otd f-rlliyttrsd.d  f- orpraJetla  ptfPs.a.                                                d .dA-1 t                  '
the bllth tn.ieq-I as tbe d4aab ra.,. an  alas the age etrott  to-.                            enrall t of all ages  Ctab  y  ac   l I us   . .C pattaa  at tlopattc-
as_i   .. catoot.  hlb.  do sableted salt aS. tat hetIly toss. daslIs  to                      ptLast  elbs.-1-. P.p.1Latooa; asesIly Ioas  chldt  ss ga  b-I1
cOo rspleoomt lanaI of alt -at rePr,sc-ln  rots.  sites athSobegasa dla                       lass tat "djosed S. cr Sf tame  IaSaho of p,1mnm   o&bcldto; fo-
of usea  t-pl.... lt-fs.tssty   The statiana y PL.  C.oaO    Ltat as                           .Coa L. sltb h     nrs  e4tta iao  -stolle t my eased 100 weotts
sctoeat.d os chatse  ot.'      che pajactod ches-tatlatcoo t,be popaltxo                       alc-  a-  pap1l.  t  belay or ebn  aa offaoa1 etbode  aS..
to  h  ye. 2000.m adhab  tot. ofd.lls of fttltlty rats ta taplas-                         SetO4a_ t ssl-talsl   dfl      Csaa   soes   atd
_at "levl                                                                                       datastqtaofeatfsyasof sP"t.d p tast  Ltatfot.o
Y-a  ttoar   ooe oItI  ta fsathd - Th.s fast  hlas a,totlay popt1ltoa                            Pt...iWe'  ss-I. cacolaasl. -os          " asecectral Jl . tattfoftoss fot pupils
.l..11   e    ahd.                                                                     aoelIly of 12 La 17 pests of ape  crap.ed-c  aCarsa  am   aeta11y
Pat ap  .   -Mid-yea  p.p.1atl.lt p.t aq-r   lls..            (100 MaCCsf) of               fS.Atoana  easallet lasroecto   a.ads - Oot-tasa  issattat..
total atea  1965. 1970 sad197        L st.                                                    _Inalad   tettls. faatta. a   tbrprsa  ath saaeLads.-
P.r a.. be.      -!!calgrl 4ad- C tp.sd cc abate fat  sCtfl .... ItO load                     ashy r -s dapoE-rf           of aeaadoy iecltti-sts-.bi
only;  10.17ad 979 data.                                                                                   .                                -Tsdlsadst  etals   t
booalna.  toar  (fltotasa  - Chcild-a (0-1i y-t). safieeS ft  (11-                             ptU1sss.drlnldnlatn                            lr of taear a h
"         Iyst).sdritd   169yas  adstr)t  petstaa f .1-et  05                                ttaPaedls Istla.
laoa  19o0, 1970, ad 190  dt.L.Mtt   t,    _t                                                                                  19")  t.. -  adlts labIa as md ad ai.tt)
Pooaio   ratIss(atet 4 -    -  total  A-1Ae     srstb cots. t  tutsl5.14-                  usapat.                     d     b.satZsaed 19 years ad own.
Y..t pOt.lttl- for 1970-.  19;0- 0. ad 170.080.
GoualnCr001  iota (sasasa  - urban,  - OAel- rlath fates of asbee Pop.-               COcISfLPTXw
latto.. for 1950-60. (407. ad190-4.                                                            sa Csr a. (P-r abanas  ,onnI.lota           - P    m,cw   cara  Cm,prla  s.t-
Ctdod  BitCh Rota (car athasa) - lA_-I It-. blrthe.-t pot .be. ad  f aid-y-a                     cts. seatta  l..e th-eaight patass; sasiada   -belootet. heate  and
poplalsa; 1900. 19 70. .ad 1940 data.                                                           Oltllay nebhlc.l.
Cto_ds_D.at it Oats(can tbohadf - Asoa-I dootbe pet tbo.aad  of  Ild-Y-a                      iodf  i.Ntnlstslat bead  ol.tn -Alyps offslvaf-  fo, radio
l-tos  t-tdo-al   gets -Anstap  oet. of d5A.gb-c  aes  .111 hear tolcsa   aont   s  oats   dt   af   ts   sltata                                                         ai
bet ..r-s  tap.odactl- period If shoeoap-tlascs  present O-apetif is ft-.                      a         LscIt  tfelt; dats totbfsst Y-,.a  my et be cosP.fabl. sla.
CIttly t       .e;oaaly fi t-ysotsyte    a.diag L. 1940. 170  .Ad  190                         aat  stfsh Lobed  i.oootag.
Fsally Pl-iata- A atorp,       ae 1a Itb1oasd!) - antlteto    opat                             TV la-s1-n  liertheooa  toa Lane  -             C- rtlnaf  far bfo-dtast to
ofhtb-cntO    eitasaa   oaIs  atttonl e Ly                        - psag  Ett5f.             lsral"  PIal  pat tbsa.d" popoa 'I-  aaldea aslsae                    T - eta ..t
Fsell   Sla-lssltatoas, "ff!   UE)- fotnae   of-rta                                              in  -oetftss  s to is Yans   t. alonfst  a o  TVsa  ass Laffatt.
aL  -diLd --s.s LA  asag  ges.                                                                cl.    Io  dIl   eotltaOr. a.pcpoar".dt Lod                        poltodicle
pnbl.al.   da-ced p,abasll  ta tetedlng           a.-  as.  It Ls toasldo'ad
itin AU StflTIN                                                                                    S. be  dolly- if it oppEess at l.a.e  tea  CCa a a-a.
pr.   sla  of all fedctbs.tat                         sad            dtdadif ta-j.o mmea
L. -  c.olader Y..r b.e.  Cas-datcal-W prbty gsaom  (5.$. eft                                  m sad    LI. alto..
laoa"d of edg) stick at. edile ad aCatal  -svrlae (na. -sofe. ad
tas t. actladed).  Ageeea  praIatle  at cas  t-ay  ta hooed aeil
uottaI setag  pfudot.  PCtoa vJelbt   191-45, 1970. ad  1940 data.                          toaUoa   ot  teaaa      cab.Ialy  -ctI- P......, itlu4i a
fO   a.Aalbl  sapLle c.   re   dai_ at   to tLoe. Ionta  las.                         s.fcaotbl.; 1940. (.70 ad 19:80 dt..PCote                    t.
sau As.a- PagaI   tai    .    opplia. salodel aea   a.soe                                  Jp 9 a        ,.lbrtot   spnCtg  o   sa   ea   os
q-dftiss. used L. fond P,otnasleo. ad  lse.-  LA distffkstL .  seqlfe                                              C    Lb   futt  o i  faot.S. fotoaty.  inatia  a
ins. sara a tltd by TAO besed a  phyr.iLaaelt  oe". far sarsal sell-                            foias c S.ae   of tta ..Labar- fots; 1940. 1OM aed 1940 daco.
cay  adhelh ao"cadtae  ettas pso                  ...eta tte.body -Agibas. ag                 ledeet     -.sata ) -L,ba  toot  a. sLAa.I      aearat.   .at0atonlsa
ad as d.Istlbtla  of Papolatla. s.d .ollnls 9 topaxtat tot saa.aaa   sasr"tY. at- ad  gee as pataCSetg  of total Laber foote;
I.-Iel  lea; 19I1-6. 1970 ad 1977 4sf..                                                    1940, 1970 aod 19O40  ...
Par soo It. .-I,l of ...sl .lav(a   P., da   - Pratala osfest 55 Pat capita                   P-afnicaOefa ioaL.r            -tol.  -I.. cad (-ala  - Psa-fop.ftion or
nsa eaply of tnd pet ary.  es wappiy at td 5.  -.ia-d so chat.  Re-                            -1t,isy ltstssarstq.td aststa. -I.. ad LassI  labor, Lana ae
q.lootaaa far oil cveltris soastlisbd by U159-1 tald  far   a                                 p."etetgas of asbel, sa. 0.4  S-al. Pap.,olav  of all aau  rsapcttay;
eIlloaaa  af -0 $-a  of total p-tatsl  Par daY ad  20 or-s atf               mela             1900. 1910. and 19MOsa   Thes ca  hosed c   il   p.fnlcipatLos Csfn
Pulse. ptaaedo. of eblt  1 l ra SC   eaaltbe   sa.oLeal pr-"s..  Thea ats.d-                  r.flsetlsg  .s--s  etCstuo   of nba yotl5Is    d lOn  tin  tLad.  A6
arts ..u best thea theoo  of 79 IC=a  Of fta     l ts..a lad  23 arms aL                      Los assjlesta  ar  fts. nattealseft
datal potal  uss.  tara   t lbth  asrd. ptpcdby ?AO. L. abs ThIrd                              = MU4.   -se.9l a - atlo of pupul'otl  -adet 11 aed 65 sa  0S
Satd Pad  urvy;  9419.1970 abd 1977 Seta.                                              ta theota  Yaba  frc.
p.codif  rotla   wat  ea.saUl  adaslsa-  rCeia pply of toad d--
fard  ra.daalsadraseslvstapa  dy; 194145, 1970 ad  1977 halo.                 talave fllmIfIDIO
Chiltd (.a,. 1-4) Bsath R-t  (pst htaasd) -eAbo-I dait  pntheP.    t.cad Ufyt- -.a  of Pravat. Iot    tMhet      coeb soodSd) -Rece-d by rc.heet
css  nsap1-   ears   as  tildraa ds thi. esa taoap, ft ot sa   danlop1ag coa             5 P....t. rihest 20 pefCa..p. rsC 20 P.ftst. sa  P----s 40 P.---e
Cttte   hatt -dn-titsd-ft.- lIfe 1001..; 1940. 1970 aedd 1980 dora.                           .Lfoosabald!.
Llfs  aa t(cIa..rt             ..nrs    Ata.. ge tuab.C  t yasra of ILfe  nsUa                The foll~osu -s)taa    sy spp-toleta assf o  p-vatt Is-l.,
do  050;  960  190   d 1900 dccWa ohsa14 be I.Carplettd sob"                                                                oeth   ol  c-oate.
Iateot Isatolaty Ret, last abee4) - Aaeai deaths of i1fost.  adar as. psat                    iatntd Obas-I   Pttt  bo   Len,             (1   a   eIs SIrba- af  tutal-
.f:a:P per  htotod line hlrtb;  9600. 1970 000 1940 data.                                     .nbootta pan-ty Lnaslan s the  jSoom  laaibls   ttl a ol.1-L
Acsaa  osdatlaosno   vltc)-ttl.att  n   oa      u.                                           -urliss-lly  od"qat  da., plus  ..a.tt.  ton -food rtqur--,  Is Oat
(atspl   lolade-  atnatad  -Irtac   -Ct,ore .,   aratad bat ucstsaaad                ftloeatd taaaa        1nst  sa  lnI(O  to   ara)-  ro  and -pit.
aCs oba   hen S ro  ptcgetsad    m        Wia.  ptnse. sA"ed toslar  aslI) as-uro  -al-tan   ya-st, taoe  levelIa   s-tIirdvta s.ptcpt
parattgasof  heI  tepetlve pap,latlona.  It.  orbs-   staPabll                          perona  L-a  of t1bs cou-a.  Urba  lOya Ii, dcraved.fSm the  orlal
lo-rtll.r,anft  Iatdot   rathsa 200 aste   r a a  a hens  my he                              tIvol  ith adju -tas  for tIgtr cot of 11019 ga tofd  afa
Iosd.ted   -. bts elhtbl  -aaable  -ooa  of abet cos.Utota -               r1.tteta1oola  Bals otnclat  P,ett  tcsLrlla~!..zjto
cseoal. olcas. sold lmly  th C he he,c.ai   - ormbeos of the haudabld                       avduruta    P. yaaa   ofporito    ottddrrl   isaso lt
do oOt h... cc spend adlaptspurtlbt.a part  f the day  i. Latching the
Nuto   spa(teto.1  ccbtas  aa Iua)- ts d by  tcfata. disposal 
pa-cat.S.  of Choar tspttepaPnIlatla..  ttttatt diepusL -y Ucodls
aed totesaa  by  -ae-bae syssa  or the ... of P"pat ,rcaa  ad tisI-
tooltin  stPinacIe   hPpal.tilo  dinidod by .-h-e  of praCalJoln  phtya-                                                     a-oasLC a-e 00015  aDa.C. il
Potastasre  ntnasPareoa - FsotaCtle  di=ta   by oabat at p-atiLoga                                                                         lay 1942
sal. adoe aeoa.t   u  s,desasora.patotcrs   a



- 27 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population      :  119.0 million (1980)
GNP Per Capita:  US$2,050 (1980)
Indicator                                    Amount                        Average Annual Increase (X)                    Share of GDP at Market Prices (x)
(Million US$ Current)                   (at Constant 1970 Prices)                            (at current Prices)
1981                   1965-70     1970-75     1915-80    1981-86               1970        1975       1981 b/
National Accouats
Gross Domestic Product /a                             284,003                   7.7        10.6         6.9          2.0            100.0        100.0       100.0
Agriculture     -                                    29,196                   1.9         5.7         4.7         4.5              10.2        10.9         12.0
Industry                                             77,115                  9.2         11.6         7.6          .08             35.8        37.2        31.9
Services                                            135,275                  8.0         10.7         6.8         4.1              54.0        51.9        55.9
Consumption                                           230,325                   7.7         9.8         5.7         3.3              77.8        76.6        81.1
Gross Investment                                       55,328                   9.4        14.6         5.2         3.6              22.7         21.3        19.5
Exports of Goods and NFS                               25,575                  8.2         11.2         7.3         6.5                6.7         7.5         9.0
Imports of Goods and NFS                               27,199                  14.5        17.2         2.8         4.4               7.2        11.4          9.6
Gross  ozmestic Savings                              53,677                   7.9        12.9         6.1         -                22.2        23.4         18.9
Amount                    Average Annual Increase (X)                Composition of Merchandise Trade (X)
(Million US$ Current)              (at Conatant 1970 Prices)                         (at Current Prices)
1981                1-97 0-7-5         1975-80      199 1-8 6                 1970         1975        1990
Merchandise Trade
Merchandise Exports                                   23,393                 11.1             7.7              2.8                   100.0         100.0       100.0
Primary c/                                           8,954                 8.3              1.1             0.8                     76.7         62.7        38.3
Kanufactures d/                                     13,358.6              28.2             18.2              5.6                    22.5         34.8        57.1
Merchandise Import                                    22,080                14.8             -3.3              1.2                   100.0        100.0        100.0
Pood (cereals)                                      1077                 -6.7             17.5             8.8                      4.5          3.0          4.8
Petroleums                                          11,333                 7.6              4.3           -11.0                     11.2         25.4        51.3
Machinery and Equipment e/                           4.020                15.2             -7.5              2.0                    36.2         32.2        18.2
Other                                                5,650                28.4             -1.9             4.3                     48.1         39.4        25.7
1975           1976            1977           1978            1979           1980              1981
Prices and Term of Trade
GDP Deflator (1970 - 100)                                     305.1          444.3           632.7          892.5         1,399.4         2,724.6         5,696.8
Exchange Rate (Cr0/US$)                                         8.1            10.6           14.1            18.1           26.9            52.7            93.1
Export Price Index (1970 - 100)                               176.0           192.0          226.0           228.0          266.0           290.0           305
I-port Price Index (1970 - 100)                               242.0          255.0           286.0          317.0           389.0          431.0            461
Term  of Trade Index (1970 - 100)                              72.0           75.0            79.0            72.0           68.0            67.0            66
As 7 of GDP
(at Current Cruoeiro Prices)
1970            1975              1979             1980 g/       1991 g
Public Finance (Central Government)
Curreat Revenue                                                                     16.6             19.8              20.8              19.7          18
Current Expenditure                                                                 14.4             15.8              17.6             17.8           17.5
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                           2.2              4.0              3.2                1.9            .5
Capital Expenditure                                                                  2.6              3.8              3.7               6.6            6.3
Pinancing (Net)                                                                     -0.4              0.2             -0.5               4.7            5.8
1965-70            1970-75           1975-79                1981-86
Other Indicators
GNP Growth Rate (X)                                                                 7.7               10.7                5.8                   2.1
GNP per Capita Growth Rate (X)                                                      4.6                7.7                3.0                  -0.5
Energy Consumption Growth Rate (Z)                                                  7.2                7.3                6.5                   -
ICOR f/                                                                             2.9                3.0                3.9                   3.2
Marginal SRvings Rate f/                                                           20.5               25.7               22.7                  24.0
Import Elasticity  f/                                                               2.2                1.6                0.3                  -0.6
a/   At market prices; components are net domestic products expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of depreciation and indirect
taxes less subsidies
c/   Includes:  coffee (beans and soluble), other agriculture and minerals
d/   Includes:  manufactured and semi-processed
e/   Includes:  transportation   aterials
f/   the 1981-86 projections are average arithmtic man of the six-year
g/   1980 and 1981 include government expenditures effected through the monetary budget and som  minor government funds
February 28, 1983
Souirce: Conjuntura Economica FJV Banco Central do Brazil, Brazil Standard Model (World Bank)



BAIANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT                                                                                             AN9EX 1
(aillon  UE3 or currenu  prscco)                                                                                                Pnge 5 of 5
Pop  lctiCo        119  illion  (1980)
GNP Per Copit.:  UNv2,050 (1980)
ACTUAL                                                                                PROJECTED 3 /
_975          1976          1977          1978          1979          1980          1981              1982           1983          1984          198            96
Balance of Payment.
lt e-po.tt  of good. nod corvic..                                       -6,702        -6,0IE       -4,037         -6,086      -10,039       -12,564       -11,173            -14,697         -7,197        -5,197        -4,029       -4,197
Kopooto  of goode                                                     (8,670)      (10,128)     (12,120)      (12,659)       (15,244)      (20,132)    (23,293)             20,175         23.000        26,000        29,000       33,000
Iqportt  of Goode                                                  (-12,210)    (-12,383)    (-12,023)    (-13,683)   (-18.084)    (-22,955)   (-22,080)                  (-19,400)   (-17D000)   (-18,000)    (-20,000)  (-24,000)
N e  fctor 1... I                                                    -1,733        -2,189        -2,356        -3.257        -4,821         -6.621       -9,549            -13,003       -11,197       -11,000        -10,774      -10,897
(of which oet ILterect paBUete) In                                (-1,498)      (-1,810)      (-2,103)      (-2,696)      (-4.183)      (-6,311)      (-9,179)           (10,800)      (11,000)       (9,000)       (9,300)      (9,300)
NeDt n-factot- o.e4c-                                                -1.429        -1,574        -1,578        -1,905        -2,378         -3,120       -2,837             -2,469        -2,000         -2,197        -2,255       -2,300
Net trIn.fere                                                                 2             1            -            71             18          160           197                197            197           197           197          197
OC -rreet ao-...  blance                                               -6,700         -6,017       -4,037        -6,015       -10,021       -12,396       -10,976            -14,500         -7,000        -5,000        -3,832       -4,000
Direct prbate iOve.-no-t /b                                                892           959           810         1.071         1,491         1,121.0       1.569              1,691         1,763         1,961         2,204        2,464
M6LT lono  oct                                                           4.830         5,542         5,650        10 018         5 297         3,475.0       9,571  i/          8,492         5,686         6.039         4,094        6.633
Tocdltboonl   oouroe                                                    (955)       (1.147)       (1,059)       (1,450)        1,467        (1 452 4)    (4,314)            (6,3047  (3,125)             (3965)        (9)
PFianctailcrcdit.                                                   (6,027)       (7,013)       (8,224)      (13,714)      (10,266)       (8,632.3)   (13.113)            (12,458)      (10.008)      (11,310)      (10,492)   (13.206)
AgorLLrntioo                                      .                  (-2.152)     (-2,818)      (-3,63        (-5 ,846      (-6 431)        (6,610,0)  (-7.856)            (-7,190)      (-7,449)           500(-9  (21'09369)  (-12 ,96)
aB..eLlian  loa. ebroed loot)                                             -190          -240          -267          -357          -610           416          -702            -1,045        -1.166         -1.500        -1,966       -2,298
D000r onpotal o .ci                                                        218           956        -1,526          -455           628         4,063         1,393.0            1,362         2,297            -               -            -
Change Lorcecroe.   (--orcec) Ic                                              950       -1,192          -630        -4,262         3,215         3,321          -855              4,000        -1,900        -1,500           -500         -600
Iotcoati.on.l ee.rve-  /d                                                 4,041         6,544         7,256        11,995         9,699         6.913         7,505              3,000         4,900         6,400          6.900        7,500
Ma.nOven o-     gthe of iporoa /e                                               4             6,3           7.2          10.3           6.4           3,6           4.1                1.8           3.5           4.3           4            3.4
ACTUAL
9D75          1976          1977          1978          1979          1980          1981               1992
ToDal debt .ntatanding end dieborced                                    23,298        28,483        34,601        46,436        51,342        54,865        61,400  f/         68,400  f/
Public end pnblicly guarnote-d                                        13,706        17,349       21,595        30,284        35,478         36,260             -                  -
Offiojal ao.rc.                                                     3 959         4,431         4,717         5,401         5.889         6,416              -                  -
IBBO11                                                           (1,093)       (1,217)       (1.813)       (1 602)       (1.927)       (2,069)            -                  -
atber                                                            (2,966)       (3 216)       (3,304)       (3 799)       (4 062)       (4,347)            -                  -
PtbvOcaro                                                           9767         1,1           16.878        2.,98 3       29,'589       31.9 464 
Private nnn-goara ed                                                9,7592       I1,913'3      13,00.5       16,8152       15.864        16,0 6
Urdi.borted debt (poblio noiY)                                           3.879         6,620         8,411        10.209        12,448        14,041
linac LNiebnree.eote
ToDdl giroe dieb.ree.et of MOLT Do.na                                    6. 98 1       8,160         9,282        15,164        11,720        10,9853
P.bli. end pobIftly goarnotecd                                         3,299         6,921         5,022        10.116         9.152         6,893- 
Offiial eopoot .redite                                                428           405           169           490          448            467
18iD                                                                 250           173           298           275           302           343              -                 -
Other-   lfcee                                                        119           183           92            136          206            192--
POt        nroe                                                    2,991         4,233         4.962         9,216         8,197         5.892             _                  _
Princec noo-goar^aoecd                                               3,194         3,239         3,861         5.048          2.576         3,192
Debt Serolo
Total debt erobe pyecte                                                 6,195        64322          5.642        8,252         11,147        13,168        15,554             17,990
Internet (net)                                                      18,77)        (1 423)       (1,651)       (2,457)       (3,555)       (5,412)             -                  -
Pa.te ce S of Maport. end NMS                                              43.0          38.7          42.3          58 8          66.8          60.0          61.0               81.0
Pdl,.ecta cc X of GNP                                                        2.9          2.6           3.0           3.7           4.3           4.8           -
Avnr,ge hnteret ret. on tbh p9bl   debt (22 /I                                8I7            7.6           9.3           9.9          11.2          12 3           -
Of foal aonte.                                                              7.7           7.9              0          7.5           8 3           897           -
Average  torbty of nec got.ntd I.e-                                            9.0          11.3          10.0          10.0          11 5          10.3           -
Iffotial  loare                                                             1  4         163          16 1          16.5          14 0          13,6
Prbvete.o- rcc                                                              7.0           9.3           8.7           9.3          11.2            9.5          -
liiiD  80/Total                                                             6.7           4 3           41           3 4           3.6           3.9           -
7980 digbereeee_nOetocal groe dinbnree-et  (%)                             3.5            21           3.2           1.8           2.6          3.4           -
0Bi9D debt aorv   elrot l debt ervoc  (S)                                   2.5           3.2           3.7           2 7           2.2            2,1          -
Aa U of total debt notetaoding
t end nf D ceeber 1980          /h
Debt Structure
H.totity ttnotuce of debt notetending
mataritin. doe eitt8nl  5 yer.                                                                        67
KetnrttiLe  d.e nithi. 10 year.                                                                       33
I.  Sinoc 1984  n, it refer.  nly to inter.et on MOLT Inane
/b DeolodIg re-invenetd p.nfitt
Ii  8v.lnding dollr v-lertion adjuetnct and    netietton  of dn-tic gold
/d lnrlodIdg gold end dollar v-luation dj..t_nt.
/e Banod only
IT Det-il- -.naoil ble
/j Public debt only
/h Pralieirnec
.raail eteodard .dn1 (World B..k)
Pebroary 28, 1983
SB-o.e    B nto Centrel do Braail; internal Dbt Bte  (SPD)  78-8I (World Bank)
IRF ur



- 29 -                        ANNEX II
Page 1 of 15
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of September 30, 1982)
Amount less
Loan # Year               Borrower              Purpose     Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Fifty-six loans fully disbursed                                 1,950.1
923   1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -       Power              125.0          3.2
Itumbiara
1008   1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao        Power              81.0          14.3
Francisco-CHESF
1067   1974  Brazil                            Education           23.5          5.4
1075   1975  Brazil                           Roads               110.0         12.2
1151   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry             95.0           8.5
1152   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry             60.0          16.6
1153   1975  Brazil                           Agriculture         23.0           1.0
1171   1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista       Railways            75.0           7.9
1195   1976  Brazil                           Rural Development  12.0            6.5
1207   1976  Brazil                            Feeder Roads       55.0          25.6
1249   1976  Brazil                           Agriculture         40.0           3.4
1300   1976  Eletrobras                       Power               50.0            .3
1302   1976  Brazil                           Nutrition           19.0            .6
1317   1976  Brazil                           Agro-Industry       83.0          47.9
1343   1977  ELETROSUL                         Power              82.0          14.7
1362   1977  State of Minas Gerais            Rural Development  42.0            8.4
1406   1977  Petrobtas Fertilizantes          Fertilizer          52.0           3.4
1411   1977  Fertilizantes Vale do            Fertilizer          55.0           1.7
Rio Grande S.A.-VALEFERTIL
1452   1977  Brazil                           Education           32.0          21.8
1488   1977  Brazil                           Rural Development  17.0           11.5
1525   1978  Banco Nacional da Habitacao       Sewerage           110.0         66.4
1537   1978  Brazil                           Rural Development  24.0           18.9
1538   1978  ELETROBRAS                       Power              130.0          49.5
1557   1978  Brazil                           Roads              114.0          84.5
1562   1978  COPESUL                          Petrochemicals      85.0           8.6
1563   1978  Brazil                           Urban Transport    88.0           28.7
1568   1978  Brazil                           Agric. Extension  100.0           67.9
1589   1978  Brazil                           Rural Development  37.0           27.0
1654   1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao       Sites & Services   93.0          50.8
1656   1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao      Water & Sewerage  100.0           73.1
1660   1979  Valesul Aluminio S.A.            Aluminum            78.8           2.9



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 15
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of September 30, 1982)
Amount less
Loan #  Year               Borrower              Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
1714    1979  Brazil                           Rural Development   26.0            22.9
1720    1979  Brazil                           Urban Development   70.0            53.7
1721    1979  COPEL                            Power                109.0          72.6
1728    1979  Brazil                           Rural Development   40.0            33.4
1729    1979  Brazil                           Irrigation            28.0          15.8
1730    1979  Brazil                           Roads                110.0          87.3
1822    1980  Brazil/BNDE                      Pollution Control   58.0            57.9
1823    1980  Banco Nacional
da Habitacao                  Water Supply        130.0         100.7
1824    1980  CEEE                             Power                114.0         111.1
1839    1980  Brazil                           Urban Transport    159.0           154.6
1850    1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply            139.0         104.7
1867    1980  Brazil                           Education            32.0           30.4
1877    1980  State of Minas Gerais            Rural Development   63.0            60.0
1895    1980  ELETROSUL                        Power                125.0         123.6
1924    1981  Brazil                           Rural Development   56.0            49.7
1939    1981  ELETROBRAS                       Power                54.0           51.9
1965    1981  EBTU                             Urban Transport       90.0          88.0
1970    1981  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply           180.0          153.2
1989    1981  Brazil                           Alcohol Devt.       250.0         247.1
2015    1981  Brazil                           Agriculture           29.0          25.5
2016    1981  Brazil                           Agriculture           60.0          56.7
2060    1982  Brazil                           Agriculture           67.0          63.0
2061    1982  Brazil                           Health                13.0          12.0
2062    1982  Brazil                           Highways             240.0         217.8
2116    1982  Brazil                           Agriculture           26.4          26.0
2138 /1 1982  ELETROBRAS                       Power                182.7         182.7
2163 /1 1982  Brazil                           Agriculture           26.4          26.4
2170 /l 1982  Brazil                           Urban Development  123.9           123.9
2177 /1 1982  Brazil                           Rural Development   42.7            42.7
2193 /1 1982  Brazil                           Urban Development    8.9             8.9
2196 /1 1982  CVRD                             Iron Ore            304.5          304.5
Total                                              6,998.9 /2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                  991.0
Total now outstanding                              6,007.9
Amount sold                            45.8
of which has been repaid            45.5             0.3
Total now held by Bank                             6,007.6
Total undisbursed                                                3,401.9
/1   Not yet effective.
/2   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.



AN-iNNEX II
~ 31                              ~                                 Pae 3 of 15
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (As of September 30, 1982)
Fiscal                                                                                                                             Amount in USS millI on
Year                                                Obligor                                          Type of Business             Loans    Equity   Total
1957                   Slemens do Brasil Cta. do Electricidade                              Electrical Equlpaent                   2.00       -        2.00
1958                   Ollnkraft, S.A. Celulose e Papal                                      Pulp and Paper                        1.70       -        1.20
1958                   D.L.R. Plasticos do Bras11, S.A.                                      Automotive Parts                      0.45       -        0.45
1958                   WIllys-Overland do Brasl, S.A. - Industrla e Comerclo                 Motor Vehicles                        2.45       -        2.45
1959                   Companhla Mineira de Clmento Portland, S.A.                           Cement                                1.20       -        1.00
1959                   Champion Celulose, S.A.                                               Pulp                                  4.00       -        4.00
1966/1968/1972         Acos VlIlares, S.A.                                                   Steel                                 6.00     1.93       9.93
1966/1969              Papal e Celulose Catarinense, S.A.                                    Pulp and Paper                        3.76     3.41       7.19
1967/1972              Ultrafartil, S.A. - Industria a Camerclo de Fertilizantes             Fertilizers                           8.22     3.03      11.25
1969                   Petroqulmica Uniao, S.A.                                              Petrochemicals                        5.50     2.88       B.39
1970                   Polloleflnes, S.A. Indusirta e Carerclo                               Petrochemicals                        5.50     2.89       8.35
1971                   Oxiteno, S.A. Industrla e Comerclo                                    Petrochemicals                        4.60     1.44       6.04
1971                   Rio Grande - Componhla de Celulose do Sul                            Pulp                                   4.90       -       4.90
1972/1975/1981         Companhia de Cimento Naclonal de Mlnas                               Cement                               169.14     6.70    175.84
1973/1974/1977/1981    CompanhIa Siderurgica de Guanabara - COSIGUA                         Steel                                 76.97    11.22     88.19
1973                   Capital Market Developmant Fund - FUMCAP                             Capital Market Development             5.00       -       5.00
1973/1978              Empresa de Desenvolvimento de Recursos Minerals - CODEMIN, S.A.    Nickel Minng and Refining              85.00     8.34     93.34
1974                   Industrias Villares, S.A.                                            Elevators and Industrial Equipment   6.00         -       6.00
1974                   Fabrica de Tecido Tatuape. S.A.                                      Textiles                              31.00       -      31.00
1975/1979              Capuava Carbonos Industrias Ltd.                                     Carbon Black                           6.13     1.10      7.37
1975                   Oxiteno Nordeste, S.A.                                               Petrochemicals                        10.00       -      10.00
1976                   Santista Industria - Textil do Nordeste, S.A.                        Textiles                               6.45     1.00      7.45
1976/1980              Tecanor S.A. - Textil Catarinerse do Nordeste                        Textiles                              16.20       -      16.20
1977                   FMB S.A. Productos Metalurgicos                                       Iron and Alumirum Castings           20.00       -      20.00
1977                   Mineracao Rio do Norte S.A.                                          Mlning                                15.00       -      15.00
1978                   Clrwtal Siderurgia S.A.                                               Iron and Steel                        7.00     3.00     10.00
1979                   Volvo dD Brashi Motores e Vaicules, S.A.                             Motor Vehicles                        60.00     5.27     65.27
19BO                  Raring do Nordeste S.A. - Maehas                                   Ready-made Garments                       2.00       -       2.00
1980                  Dende do Para S/A - Deinpasa - Agricultura, Industrla
e Comerclo de Oleaglnsosas                                      Palm Oil                                3.50     1.00      4.50
1980                   Vl lares Industrias de Base S.A. - VIBASA                           Iron and Steel                          5.00       -       5.00
1980                   PPH - Compenhla Industrial de Polipropileno                        Chemicals and Petrochemicals            15.00     2.00     17.00
1980                   Destilarla Clanorte S.A.                                           Chemicals and Petrochemicals               -      0.25      0.25
1980                   Sotave Amazonia Quimica e Mineral S/A                              Fertilizers                             16.00     4.00     20.00
1980                   Polisul Petroqulmica                                               Chemicals and Petrochemicals           43.00      5.00     48.00
1981                   Brasilpar                                                          Money and Capital Markets               -         1.50      1.50
1981                   Companhia Bras FleIra de Agropecuaria - 008RAPE                    Food and Food Processing                 5.50     3.00      8.50
1981                   Triunfo                                                            Chemicals and Petrochemicals           46.00      4.00     56.00
1982                   Cimento CALE                                                       Cement and Construction Materials       40.00     5.00     45.00
1982                   lochpe Agro-lndustrial S.A.                                        Money Capital Market                    30.00     0.45     30.45
1983                   Companhia Rio Grandense de Participacoes (CRP)                     Money Capital Market                       -      0.72      0.72
Total Gross Crmmitments                                                                        771 .74    79.21    850.95
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayments and Sales                                         560.32    12.16    572.48
Total Cosmitments Now Held by IFC                                                              211.42    67.05    278.47
Total Undisbursed                                                                              159.28    14.02    173.30



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 15
C.   Status of Projects in Execution
As of September 30, 1982 1/
As of September 30, 1982, there were 57 effective Bank loans under
disbursement:
Loan No.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125.0 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. The project is nearing completion. Procurement has been
completed. Four of the six generating units have been in service
since late! 1980; the other two were commissioned in 1981. A cost
overrun of about 57% is forecast due mainly to a substantial
increase in the size of the transmission works and to an increase
in the cost of civil works.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81.0 million loan
of June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.  Resettlement of the 9,700 families displaced by
the Sobradinho reservoir has been satisfactorily completed, and new
towns and villages to house the displaced population have been con-
structed. The construction of the underground power station and of
the Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on schedule. Construction of the
transmission lines and sub-stations is about: 12 months behind
schedule.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27, 1974;
Effective Date:  April 17, 1975; Closing Da:e:  December 31, 1982.
Project execution is about two years behind schedule mainly because
of delays during the early stages. Forty-four of the 51 facilities
to be constructed are now operating. Progress in implementation of
the enlarged project is satisfactory.  However, there might be a need
to postpone the Closing Date to June, 1983 to complete disbursements.
Overall costs are within reviewed estimates. A local project
completion report will be issued before the end of 1982.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 15
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110.0 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project is approaching completion. All project components,
except DNER's Weighing Stations Program (Phase I) and some state
highway rehabilitation works in Minas Gerais, are substantially
completed. Construction of the weighing stations has been
hindered by the financial difficulties of DNER which have left
the stations program without the necessary funds. The program
is being reformulated and is expected to be completed in late
1983.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
June 9, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Measures for ensuring completion of the CSN
project by mid-1983 and meeting certain financial ratios according
to a specified schedule were agreed with Government in June 1982.
Despite this, however, the project remains virtually stopped and
the company's financial position has continued to deteriorate.
This situation has arisen due to: delays in the granting of
price increases and the provision of equity funds; lower cash
generation due to weak steel markets; and difficult international
credit markets which have prevented CSN from raising the long-
term funds it needs. In light of this situation, a meeting in
Washington is planned for late November to review with the
Government and CSN the progress being made in meeting the
commitments for 1982 and proposals for 1983 which, taking into
account the likely available internal and external resources in
that year, will result in an optimum balance between progress on
project implementation and achieving an acceptable level of
liquidity for CSN.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976; Closing Date:
December 30, 1983. Measures for ensuring completion of the
COSIPA project by mid-1983 and meeting certain financial ratios
according to a specified schedule were agreed with Government in
June 1982. Despite this, however, the project remains virtually
stopped and the company's financial position has continued to
deteriorate. This situation has arisen due to: delays in the
granting of price increases and the provision of equity funds;
lower cash generation due to weak steel markets; and difficult
international credit markets which have prevented COSIPA from
raising the long-term funds it needs. In light of this situation,
a meeting in Washington is planned for late November to review
with the Government and COSIPA the progress being made in meeting
the commitments for 1982 and proposals for 1983 which, taking
into account the likely available internal and external resources
in that year, will result in an optimum balance between progress
on project implementation and achieving an acceptable level of
liquidity for COSIPA.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 15
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:  US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983: The Bank agreed to a COI)EVASF proposal to
drop the Brejo Grande varzea from the scope of the project and
reallocated funds to the construction of civil engineering works
unforeseen during the project evaluation phase. The Closing Date
was postponed to September 30, 1983. CODEVASF operations on
production activities continue to improve sulbstantially. The
rate of disbursements has risen sharply and about 95% of the
loan is now disbursed.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):  US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: September 30,
1983. The implementation of the project, as redefined to take into
account FEPASA's weak financial position in 1976-78, is improving.
Completion is estimated for mid-1983. FEPASA's operations continue
to improve significantly. The railway has reduced its operating
costs in the past year mainly due to reduction in staff and improve-
ment in train operations.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:  US$12.0 million loan
of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984. Phase I of this project ended satisfactorily,
although one year behind the original schedule. The design of
Phase II, extended project activities to new municipalities,
sharpened the project's focus on the lowest income farmers, and
included new components in the areas of marketing, storage, support
to cooperatives, land services, seed production, and inland fisheries.
Serious droughts in the last three years, coupled with delays in the
release of funds, have slowed down the implementation of Phase II,
but progress in recent months has been encouraging. A proposal for
project reformulation, including expansion iLnto seven new munici-
palities :Ls currently being considered.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982. The loan was fully committed by mid-1980 for
16 subprojects in 12 states. Because of implementation delays
and constant devaluation of the ORTN, the monetary unit in which
subloans are denominated, a major reformulation was necessary to
restore BNDE/DNER/IBRD participation to its initial level. Under-
taken by mid-1981, the reformulation of the project was completed in
early 1982, resulting in a reduction of its scope to improvement or
construction of 5,210 km of roads and 62 bridges, and in the provision
of about US$23 million from the second Loan (1730-BR) for additional
financing of 10 subprojects under the first project. Physical imple-
mentation. of the project, which had reached 50% as of March 31, 1982,
is now progressing well. Disbursements under the first loan have
reached 53% as of September 30, 1982, and are expected to be completed
by the end of 1983.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 15
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:  US$40.0 million loan of June 23,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. With the removal of constraints on the levels of
incremental staff, imports of project related equipment and
controls on the training programs (abroad) for research technicians,
the project progressed satisfactorily during 1981 and the rate of
disbursements rose sharply. Latest indications (10/15/82) are
that the necessary levels of counterpart funding and project
implementation are being sustained during 1982, and that the
project should be completed by about end-1982. The Closing Date
was postponed to June 30, 1983.
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:  US$50.0 million loan of August 27,
1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Except for a small portion (about 8%) of COELBA's subproject all
works have been completed. A balance of about US$300,000 will
remain undisbursed and will have to be cancelled. The agreed
targets for connection of low income households have been widely
exceeded. Substantial improvements in the management of the project
companies have been achieved, particularly in the areas of financial
control and planning of COELBA and CELPE.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:  US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983. An amending Agreement to the Loan and
Project Agreements was signed on January 14, 1981. The major
changes in the project involved the elimination of a credit program
for nutritious foods industries and the incorporation of a program
for the distribution of basic foods to low-income urban families.
The reformulated project responds better to the Government's
institutional priorities. Since this reformulation, project
operations have improved substantially. Problems still remain
with the quality of evaluation studies presently carried out and
counterpart funding for these studies. The rate of disbursements
has risen sharply. About 90% of the loan is now disbursed.
1317      Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$83.0 million loan of
September 22, 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Because of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Credit Project (Loan No. 924-BR of August 1, 1973,
the undisbursed balance of which was cancelled as of December 31,
1980), disbursements for the second loan began only in 1981.
Difficulties arising from competing credit lines at subsidized
rates and inadequate monetary correction have ended. Arrangements
for monitoring the adequacy of monetary correction were agreed
with the Government. The project has been progressing well in
very difficult economic conditions. The loan is expected to be
fully committed shortly. A third project is due to be appraised
in October/November 1982.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 15
1343      ELETROSUL Transmission Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The project is about 95% complete and 100% of
the contracts for supply of equipment and materials to be financed
under the loan have been awarded. Project execution is on schedule.
The Closing Date was postponed to December 31, 1982 to allow
sufficient time to meet retention payments on equipment contracts.
1362      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project I:  US$42.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. This project is progressing satisfactorily
after initial delays. Participation in this project by landless
producers was initially lower than originally envisaged, but
concerted efforts by the state government and the participating
banks have improved this situation markedly. A second, final post-
ponement of the closing date by 18 months to permit completion of
project activities including a program for further strengthening of
institutions responsible for marketing, farm management extension,
and community development, is being envisaged.
1406      Sergipe Fertilizer Project:  US$64.0 million loan of April 29, 1977;
Effective Date: August 31, 1977; Closing l)ate: November 30, 1982.
The plant has been completed and was forma:Lly inaugurated in
September 1982. The plants are operating satisfactorily. The
costs to complete the project are expected to be about 15% below
the appraisal estimate. The Closing Date was postponed to
November 30, 1982.
1411      VALEFERTI]L Phosphate Fertilizer Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
April 29, 1977; Effective Date: July 29, 1977; Closing Date:
December-31, 1982. The project has been in operation from August 1980.
During this period it achieved an average capacity utilization of
81% for sulfuric acid, 55% for MAP and 37% for TSP. Several plant
modifications have been carried out to improve performance of MAP
and TSP plants. Market constraints following revised credit
policies and fertilizer price increases in early 1981 have affected
production of finished products by about 20%. The Closing Date was
postponed to December 31, 1982.
1452      Vocational Training Project:  US$32.0 million loan of September 7,
1977; Effective Date: April 5, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The loan was amended on March 26, 1982, subsequent to a project
reformulation required by: (a) reduction in counterpart funds
affecting one component, and (b) difficulties encountered in
acquiring suitable sites for a number of hctel training centers.
The presidential decree approving the legal and financial definition
of SENAR was signed, which now permits this component to be fully
implemented. The Closing Date was postponed to June 30, 1985.



- 37 -            ~~~ANNEX II
Page 9 of 15
1488      Ceara Rural Development Project:  US$17.0 million loan of
November 17, 1977; Effective Date: March 28, 1978, Closing Date:
December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Agricultural extension has been particularly successful in reach-
ing target farmers, and initial land purchases for a first small
group of farmers have been made. Agricultural credit has suffered
from shortages of local bank funds. Physical and social infra-
structure is proceeding well, although there are some difficulties
in administering the health component and delays in carrying out the
water supply program. The project has been reformulated with a
special focus in the remaining years on the Carrasco sub-region.
The Closing Date was postponed to December 31, 1985.
1525      Greater Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment Project:  US$110.0
million loan of March 10, 1978; Effective Date: August 7, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984. Physical execution of the
project is experiencing difficulties because of inadequate funding
from the State and because of political problems. The Bank has
requested BNH to present a plan to complete works by the end of
1985. BNH and SABESP agreed to meet with the newly-elected govern-
ment to resolve the political and funding problems and present
solutions to the Bank by May 1983. Project completion is expected
to be delayed by about two years.
1537      Paraiba Rural Development Project:  US$24.0 million of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 19, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983.
Financial and managerial problems created significant delays in
project implementation over the first two years, but the situation
improved markedly with a reorganization of project administration
and the reformulation of several components. Nonetheless, the
project has recently encountered new difficulties which will require
reorientation of management and agricultural development activities.
The state is currently undertaking a complete evaluation study,
which will include a proposal to reformulate certain aspects of the
project and to extend the Closing Date.
1538      South-Southeast Power Distribution Project:  US$130.0 million loan
of May 8, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Disbursements were initially delayed by about
one year due to necessary revisions of the beneficiaries' construc-
tion programs caused by changes in the power market, reluctance by
two of the beneficiaries to contract consultants as agreed, and
procurement delays. Initially there were also delays in project
execution due to low tariff levels and insufficient counterpart
funds. In July 1981, ELETROBRAS arranged for the required counter-
part funds to be provided and in September 1981 the Government
agreed with the Bank to increase tariffs to appropriate levels so
that these projects can now proceed satisfactorily. The Closing
Date will be postponed by two years to December 31, 1984.



- 38 -                    ANNEX II
Page 10 of 15
1557      Sixth Highway Project:  US$114.0 million loan of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Rehabilitation of highways foreseen under the project proceeded
satisfactorily to mid-1980, when works were suspended because of
financial constraints imposed by the federal government. Highway
rehabilitation works were reactivated by mid-1981 but at a slow
pace because of inadequate funding. The maintenance program in
the state of Parana is progressing well. The second phase of the
weighing station program will not begin until the first phase
(under Loan 1075-BR) has been completed and the effects monitored.
The Project is being reformulated to reflect current priorities.
Project completion could be delayed by two years.
1562      COPESUL Petrochemical Project:  US$85.0 million loan of July 6, 1978;
Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation is proceeding well with an overall completion
ratio approaching 97%. Commencement of commercial operations is
expected in October/November 1982. The anticipated cost to complete
the project is presently running about 7% below the original estimate.
1563      Urban Transport Project:  US$88.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 1, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
This project is progressing satisfactorily although progress
initially varied widely among the five cities involved. The
project has been partially reformulated to delete certain items
whose implementation was no longer justified as originally envisaged
at appraisal, or could not be physically completed by the revised
project completion date, December 31, 1982. At the same time, some
new items, have been included to achieve the project's objective, which
is improvement of the delivery of urban transport services in several
cities.
1568      Agricultural Extension Project:  US$100.0 million loan of May 22,
1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.  The executing agency, EMBRATER, continues to work closely with
state/territory agencies to achieve adequate project implementation.
The Project Coordination Unit has been effective, and project
execution proceeded satisfactorily during 1981/82. Partial exemption
to re-imposed Government hiring restrictions (12/28/81) are being
arranged by EMBRATER, on a state by state basis to prevent a serious
slow-down in project development.  Hiring restrictions are only part
of the problem in some states however, mostly in the North and
Northeast, where lack of counterpart funding to pay additional
staff salaries is now the key issue. AdminListrative changes, due
to election results of November 15, 1982 could well cause some
delay in project execution during early 1983 until the new state
administIations become familiar with project objectives.
1589      Bahia Rural Development Project:  US$37.0 million loan of July 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1983. The pace of project execution is now satisfactory, and delays
in funding have been reduced.  Extension and land titling services
have been improved, but lack of land purchaLse credit is hampering



-39 -                    ANNEX II
Page 11 of 15
the balanced progress of the project. The quality of feeder road
construction has been uneven, but supervision of construction is
being strengthened. The health component is proceeding smoothly;
and the execution of the education and water supply components are
approaching appraisal targets.
1654      Sites and Services and Low-Cost Housing Project:  US$93.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 9, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983. Housing targets are being met and
difficulties which had been encountered in meeting the sites and
services targets have been overcome. Contracts for the last housing
scheme of the Project will be tendered at the end of October, 1982.
The Bank has approved a proposal that will offer a solution to the
problems which have caused slow progress in this project and an
amendment to the Loan Agreement was signed earlier this year.
1656      Northeast Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$100.0 million
loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 10, 1979, Closing
Date: June 30, 1983. The National Housing Bank has approved the
five year investment program of the project water companies for the
period 1980-1984. The first subprojects for the capital cities have
also been approved and construction is underway. Due to inherent
weaknesses in the State Water Company, the project may be completed
with about a one-year delay.
1660      Valesul Aluminum Project:  US$98.0 million loan of March 7, 1979;
Effective Date: August 6, 1979; Closing Date: January 31, 1983.
The Loan Agreement has been amended to cancel US$19.2 million of
the loan which will not be utilized. Construction is 99% complete,
and training pots were started in January 1982. There is a cost
overrun of about 8%. The shareholders are preparing an action
plan to finance project completion and start-up losses during 1982,
which are expected due to very low aluminum prices. The Closing Date
was postponed to January 31, 1983.
1714      Sergipe Rural Development Project:  US$26.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984. Reasonable progress is being made with most
project components. Extension services achieved very close to
first year targets and exceeded second and third year targets.
The land titling and colonization components are progressing
more slowly, but remedial action is beginning to show results.
The management of the project has become quite effective, and
the monitoring and evaluation of project results is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1720      Medium-Sized Cities Project:  US$70.0 million loan of June 20, 1979;
Effective Date: May 2, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
After a slow start, the project is now proceeding satisfactorily.
Planned investments in the first four cities included in the project
have practically been completed, and it is now expected that all
investments will be completed within the revised schedule.



- 40 -                    ANNEX II
Page 12 of 15
(The loan's closing date was postponed from December 31, 1983 to
December 31, 1985). Two of the additional three cities incorporated
into the project last August were already appraised during October,
and the last city is expected to be appraised during the first
quarter of 1983. About 60% of the loan is expected to be disbursed
by October 1983.
1721      COPEL Second Power Distribution Project:  US$109.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: November 21, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983. Project implementation is about six months behind
schedule because the Borrower postponed procurement pending loan
effectiveness. The Borrower is, however, accelerating procure-
ment and the project is expected to be completed on schedule.
1728      Pernambuco Rural Development Project:  US$40.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: February 5, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984. All project components have progressed slowly,
mainly due to delays in the release of federal funds. Urgently
needed road maintenance has not yet begun because of funding
problems in the municipalities. Project administration and
management: is gradually improving, but further improvements in
coordination among the agencies involved in execution is still
needed.
1729      Sao Francisco Second Irrigation Project:  US$28.0 million loan of
June 20, 1979; Effective Date: January 23, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1.986. While previously initiated civil works have
proceeded satisfactorily, local funding shortfalls and technical
problems emerging in the detailed design of project works for the
Boacica sub-area have slowed project progress. The infrastructure
developed by PETROBRAS in the Brejo Grande sub-area has led to
the dropping from the project of previously planned irrigation
and drainage investments there. The monitoring unit has been
installed and is now operational.
1730      Second Feeder Roads Project:  US$110.0 millLon loan of June 20,
1979; Effective Date: December 17, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986. The Second Feeder Roads Project provides
continuity to the program started under Loan 1207-BR. The loan
is now fully committed for 16 subprojects in 15 states, totalling
improvement or construction of 4,790 km of roads and 239 bridges.
Physical implementation is on schedule. Disbursements have reached
US$22.7 million by the end of September 1982, which is in line with
appraisal estimate. Completion is scheduled for June 30, 1986.
1822      Sao Paulo Industrial Pollution Control Project:  US$58.0 million
loan of April 14, 1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984. The project is experiencing some initial
delays, due mainly to long lead times in developing specific engi-
neering solutions to the pollution problems of individual industrial
concerns, but the first subprojects have begun to reach the Bank.



- 41 -                    ANNEX II
Page 13 of 15
1823      Southern States Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$130.0
million loan of April 14, 1980; Effective Date: October 8, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983. After initial delays, the project
is now advancing at a good pace and is expected to be completed by
the end of 1984.
1824      CEEE Power Distribution Project:  US$114.0 million loan of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: July 15, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1984. After some initial delays, project implementation proceeded
satisfactorily, though the company is facing financial difficulties
which, if not resolved, could delay project completion.
1839      Second Urban Transport - Porto Alegre Project: US$159.0 million
loan of June 2, 1980; Effective Date: December 9, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Some problems concerning procurement have somewhat delayed the
implementation and procurement schedule.
1850      Third Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project: US$139.0 million
loan of July 18, 1980; Effective Date: May 28, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985. This project is proceeding satisfactorily. Most
works are already committed, and physical execution is progressing
on schedule.
1867      Northeast Basic Education Project:  US$32.0 million loan of July 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 12, 1981; Closing Date: September 1, 1985.
Project implementation is delayed by about twelve months due to delay
in effectiveness and in transferring resources to project states
during calendar years 1980 to 1982. The delay is expected to be made
up for during the remaining period of project implementation. To this
end, the PIU is preparing a reprogramming of the remaining project
implementation schedule, which will constitute the basis for discus-
sion with the forthcoming supervision mission. A substantial impact
evaluation effort being mounted as part of this project is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1877      Minas Gerais Second Rural Development Project:  US$63.0 million
loan of September 15, 1980; Effective Date: December 16, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985. Previous plans for co-financing
have fallen through, leading to financing problems which have slowed
project implementation such that some reformulation of project targets
is being considered. Subject to these constraints, the project is
proceeding satisfactorily.
1895      ELETROSUL Second Power Transmission Project:  US$125.0 million loan
of October 6, 1980; Effective Date: December 16, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
1924      Ceara Second Rural Development Project:  US$56.0 million loan of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: July 7, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding slower than anticipated,
mainly due to funding delays and institutional problems. Some remedial
actions are being taken.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 15
1939      Electric Power System Coordination:  US$54.0 million loan of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: July 7, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Procurement is in progress.
1965      Third Urban Transport Project:  US$90.0 million loan of June 5, 1981;
Effective Date: October 20, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Implementation of this project is about twelve months behind schedule.
Corrective measures are being taken to bring the project back to its
original schedule as a result of recent (July 1982) discussions held
in Brazil.
1970      Multi-State Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$180.0 million
loan of May 18, 1981; Effective Date: December 15, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985. Project execution is advancing satisfactorily.
1989      Alcohol and Biomass Energy Development Project:  US$250.0 million
loan of June 12, 1981; Effective Date:  November 10, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985. All parts of the program are progress-
ing satisfactorily, although the production component may suffer
temporary delays due to financial stringency at the national level.
2015      Piaui Rural Development Project:  US$29.0 million loan of August 10,
1981; Effective Date: February 5, 1982; Closing Date: December 31,
1986. Although project start-up was delayed because of the late
receipt of funds, implementation is now proceeding satisfactorily,
with over 300 beneficiaries of land redistribution and several
hundred more titles to be distributed in the next few months. Other
components have also progressed well, although limited execution
capacity has slowed progress in small-scale irrigation and water
supply, and delayed the establishment of the State Land Institute.
Overall, project administration is functioning well.
2016      Second Agricultural Research Project:  US$60.0 million loan of
July 8, 1981; Effective Date: December 8, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987. Minor start-up delays occurred during 1982 as a
result of less than optimal counterpart funding. Also, Government
restrictions on hiring (12/28/81) are necessitating special arrange-
ments by EMBRAPA to overcome these restrictions on a case by case
basis. Assurances have now been received from SEPLAN that, commencing
with CY83, there would be full allocation of essential counterpart
funding for the project.
2060      Northwest Region Integrated Development Program; First Phase:
Agriculture Project: US$67.0 million loan of December 15, 1981;
Effective Date: April 26, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
Construction of agricultural infrastructure is proceeding faster
than initially assumed, but there have been some delays in transfer
of funds to local implementing agencies. There has been erratic
progress in environmental component and project coordination
structures, with the exception of Amerindian protection program
which has been progressing satisfactorily.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 15
2061      Northwest Region Integrated Development Program; First Phase;
Health Project US$13.0 million loan of December 15, 1981;
Effective Date: April 26, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
Project start-up is generally satisfactory. The construction
program is proceeding according to schedule but some critical
delays have occurred in the implementation of the malaria control
program because of budgetary constraints at the national level.
2062      Northwest Region Integrated Development Program; First Phase;
Highway Project: US$240.0 million loan of December 15, 1981;
Effective Date: April 26, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
Construction of the Campinas-Ariquemes highway, the main project
component, is progressing well in most of the 19 construction lots
into which the highway is divided. Works started in October 1981
and are scheduled for completion in 1985. The quality of works
is good and DNER's supervision, assisted by six consultants, is
adequate. The strengthening program for the Rondonia Highway
Department is experiencing start-up difficulties because of
management changes. The situation should improve in 1983 with
the start of the technical assistance financed under the project.
2116      Northwest Region Development Program; Second Phase; Mato Grosso
Rural Development Project; US$26.4 million loan of May 12, 1982;
Effective Date: August 9, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
Delays in funding have slowed initial construction activities.
Additional extension staff are being trained and other start-up
activities are proceeding satisfactorily.



- 44 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
SECOND RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN ThE STATE OF BAHIA
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I   -  Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:        Approximately 18 months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:        State of Bahia
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:    Novemlber 1979
(d)  First mission to review project:   August 1981
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:       September 1982
(f)  Completion of negotiations:           March 1983
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:        August 1983
Section II  -  Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III -  Special Conditions
(a)  INTERBA,'s legal department to be reinforced and given the
responsibility for representing the state on land-related
cases (para. 42);
(b) An in-depth evaluation of the effectiveness of the various
aspects of the land tenure regularization component would be
undertaken by a consultant and the results of this
evaluation made available to the Bank by March 31, 1986
(Para. 42);
(c) Shepherd families to be assisted under the project would be
provided with appropriate tenure rights guiaranteeing their
continued access to their communal grazing lands (para. 42);
(d) The Federal Government to ensure that adequate credit would
be made available in a timely manner to project benefi-
ciaries; credit allocation proposals for bank agencies
participating in project credit programs to be submitted to
the Bank. by January 31 of each year; a project credit
statistics and monitoring system to be established no later
than March 31, 1984 (para. 46);
(e) A Small-Scale Irrigation Group within the State Secretariat
of Agriculture to be fully staffed and operational by March
31, 1984 (para. 47);



- 45 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(f) Agreements would be entered into by the state and each of
the beneficiary municipalities, prior to initiating road
works, for purposes of defining execution procedures and
maintenance responsibilities and funding (para. 48);
(g) Location of project schools to be based on the results of a
school mapping study to be provided to the Bank by March 31,
1984 (para. 49);
(h) Users' Association to be created prior to initiating
construction of water supply facilities in any municipality;
operating costs financing would be the responsibility of the
Users' Association or the municipality concerned (para. 50);
(i) Project Unit's headquarters and regional offices at Cipo and
Juazeiro to be established and fully staffed by March 31,
1984; the regional offices in Paulo Afonso and Senhor do
Bonfim to be established by March 31, 1985 and March 31,
1986, respectively (para. 57);
(j) A plan of action satisfactory to the Bank for resolving
outstanding problems of Amerindian reserves definition and
non-Amerindian occupancy to be submitted to the Bank and
its implementation initiated prior to starting project
activities in areas where tension exists between Amerindians
and non-Amerindians (para. 63); and
(k) Conditions of disbursement (para. 54):
(i)  satisfactory evidence that contract between IBB,
EPABA, EMATERBA, and SEPLANTEC has been signed, for
the plant protection and animal health component;
(ii)  the guidelines for execution of spot improvements has
been finalized, for the municipal roads component;
and
(iii)  component execution agreement has been finalized for
each of the components.






_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ - -----   -                                          -~~~~~~~~~~~_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _          IBRD   16B3IB D716 83
PER  N AM  B3 co                                                                                                                                                   JANUARY 1983
P E R N A M B U C O                                                                            40 A                                             39RZ8
| -                                                                                / /;  Aba~                                                                             RURAL P E R N A A B U C  O  B R A c
i' IICI7Z1:(   ?    tEioirz;  y                                    CSZ                    /            ,z-"'  Ao                                                           ,,-sti9         Area  of  Project Activities
0'                              /:C~~~~~~~~~ ~                                                                                       ~~~~~~~ura,;6  or c6 /F
0          00            Pnr,ovo~                                  Proiect Activities:
-t         I                                                                             K .            ~9>            \,L    +Stscurr,ri       \        c      horroch6xi@/Q  ; Penedo                                         tZPetrolnndm u / =  Project Areo Boundary
.I,                                                                                                                                          I Mocurue   >,,ohn,                             . .---\ x                           ;"t    ) g/ 9 tk t 4 \ '?'''  -'   Glori( Communities
- 'ii  <0             ')                                      t~~~~~~~~~~~              "              *         1                - ~~~~~~~f~~ria  *~~~~~~~'                            I         Areas  of Concentration res o   Cocetraio
j,                                                                                                                                                                         GI i   _           A L        GAS                            (prelingary definition)
s /                                                            S                                                          1                 J  89                                             9 q . 0s  a 5  Jo q u /m  ,  -~ Prioriy  ArSea _;  E ma Aras to be c raneed by
'RAI iD  '  A U I   &  76wA 5;C[)  ir..0W<'                                  'u\ lunu in                            .   Sl   t u I            7 n         -                                         orthophatos ond dilscriminted in
J'nO                                                                                                                                                                       fi)  0  i   I  first year of project
Eon                         Uoo .:                                          Planning  Zones
|   // >.- ^ L   2    ,' t ,ssn                 W                 <                 <    i  0    |        \       +        ;       0         *i                 '      SERGI ?~~.-  d, E
Our, o  on rIo Flnoio,,                                        ~~~~~~~Planning  Zone  Boundari,es
FS~~~~~~f . ~ O                           '3g     5              1.                                                                                                           llutrQ. -ue@3'4:X SC Z  0  g mr                                      vls
Selected Roads
k  S x  /    ;'  ;N "";   ' "  ' Y n ' ''                                                         ,  Z -o   ESSTEnG    \   ArscS   t                           <                   t  m S  *- S um                                  M  Sant   B, g,d
i     (t      or hsm ntsi 3o Y n ianK cl l  ss!                                                           )  Santa    Br.ido =                    l     M unicipal    Capitals
;-, ru.ollof t; 7   j   Ksl Beo  rsC onieI, 0n.on 50  00.                                                                                                                                                                             0     Selected  Tonwns
Corirn,,                                                                                                                                                                                       ----'C ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UuRiners
*__________________________________                                                                                                                                                                                                      -   -   Municipal Boundaries; 15981 StAtUS 0/ a G  O/ soch bMncplBunay
iOOAR.ANOA    P  A U I                                                                                                                                                                 d. ,----/                                           -.    State Boundlaries
fC~~~~     .055~~~~lo                                                                 -P,d  Alendendoe
I  cl/  F002,OCT                  1,                                                                                                          j,1  "~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  --International  Boundaries~~~~nt,na,oalBouda,e
k         ."    o             ,,    0 00        0 F.       3                                         , R,5,J
_.                     A,   EA I,                                              i a._r
0  \,J'1f~~~~~~~~~~~~f                                          M~~Posn  o5h                          ot    uldu             -on,rl          At~ 20
-,                      Antonio Gorv~~~~~~~alnes                       CansancUc   - ~~~~~~Maro0                                                          q -~-    'a
50000                                                        0             0                   -                      \%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C  en ue       ierd
A  H     I      A                                 CadeiAo,rppd@ F--,
~0M   SASr~ A1S(000,
K n--  M    DC  3 0  56.de~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9                                                                                                                   0
cl,rr,rr, ~~~~~~~ 00 050                              i,-~~-W  old,r6  -            5           ,     a"Nu
0  100  200                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ki LO~~~~~~~~~~~~~9Sat sp  000    AliMETR
0,   If A  ~ ~   Co eoo                                                                   Mo DoOiiO~os~         *./                               I    Qtindita              P.o nnCoe    .
ro,oio   0  0,o~~~~  E PToSceic2co40da,Co,tC
''5)  K,Inonrnr,0  p00  O,~~~l<O0ii01IiO0,l,O,,i0000,,0,Oi0,0ii0  0,,040011101,,1'i00 S.                                                                                                                 20 MiLES >0  60
l~llni                                                                  000000,1,-000A    a p.i I0oi-
r                                                                                                                                                                                            VI-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1, 00   I,,  0~]nr  ri,,oroon0o,-(1
Kl1i4, 0           15000                                              ,          -
Or,,,,   /                                   rOOOili, Or'C0  10ll1-l04OO                00140



