Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFICIL USE ONLY
MIJCROFICHE COFY   z-AI  3 3  YI -Ac
Rfpn rt No . P- b535-r                                          Ro.'lP
TOUR:EILLE,/ X.3251l / H1.f0951/ EM41F                          ReportNo.P55POL
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTENTIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPNT LOAN
IN AN AMOUlNT EQUIVALENT TO US$200 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF POLAD
Nay 16, 1991
Tbis document bas a restricted distibution and maY be used by recipients only in the pedormance of
heir official dties. its contents may not oterwis be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Zloty (Zl)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
(Zlotys per US$)
1986  1987  1988  1989  1990   1991
(May)
US$1.00 - Zi             175   265   430  4000  9500   11100
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
CMEA        -           Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
DDSR        -           Debt and Debt Service Reduction
DM          -           Deutsche Mark
EBRD        -           European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EC          -           European Community
EIB         -           European Investment Bank
ETP         -           Economic Transformation Program
FIA         -           Foreign Investment Agency
FIBOR       -           Frankfurt Interbank Offered Rate
ICB         -           International Competitive Bidding
IDA         -           Industrial Development Agency
IRF         -           Industrial Restructuring Fund
JSC         -           Joint-stock Company
LIB         -           Limited International Bidding
LIBOR       -           London Interbank Offered Rate
MoF         -           Ministry of Finance
MoI         -           Ministry of Industry
MoOC        -           Ministry of Ownership Changes
NBP         -           National Bank of Poland
PDB         -           Polish Development Bank
PBs         -           Participating Banks
RRA         -           Regional Restructuring Agency
SBEs        -           State Budgetary Entities
SOEs        -           State-owned Enterprises
TA          -           Technical Assistance
Wojewoda    -           Regional Government
POLAND FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONi DEVELOPMNT LOAN
Table of Contets
Page Nos..
LOAN   SU AR     .   .   .   .  .   .  .   .   .  .   .  .   .  .  .   .  .   .  .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .    i  -ii
PART I --INTRODUCTION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
PART II - COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY  . . . . . 3
A.  Economic Transformation Program  .............. ... 3
B.  Medium-Term Perspectives and External Financing Requirements . . . 4
C.  World Bank Group Operations Assistance Strategy  . . . . . . . . . 8
PART III - THE FINANCIAL SECTOR ................... . 11
A.  Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .11
B.  Monetary and Credit Policies            .......... . 11
C.  Regulatory Framework ........  ..  .                ..........   .  14
D.  Structure and Financial Condition of the Banking System  . . . .  17
E.  Institutional Strengthening of Banks   . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
F.  Bank Automation and Payments Clearing System . . . . . . . . . .  19
G.  Financial Markets  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
PART IV - THE REFORM PROGRAM .................... .  21
A.  A Program for the Financial Sector . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
B.  Financial Policies ...................... . 23
C.  Banking Legislation ..................... .  27
D.  Institutional Strengthening of Banks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
E.  Development of Financial Markets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  34
F.  Fiscal Implications of Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  35
PART V - THE PROPOSED LOAN . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  36
A.  Origin and Objectives  ......  ..  .            .  ..  .  .  ..  .  .  ..    .  36
B.  Loan Amount and Borrower . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  37
C.  Loan Design and Components .................. .  37
D.  On-Lending Arrangements and Eligibility Criteria . . . . . . . . 40
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Tabl_g_f Contents (continued)                                           Pan No.
E.  Monitoring Arrangements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
F.  Administrative Arrangements  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . 41
G.  Disbursement and Procurement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
H.  Benefits and Risks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
I. Collaboration with IMF, IFC and other international
organizations       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I . . . 44
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
ANNEXES
1.  Poland - Social Indicators, 1990    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  46
2.  Draft Statement of Financial Policy . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  53
3.  Supplementary Project Data Sheet    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  81
4.  Status of Bank Group Operations in Poland . . . . . . . . . . .  82
5.  Financial Sector Legislation  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   83
6. Institutional Development and Strengthening in the Nine
Commercial Banks  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   87
7.  Technical Assistance on Automation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  98



FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DKVILOPnET WMAN
hrxgxaw:          Republic of Poland
Amount :          US$200 million equivalent
Terms:            Repayment in 17 years, including five years grace, at the
Bank's standard variable rate
Objectives:       The proposed Loan's main objective is to support financial
sector development as a key element of the Government's
Economic Transformation Program through (i) actions on the
policy, regulatory, and institutional fronts; and (ii)
modernization and ultimate privatization of existing banks.
Description:      The Loan includes two components: (i) a quick-disbursing policy
component (US$150 million); and (ii) an institutional
development component (US$50 million).   The major policy
reforms urgently needed to permit a rapid transition toward
a modern market-oriented, mostly private, financial system must
be accompanied by significant, concerted efforts to develop
efficient  institutions  and  skilled  staff.    There  is
consequently a strong interrelation between the two components
and the success of the reform program will closely depend on
their timely joint implementation. The policy component is
articulated around four elements: (i) improvements of financial
policies; (ii) modernization of banking legislation; (iii) bank
restructuring; and (iv) development of financial markets. The
core of the institutional development component relates to a
comprehensive program of technical assistance and automation
programs for banks aimed at their institutional strengthening
and privatization.
Benefits and
Risks:            The key benefits of the program supported by the proposed Loan
are: (i) the removal or reduction of subsidies on lending
rates, complemented by a program to reduce directed credit and
Central Bank refinancing, which will create an environment
fostering an efficient mobilization of financial resources and
their allocation to viable investments; (ii) reforms in the
legal framework - on banking, collateral security, deposit
insurance, and securitiea - which will foster the development
of  a  healthy  and  competitive  banking  sector;  (iii)
institutional strengthening, and the envisaged privatization
of state-banks, which will contribute to the development of
a network of banks providing efficient and comprehensive
banking services throughout the country. A number of risks
will be faced in implementing this program: (i) a deterioration
in the macroeconomic performance, particularly as regards



- Li -
credit growth, may lead to a return to hyperinflation,
financial disintermediation, crowding out of market-allocated
credit, and increased financial instability of banks. This
risk should however, be reduced, given the recently agreed
extended arrangement with the IMF, and the close monitoring
by the authorities of key targets; (ii) political pressure,
linked with the lack of experience of bank staff, may slow down
the process of shifting to hard lending practices. Government's
commitment to a rapid shift to market mechanisms and the
introduction of monitoring mechanisms and early warning systems
would lessen this risk; (iii) the complexity of the program
could cause delays in its implementation. To address this
risk, a high-level Steering Committee will be established.
Twinning arrangements with foreign banks should facilitate the
implementation of the institutional development component.
Also, strong support to monitor the program will be provided
by the Resident Mission in Poland.
Disbursements:    Under, the quick-disbursing component, up to US$100 million
could be used for supporting a commercial bank Debt and Debt
Service Reduction (DDSR). The balance of US$50 million would
be disbursed against 1001 of the c.i.f costs of eligible
general imports except for the usual small negative list of
ineligible items;it would be disbursed in two tranches of
US$25 million each. The first tranche would be available upon
effectiveness expected by August 1991; the second, after
compliance with second tranche release conditions,expected by
December 1992.  The remainder of the Loan (US$50 million)
would be disbursed for financing consulting services provided
by foreign commercial banks under the twinning arrangements;
automation of participating banks; consulting services to the
Borrower on areas of ownership transformation of banks, and
banking legislation; and training for the NBP. The Loan is
expected to be fully disbursed by June 30, 1994.
Rate of return:         Not applicable
Estimated Schedule
of Disbursements:       IBRD Fiscal Year          US$ Million
135      45     20



REPQRT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF TIE PEIDEnT OP THE
INTERNATIONAL SANK FORJ0  STRUCTION AND_DEVMZ
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED FINANCIAI INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT LOAN
IN AM AMOUNT ROUIVALENT TO USS209 MILLION
TO TE REPUBLIC OF POLAND
1.01        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Financial Institutions Development Loan (FIDL) to the Republic of Poland for the
equivalent of US$200 million. It supports the acceleration and deepening of the
Government's financial sector reform program, which seeks to establish a
competitive, market-based financial system to support reforms being undertaken
in the real sector. The Loan would have a term of 17 years, including 5 years
of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
PART I - INTRODUCTION
1.02        The Government of Poland initiated in January 1990 a comprehensive
and ambitious program of economic transformation.   Far-reaching and broadly
based measures to reform the financial sector are needed to sustain the rapid
pace of the program. In priority, the challenge for the Government is to foster
the development of independent, market-oriented banks providing general banking
services to the economy, and able to mobilize resources, evaluate risk, and
efficiently allocate resources to viable projects. Financial institutions will
need to be rapidly transformed to function efficiently in a competitive, market-
based environment and to support Poland's ambitious privatization program, the
much-needed restructuring of industrial enterprises, and private sector
development. The extent and complexity of the reforms required to achieve such
objectives, the required linkages of the financial sector reforms with those in
the real sector, and the need for radically transforming approaches to banking,
will require enormous efforts which must be sustained over the medium-to-long
term.
1.03        In this context, the proposed Financial Institutions Development
Loan (FIDL) intends to support the introduction of measures which further extend
the financial sector reforms initiated under the first Structural Adjustment Loan
(SAL 1), and to introduce policies and programs for strengthening existing
banking institutions toward their ownership transformation and eventual
privatization. To achieve this objective, the proposed Loan will support a
program of important policies reforms and a comprehensive institutional
development program for commercial banks. The proposed Loan supports the first
phase of a development strategy of the financial sector, which will consist
primarily of targeted measures aimed at achieving a number of practical
objectives, as outlined in Parts IV and V below. The Loan is proposed to be
followed by others, which would support subsequent phases of the Government's
financial sector reform program.



- 2 -
1.04        The success of the reform program for the financial sector will
hinge on the successful continuation of the stabilization program, rapid progress
in the implementation of a number of critical programs, inter alis the
restructuring and privatization of enterprises, and the introduction of policies
and procedures which ensure and safeguard autonomy and accountability in
financial institutions.



MART II - COUNTRY POLICIES AND MANMGROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A.  Economic Transfoguat io  Program
2.01        The Economic Transformation Program (ETP) was launched at the
beginning of 1990 and supported by a Standby Arrangement from the Fund and the
first SAL from the Bank. The main objectives of the ETP are to stabilize the
economy, accelerate systemic changes toward a market economy, and gradually
restore  the creditworthiness of Poland.   The mair. elements of the ETP
stabilization component consist of: (i) lifting all price controls; (ii)
unification of foreign exchange markets, coupled with a lifting of import
controls and export restrictions; (iii) limitation of wage increases; (iv) return
to fiscal balance; and (v) a tightening of credit policy.  Systemic changes
supported by the SAL focused on three core areas: the introduction of measures
for enterprise restructuring, privatization, and private sector development;
financial sector reforms; and the development of a social safety net.
2.02        Overall, and despite a relaxation of stabilization policies at the
end of 1990, the ETP has been successful, although the economy contracted more
than anticipated, and inflation remains high and continues to be a major threat
to the program. The rate of inflation has hovered arounud 4-5X per month since
the fall 1990, as a result of the devaluation of the zloty in late 1989, the
recurrent correction of administered prices and the wage indexation formula, the
loosening of monetary policy in the second half of 1990, and finally the
depreciation of the dollar and the increase in international oil prices. The
ETP was recently amplified and extended through the preparation of a Memorandum
on Economic Reform and Medium-Term Policies, which serves as a guide to its
program of work. On the basis of this program, the Polish authorities have
recently agreed on a three-year Extended Arrangement with the IMF, which is
complemented by access under the Compensatory and Contingency Financing Facility.
2.03        As a result of a significant decline in socialized sector production,
GDP is estimated to have dropped by 121 in 1990.  The period was, however,
characterized by the start of an important shift of resources to the private
sector, and an impressive improvement in the trade balance. Production in the
industrial socialized sector declined 251 but increased 8.5% in the private
sector, so that overall, industrial output fell by 23.31. Agriculture production
is estimated to have dropped 1X. Socialized construction experienced a decline
of 91, and private construction a drop of 21.  On the expenditure side, the
decline in GDP was associated with a sharp drop in real consumption per capita,
and a drop in gross fixed investment of 91. Consumption is estimated to have
dropped by about 181 in per capita terms in 1990.
2.04        The surplus of the consolidated State budget is estimated to be
approximately 2.51 of 1990 GDP, including interest paid. This represents an
extraordinary turnaround; the stabilization program called for a balanced budget
for 1990 compared with a 7.41 of GDP deficit in 1989. Throughout most of the
year the consolidated budget ran surpluses and thus dampened the increase in
domestic credit.



- 4 -
2.05        Financing and credit policies have changed dramatically over the
last two years. Prior to 1990, monetary and credit policies were an important
component of a pervasive system of explicit and in.licit subsidies with the main
instruments being the budget (wherein 16X of GDP was allocated for subsidies),
the trade regime with an overvalued exchange rate, and the financial and credit
system. Interest rates were severely negative, as nominal interest rates were
held far below inflation rates, which themselves increased to monthly levels of
30-501 at the end of 1989. The resulting inflation tax was paid by households,
and was used both to subsidize enterprises, which received low-interest loans,
and to finance the budget deficit.
2.06        By contrast, in 1990, both explicit and implicit subsidies were
decreased to 62 of GDP, the exchange rate was devalued and stabilized at its
official rate, and interest subsidies were reduced.  Interest rates for most
loans were above inflation rates for 10 months, and the lending rate for the
year as a whole was approximately 5X in real terms. Exceptions were housing
and agricultural credit, where low interest rates were supported by an interest
capitalization scheme for unpaid interest and direct budget subsidies. Since
inflation reached 2502 (on an end of year over beginning of year basis), there
again was a substantial inflation tax, and because there were negative real rates
paid on deposits, depositors again bore the brunt of the tax. Real rates were
largely positive on loans, however, implying that the tax revenues were retained
in part by banks, and with the substantial increase in reserve requirements over
the course of the year, by the Government. These revenues contributed to a
budget surplus for the year of about 2.51 of GDP. The budget surplus funded in
part a build-up of foreign exchange reserves, which increased by about US$4
billion during the year.
2.07        For 1990 as a whole, the external position of Poland improved
markedly with respect to 1989. The trade surplus in convertible currency is
estimated to be US$2.2 billion (about 3.52 of GDP). This, together with private
transfers and interest receipts, resulted in reserve accumulation of US$4.3
billion, with the level of gross reserves at year-end 1990 amounting to US$6.5
billion or about four months of projected 1991 imports of goods and services;
a substantial rescheduling of Paris Club debt obligations, and a de facto
moratorium on commercial debt, also strengthened the balance of payments
position.   The trade surplus is due to an increase of convertible currency
exports by some 352 in real terms with respect to 1989. Imports increased by
6.1X in real terms for the year as a whole, with the rebound concentrated in
the last two months of 1990, during that period. While increased oil prices
played some role, the doubling of imports in these months over previous monthly
rates is attributed to a broad range of imports and was probably due to credit
expansion, the relative appreciation of the zloty, election uncertainties, and
devaluation expectations.
B.  Medium-Term Persyectives and Ixternal FinancinT Requirements
2.08        Proiections. Key macroeconomic indicators are included in Annex 1.
There is a general consensus that 1991 will be a difficult year for the Polish
economy. On the domestic front, stabilization must be consolidated and a strong



5-
effort will be needed to carry out conservative monetary and fiscal policies.
Additionally, important steps must be taken for the restructuring of the economy;
in particular, privatization and enterprise restructuring need to be pursued
vigorously. These reforms and the continuing stabilization are likely to lead
to modest output recovery and higher unemployment. The expected GDP growth of
2.5X in 1991 is, in part, due to carry over from 1990. Increasing competition
will lower profits in the socialized sector from the relatively good numbers in
1990, which were due to the steep devaluation and the realization of profits from
inventories. On the external front, Poland will face substantially higher energy
prices (mainly due to the shift to international prices for Council of Mutual
Economic Assistance--CMEA--trade) and a depressed CMEA market.  Moreover, the
relative appreciation of the zloty, after the major devaluation at the start of
ETP, reduced the attractiveness of exports with respect to the exceptional
circumstances of 1990.   To address this concern, a devaluation of 14X was
implemented in May 1991, as Poland also pegged the zloty to a basket of
currencies rather than only to the dollar.
2.09        Starting in 1991, the balance of payments consolidates trade with
convertible and non-convertible areas, due to the switch to hard currency
transactions among CMEA countries.   As a result, the levels of imports and
exports in the convertible balance of payments increase significantly.   The
impact of the CMEA transformation was estimated by calculating the anticipated
value of imports and exports of goods for which international price quotations
are readily available, and by assuming cross rates of transferable rubles per
dollar for all other goods as well as a change in volume. The bulk of the
negative impact is concentrated in the increase in energy prices (an additional
US$1.5 billion) and a sharp reduction in export volume to the CMEA area (-492).
Valued at the official zloty per transferable ruble rate, exports to the CMEA
area would drop in value by US$200 million. However, when valued at a realistic
rate, the drop in the value of exports to CMEA will be more than US$2.5 billion.
2.10        After the decline in 1990 and modest performance in 1991, an output
recovery is expected in 1992 and strong sustained growth thereafter of 5X per
year in real terms as new productive structures respond to the competitive
environment and adequate price signals. To achieve the growth target, investment
will need to increase significantly, with an increase in fixed investment of 2.42
points of GDP in 1991, and a further increase of 1.22 in 1992 and 1993. This
will bring the ratio of real fixed investment to real GDP to 28.32 by 1994 from
23.22 in 1990. Thereafter the ratio of real fixed investment to real GDP is
expected to decline steadily to 25.62 while real GDP growth is assumed to
continue at the sam'e level of 52. As a consaquence, Incremental Output Ratios
are also steadily reduced as a reflection of a more productive use of investment
resources.
2.11        Due to the greater investment needs of the reform and the impact of
CMEA dissolution, the trade balance is expected to move into deficit (after the
extraordinary performance in 1990) and remain with a minor deficit (less than
1 of GDP) until the mid 1990s. The recovery program is based on a balance of
payments performance dependent on good export growth (to convertible plus dollar
clearing areas) of 5.0X in 1991, 6.92 total export growth in 1992-94, 7.22 in
1995-98, and then 6.6X in 1999 and 6.32 in 2000. Overall, this would be an 802



- 6 -
increase in real terms through the remainder of the decade. This export
performance is considered possible on the assumption that macroeconomic
stability, successful restructuring, efficient investment and DDSR actually take
place.
2.12        External Financing Strategy.  Poland's prospects for achieving a
sustainable balance of payments without compromising the possibilities for a
reasonable rate of economic growth depend on Poland's success in shifting
resources from uneconomic to productive activities, and also reducing the burden
of external debt. The above projections reflect a major adjustment of the Polish
economy, driven by and benefitting from the ETP policy and institutional reforms,
to gain this shift to more productive activities. The adjustment cost in terms
if slowly recovering real wages and consumption, unprecedented levels of
unemployment, and increased domestic savings is high.  Notwithstanding this
effort on the part of the Polish economy, including moving back into trade
surplus and maintaining a positive non-interest current account throughout the
projection period, Poland will have a significant financing gap.
2.13        Without debt and debt service reduction (DDSR) by current creditors,
the balance of payments would imply low growth, which would undermine the process
of reform. Only with the lessening of uncertainties that would come with a
reduction of future debt service obligations will the incentive to export be
fully restored and the investment needed to restructure the economy be
forthcoming. With sound relations with its current creditors and viable external
accounts, Poland can hope to attract the level of external savings needed to
sustain investment levels and generate technology transfer to bring about
restructuring of the productive sectors and resumption of healthy growth. The
recent agreement in principle with the Paris Club for DDSR of about 50X and the
ongoing negotiations with the London Club provide increasing confidence that
satisfactory DDSR arrangements will be in place in the near future.
2.14        Table 1 below summarizes an illustrative financing plan needed to
sustain the ETP. It incorporates the recently agreed Paris Club DDSR, modest
assumptions about direct foreign investment, and projections for new lending
being offered by current creditors and international financial institutions.
The table indicates that there would still be need for further financing from
other sources, including  the possible  commercial bank DDSR.            Assuming
satisfactory actions in mobilizing all these resources, Poland would be able to
complete its financing plan for the decade as a whole; however, the annual
patterns are uneven.   The need for DDSR is greatest in the early part of the
decade, due to current amortization schedules. Furthermore, reserves need to
be increased significantly during 1991-92 to reflect growing import needs as well
as to provide a secure envelope for sound macro-economic management. Also, the
up-front costs of commercial bank DDSR must be paid.



- 7-
IllustrativeWDDSR FZLancin Plan
(Medium and Long-Term Convertible Currency Debt)
(US $ Billion)
1991-95 (of whlch 1991-92) 192fi-00Q 1221-2Q00
I. Uses of bunds:
1.  Payments Due: Existing Debt         39.2       13.9              25.6        64.8
New Debt              L2.9       0.4               10.0        2L.
Total                 42.1       14.3              35.6        77.7
Of which:
amortization      21.2        5.5              20.9        42.1
interest          20.9        8.8              14.7        35.6
2. Target change in Reserves
3. Other iv
II. Sources of Funds:                     47.9       18.3              37.3        85.2
2. New LAnding                           9.7        4.2             10.3         20.0
Of which: World Bank               4.1        1.8             4.2           8.3
IMF                      2.3        1.6               -           2.3
Other IFIs and
bilaterals               3.3         6.8             6.1          9.4
2.  DFI                                2.0        0.5              3.4          5.4
3.  NICA'(                             6.6        3.5             12.9         19.5
4.  DDSR-Paris Club                   24.7        8.4              4.1         28.8
Other 3/                           4.9        1.7              6.6         11.5
__....... .................... ... ...... .....
1/    Includes Capital not elsewhere included (including costs of commercial banks
DDSR), and other items.
2/    Includes interest received
3/    Includes possible commercial DDSR and other unidentified sources of funds.
2.15        The above scenario shows the importance of DDSR, especially in the
early part of the decade. The combination of both Paris Club DDSR and possible
commercial banks would provide nearly 68X of the financing needs in 1991-95, and
29X in 1996-2000; for the decade as a whole, DDSR would contribute about 50X.
Poland is expected to contribute around 50X of total payments made; this is more
than enough to service all new debt and create a modest contribution to servicing



old debt after DDSR. Of the new disbursements, flows from bilaterals and other
international financial institutions are expected to build up slowly.
2.16        The World Bank would provide essential reform and financial support
through a combination of investment and policy-based, fast-disbursing loans.
World Bank lending would contribute about 42X of the new lending disbursements
for the decade. The policy-based, fast-disbursing loans (concentrated in the
early part of the decade) would be provided: (i) to support the acceleration
of key institutional and policy reforms to establish the framework for further
systemic changes and (ii) as part of the World Bank's contribution to the
international effort to complete the financing plan (including enhancements to
a satisfactory commercial bank DDSR).   Without the Bank's quick-disbursing
assistance and the IMF support, the financing gap would not be closed,
particularly in earlier years.
2.17        The Illustrative DDSR Financing Plan provides sufficient relief to
reestablish Poland's creditworthiness for new lending. Total medium- and long-
term debt decreases slowly in the early 1990s and then drops significantly to
about US$35 billion at end-1993, due to the expected structure and timing of
DDSR. By that time, Poland is beginning to accumulate new debt, which will build
total debt back up to about US$42 billion by the end of the decade. However,
given Poland's growth, debt/GDP ratios would fall regularly and continuously
throughout the decade, from about 77% of GDP in 1990 to about 37X by 1995 and
a further decline to about 271 by 2000. Total debt service as a share of GDP
and exports would drop significantly to about 2.5X and 111, respectively, in
1991.    These  ratios would peak  in 1995 at about  3.7% and nearly  141,
respectively, and decline modestly thereafter.
C. World Bank Group Operations Assistance Strategy
2.18        The Bank strategy in Poland is to support the priorities of the ETP:
macroeconomic stability, restructuring, and growth.  Since the initiation of
lending in 1990, the World Bank has provided loans amounting to about US$1.2
billion in seven projects. The status of the Bank Group operations is provided
in Annex 4.
2.19        The proposed lending program builds on the major reform initiatives
supported by SAL I (Report P-5294-POL)--enterprise sector reform and
privatization to promote an active supply response, financial sector reforms to
develop a modern institutional basis for resource mobilization and allocation,
and the social safety net to alleviate the burden during adjustment and to deal
with poverty. These three aspects of the reform program are key elements in the
Bank's support for the design and introduction of an enabling environment leading
to the development of the private sector, and given their institutional and
political linkages, progress is needed on all three fronts simultaneously. They
will be specifically addressed in the proposed parallel projects (Privatization
and Restructuring Project- -Report P-5559-POL), and the forthcoming Private Sector
Development Project, and Employment Promotion and Services Project. A second
Structural Adjustment Loan is also under preparation, and will sustain programs
initiated under SAL I, and focus on budget reform, labor market flexibility,



- 9 -
trade development and possibly also pensions and civil service reform. Other
sectoral operations, in particular in energy, agriculture, will provide
additional support to the restructuring of the economy, and the acceleration of
the supply response.
2.20        The proposed lending program would translate into commitments on
the order of US$3 billion for FY91-93. The Bank's exposure would increase to
the equivalent of about 10 of total external debt at the end of 1995 (of the
DDSR), with debt service obligations to the Bank absorbing only about 2X of total
convertible currency export earnings by the end of the decade.
2.21        The Bank's continued work at the policy and institutional levels is
intended to provide improved conditions for the development of the private
sector.   An important part of the Bank direct support for private sector
development is planned through the forthcoming Private Sector Development
project, with special emphasis on small and medium scale enterprises. The Bank
is also looking to support innovative approaches to foster private investment
and joint ventures--possibly seed capital funds and a free-standing operation
for private initiatives in energy, manufacturing, and environment investments.
Such work is still at an early stage, and is being developed in close
collaboration with IFC, HIGA, and other potential cofinanciers, including the
EBRD, the EIB, and the EC.
2.22        This reform work will be complemented by activities to support the
improvement of key infrastructure sectors. Activities to be covered are chosen
by their importance in establishing sound conditions for private sector
development and for effectively drawing private sector resources into healthy
development activities; they include, among others, telecommunications, energy,
housing, environment, and transportation. The Bank will continue to use such
investment operations to address policy and institutional reforms (e.g.,
privatization, pricing and cost recovery, development of appropriate regulatory
regimes, and improved management of enterprises expected to remain in state
hands).
2.23        Following the successful work of a joint Agriculture Task Force, the
Bank is working with the Polish authorities to launch a strong program of
assistance to the agriculture sector. This is expected to include activities
to foster institutional changes (e.g., development of rural cooperatives, reform
of the rural banking structure, restructuring of agro-business, pricing and trade
policy and development of environmental standards) as well as addressing
structural issues of regional/rural development and land markets.
2.24        The scale of potential assistance from other sources is large.  The
Bank has encouraged close collaboration with these sources and is actively
helping to develop vehicles suitable for cofinancing. Given the importance of
dealing with the debt overhang, the Bank is expected to take an active role in
supporting the needed debt workout. With an agreed medium-term macroeconomic
framework and good progress in arranging a Paris Club DDSR (or equivalent
measures), the Bank, in concert with the IMF, would be prepared to provide
enhancements, if needed, for an acceptable Brady Plan workout for commercial
banks consistent with Bank guidelines.



- 10 -
2.25        IFC has played, and is playing an important complementary role in
the reform of the Polish economy. IFC has assisted with the development of the
regulatory framework for commercial banks and securities markets, has promoted
a Joint venture commercial bank, and is actively considering the establishment
of a venture capital fund. It plans to help establish other non-bank financial
intermediaries such as leasing companies, mutual funds and insurance companies,
and is directly active in promoting Poland's privatization efforts.   It has
advised the Government on the conceptual framework for privatization and on
specific legislative initiatives, most recently on amendments to the foreign
investment and banking laws. IFC initiated a proposal, and helped secure EC
funding for financing the organization/establishment of the Privatization Agency,
which was later expanded into the Ministry of Ownership Changes (MoOC). In
addition, IFC is assisting in and undertaking individual privatization
transactions. Furthermore, IFC has sponsored and is supporting the establishment
of the Polish Business Advisory Service.



- 11 -
PART III - THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
A. lntrodualion
3.01        Given its previously limited function in a centrally-planned economy,
the financial system in Poland is not very well developed for a country of its
size. As of January 1990, the banking sector was comprised mainly of a central
bank-the National Bank of Poland (NBP), five specialized banks, nine commercial
banks, a small development bank, and nearly 1,700 cooperative banks.   The
specialized banks consist of Bank Handlowy, the foreign-trade bank, which used
to hold the Polish foreign debt, Bank PK0 SA, which managed foreign exchange
deposits of households, a savings bank with an extensive branch network and a
portfolio of housing loans (PK0 BP), the Bank for Food Economy (BGZ) which
specializes in agricultural lending and serves as an apex institution for the
cooperative banking system, and the Export Development Bank (BRE), established
in 1987. The nine commercial banks were established in January 1989 through a
process whereby NBP retained only typical central banking activities while its
former enterprise lending activities were transferred to this second-tier network
of banks. In addition, about 100 banking licenses have been awarded over 1990-
91, but only a few of these banks--usually very small in size--are operational.
Also, a few specialized institutions are being established (para 3.04).  The
sections below provide an analytical review of selected aspects of the financial
system, with a view to identifying its most significant weaknesses and providing
a basis for developing a related action program (described in Part IV). They
deal successively with monetary and credit policies, the legal framework, the
structure and conditions of banks, institutional development and strengthening,
the inter-bank payments clearing system, and financial markets.
B. Monetary and Credit Policies
1. Current Status
3.02        Restrictive money and credit policies--coupled with nominal wage
and exchange rate anchors--have been the centerpiece of Poland's stabilization
program. Interest rate policy has been designed to maintain positive real rates
in the economy and successive actions have been taken to control the availability
of bank liquidity. Insofar as hyperinflation has subsided, the program has been
successful, although inflation remains of major concern. After declining to a
low of about 2% monthly by mid-summer 1990, inflation picked up to about 5% per
month in the fourth quarter. Due, in part, to the phasing in of administrative
price increases in January, inflation jumped to 12.71; it subsided to some 6.7%
in February. In response, the Government further increased the refinancing rate
and took additional action to restrain the availability of bank credit, including
the reimposition of bank-by-bank credit limits. The authorities intend to bring
inflation down to a little over 1% monthly by the second quarter of 1991, and
to 36% for the year.
3.03        While the expected reduction in inflation is encouraging,  the
potential for continuing macro-economic instability significantly increases
risks for financial institutions and threatens the viability of this sector.
Moreover, a well-functioning financial system is crucial to the ongoing



-12 -
stabilization effort, the restructuring of Polish enterprises, and furthering
the process of transition to a private market economy. Although significant
progress has been achieved under on-going reform programs, additional policy
reforms are needed to extend and promote the objectives of the stabilization
program and to protect the development of a competitive financial system during
this period of potential macro-economic instability. Areas of immediate concern
include: (i) specialized credit programs which, if unchecked, would perpetuate,
and could exacerbate, major distortions in the allocation of credit and risk an
inflationary expansion of credit;   (ii) inefficient control over liquidity,
particularly the high levels of credit refinanced by NBP and the structure of
reserve requirements which imposes a significant inflation tax on intermediation
through the banking system; (iii) imperfect competition in bank interest rate
setting, which is compounded by the re-introduction of bank credit ceilings; and
(iv) inadequate policies on foreign exchange deposits, which may lead to large
mismatches between the banks' foreign exchange assets and liabilities.
2. Government Credit Programs
3.04        A central objective of the Government's financial policies is the
development of a largely private, competitive, non-segmented financial system
that can allocate credit efficiently to creditworthy borrowers offering the
highest return. There has been, however, mixed progress as regards the phasing
out of non-market credit allocation. In 1990, the Government felt it necessary
to maintain or re-establish several Government credit programs, including
preferential or subsidized credit schemes in the housing and agricultural
sectors, and for central investments. (Although no new central investments are
planned, those under completion continue to be fully refinanced by NBP).
Moreover, a number of new specialized lending institutions have been created,
which are either majority owned by the central Government or provide guarantees
on behalf of the Government. These include the Bank of Social and Economic
Initiatives (BISE) and the Polish Development Bank (PDB). The new Industrial
Development Agency (IDA) may also play a limited financing role. In addition,
a new environment bank has been recently established, and the establishment of
an export credit agency is being considered.
3.05        There are  two risks  if these programs  proceed unchecked and
unmonitored. First, excessive growth in credit under the specialized programs
would crowd out private market-based lending and/or would result in an
inflationary expansion of credit. Second, the continued promotion of non-market
credit allocation will impede the development of a competitive banking system
capable of allocating credit on the basis of risk and expected return. Planned
extensions of preferential credit for housing, agriculture, and central
investments already account for about 60X of the planned real growth in credit
under the stabilization program in 1991.  Even if those programs, and other
Government credit programs, are not fully implemented, they clearly illustrate
the need for much-improved and rapid coordination, planning and monitoring by
the Government of all of the various programs under consideration.
3. Liguidity in the Banking System
3.06        The on-going monetary and banking reforms in Poland have enabled
the authorities to move toward a more market-oriented system of monetary control.
The previous system of credit ceilings for individual banks was removed in 1990



- 13 -
and was replaced with a control mechanism based on indirect instruments: reserve
requirements, open market operations, and less automatic refinancing.  As a
result, by October 1990, the share of refinancing dropped to 20X of total
domestic credit, from 65X at the end of 1989.   At the same time, reserve
requirements have been increased sharply, from an average of 1.8X to 18X of total
deposits. The required reserve ratio now is 30X of sight deposits (the statutory
ceiling) and 10% of time deposits.   Moreover, since August 1990, NbP has
conducted a weekly auction of NBP bills as a first step to open market
operations.
3.07        Even so, the banking system's excess liquidity remains high (at more
than 10% of total deposits as of late October 1990). The ability of NBP to
control bank liquidity appears in part to have been hampered by the remaining
portion of bank credits still eligible for automatic NBP refinancing (central
investments and agricultural bills of exchange). Moreover, the ability to engage
in open market operations is constrained by the relatively immature market for
NIP bills. Once open market operations become more effective, it is expected
that reserve requirements can be reduced. In the meantime, the current structure
of reserve requirements is the cause of certain distortions: (i) because reserves
do not pay interest, the current high levels of reserve requirements impose a
severe tax on the banking system, particularly in an inflationary environment;
(ii) the substantial difference in requirements on time and' sight deposits
distorts the relative rates paid on the two types of deposits and gives an
unwarranted advantage to savings institutions because of the prevailing
institutional specialization, and (iii) the absence of reserve requirements on
foreign exchange deposits promotes paying higher rates on these accounts and
loosens monetary 'control.   Finally, in January 1991, in order to meet the
objective of a 7% growth in real credit for the first half of 1991 agreed under
the macro-economic stabilization program, NBP reimposed bank-by-bank credit
ceilings.
4. Interest Rates
3.08        In 1990, with the suppression of most preferential interest rates
and the elimination of bank-by-bank credit agreements, NBP's refinancing rate
became the primary instrument of monetary policy. The refinancing rate was reset
periodically generally to maintain a positive real rate. With the less than
total effectiveness of indirect monetary controls, for a while NBP officials
relied on a degree of moral suasion to influence credit and deposit growth
through guidance provided banks in setting loan and deposit rates: banks were
encouraged to charge their best customers at a level close to the refinancing
rate, while paying a rate on six month time deposits at least equal to the
refinancing rate. Efforts to use moral suasion to guide interest rate setting
were discontinued in January 1991.   However, the reintroduction of credit
ceilings in January distorts the incentives of market-based loan and deposit rate
setting and credit allocation.
5.  Foreign Excbange -Deosits
3.09        One of the key objectives of financial policies is the establishment
of a convertible zloty. For many years, the U.S. dollar has played a dominant
role in the economy, both as a medium of exchange and unit of account. Polish
residents have been allowed to maintain foreign exchange deposits in domestic



. 14 -
banks; most of these deposits are in U.S. dollars. Until recently, virtually
all banks were required to deposit these funds in dollar-indexed accounts at the
foreign exchange bank, Bank Handlowy, which surrendered them to the Government
for meeting balance of payments needs. When the zloty was devalued, the banks
recorded an offsetting increase in the value of their accounts at Bank Handlowy,
which accumulated a corresponding claim on the Government. In effect, banks were
given dollar-indexed Government liabilities in exchange for these deposits. As
a result, the banks were protected from foreign exchange risk, which was borne
by the Government.  Interest rates paid on these deposits have been high by
market standards: Bank Handlowy pays 11.5X on its dollar-indexed accounts, while
banks pay an estimated average of 8.5X on dollar deposits. These deposits have
been further advantaged by being exempt from reserve requirements.
3.10        However, the claims on the Government were highly illiquid and not
serviced for the most part (interest on these accounts was capitalized).
Moreover, the legal obligation of the claims for foreign exchange losses on
domestic deposits at the nine formei branches of NBP is less clear. When these
banks were split from NBP in 1989, they inherited the foreign exchange deposit
liabilities but NBP kept the foreign exchange denominated claims on Bank
Handlowy. The nine banks were credited with zloty denominated claims on NBP,
at least some of which have been repaid.
3.11        To ensure the solvency and viability of the banking system, banks
need to be assured that the Government and NBP will repay the banks for past
losses on foreign exchange deposits. Moreover, in the long-run, the reliance
on domestic deposits as a source of foreign exchange should be phased out, with
a stable zloty replacing the bulk of foreign currency deposits in the domestic
money supply. Moreover, as banks are no longer required to surrender foreign
exchange, they need to be provided the opportunity and proper instruments for
managing their exposure. With the potential for continuing economic instability,
an open exposure in foreign exchange is particularly risky. As many banks are
inexperienced in this area, close supervision will be needed to ensure that the
risk of foreign exchange operations will be kept within limits.   Finally,
policies need to be adopted to encourage the substitution of foreign exchange
deposits for zlotys.
C.  Regulatorv Framework
1. The Legal Framework
3.12        Under the mono-bank system that existed in Poland until 1989, the
Government was responsible for directing refinancing credit to state enterprises,
and the mono-bank was essentially passive in this process. The widely-accepted
implication was that the Government was the ultimate guarantor for repayment of
credit. Further, defaults were rare or non-existent, since the mono-bank was
in a position to assure repayment by re-directing balances of state enterprises
held with it. The introduction of the two-tier banking system in 1989, when the
mono-bank was split into a central bank, and its branches into nine regional
commercial banks, brought with it the need to regulate the banking sector. As
a result, a number of laws relating to the financial sector were rapidly



- 15 -
introduced in Poland, more or less at that time, in order to provide a basis for
regulating the nascent banking system in Poland. These include the Banking Law
and the Act on the National Bank of Poland, in January 1989, and amendments
thereof.
3.13        These limited bodies of law have so far constituted an acceptable
basis given the lack of development of the system, but there is now a need for
considerable improvement and expansion of these laws, to provide an adequate
framework for ensuring sustained banking soundness and stability over the longer-
term.   Adequate  laws and supervisory mechanisms will also be needed for
regulating the emerging non-banking financial sector. The efficient enforcement
of these laws will require that adequate resources be devoted to developing
proper institutional support and a reservoir of skilled professionals.
3.14        The 1989 Banking Law introduced the concept of universal banking in
departure from the strict specialization enforced under past legislation. At
this stage however, the concept of universal banking has not been fully defined,
and has usually been understood in the narrow sense, i.e., corresponding to that
of commercial banking.   Further extension of the activities of banks -- in
particular trading in securities and money market instruments, portfolio
management and financial leasing--is being contemplated.  Such a process will
have to be undertaken in stages, after ascertaining that adequate regulatory and
supervisory safeguards have been introduced and that banks have taken steps to
acquire the required skills. Of some concern also is the large number of new
banking licenses granted in 1990-91, since the capacity to screen bank
applications and for bank supervision remains embryonic.
3.15        The restructuring of the financial system, which is interrelated
with the shift toward more autonomy and accountability for public enterprises,
including selective privatization, and the rapid development of private financial
institutions, requires the harmonization of past laws and the introduction of
new legislation, with an immedi. '7e focus on:  (i) the complex issue of loan
recovery and loan collateral; (ii, deposit guarantees and the related issue of
bank insolvency; (iii) bank ownership and management; and (iv) the development
of capital markets. During 1990, at the request of the Polish Government, a
Legal Advisory Group chaired by the Bank, and consisting of representatives of
the IMF, the IFC, the EC, and foreign governments, as well as private sector
firms, was established to undertake a review of the legal framework as it affects
the financial sector, and to assist in the process of modernizing and updating
the legal framework. Further analyses of the financial sector legislation and
a summary of the Group's findings are in Annex 5.
3.16        In August 1990, temporary grudential and supervisory regulations
prepared with the assistance of the Banque de France, under an IMF-sponsored
technical assistance program, were issued in the areas of: (i) procedures for
granting loans and advances; (ii) loan classification, provisioning and interest
accrual;  (iii) capital adequacy;  and (iv) liquidity requirements.   Other
regulations, including credit and investment concentration and limits; accounting
standards, disclosures, and auditing requirements and standards; and the
objectives and scope of prudential supervision, have not yet been introduced.



- 16 -
2.  Introduction of Revised Accounting and Auditing Practices
3.17        An urgent priority is the need to transform and develop accounting
practices and independent external audits for both banks and enterprises, since
current practices were designed to record flows to priority sectors and
compliance with centrally planned allocations. A critical aspect of the new
accounting system for banks is the establishment, with the assistance of the
IMF/Banque de France, of definitions for non-performing assets, relating
principally to the accrual of interest and to the establishment of provisions.
To support the introduction of these standards and their proper implementation
in the concerned institutions, there is a considerable need for developing the
accounting and auditing profession.
3.18        The development of a Chart of Accounts (the Plan) for banks is in
the process of being completed.   The new Plan has been developed with the
objective of rapidly harmonizing accounting rules in Poland with those of the
EC, while ensuring a smooth transition toward the new practices. The Plan will
be phased in during 1991. Concurrently, revised accounting standards have been
developed for the rest of the economy, under the authority of the MOF, and were
implemented beginning, in January 1991.   A joint committee consisting of
representatives of the MOF, the NBP, and the Association of Polish Accountants
was established to ensure consistency between these two initiatives.   Other
initiatives being pursued by the authorities in this area include the development
of auditing standards, the development of the profession, and the introduction
of extensive training programs.
3. Bank Supervision
3.19        As a result of concerted efforts by the Bank and under the technical
assistance being provided by the Banque de France and the IMF, the concept of
prudential bank super vision has gained wide acceptance in Poland as a necessary
instrument of public policy designed to ensure the health and stability of the
financial system. As a first step, a Department of Bank Supervision was created
within NBP in May 1989, and since November 1990, a team of experts has initiated
a program aimed at developing adequate banking supervisory capabilities within
this institution.
3.20        As should be expected at this early stage, supervisory skill levels
are still weak and staff have little bank oversight or supervision experience;
this is particularly apparent as regards the ability to assess credit quality,
foreign exchange exposure, overall financial position, management competence,
and adequacy of systems and procedures in banks. In addition, given the number
of banks, and the particular problem posed by the cooperative banking network,
the number of supervisors, currently 30, is inadequate. Continued technical
assistance would be warranted in the early years, both to undertake direct bank
supervision, and to train NBP supervision staff. Given the current fragility
of and inexperience prevailing in the banking system, on-site supervision will
constitute a critical complement to off-site supervision, and efforts should be
made to develop rapidly appropriate skills and procedures.



- 17 -
D. Structure and FInancial Condition of the Banking System
3.21        Structure.   Since late 1990, more than 100 new banks have been
licensed, including fully-licensed banks (local and foreign), representative
offices and branches of foreign banks. While the rapid expansion in the number
of banks is encouraging and a clear indication of the willingness to open the
system to competition, supervisory capabilities are quite inadequate to the task
of monitoring and supervising all of these institutions. As a means of checking
the growth of new banks, NBP recently doubled the minimum capital requirement
for domestic banks to Zl 20 billion. However, more rigorous criteria with regard
to ownership and management, business strategy, skills of staff, and
institutional capabilities still need to be developed.
3.22        Until early 1990, NBP and the specialized banks dominated the banking
system. This pattern has been rapidly changing however, with the expansion of
lending by the nine commercial banks and the emerging new banks. The authorities
have also begun the process of rationalizing the balance sheet of the banking
system, and in April 1990 approximately 308 trillion zlotys of external debt were
transferred from the balance sheet of Bank Handlowy into the accounts of the
Treasury at the NBP. In December 1990, the total assets of the banking system
totalled some 480 trillion zlotys. Net of interbank funding, NBP accounted for
33.8% of the total, six specialized banks for 42.7X, the nine commercial banks
for 21.5%, and new private banks for 2.21. Of net commercial banking assets in
December 1990, the specialized banks accounted for 65% (compared to 92% in
December 1989), and the nine commercial banks accounted for 32% (compared to only
8% in December 1989).
3.23        Financial condition of the commercial banks.  Interest margins were
exeeptionally high in the first six months of 1990, and as a result the nine
banks made 11.7 trillion zlotys in profits in the first half of 1990, compared
with 3 trillion in 1989. The capital and reserves of these banks rose from 8.7%
of total assets at the end of 1989 to some 15 of total assets by the end of
July. However, in the second half of the year, following the stabilization of
inflation at lower levels, profits (and hence capital and reserves, increased
more slowly, and with continued asset growth, the ratio of capital to total
assets fell to 13.9Z in December 1990.
3.24        Impact of non-performing loans.   The quality of loans and the
adequacy of provisions,  and hence the true capital adequacy of the nine
commercial banks are of major concern. Polish banks do not carry specific or
general provisions against bad debts, since credit risks did not exist under a
wholly state-owned environment.   Partial information on the extent of non-
performing loans is now available from diagnostic studies conducted by
international auditing firms on six of the nine banks. For three of the banks,
the studies suggest that the level of provisions for non-performing loans as at
June 30, 1990 is an estimated average of 14.6% of the total loan portfolio for
the three banks. The auditors have not recommended that provisions be made for
loans to state budgets, central investments and foreign exchange losses, since
these are claims against the State Governments, Central Government and the NBP.
Applying this 14.6% provision rate across the board against total loans to the
socialized and non-socialized loans of all 9 banks would yield an estimated net



- 18 -
capital after provision for bad debts of 8.5X of total assets, still fairly
comfortable by international standards. In other words, the hyperinflation has
allowed the banks to earn exceptional profits that were sufficient to cover
estimated loan losses. These results hold true for the audits of the second set
of three banks as well.
3.25        Despite the evidence  that  the banks have become  fairly well
capitalized through the benefits of hyperinflation, it is not clear that this
capital cushion is adequate for the future, given the fact that margins are now
being squeezed in an environment of lower inflation, rising operat ig costs and
uncertainties in the enterprise sector. Extensive adjustments are expected to
occur in this sector, following the removal of major distortions in the trade
and pricing system, for example, the collapse of the CMEA market arrangements,
and the introduction of changes in the ownership and management of enterprises.
Many enterprises will probably not be able to continue to operate unless
effectivrly restructured with specific financial support. The consequences for
the commercial banks will be far-reaching: additional portions of their loan
portfolios may have to be restructured or provisioned against; they would be
expected to play an important role in the enterprise restructuring process,
allocating their scarce resources only to efficient borrowers on the basis of
a thorough financial analysis; and they would have to mobilize their own
resources, rather than rely on Central Bank financing and automatic budgetary
support as in the past.
3.26        Further, the banks are clearly unable to price credit accurately
for the effects of non-performing loans, or to engage autonomously in asset-
liability management since a large part of their assets are still tied in claims
on the state, such as central investments, the (foreign exchange) valuation
account and lending to finance state budgets, while a significant source of their
funding is NBP refinancing. Hence, their financial condition remains ambiguous,
and could deteriorate rapidly under the circumstances described above, which in
turn would necessitate the financial restructuring of banks. Consequently, close
and frequent monitoring of their financial health is crucial, both internally
through financial management, and externally, through supervision and audits.
E.  Institutional Strengthe2ni pof Banks
3.27        The reforms initiated over the last years,  in particular the
establishment of a two-tier banking system and of a liberalized policy framework
have set the stage for the development of an efficient banking system. At
present, however, existing banking institutions still suffer from the major
distortions inherited from past policies, as revealed in recent diagnostic
studies of the banks.  Major weaknesses include:  (i) lack of managerial and
financial autonomy;   (ii) high sectoral/geographic concentration of their
activities, leading to the absence of real competition; (iii) lack of banking
skills needed in a market economy environment; (iv) small branch networks;
(v) an inadequate financial structure;  and   (vi) poor management systems
supported by inadequate technology.   (These issues are described in greater
detail in Annex 6).



* 19 -
3.28        The Government intends to develop a largely private banking sector
in Poland as soon as possible. To this end, it has encouraged the formation of
new private banks, and is seeking to develop the state-owned commercial banks
for privatization. This will involve transformation of these banks into joint-
stock companies, and institutional and financial strengthening. These existing
banks are also expected to play a determining role in the transitional process
toward a market economy. Given the urgent need for developing core banking
services at the national level, and the extent of the current weaknesses, the
authorities and the main banking institutions intend to initiate major and broad-
based programs for developing the required capabilities. A significant step in
this direction has been taken with the establishment in 1990, with French
support, of a banking school in Katowice, which will train bank management and
bank staff through core banking programs as well as short-term specialized
seminars.
F.  Bank Automation and Payments Clearing System
3.29        To date, there has been limited use of computerization in the banks.
Most of the computing facilities are provided from off-site processing centers
maintained by external agencies.   The banks rely heavily on the computing
department of the NBP for customer and inter-bank accounting.  Owing to the
introduction of the two-tier banking system, and to excessive processing
workloads, these services are expected to be withdrawn shortly and the banks will
have to make alternative arrangements for account processing.
3.30        The existing Payments Clearing System also requires significant
improvements in procedures and standards to expedite the clearing and settlement
of inter-bank transactions. Timely payment transfers are vital for reducing
floats, mobilizing private sector resources and ensuring effective monetary
management and compliance with regulatory and prudential regulations.
(Automation of banks and payments systems issues are described in greater detail
in Aex 7).
G.  Financial Harkets
3.31        Development of financial markets in Poland has so far largely
concentrated on improving the institutional and legal framework. By the end of
1990, some progress had been made in diversification of the range of savings
instruments available to households but bank deposits still dominated
overwhelmingly. Household bank deposits amounted to the equivalent of US$4.4
billion for zloty deposits (74X in savings accounts) and about US$5.8 billion
for foreign currency deposits. PK0 BP alone accounted for 67X of all foreign
currency deposits by households.    The new  financial  savings  instruments
introduced on the Polish market in 1990 include NBP Bills, Convertible Treasury
Bonds, and Equities.
3.32        NBP Bills.  The first issue of short term bills by NBP occurred in
July 1990. Their introduction is aimed at providing the NBP with a flexible tool
for the conduct of monetary policy.   Consecutive issues of these bills had



- 20 -
brought the amount outstanding to about US$310 million by October 1990.  As
outstanding bills matured, less than US$9 million were left outstanding at the
end of December 1990.  Sales have occurred mostly to financial institutions,
although individuals are permitted to purchase the bills as well.
3.33        Convertible Treasury Bonds. In 1989, the Ministry of Finance started
issuing Treasury bonds which were convertible into shares of privatized
enterprises. The convertible treasury bonds (CTBs) are non-redeemable other than
through conversion into shares; they bear no interest but are indexed monthly
to the rate of inflation. Conversion into shares allows the bearer to purchase
the shares of privatized companies with a 20% premium to value, i.e., a 17%
discount. Sales are limited to Pelish citizens. In practice, therefore, CTBs
do not represent an instrument of resource mobilization by the Treasury.
Another issue relates to the periodic adjustments in the cash value of CTBs in
line with monthly inflation and the resulting difficulties when the offering
period for shares coincides with variations in the cash value of CTBs. The
issuance of CTBs was discontinued in April 1991, as part of efforts to
rationalize the development of Treasury securities.
3.34        Equities.   In December 1990, five state-owned enterprises were
privatized with shares offered to the public. Over 130,000 subscribers bought
the offered shares for a total of Z1 320 billion. Oversubscription was about
7% overall, but some financial institutions had to buy the unsold portion of
certain issues. The actual proceeds of the sale were also less than the issue
price due to discounts associated with CTBs and sales to employees at a 502
discount. The significant discounts offered to a large part of the buyers may
cause shares to trade at a discount to the issue price when trading begins at
the Warsaw Stock Exchange later in 1991. This would cause some losses for the
banks which effectively underwrote the issues.
3.35        LeUal Framework.  A new Securities Law was approved in April 1991.
The Law is fairly comprehensive and provides the necessary institutional
infrastructure for trading in securities including a Securities and Exchange
Commission, the Warsaw Stock Exchange, and the broker/dealers. The Securities
Law also provides a basis for the establishment of open-end mutual funds and
fund managers.  Enactment of the Securities Law is an essential milestone in
the development of an active securities market.



- 21 -
PART It - THE REFOiW PROGRAM
A.  A Program for the Financial Sector
1. Main Orientations
4.01        The Polish banking system is just emerging from several decades of
meeting the needs of a centrally planned economic system.  Starting with the
institutional reforms of January 1989, further developed through those included
in the ETP of 1990, the Polish Government's vision of a revitalized and modern
financial system is beginning to take shape. This vision calls for a vigorous,
market-oriented system that is capable of responding in a competitive fashion
to the financing needs of a rapidly-changing economy. The first phase consists
of the liberalization of financial policies to elicit discipline both from the
banking institutions, as well as from the enterprises. Accompanying financial
liberalization is the rapid modernization of the banking system, to bring it in
line with those of the EC, into which the Government hopes to be integrated as
soon as possible.   In this context, state banks are to be strengthened and
privatized, and the establishment of private banks is being encouraged. Finally,
development of capital markets, to allow for flexibility in financing options,
in part to support real sector privatization objectives, is being pursued.
4.02        Specific Government policies in these respects, as spelled out in
a comprehensive Statement of Policy (Annex 2), have been endorsed by the
Government and the NBP. and are articulated around four elements: (i) improved
financial policies; (ii) modernized banking legislation and supervision; (iii)
extensive institutional development as a first stage in the privatization of the
state commercial banks; and (iv) development of financial markets and deepening
of the financial system.   The program to be supported by the proposed FIDL
consists of a number of important sector-wide reforms, and in addition a
comprehensive institutional development program. In addition, the success of
the reform program in the financial sector will hinge on the successful
continuation of the ETP; performance and progress will be monitored on a
continuous basis as part of the commitments under the SAL.
4.03        Central  to  the  Government's  strategy  is  its  reliance  on  a
competitive, market-oriented financial sector for mobilizing real savings and
efficiently allocating their use on the basis of risk and return.   By this
mechanism, support to inefficient enterprises will be phased out, and financial
resources will be made available to creditworthy borrowers- -particularly to those
in the emerging market-oriented sectors.   A number of Bank projects,  in
particular the parallel Privatization and Restructuring Project (PRP), have been
specifically designed to facilitate and speed up the transition process. Other
guiding principles of the Government's strategy are the intent to clarify
promptly governance issues in state-controlled banks--transferring the daily
management of banks to efficient, autonomous, and accountable professional
managers, with the objective of privatizing them as soon as is feasible.
Finally, banks would be expected to carry the full risk resulting from their
operations.



- 22 -
2. Sectoral Financing
4.04        In light of the need for promptly and efficiently channelling
resources to a number of critical sectors, the Government has decided to give
priority to the rapid development of a national network of banks offering basic
banking services. The strategy to achieve this objective is four-pronged: (i)
the establishment of viable new private banks is being fostered;   (ii) the
establishment of foreign bank branches, subsidiaries, and joint-ventures is being
encouraged; (iii) privatization of the state-owned commercial banks subsequent
to their institutional strengthening, including improvements in management
through transformation into joint-stock companies; and (iv) limiting Government
involvement in credit allocation to those areas of critical social or economic
importance and where there is clear market failure to provide adequate financing.
Longer-term objectives include the deepening of the financial system through the
fostering of the establishment by the private sector of specialized financial
institutions, including non-bank financial institutions, and the concerted
development of financial markets.
4.05        Financing needs previously covered through the centralized allocation
process including to the housing, agriculture and industrial sectors, will
require specific attention. With the anticipated rapid shift toward a market-
oriented environment, the need for such specialized programs should rapidly
subside, since developments in the financial system resulting from the removal
of rigidities, as well as the improved economic environment should gradually
eliminate current financing imperfections. However, there is a need to ensure
that critical needs are met during the transition period.
4.06        In agriculture, the current reforms will enhance the role of the
cooperative bank network, in particular as regards the mobilization of resources
and their allocation to efficient investments.   This is in contrast to the
current situation whereby agriculture finance relies principally on NBP
refinancing through BGZ. Support to reform policies and improved institutional
support in this sector will be provided under two proposed Bank projects, the
Agricultural Development Project (Report P-9436-POL) and a forthcoming
Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan.
4.07        Housing finance has been the responsibility of PKO BP, which
currently holds almost all housing loans in Poland. It has relied on heavily
subsidized credit. In the light of changes in ownership, housing finance, the
construction industry, and the role of banks, a scheme involving the introduction
of a new legal framework, institutional support, and new instruments both for
lending and for mobilizing resources is being developed.   A specific action
program will be implemented with the support of a proposed Bank Housing Finance
Project.
4.08        Central investment financing (e.g., power plants, large manufacturing
complexes), has been done until now on the basis of budgetary allocations
channelled through banks and refinancing credit. The Government is taking steps
to relieve banks from this burden as regards old loans (para 4.15), and is
introducing policies so that future public investments will be financed through
direct budgetary allocations.



- 23 -
4.09        Finally,  the authorities have initiated a specific program for
speeding up the industrial restructuring and grivatization process, and have
created as part of this effort the IDA and PDB (para 3.04).  The commercial
banks are nevertheless expected to play the central role in the financing of
the restructuring of the enterprise sector, given their sizable branch network
and since they currently hold most of the loans to this sector. The Bank intends
to support this program under the forthcoming PRP, which is being processed in
parallel with this Loan.
B. Financial Policies
4.10        With the purpose of furthering the objectives of the stabilization
program, fostering efficient resource mobilization and credit allocation through
a banking system based on market principles, and shielding that system from the
potential effects of continuing macro-economic instability, a number of actions
will be taken to put in place policies articulated around the following areas:
(i) close monitoring of Government credit programs, with a view to limiting their
impact on credit growth and reducing their importance over time; (ii) efficient
management of the banking system's liquidity;   (iii) full liberalization of
interest rates; and   (iv) improved framework for managing foreign oxchange
activities of banks.
1. Government Credit Programs
4.11        The Government realizes that credit which is subsidized, or directed
to specific borrowers, or credit which is extended or guaranteed by the
Government, may be substantially cushioned from market forces. To address this
concern, the Government intends to limit the share of total credit growth in the
form of directed or subsidized credit.   To promote the development of a
competitive banking system, programs will be adopted to rapidly reduce or
eliminate existing subsidies and to phase out the remaining share of subsidized
credit, reduce reliance on directed credits over time, and operate the Government
lending  institutions  on  a commercial  basis.    These  objectives  will  be
accomplished as follows:
4.12        Limits on Government Credit Programs.   Total growth of credit
extended under Government credit programs will be subject to specific limits in
1991 and 1992. Under the housing finance program, which was enacted by the
Polish legislature to address a severe housing shortage, credit growth will be
limited to 22.3 trillion zlotys in 1991, and to the same amount in real terms
in 1992. Total growth for other Government credit programs will not exceed 15X
of the total credit growth to the non-governmental sectors in 1991. This share
will be reduced and will not exceed an average of 121 for 1991-1992. A reporting
system for monitoring purposes is being developed by NBP. Overall credit growth
would continue to be monitored under the macroeconomic program.
4.13        Government Azencies.   A program is being established for reducing
over time lending made directly or guaranteed by Government specialized agencies.
Lending by specialized agencies will be limited to situations where alternative



- 24 -
sources of funds are unavailable at reasonable cost to meet priority needs, and
programs will be adopted to convert such agencies to second-tier lenders or
cofinanciers.   All lending at such agencies will be at market rates.   Any
subsidies will be provided as grants financed by direct budgetary allocations.
Under agreements reached in the context of the PRP, PDB will act primarily as
a second-tier institution, with the share of second-tier and cofinanced loans
accounting for at least 85X of total credit extended. PDB guarantees would be
included in the 15X limit for direct lending.   The transformation of the
Industrial Development Agency into a technical assistance body, with its
financial resources directed to the undertaking of restructuring studies, has
also been agreed with the Government.
4.14        Interest subsidies.  The Government intends to rapidly phase out
all credit subsidies. In 1991, it has introduced measures to control the effect
and reduce subsidies in the case of agriculture, and to eliminate subsidies and
substitute a new program in the case of housing. For agricultural credits, the
rate paid on loans for sDecific purposes (including loans for purchasing specific
produce and livestock, soil conservation and reclamation, environmental
protection, and other limited objectives) has been set at 1/2 of the refinancing
rate with a minimum of 20X when the refinancing rate is above 20X.   The
subsidized portion of interest on these loans will not exceed the budgeted amount
of 1.35 trillion zlotys for 1991. A schedule for limiting the share of interest
subsidized for 1992 will be agreed under the agricultural sector operation
currency under discussion with the Bank. For housing, the initial subsidized
portion of interest rates was converted into a capitalized portion beginning
January, 1991. A new program being introduced links the capitalized portion of
rates to borrower's income.   Under this program, rates on housing loans to
cooperatives will be established by a formula which sets the currency payment
on a loan for an average-sized flat to an amount equivalent to one-half the
average basic wage; the currency payment is adjusted for the actual size of the
housing being financed and all interest above this current payment amount will
be capitalized. For loans to individuals this payment is further limited to a
maximum of 1/4 of family income. A schedule for reducing further the remaining
capitalized portion of interest is expected to be agreed upon and implemented
under the sectoral program for housing currently under discussion with the Bank.
4.15        Central investments.  The Government has entered into loan-specific
guarantee agreements with all banks holding central investments. Future central
investments will be funded through budgetary allocations and no new central
investment projects will be financed through the banking system. Additional bank
funding of central investments will be limited to expenses of existing projects.
4.16        Other loans.  Banks will be expected to be operated in the near
future as fully autonomous institutions, extending credit on a risk and return
basis, and therefore bearing the full commercial risk on their loan portfolio.
Banks are now expected to classify non-performing loans and provision against
them.   Banks will not be required to extend new credit to uncreditworthy
enterprises.



2. Banking System Liouldity
4.17        Despite the improvements in the system of monetary control in Poland,
indirect monetary controls have not become fully effective. Additional steps
are needed, particularly as regards the automatic refinancing of agricultural
bills, the structure of reserve requirements, and to promote effective open
market operations.
4.18        Refinancing.  A program for limiting the scope of refinancing at
banks is being implemented by NBP. Under this program, the amount of refinancing
will be reduced at each bank and totally eliminated by 1995, except for central
investments for which special arrangements will be agreed upon between NBP and
individual banks.   Automatic rediscounting of agricultural bills will be
eliminated by July 31, 1991. To replace this, NBP will introduce by April 1991
a system of repurchase agreements for NBP, Treasury, commercial and agricultural
bills.
4.19        Bills market.  The program for auctioning repurchasing agreements
for NBP and other bills should contribute significantly to the broadening and
deepening of the market for these instruments.   Moreover, maturities of NBP
bills are being extended and Treasury bills have now been issued. To further
the market for Treasury bills, NBP will act as broker for interbank transactions,
limiting its own transactions to open market operations. For the future, banks
are expected to operate as broker/dealers for Treasury issues.
4.20        Reserve requirements.   The high reserve requirements on zloty
deposits currently result in very high effective taxation on intermediation
through the banking system. This burden will be alleviated as control over bank
liquidity improves through the gradual reduction of reserve requirements, the
payment of interest on mandatory reserves or by permitting a portion of required
reserves to be met through holdings of NBP or Treasury bills.   As reserve
requirements are reduced, it is expected that a differential between sight and
time deposits will be retained, but at a reduced level. Reserve requirement
regulations will continue to be applied equally to all banks. To further improve
monetary control, reserve requirements will be introduced on foreign exchange
deposits and gradually increased to a level at least equivalent to those on zloty
deposits. The phasing in of reserve requirements on foreign exchange deposits
will depend, in part, on the availability of foreign exchange reserves, as
described in para 4.25.
3. Interest Rates
4.21        Appropriate interest rate policies are a central element of the
Government's stabilization program.   In this context, the refinancing rate
generally has been set to remain positive in real terms. Moreover, banks have
used this rate as a basis for setting most deposit and loan rates. In view of
residual instability in the macroeconomic framework, limited inter-bank
competition, and the lack of skills in banks for pricing loans and deposits,
NBP has been providing guidance to banks in setting rates of loans and deposits.
Beginning January 1991, this guidance was ended. However, in order to meet the
objective of 7X real growth in net domestic assets for the first half of 1991



- 26 -
agreed under the macro-economic stabilization program, NBP reimposed bank-by-
bank credit ceilings, which distort the incentives for determining market
interest rates.
4.22        In this context, the Government intends to undertake certain steps
for the full liberalization of interest rates. These include: (i) the removal
of bank-by-bank credit ceilings as soon as the credit objectives of the macro-
economic stabilization program are achieved; and (ii) encouragement of banks
to establish rates for loans and deposits on the basis of the strength of loan
demand and the creditworthiness of the borrower along with the supply of deposit
sources of funds. The training being provided in credit analysis and asset and
liability management under the ongoing program for the institutional development
of the commercial banks will contribute to this objective.  The program for
auctioning repurchasing agreements for NBP bills, Treasury securities, and bills
of exchange should promote significantly the market-determination of interest
rates.
4.  Foreign Exchange Deoosits
4.23        A key objective of financial policy is for a convertible zloty to
replace the bulk of foreign currency deposits in the domestic money supply,
thereby reducing the reliance on private domestic deposits as a source of foreign
exchange. In this context, the Government has developed a program for dealing
with existing foreign exchange deposits and to compensate banks for past foreign
exchange losses. The program will be carried out in phases, starting with the
issuance by the Government and NBP of foreign exchange-indexed bonds, mostly
denominated in dollars, equal to its obligation from past devaluations.
4.24        The proposal currently under discussion calls for a total Treasury
bond issue of about US$4.8 billion of twenty-year bonds. These bonds will be
given to Bank Handlowy to discharge its claim on the Government. Bank Handlowy
in turn will pass the bonds through to the banks and extinguish the foreign
exchange deposits from its books. The current budget authorizes the issuance
of these bonds and commits the Government to provide adequate budgetary resources
to service these bonds in the future. NBP plans an issue of its own bonds to
cover US$685 million of the losses of its nine former branches: total losses at
these institutions are currently estimated at US$875 million. The balance of
US$190 million will be absorbed as losses by the concerned banks.
4.25        The commitment by the Government to compensate banks for the bulk
of their past foreign exchange losses is vital to the long-term viability of the
commercial banking system. The bonds also will replace the illiquid claims of
the banks for past devaluation losses with more liquid foreign exchange-indexed
bonds. However, after the exchange, banks will be responsible for managing their
own foreign exchange risks and since the bonds will be serviced in zlotys, banks
will become increasingly exposed. Given their inexperience in this area, the
Government is aware that stringent supervisory and regulatory standards governing
foreign exchange exposure need to be adopted rapidly.  NBP will ensure that
adequate foreign exchange assets will be made available to banks to enable them
to manage the exposure from foreign exchange deposits.



- 27 -
4.26        To ensure the long-run success of this plan, the Government has
decided to undertake additional actions as follows.
(i)   Finalize terms of the Treasury and NBP bonds by June 1991 to permit their
issuance as soon as possible thereafter;
(ii)  Recognize remaining net foreign exchange losses in the banks' accounts at
the time of the bond issues over a three-year period, and provide funds
within the following budgetary year for recapitalization of banks whose
capital falls below regulatory minimums as a result of these losses;
(iii) NBP will adopt tight supervisory and regulatory standards governing the
mismatch between foreign exchange assets and liabilities, the risks of
offshore transactions, and domestic lending in foreign currencies by
July 1, 1991. Banks also will be required to maintain a minimum amount
of liquid and secure hard currency assets to meet withdrawal needs. Until
such regulations are in place, NBP will require banks to acquire sufficient
hard currency assets which, along with the new bond issues, will enable
them to match foreign exchange assets and liabilities;
(iv)  For some time, NEP may need to provide banks with sufficient foreign
exchange assets to match assets and liabilities and to meet net withdrawals
of foreign exchange.   The Government is further committed to making
available to banks sufficient foreign exchange assets to allow them to
manage their exposure, either through selling foreign exchange, or through
rolling over the initial Treasury or NBP bonds.
(v)   Reduce the relative attractiveness of foreign-exchange deposits and promote
the substitution of these accounts for zlotys, including imposition of
reserve requirements on foreign exchange deposits.   These requirements
would be phased-in gradually, taking care to preserve the confidence of
foreign exchange depositors in the liquidity of their accounts.
C.  Bankint Leeislation
4.27        The shift to a market environment requires considerable changes in
the legal framework, and a number of important legal reforms have already been
initiated (paras 4.28-4.31), with a view to seek a rapid harmonization of Polish
laws with those of the European Community. With the assistance of the Legal
Advisory Group chaired by the Bank (para 3.15), the authorities are actively
pursuing this process,  and reforms currently contemplated include.   (i) a
comprehensive revision of the Banking Law and of the Act on the Central Bank,
including  a  further  strengthening  of  prudential  regulations;  (ii)  the
introduction of a law on collateral security;  (iii) the introduction of an
enabling framework for the corporatization and privatization of banks; (iv) the
development of legislation for ensuring the protection of depositors; and (v)
the introduction of a legal framework for capital market activities.
4.28        The Polish authorities are reforming the Banking Law and Central
BankinL Act of 1989 in two stages. First, these laws will be amended to deal



* 28 -
quickly with a number of critical elements (including the management of state
banks, bank licensing requirements, withdrawal of bank licenses, unauthorized
banking activities, and instruments of monetary policy). An Amendment to the
Banking Law and Central Banking Act was approved by the Council of Ministers)
and presented to Parliament in April 1991.
4.29        In addition, there is a particular urgency in introducing promptly
accounting and auditing standards for banks (para 3.17). The current vacuum
places banks in an awkward situation, since they have no reference framework
for keeping their accounts or effecting appropriate provisions (and do not know
whether they should act on the recommendations of the 1989 audits). It is also
preventing the repeat of audits for 1990, until the basis on which they carried
the 1989 audits has been recognized. This risks slowing the momentum toward
financial discipline created by the reform process.   The authorities are
conscious of the need to promptly address this issue, and are committing to
introduce shortly accounting and auditing standards consistent with international
practice.
4.30        The second stage of the reform process contemplates a follow-up of
the urgent amendments by a more comprehensive up-dating of the banking
legislation.   A preliminary draft of a completely new Banking Law, which is
consistent with many features of the EC guidelines, has been circulated to the
Government by the Bank's Legal Advisory Group.   This draft will be further
discussed with the authorities. Adoption of a comprehensively revised Banking
Law and Central Banking Act which are more in accord with modern banking
legislation in developed market economies, and suitably revised prudential
regulations, will be a condition of second tranche release. Technical assistance
will be financed, as required, to undertake direct bank supervision, and to train
NBP's supervision staff.
4.31        Parallel to this work, a draft of a new Law of Collateral Security,
which deals, inter alia, with the creation of pledges and other forms of
collateral to secure lending by commercial banks, has been prepared by the Legal
Advisory Group in consultation with the Polish authorities.   The draft is
scheduled to be presented to the Council of Ministers by June 1991, and
subsequently to Parliament. Legal work is also being undertaken on the related
subjects of deposit protection and winding up of failed banks, with a view to
detailed discussion of new draft proposals of these subjects in the near future.
Adoption of regulations on deposit insurance or inclusion of related provisions
in the new Banking Law is expected prior to second tranche release.
4.32        Corporatization and privatization of banks.  As mentioned in Part
III, state banks are characterized by a lack of autonomy and accountability of
their management, to the point that under the current structure a credible move
toward commercial operations would be highly questionable. The Government's
strategy with regard to the banking system calls for services to be provided
largely by private banks. In this context, it is seeking to transform the nine
state-owned commercial banks into joint-stock status (corporatization) in order
to provide them with efficient and independent management, as a f'rst step toward
privatizing them. This would involve the introduction of a two-tier management
structure in the banks. The first step in this regard was taken in April 1991,



- 29 -
when the Economic Subcommittee of the Council of Ministers approved the MOF's
submission to transform the banks into joint-stock banks. Although no obstacles
are expected, the process has not thus far been tested, and delays may
materialize. Hence, the completion of the process of corporatization of all nine
commercial banks is a condition of second tranche release. In anticipation of
the completion of this legal process, which may take some time, specific actions
will be initiated toward bank corporatization, possibly with the assistance of
twin foreign banks (para 4.45), including the cleaning-up of balance sheets and
loan portfolios, the clear spelling out of rights and responsibilities, and the
introduction of more transparent relations with the authorities and with the
banks' borrowers.
4.33        Subsequent to this process, the Government intends to initiate the
privatization of the nine banks.   At this time, the Government intends to
privatize two of the banks by December 1991, and also one of the specialized
banks. The privatization process is expected to involve foreign banks. This
involvement  could result  from various  processes.    For  some banks,  this
participation could come about as a natural extension of the twinning
arrangements in which they are engaging. Debt-equity swaps may also be envisaged.
4.34        Securities Market Law. As mentioned in Part III, a draft Securities
Market Law for Poland has been recently approved. In the context of the rapid
developments in other areas of the reform program, there are several issues in
the new Law which may prove to be of concern. These include issues such as the
authority of the Securities and Exchange Commission to regulate private
placements, the ability of banks to deal in securities for their own account,
exclusion of short term instruments from the definition of securities and
omission of closed-end mutual funds. Some of these areas may warrant further
review, particularly, but not only in the context of their applicability and
relevance to the program of privatization and restructuring of enterprises that
has been initiated by the Government. In particular, capital and organizational
requirements for securities and other banking-related activities, the regulation
thereof, and coordination with securities regulations will be reviewed.
D. Institutional Strenathenink of Banks
1. Main Elements of Program
4.35        In addition to the corporatization of banks, another core element
in the Government's program for further development of banks is the initiation
of a massive effort to support institutional development and strengthening in
the banking sector, in view of the extensive weaknesses in existing institutions.
The central objective is to elicit the development of a mostly private banking
system fostering financial discipline, allocating credit on the basis of risk
and return, and discontinuing support to inefficient industries. The program is
envisaged to revolve around:   (i) the financial restructuring of existing
institutions; and (ii) the development of bank institutional capabilities, as
appropriate.



* 30 -
4.36        As indicated earlier, substantial efforts will be placed on the
rapid reorientation and privatization of state-controlled existing banks. With
a view to provide rapidly, basic banking services to the domestic economy, the
focus of the proposed Loan is in part on the nine state-owned commercial banks,
since these banks currently provide most of the credit to the enterprise sector.
This process will involve close coordination with the Privatization and
Restructuring Project, which is being processed in parallel with this Loan, and
which includes an investment component to provide financing for restructuring
investments in privatized enterprises or enterprises in the privatization
process. Provision will also be made for supporting programs in other state
banks as required, including possibly BGZ and PKO BP, and would therefore require
close coordination with on-going and forthcoming Bank programs in the agriculture
and housing sectors. In addition, technical assistance could be provided to the
nascent private sector banks.
2. Bank Financial Restructuring
4.37        Concerted efforts are required to ensure the sustained financial
Soundness of commercial banks.   This process will involve a systematic and
continuous review of the portfolios of the banks, with a view to ensuring that
credit is allocated only to sound enterprises, particularly in the emerging
private sector. As already spelled out in the context of the proposed policy
reforms, Government financing through the banking system of inefficient
enterprises at non-market conditions will be discontinued. Whenever exceptional
circumstances lead the Government to extend support to non-creditworthy
enterprises, this will be achieved through direct recapitalization by the
Government, or subsidization from budgetary proceeds. Further, the introduction
of modern accounting and auditing standards, combined with effective bank
supervision, will enhance the overall soundness of the banking system, and is
expected to highlight the need to liquidate or restructure failing banks.
4.38        The audits of the 1989 statements of the commercial bank accounts
all call for provisions to be made against non-performing assets.   It is
important that banks act promptly to effect the required provisions, and deal
as appropriate with delinquent borrowers.   In addition, new financial and
portfolio audits for calendar year 1990 will provide an updated assessment of
the financial condition of the banks, their solvency, their financial structure
and prospects for future financial viability. As discussed in para 3.25, interim
results and other available data suggest that the banks benefitted considerably
from the hyperinflation which prevailed in late-1989 and early-1990. Even after
making the recommended level of provisions, the banks are estimated to have
adequate capital-to-risk assets ratios.
4.39        However,  a close analysis of banks'  financial accounts clearly
reveals that banks are extremely vulnerable to the rapidly changing economic
environment and their solvency seems fragile. The main risks relate to their
foreign exchange exposure, the uncertain performance of their loan portfolio,
the questionable sustainability of current capitalization levels, and the degree
of flexibility available to the banks for managing their assets and liabilities.



- 31 -
4.40        In order to prepare for a possible rapid deterioration in the
financial condition of banks, the Government committed to undertake an action
program around the following elements: (i) a repetition of the audit process
every fiscal year, complemented by stepped-up supervision, and the enforcement
of loan classification and provisioning standards in accordance with
international guidelines, by the NBP.   Given the uncertainties of the loan
portfolio and the need to control loan losses, the auditors should, on an ongoing
basis, review the loan portfolio to assess trends in the banks' credit management
and the impact on profits and solvency; (ii) for banks that do not meet the
required capital adequacy requirements, recapitalization programs would be
carried out within the following budgetary year. This would be accompanied by
in-depth restructuring programs aimed at correcting the poor financial
performance of the concerned banks and would include, inter alia, measures to
remove non-performing loans from their portfolios, and other measures to restore
their profitability. Liquidation of banks, or mergers with other institutions,
would be envisaged as part of the restructuring process; and (iii) to support
this process, the Government has initiated the introduction of a deposit
protection scheme. The related legislation will be introduced and a Deposit
Insurance Fund will be established in 1992. As a first step, the Government will
carry out shortly a study, which will detail the main modalities for establishing
the Fund, including its financing plan.
4.41        Banks could be recapitalized through various mechanisms.   First,
non-performing assets could be replaced by interest-bearing Government bonds.
This approach would have the merit of conserving the total asset base of the
bank, while quickly restoring its profitability. Alternatively, non-performing
loans could be provisioned for, and the bank's net worth reduced by an equivalent
amount. In the event that the capital base of the bank needs to be restored to
the required level, the Government may opt to utilize the reserves accumulated
in the general reserve fund. Further, the deposit insurance scheme currently
under consideration will include mechanisms for dealing with failing banks.
4.42        A key objective of the effort to modernize the banking system is
that banks become responsible for their financial health as soon as possible.
In this context, the banks will not be required by the Government to make loans
to uncreditworthy berrowers, or on less than commercial terms. With regard to
existing loans, a first step in this direction will be a reclassification of the
loan portfolio of banks. The reclassification, and related provisioning will
be carried out along the prudential guidelines promulgated by the NBP.
4.43        In addition, other measures should contribute to improving the
financial soundness of banks, following the introduction as of January 1991 of
accounting and auditing standards for the corporate sector. They include the
immediate provision to banks of credit advisors and the introducticn of modern
lending policies, which require an adequate assessment of the creditworthiness
of borrowers and a pricing of loans commensurate to the lending risk; and the
shift in the governance of banks toward autonomy and accountability, as a prelude
to their privatization.



- 32 -
3.  Institutlonal DeveloRment
4.44        The current incapacity of the state banks to conduct efficient
banking activities in a liberalized market-based economic environment warrants
the prompt introduction of an extensive institutional development program aimed
at developing stronger institutional capabilities in the system, with the
objective of readying these banks for privatization.
4.45        6aeac_.  The Government's preferred approach with regard to the
provision of this technical assistance is to foster twinning arrangements with
reputable Western banks.  It is expected that this process  will serve the
purpose of both ensuring a rapid and efficient transfer of banking know-how to
the Polish banks, as well as to pave the way for a gradual integration of the
Polish banks with the Western banking system, which might include the
participation of foreign banks in the capital of Polish banks. Since mid-1990,
at the behest of the Polish authorities, the Bank and IFC have been involved in
the process of identifying Western banks interested in "twinning" with Polish
banks.  Most of the Western banks contacted indicated a desire to participate
in the program as consultants; they would consider participating in the equity
of the Polish banks only over the medium-term. At this stage, prospects for
finding twinning partners for the nine commercial banks are encouraging: the
identification of at least four twinning arrangements is expected by June 1991.
In the event that twinning arrangements cannot be secured for all of the nine
banks, consulting firms would be approached.
4.46        The training of counterpart staff, as well as the undertaking of
institution-wide training programs (and in addition the provision of support to
the banking school in Katowice), will be an essential element in the proposed
program of assistance to the banking system. The technical assistance component
under the proposed Loan includes resources, if required, to finance further
training programs, particularly in areas such as capital markets, marketing,
retail banking, asset and liability management, internal audit, financial
analysis, and a general bank management course for senior bankers. A review of
the status of banking training in Poland is included in the Attachment to
Annex 6.
4.47        Institutional strengthening.  In anticipation of the provision of
full-fledged technical assistance, arrangements are also being made to establish
under the aegis of the MOF, a pool of three credit advisors financed by US grant
aid. These advisors would assist banks in coping, through the introduction of
proper credit appraisal and follow-up procedures, with the rapidly increasing
credit risk exposure that they are facing as a result of their new operational
autonomy, and rapid economic changes, and would also help them strengthen and
develop credit policy.
4.48        The program of institutional development and strengthening for the
nine banks (further detailed in Annex 6), is based upon the findings of the
recently completed diagnostic studies. The institutional development programs
are comprehensive, and will require serious commitment and dedication of
qualified resources during the three-year period over which they are to be
implemented.



- 33 -
4.49        The main areas and objectives of the programs are to: (i) develop
a comprehensive strategic plan and a statement of policies, including guidelines
detailing the bank's object and operating principles; (ii) develop and implement
an appropriate organization structure; (iii) undertake a comprehensive training
needs analysis, and establish a formalized training program; (iv) develop credit
policies, with emphasis on credit management, and portfolio control and problem
loan  management;   (v)  develop  comprehensive  asset/liability  management
capabilities; (vi) design and implement a comprehensive management information
system; (vii)  organize and implement a comprehensive, formalized system of
planning, budgeting, and performance measurement; (viii) develop and implement
a model branch; (ix) develop a detailed marketing plan for the bank and each of
its major business units; (x) develop and document the internal audit function;
and (xi) evaluate the bank's automation program, in light of the bank's business
strategy and needs.
4.50        The institutional development efforts and the introduction of an
efficient payments system (para 4.52) will be complemented by the introduction
of automated account processing and a management information system.   These
efforts will be undertaken in two phases.  The first phase will introduce a
basic automation infrastructure in the banks.   As a result of the pending
withdrawal by NBP of the data processing services it now offers, the banks are
seeking to implement integrated hardware and banking software to automate certain
basic banking functions, including customer accounting, loan portfolio analysis,
foreign exchange operations, and also to provide linkages between branches and
head office. In this regard, the first step would be to undertake a study to
identify business services and requirements, and to produce a tender document.
Subsequently, the proposed Loan would finance the procurement of hardware and
software, implementation expertise, and training. During the second phase, an
integrated MIS tailored to the institutional objectives, structure, and services,
as defined under step (xi) above, would be developed. An assessment of needs
and of proposed financing requirements is contained in Annex 7.
4. Additional Measures
4.51        As described in Part III, important measures have already been
initiated      improve the banking and accounting professions  (para 3.17).
ComplementaLy programs will be carried out as required and could be supported
under the proposed Loan.
4.52        With regard to inter-bank payment settlements, the Government is
developing a two-pronged strategy. On the basis of recommendations of the US
Federal Reserve, under the IMF's program of technical assistance foc NBP, a
high-value, low-volume clearing system ("NBP Wire") will be introduced by end-
1991 to reduce the float in the financial system and expedite settlements. This
system will account for approximately 80X of all transactions by value. The
remaining 20% will be handled by the BTT, a newly-formed subsidiary of the NBP
and several banks. BTT also p'lans to offer automated banking services to banks
on a charge-back basis. The proposed Loan will finance appropriate technical
assistance and training for BTT and NBP personnel. The regulatory framework,



- 34 -
and monetary reporting requirements for the payments system are also being
jointly developed by NBP and the US Federal Reserve.
E. Develooment of Financial Markets
4.53        In order to deepen the financial system, ensure a more efficient
mobilization of resources, as well as broaden the sources of financing for the
corporate sector, the Government is further expanding its stance on the
development of finiancial markets. As described below, several activities are
proposed to be financed under the Loan in support of the Government's approach,
and will be coordinated by the IFC.
4.54        As regards the supply of securities, the authorities realize that
the development of the financial market will not be achieved solely through the
expected large supply of shares. Government securities likely to be issued in
the future for the purpose of financing fiscal deficits or restructuring
banks/public entities will be carefully devised so as to accommodate market
needs, in terms of the maturities, coupon rates, and tax treatment.   Further,
in order to increase their marketability, NBP bills will be issued with longer
maturities. On the other hand, the issuance of convertible Treasury bills (para
3.33) has been discontinued.
4.55        The issue of domestic demand has not been broadly addressed so far,
and in that context, the Loan will support a st , complementing work initiated
under the PRP,  to review the development of institutional investors,  the
desirability of establishing incentives to develop the demand from the public,
and the impact of demand for securities on the banking system. While a number
of mutual funds are being established as part of the privatization process, the
authorities will also favor the establishment of different investment funds, with
different scopes and purposes. Both closed and open-end mutual funds will be
established; their regulation will be broadly based along the line of EC's
directives. The funds will be treated as pass-through vehicles for tax purposes.
Prudential investment guidelines will require that a minimum portion of their
portfolio be invested in debt securities or bank deposits.   Training and
education of investors will be developed--courses in the areas of, among others,
the securities market, trading of securities, and ethical conduct, will be
included in the program of the Banking Training Center in Katowice, and awareness
programs for the  f-neral public will also be developed.
4.56        The Stock Exchange is in the process of being established and is
expected to be operational by mid-1991, and regulatory framework and securities
market laws are being finalized.   The initial range and volume of trading
instruments will be small, but will increase substantially as public awareness
of investment opportunities and market infrastructure is enhanced. To assist
in this process, a study will be carried out under the Project, to define a
blueprint for the introduction of an automated system to be implemented in a
phased manner, commensurate with the growth and diversity of operations. Terms
of reference for the study are being developed. The Bank is assisting the Polish
authorities in identifying sources of grant financing for the introduction of
automated systems for the trading and settlement activities as well as a registry



- 35 -
capability.  Possible sources include the EC PHARE program and the US Trade
Development Program.
F.  Fiscal Imglications of grogram
4.57        At this stage, an accurate assessment of the fiscal implications of
all of the proposed programs is difficult, in view of the uncertainties
surrounding a number of the actions envisaged. The annual cost to the budget
of the program for foreign currency deposlts (Annex 2, para 2.15) is estimated
at about US$400 million.   The establishment of a Deposit Insurance Fund for
banks (para 4.40), would require an annual budgetary allocation of about US$100
million during three years. The lending losses on central investments already
financed by Central Investments (para 4.42) as well as new credit for on-going
programs will have to be funded through the budget; additional costs relating
to potential recapitalization needs of the banking system are also difficult to
assess, as well as the cost of the recapitalization by the Government of selected
enterprises that become necessary as part of the process of cleaning up the bank
portfolios (para 4.41). As confirmed in its Statement of Policy, the Government
is committed to allocating resources commensurate with anticipated requirements
wLthin the context of the financial discipline expected under the stabilization
program.



- 36 -
PART V - THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. Qrigin and Obiectives
5.01        The proposed Loan has been developed on the basis of the work of
the Bank and the Fund in Poland since 1987, and in collaboration with the IFC
vis-a-vis twinning arrangements for the commercial banks and the development of
the capital market (the timetable of key events is in Annex 3). Major changes
were introduced in the macroeconomic framework to provide an environment
conducive to the development of a responsive and robust financial sector, and
were supported in the first instance by the Fund's Stand-By program and SAL I.
Measures have also been taken to strengthen gradually the regulatory and
supervisory framework for banks with the support of on-going operations by the
Bank and the Fund. The proposed Loan would support this process and help extend
its scope.  Its central objective is to support the creation of an enabling
environment needed to develop, modernize, and privatize the banking sector.
5.02        Several operations, including the Industrial Export Development Loan
(Report 7143-POL), the Agroindustries Export Development Loan (Report 7112-
POL), and the SAL I have supported measures relating to the financial sector.
As of now, seven banks, including Bank Handlowy, the Export Development Bank,
and the Bank for Food Economy, have signed participating agreements under the
export  loans.    These  loans  contain  preliminary  measures  for  building
institutional capabilities and to contribute to restoring the financial health
of participating banks.
5.03        Given the acceleration in the pace of reforms that began in 1990,
however, there is a need to initiate a far-reaching and broad-based program of
reform for the financial sector, in order to provide the needed back-up to the
adjustment process. This program would be supported by the proposed Loan, which
is envisaged as the first in a series of loans to support financial sector
development over a number of years. In addition to sector-wide reforms, the
proposed Loan would support a program focussing on a number of state banks,
including the nine commercial banks established in 1989, which would form the
initial basis for extending general banking services throughout the country.
As explained above, these banks have so far made only limited progress toward
functioning as full-fledged banks, and they largely reflect in their management,
staffing, operational procedures, loan portfolio, and resource mobilization
practices the legacies of the past. The Loan's main objectives are to support:
(i) an action program on the policy, regulatory, and institutional fronts that
would be needed to support and extend on-going reforms in the financial system,
as well as to underpin its longer-term deepening and strengthening; and (ii) a
program for modernizing existing institutions and assist in their privatization.
This program will rely on the provision of substantial technical assistance.
Assistance will also be made available to the emerging private banks.



- 37 -
B.  Loan Amount and BorroweX
5.04        The proposed Bank Loan, in an amount of US$200 million equivalent,
would be made to the Polish Republic through the Ministry of Finance for 17
years, including a five-year grace period, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
C. Loan Design and Comnonents
5.05        Given the need for supporting a strong program of policy reforms,
and simultaneously an extensive and complementary institutional development
program, the proposed Loan will comprise a quick-disbursing policy component,
in an amount of US$150 million, and an institutional development component, in
an amount of US$50 million equivalent. The quick-disbursing policy component
will contribute to the financing plan needed for the reform, as detailed in Part
II-B. Up to US$100 million would be available for DDSR, upon agreement between
the Bank and the Government on a DDSR program satisfactory to the Bank. Unused
funds for DDSR after June 30, 1992 could be reallocated for disbursements against
general imports.   As explained in Part IV, the major policy reforms urgently
needed to permit a rapid transition toward a modern market-oriented financial
system have to be accompanied by considerable efforts to develop efficient
institutions  and  skilled  staff.    There  is, consequently,  an  intimate
interrelation between the two components of this proposed Loan, and the success
of the reform program will depend closely on their timely joint implementation.
1.  Policy Reform Comonent
5.06        This  component  would  support  on-going  and  new  policy  and
institutional reforms undertaken in the financial sector over the 1991-1992
period. These reforms emphasize credit allocation (and the related issue of
specialized Government-owned financial agencies), instruments of monetary
control, interest rate policy, and foreign exchange operations of banks. Other
policy reforms would also address issues relating to the legal framework, the
financial restructuring of banks, the development of capital markets, as well
as other measures for supporting and fostering the development of a modern and
efficient financial system. Specific reforms, to be monitored along a set of
quantitative and qualitative targets are outlined in Table 4 below, which shows
the core policy conditionality under the Project, and in the Program for
Financial Sector Reform (Attached to the Statement of Financial Policy in
Annex 2).
5.07        Tranching.  It is proposed that the quick-disbursing component be
disbursed in two tranches. A first tranche of US$25 million would be eligible
for disbursement upon effectiveness of the Loan, based on the actions taken prior
to Board presentation as per table 4. A subsequent tranche of US$25 million
would be eligible for disbursement upon satisfaction of the proposed corditions
of its release, also indicated below. The second tranche is expected to bi
disbursed by December 1992. As indicated above, unused funds for DDSR after June
30, 1992 would be reallocated, in equal amounts to the two tranches.



- 38 -
Table 4
PROSE=   cCqM     17CO IMOS
Actions Taken Prior to                                     Actlons to be Taken by
"Egarj Presentatihon                                      Secod Tranche (late 1992)
1.  MACRO FR_NUK                                           1. MACRO FRAWUR
1. Satisfactory continuation of taplementation of          1. Satisfactory macroeconomic performance as
Economic Transformation Progrsm (ETP).                     agreed under ETP.
11.  FIMNCIa.  OICIES                                      It.  FINNCIAL POLICIES
2. Agreement to set timit on growth of totat               2. Satisfactory performance under agreed  1991
Government credit program. The growth of credit            and 1992 ceitings for G6verrment credit progrms.
under the program for capitatized interest will
not exceed 22.3 trillion zlotys in 1991 and will
decrease in real terms in 1992. Total growth In
other Sovernment credit prosrams  ittL not exceed
15X of totat credit growth to nonrgovernmnt
sectors In 1991 and an average of 121 for 1991-
1992. In addition, such credit growth wilt not
exceed 11 triltion zlotys in 1991 and witt not
increase in real terms in 1992.
3.  Finat term  of foreign exchange-denominated            3.  Foreign exchange bonds issued and transferred
bonds presented to banks to permit their exchange          to banks. Adequate 1993 budget altocation for
with banks as soon thereafter as possible.                 timely servicing. Governuent or  P continues
Goverruent to commit to aLlocate budget for                issuance of foreign exchange bonds as needed to
servicing. Oevelop new regulations to require              manae foreign exchange risks.
banks to ctosety manae foreign exchange risks.
111.  LEGAL FRANEWORK                                      I11.  LEGAL FRAMEWORK
4. Approvat by the CoLeict of Ministers and                4. Adapt comprhensive, revised Banking Low and
presentation to Parliament of Aoendkent to Banking         Act on the NBP dihich is in more complete accord
Law and Act on NWF concerning maragement of state          with modern banking legislation in devetoped
banks, bank ticensing requirements, withdrawat of          market economles. Revise prudential regulations
bank tienses, unauthorized banking activity, and           on capital adequacy; Licensing requirements;
instruments of monetary policy.                            credit and investment concentratian; loan
clessification, provisioning, and Interest
accrual; accounting and auditing requirewents and
standards.
IV.  INSTITUTIOn. S*TRMAEUINB                              IV. INSTITUTIONAL OEWLOPNENT
5. Comftment by Goeermnot to estabilsh a                   5. Establishment of a Deposit Insurance Fund to
Deposit Insurance Fund for bank recapitalization           levels defined in  tuty, from budget, banking
and bank restructuring.                                    lnstitutions, or other sources.
6. Complete corporatization of atl nine
commerclt banks on basis of enablin  legislation.
Selection of at loast two comercial banks for
prfivtizatfon.



- 39 -
2. Institutional Develomlen Component
5108        The total foreign exchange cost of this component is estimated at
US$83 million, of which the Bank would finance US$50 million. The balance will
be financed by participating banks and funds that may be available from
cofinancing currently being discussed with the EC's PIARE (para 5.12). This
component would include a strong program of technical assistance and training.
as well as the financing of computer equipment and software for the comercial
banks to improve operations and customer service. Total cost for this component
is detailed in Tablg 3 below.
IshMeted goreisn Ezesnse Cost of   _ Al D=e _Prosra
A.          Technical Assistance:                       U"
1. Twinning" arrangements for up to fine bank   36.0
(16 person-years pe bat)
2. Support to IXF and OFI                        5.0
Training for Bank Supervisors & other IPB personnl
Support to private sector banks.
training for bakers and eccoontants,
studies on capital axkets
Sub-total
S.          Han Auteati:
1. Cmpter hareb , banking software, and          42.0
related TA, trainin, and project manaeent
activities (average of US6.0 milUo per bak,
for up to seven banks). 
Sub-tot"                        1
Total                         53.0
5.09        The main element of technical assistance under this component is
the provision on a reimbursable basis, under consulting ('twinning') arrangements
between reputable foreign banks and Polish banks, of services aimed at developing
and carrying out strengthening programs for the concerned banks. The total
foreign exchange cost for this element would amount to about US$36 million and
planned Bank financing about US$22 million, to be disbursed over a three-year
period. Other elements amounting to about US$5 million (of which planned Bank
financing is US$2 million) would primarily support activities by the KOF (and
the Steering Committee for bank restructuring) for assistance in the drafting
and review of new laws, for designing and implementing the process of ownership
transformation of state-owned banks. It also includes funds for training of bank
supervisors (par& 4.30), programs for supportina, the private sector banks (para
4.36), developing the banking and accounting professions (para 4.51), studies
and other technical assistance to further develop financial markets (paras 4.55-
4.56).
5.10        The Loan would also contribute to the financing of the automation
needs of commercial banks, also on a reimbursable basis, for a total foreign
exchange cost of about US$42 million equivalent.  Bank financing for this



- 40 -
component amounts to US$26 million. It will finance principally the acquisition
of selected computer hardware and banking software to be installed in the
commercial banks participating in the project, together with supporting technical
assistance, training and project management activities. Preliminary assessments
of automation costs amount to about US$6 million for each of the seven of the
nine commercial banks who have expressed an interest in participating in the
project.
D. On-lending Arrangements and Eligibility Criteria
5.11        The provision of technical assistance and the acquisition of hardware
and software will be financed through subloans extended by the MOF through NBP,
as an agent of the Government (para 5.16), to banks interested in participating
in the program. Only those commercial banks which are creditworthy and have
agreed to implement the institutional development program covered by terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank, will be eligible to receive such subloans.
The subloans will be made for a period of not more than 10 years, with 3 years
grace. Subloans will be denominated in US Dollars or Deutsche Marks, at the
option of the participating bank, and will be charged initially a 0.50X margin
over the LIBOR or FIBOR rates. This margin will be reviewed semiannually by the
Bank and the Borrower.
5.12        Cofinancing.  Discussions around the possibility of cofinancing the
technical assistance component are under way with the EC's PHARE program. This
agency has indicated, on a preliminary basis, interest in cofinancing portions
of this component of the Loan. Grant financing would be applied to the financing
of selected Government programs.
E. Ionitorina Arrangements
5.13        The Borrower will establish by effectiveness a Steering Committee
to supervise the implementation of the reform program and of the related
technical assistance.   Given the complexity of the proposed program, this
Committee will provide technical and policy advice to ensure progress in
implementing the different policy measures and institutional development
programs.  It will ensure close coordination of the related actions, monitor
their timely implementation and initiate remedial measures as required to achieve
the objectives of the program supported by the Loan. One of the envisaged first
tasks of the Committee would be to select, jointly with the relevant
participating commercial bank, the twin foreign bank based on criteria included
in the terms of reference issued for this purpose.
5.14        The Steering Committee is expected to be co-chaired by the Vice-
Minister responsible for banking and financial institutions at the Ministry of
Finance, the Vice-President of NBP, and will comprise other senior officials
form the Ministry of Finance and NBP. The Committee will be supported by a
Secretariat, which will be comprised of high level advisors and a small group
of highly qualified staff from the Ministry of Finance.   As necessary, the
Secretariat, in turn, could be assisted by subcommittees, each addressing the



- 41 -
different areas included in the Project: (i) a policy subcommittee; (ii) a legal
subcommittee; and (iii) a bank restructuring committee.
F. Administrative Arrangements
5.15        The quick-disbursing policy component would be administered on the
same basis as agreed under the SAL.   The NBP is to be designated as the
representative of the Borrower for the administration of the Loan resources and
will be responsible for (i) the preparation of withdrawal applications under this
component of the Loan and for the collection of the documents to be furnished
to the Bank in support of such applications; and (ii) ensuring compliance with
Bank procurement practices.
5.16        To implement the institutional development of commercial banks, an
Agency Agreement will be entered into between the MOF and NBP designating NBP
as an agent of the MOF for the purposes of channeling the Loan funds to
commercial banks. NBP, as agent of the MOF, will: (i) enter, on behalf of the
MOF, into a sub-loan agreement with each of the participating banks, (ii) be
responsible for receiving and forwarding to the Steering Committee and the Bank
reports and other information that the participating banks are required to
furnish;   (iii) be responsible for supervising the preparation of withdrawal
applications by commercial banks, and check as to their accuracy and forward them
to the Bank as appropriate; (iv) be responsible for assisting commercial banks
in the procurement of goods and services under their pro%rams; (v) receive and
transfer to the MOF all payments by the commercial banks under the sub-loans.
The signature of a satisfactory Agency Agreement between the MOF and the NBP,
as well as the signature of two sub-loan agreements between NBP and participating
banks will be a condition of effectiveness for this component.
5.17        Monitoring of progress by commercial bani-s in the carrying out of
the programs under the sub-loans will be the responsibility of the Steering
Committee.
G. Disbursement and Procurement
1. Policy Reform Component
5.18        Resources made available under the quick-disbursing policy component
would be disbursed against 100X of the c.i.f costs of eligible general imports.
Eligible imports would be all goods except those normally excluded under Bank
policy-based lending, such as arms and luxury products; and goods financed by
other external financing, including other Bank loans. No retroactive financing
will be included under this component. The proposed component will be disbursed
in two tranches.
5.19        All contracts for the procurement of general imports will follow
standards procedures as included in the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits.   Following the practice adopted under the SAL, all
contracts of US$5 million and above would be subject to ICB, using standardized



- 42 -
bidding documents. All contracts below US$5 million would be awarded on the
basis of local public procurement practices for public sector entities or
international shopping (2 quotes) for private sector entities. The loan proceeds
are expected to be used mainly for relatively large commodity contracts.
Payments would be mostly through letters of credit and loan disbursements on
reimbursement basis.  Thus, a Special Account will not be needed for this
component.  Statements of Expenditures for contracts of less than US$500,000
will be used to facilitate disbursement procedures.   The standard Bank
supervision and auditing requirements will apply.
2. lechnical Asslstance Component
5.20        The remainder of the Loan would be disbursed for financing consultant
services of foreign commercial banks under the twinning arrangements; automation
of participating banks; consultant services on areas of ownership transformation
of banks, banking legislation; and other foreign advisors. Procurement under
the other Loan categrries will be conducted in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
Retroactive financi- g amounting up to US$500,000 has been included for this
component for expe titures made after May 15,1991.
5.21        Procurement  for computer goods  and related services  for  the
automation of banks will follow ICB exceeding estimated values of US$300,000.
Bid packages with estimated values under US$300,000 may be procured through
international shopping (quotes from two suppliers from two different countries),
according to Bank guidelines. Procurement of goods of a proprietary nature
(including technical licenses), or items urgently needed for project execution,
may be initiated through direct contracting. In such cases, the borrower shall
prepare a justification paper and the Bank will review and approve the
procurement. All bid packages for goods whose estimated values exceed
US$1 million equivalent will be subject to the Bank's prior review of the bid
documentation.
5.22        Disbursements of goods would be at the rate of 100 percent of foreign
expenditures and 100 percent of local expenditures ex-factory costs.   For
services, disbursements would be at the rate of lOQ percent of total
expenditures, and for technical licenses and training the rate would be 100
percent of foreign expenditures. To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account
will be established at NBP on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Payments  under  contracts  above  US$100,000  will  be  fully  documented.
Disbursements from the proposed loan for items below US$100,000 would be made
on the basis of statement of expenditures.
5.23        The Bank's standard supervision and auditing requirements would
apply. The first audit report would cover the period ended December 31, 1991;
it would be submitted annually thereafter within six months of the end of the
period.



a 43 -
H. Benefits and Risks
5.24        Benefits.  The proposed Loan will support a program of important
policy reforms aimed at eliciting the rapid development of an active, mostly
private, market-oriented financial sector. The full liberalization of interest
rates and the removal of subsidies on lending rates, complemented by a program
to reduce directed credit and Central Bank refinancing, will create an
environment fostering an efficient mobilization of financial resources and their
allocation to the most profitable investments.   These policies,  and other
measures aiming at improving the monitoring of monetary aggregates, will also
contribute to enhanced financial discipline and to the success of the
stabilization program.
5.25        Important reforms in the legal framework will foster the development
of a competitive banking sector through the promotion of universal banking;
enhance the soundness of banks through the introduction of a strong supervisory
role for the Central Bank, and prudential regulations, including on foreign
exchange transactions, consistent with those of Western European countries;
facilitate more secure bank lending through the promulgation of a new law on
collateral security; increase depositors confidence through the introduction of
deposit insurance scheme; and elicit the development of an active capital market
through the introduction of a Securities law and other related legislation. The
promulgation of this impressive array of new laws, and their efficient
enforcement, coupled with the introduction of accounting -nd auditing standards
in line with international practice, should also contribute to the establishment
of a sound and efficient financial system.
5.26        Finally the important program of institutional strengthening, and
the envisaged privatization of state banks, will contribute to the prompt
development of an efficient network of banks providing efficient and
comprehensive banking services throughout the country.
5.27        Risks.  The authorities will clearly be confronted with a number of
risks in carrying out this very important program. A first risk would be that
a deterioration in the macroeconomic performance, particularly as regards credit
growth, may lead to a return to hyperinflation, resulting inter alia into
financial disintermediation, crowding out of market-allocated credit, the
increased financial instability of banks, and capital flight. This risk should
however be minimal, given the recent agreement with the IMF on the proposed EA,
and the close monitoring by the authorities, with the support of the IMF and the
Bank, of key targets designed to ensure a rapid return to macroeconomic
stability.
5.28        Another risk is that remanent inertia and political pressure, linked
with the lack of experience of bank staff, may slow down the process of shifting
to hard lending practices.   This risk would be addressed by introducing
monitoring mechanisms which would enable the authorities to assess lending
aggregates with more accuracy and react promptly to alarming trends through the
introduction of early warning systems; by the enhancement of bank financial
discipline through the introduction of accounting standards, of annual audits,
and of strong bank supervision; by the development of banking skills, in



- 44-o
particular credit appraisal capabilities; and by the Government commitment to
ensure the autonomy of the commercial banking system. Finally, the Government
program is complex and could face difficulties in its prompt implementation.
To address this risk, a high-level Steering Committee is being established, to
be co-chaired by senior officials from the MOF and the NBP. This committee will
be assisted by a number of subcommittees, including a bank restructuring
committee which will ensure the coordination of bank institutional development
programs.   Twinning arrangements with foreign banks should facilitate the
implementation of the institutional development component. Strong support to
monitor the program will also be provided by the Resident Mission in Poland.
I. Collaboration with IMF. IFC. and other international organizations
5.29        Close  consultation has  been maintained with  the  IMF  in  the
development of the program of financial policies reforms to be supported by the
proposed Loan. Close cooperation with the IMF has also prevailed throughout the
preparation of this program as regards the strengthening of Central Banking
functions, in particular as regards the monitoring of monetary and credit
policies, and the prudential supervision of banks, and other actions aiming at
ensuring the soundness of the banking system, inter alia the development of a
suitable legal framework. As detailed in the report, IFC has cooperated closely
with the Bank during the development of the Program, particularly with regard
to the twinning of the state-owned commercial banks, and capital markets, and
this cooperation is expected to continue during the implementation of the
proposed program. Close contacts have also been kept throughout the preparation
of the Loan with the EBRD, in the context of the twinning program, and with the
EC (para 3.15 and 5.12).



- 45 .
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
6.01        I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed Loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
May 16, 1991
Washington, D.C.



- 46-                                        ANNEX I
POLAbi&                                        Page  1 of-7
finarJS fabO   ndg
Tabl 1: Soca Indiato  of Development, 1990
N  S.a'e rioml Iiaewgr.
HUMANkEONE                                                 t~                          NinhA/ji        -        Jm
Slt, wo&,ueWvotpgpula
?o1  JaIo   (sie  @1t989)                tboaaO ia       3S  49      3402         38A       S6f       666  1    422994
~ o(psp~      M.0      J54.0                            Low.9         ).
COg|g  SEtp352 64   64                            S         $7.6        60.8
LbauwAs  ~    ~        ~       34        0.3 .3    0.6I f~42
A,simi                                   num*bor            10         106        J
1.1        IO         0.         21         2.1i       1.8
Ud/atuwlal)bdiSf   dE6  1.7  22.0         1          3.0        30         2.9
O 1 b o W n v a I g , e w ~ ~ d i ~ u ' a n j a j   d i f f u a u i a g   1 . 7   2 .3   1 . 6  1 . 5   1 . 9  3 . 1
>,,;20110                                 t a..                           ..      3g9    714.071    131,021    510348
dlmappuJn-                                                                 "                     *-,..
P1bm. POP.          17.3        1.9        15         31         3.07       2S.S
T * W   t O d I b.y n u              2 .5 1                Z 1 7     ~ ~~~~~~~~4.2 9   '3 .8 70  3 .2 7
Q     4)1 (   /Iwaa (15.49) 110                                *          "'*
psulOOvanMi           so         27         32
Ritual                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~45    40    46
~~ d g u a 1~~~ u ~     p u d z o u .  p o p . ~~~~7 .4   8.7      9 .7 '     1 0 28..0
Jnfina~ta,inw                        psr1koa.1we           41.7        24.8        62        639        52.7       4SO
19.0           63.5        81 554.4
.3  ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~69.3                         7 03        71.7      63.8        6152      67.4
72.2       74.7       75.8       6660       67.6       69.9
To  ew! labor fans                        dhmasang         15i 734    181        19.607    19729      243,S 8    159.186
l atbor focr      4.6       g
Maltuy   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ a31.5                                  36
FPak                                                       44.3         03 .6                26         302        30.?
gnmawu psi aoOiaiw 
Rual                                                        10  110
tue>  tlaborfa".s   ,500        537.3      535        3d8        3X8 .
f1  43 0    47.0      45.7       206        22.6       23.5
Sdlo  ye= aapke:ovcu)                                         ..         ..          -
MATURAL RESOURCES
Arn                                      Oim sq. km31                   313         313     14,738     21068       16.24
lmd ~~~~~~~~~01 19 120                                                                         2
%*QzhaW:           A61    6.4   60i    31                                    z 3
me (ow)                ain,al%~~=          1.3        0.4        0.0        0.         07           4
Am   lsags wowe                           % of.pp              ..         .        89.0          .       635        79.7
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o                                                                       VI t
Popultion go                                Infatmorality                         P _ sh            om    e_nt
4                                                                                    0



- 47 -
QLAUD                                         Page 2 of 7
financid af ntituton, Develapmernt I oan
Ift I Soclal Indicatrs of Deveoipment, im9 (contInued)
$mm. "elft Ii4e5p
flue.?     y,u        yve       .Uawt   MWAaE  ,   Oi. 
INVONfM ANI) POVIITY
GNP per aoaa (min a1989)                    us$                ..                1,760      2,670      13O        3,s00
Touul hausdiwl mwomn
Sbamto asa40o atholhogAgol&e-2                                                    24. 
Sb= aobeanm2O bothcwbo1sda                                             to1        10to. 
Foist
AbscI*povy incme: absiUS$ sp                         ....                             ..
Pop. in absolut pvoW. eny  Aa             %of.pp.              .....
EXPENDflUR
food                                     * Of GDP.                      65*.. 
Mesit,fibimilk.chanae,qgs7.
Casual unpoau              tha~~~~~mcui.mtri toomis    2,795  4,7     2,6        31X4.8                67ui
Foodidases
Food                                    1979                931  percits
Daily calerie               al~~~~~cotes per pens  321                             16.5       15.4       23
VMnS pser PMk                    111       I&A                 2,4
lff"5uslq                                *OfGDP               44        445        .4         .4.4
bvwqhoodicd sizt                 psioems perha*o"d         433                              4
Urban                                        ~~         ~    ~ ~~            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~3  3   .   4
Fuel d pwowe                               Of GDP             ..1.1..-.
oonumudmmcapita         kg ofoil quvmli    2,073      2,70.9    3,38SA      1,462.       84.7    1,537.?
Urban                      *~~~~~of hoaeold .b-.
Tranq,crtaadcommunlcstlmm      %~~ of GDP           4        3.6                    4.          4 
12    2          10        24         30         1s
~~da~~so p~~~aanger car                           12f"M      4.1                      
Pcpala6oaperaelqbaau           ~~~~~pessaw          .         13                    dI
INVESTMENT IN H1ThWCAWYrAL
Medlealcare                   *~~~~~        ~     ~~        ~~of GDP  .. 3.3
Pupoiadaaper phyuimasa  pew~~~~~~~~mas~487                              g          ,si
Pqwu6    namer  a                                        410        25         187                              Jot60
-leapiu43bad
Aimuato healxcue                          *(fpop,              ..                 L
bianaws4 (under 12 macha): utedale     ' of or lo m           ..                  910p.9                6.
oF                                    .          .       9.0        7.1        6.
Oval bhdw*adc Ther  anyu  (dade 5)       * of ana"....                                       32.0       27.5
Educaddla                                %of GDP              44        364                               4.
Gpm1W,IOtm  md                       % of u"oo-aget=       104.0      loL0                   903.       1.02      1026
feltlifle                                IM* 6.4     ?0.       10.                   10.1.7
*       617       ~~~~~~74.0  620         S          .
% of tnnay aduma      33.5      '35.2       23.1                     .
Pupl Paneder          2           21        16
2214            12         21         i 
PUBAS    pade4                        IhfdoiL.9.                                84                     . 
22.3
finale            %~~of WIa1ss'&gs1)        ..552                                      1la2.
New    roijualurisa          ~~~~~~per thou pap.  1666      241.5      2073        14.1     7TO          63.0



FhWM lrtdn Dooow Loa
e :Key Macnni4mc Indba
W~~~~~~~~~~~~I                      m              in        w       im       lm      am
MP a t w     p                          0.2    .12.0      2S      5.0   S .0   Se0          5.0   Sz0         5.0     5.0   5 .0        SQ0
kdtr   Or                               ,         .       .       .        .        .t.              .        .        .        ..
Red   I       JLdd  2xwtn?3                     -tt2      4.9     4.0      2A       3.t     4.6      SA      S3       5.4      5S       S.4
Eprt e*                                 *8A     36o     -7.        .  6.9           6.9     7         2       72      T 46
Rue                                    -4.0    15.0
fve                                    -I.?     A.0                                                                           S
bprt *b3.1    -15S                                       42  l l.t   73            65   5.6          S3   5 2   SJ .4 
we                                      0      -32.0
*"A                   n1.7                      6.t
fh&e  las                               IIC      NC       IC       IC     12.9     4.6      6.1      5.6     S.7      5.6      5.7     5.6
0ms  bwso                               213     21.9    25A       &59     2BS      292      29t2    a3.7       2      VA      V.t      a$A
batil 9tin                               X      X         3      ^9       2.       2r2     V.3    27.3       2       V7.1      .        .
9=* &Mlut Ibp                           0.8      2A      0Oh      0.0    -02       -2.0    1.9       1A      -1.0      A      -03       0.
otaic       Urrot  Aw.                            ..:     ..       .       ..       ..      ..       ...9             ..5    .02.
qErtm Wfs                               S13     ZN5      a8       M2      MA.    25.0    25A        3S.1   ;2r       V73      Z7.?     M.
lq   WS                               ifs16A   18.4     ZS5     MA.    2;*A       25.7    2i.9    25.9      aw0     a&2      ai2      ai2
kntAu  Oln to)                        ..       ..1173    -1.0  -IWJ2   -tIA   -WA8   -6M    -03    -D6S                           129
of Wtblwgte arv                      -lBOi     6S2     2a6  V3    * 7             W2 1127A -1#I. -IMA    -40i. l3 -           IS5    172.9
- s s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



Vwwpl PsqW"MDs q~ W            PwWvwq  pmP1d~ parror a$I df UMk S m nj :0 D   U" 
my4        v      Pe 14m10e w-agm?8#10 P3tm   i                :Ymc
144                                                                                                      MAP: jilmm cm  am 'aswvm PM'
_0 r       *  zwaw  zaft  FwJ  zaA  rw*  Fapt rz                          zai  06M1  rcM   O&'                                 aq-x O
-*,                                                                                                                              uq mp3
sl         w         t      67E     WV      F?       5i      O'S     Ws       III     96s     rZ          apoi CIPPS3.Kdq   SSvA 4 m  4J
re              Z   , z         6.   ..          CZ      e t       1 et        *-9         V            't '
VA      I's       I      T6      To       VIs     Fit      T      et       r6      WE       0WAm
VI Z           9C       1 E           et      Yt      tZ      Z       SZ     9r       1-6                          dlBAW Jlp
01 ot           0 oa     e-a     FEL     To       ra      re n6            960    I's      'te                          USC1s
18      r-e      We                S     Fz  h   tVE     FO7     FM       r0      CS!    WES                                 dn
ri      root    "a       rat    rat         t n   Wm      VW  1 w    Z             r        rta                               SWAN
aa   ZUm        9t             qw                 us              53? SSD9  VU?    1                             (  *l)W uj) WE 
S;!EF 11&,  Dlt-        AIZ     L       91        S la            St-   A5-                                            A de *I
I.                       I I                      I~~~~~~~~~~. memo                                           N 
is      a5c     as       is       iE      am      e      0#I      0       0       0        0                             _-inpIq
o       0       0        0       0 o1                     61a     Lb        M      Ws om 6  0
<-     aic-    36-    w-       ll-     8zY     31-      Mb     Lb       mm 01             0                         ODWIFO Wl 'l
0W-     (J-     WE-      W       WI       M-      W0E-    Gn-    0311-   M40-    Sp.    W-              CIMfl4 su .4    _   % *ea 'I
W       WE   OE          Wg      WI   (01                 W01      GSE-    0311-    9/   a* 31-jU    F) * Z
ace    awE      cm       W       cm       WCI    as        31-  co-        o3a-    9        asL-                      Mmm T    1 N'1
ch~~~a          OL       oz      ozC     ao       Mt      0s      o        U       m oz-    M*- a                                  Jo   zonI
eaL    MA        OP      ow      Om       WP      Ws       M3      WE     cm       (A                                  tsLJSf&J XSIG
-t        ?19'     s1       wit      MI      0       1R Ws   IN      on       gm       W       M       MI
on      gm      ge               W        a       s 9ea            SR I    IPAg                                         SV a  aR  Sq 
IE9     Ole   a b        M6       M       Ml      an1      M      4WB   aza        S-    Oa-                              MIn MIt
2L      cm       ts%     AR      sW       61      aW Si m          a1     an       M*      o-                          UYP0Im1* 1
ELI     96Z-    UAY-    WIt-    "SI-    ait       AM-    31-      It       LIZ     DP       0-                     amlO *now WaDu  i
D       O       0        0       0       0        0       0       0        0       0        0                         *samO    A 
cam    acm      ow       mo       m      cM       Om       a       gmi    cms       M       aa                          -   *Ago It
cmt     M       onm      on      mm      cM      0cm      cm       Mt      M       cm       an                      S.SP*Jj union Wm -u
o       0       0        0       0       0        0       0       0        0       0        0                      m~Iaw" 3=m l0I~)
O?S    8oM      a05      t       a mlE  Mi  0             (W      16a m  9        S  an                               U s  as
m-    we-    BIB-    OlE-         e-  a -  # R-    Z&              cu-     19-    %M-        -                          q a        -*
a       a        M               5g-      as-    1s  wz            a- SW?A                  a I-wgm  a4                             3
Cox(    A1(     8                Ob  E    061W     6IZ 9    I        l       1    60        AM                       (31 taIpfh  It
Inn       m ?   Wm               %% ESgm                    w      g       6ML z    samimiz                                 PQ    . 
us5     AK     901       9(3     S2       %M        E      M      S11      131     as      Wl                       934%    iAM -z
-   %?96     -        -FU    W1(2    D5EZ   sLAG      Uh1      51W    adl      8031    611                       (1  IePUI s
681?E   IlA     1itl    5111     5       E3      1113    RL S      Ut    WIt   IIL         16                       5S JP        *2
03(  68     861     JAI      SAiet25lZ sldMau  166    Bt      36       116   9   JD  8Y11 
ag     %%      gm        AM     im      gm       mz      MUa           a   m      gm       s F       as Z4
.-. ..        ........... .  l......... ...     --   - -
Aoueijnh sIqj3w   (to wn      0Ud
kwioqWuo  tW;g     OB                   C"J



04
IPZ~ ~ l           a% fa    GW                 tM     VN        &N       M         UK BA             O        S
700~~~~~~~ TaO  CMS  6'MCgDW9Z   3    VO    WM    U               A    T                                  dms o
L.                  .       .         .        *.      *         -        *        -        -        *        -Y
..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  .     .+      wX        *        ..       ..                             wauso ~~~~=ml  PAJU
..M      ..rt    r..      6..       ..A   ..          ..       VW       ..      r..       ..      t..
6'1Zb fS 0 1W f Z Z * 6 t~~~~~~~~4=-
~~~~~a            ram       aMt   V5            V)       MVr            6A           i     s       99m       anmo d 
ttYip  WU -   0IZ-   M-V*-          WM       *-ad     *S9    fA-        *-       %'-      VW-                                das_j
..  ... .   . .   ....... .  .. ........  ....~f  ..                    ..       ........ p,, -     ---      --         ------      ---      -A U P
tql  tEla 6XBUl[l 6 ~~(sotz wwo St92 1 OIIS tSll 
r g~~~~~~~~ou *WV FMOa  low,9 
[+    vsa r ofL s6  *gmt



POLAND
FwFW 1rft   Devko iI
Table5  Nadonal Aocount
(Sin of 1987 Zlty)
"Wll                               Ot2    IW;2   1tlf.9  tZ112   tDSS   ttMS   t=3    t4A    t52    IM                     tBA   tM.J
P1v                 tIJA  tZA6 tfIMVJ  t(12   1t2fi0  11163                              A   tMI15O            VtB    IM         S3
PthU                               VWA    U@SA               iWA       *S    VA2 lfD.9 tI.&9 WINA    T3    UM                        BAX
Find ?JEt                           S9    3611.7   41"3    4s4          M3    NSA. WA. 56613    SDIA t   M.0   6t%2    ORA8
Stm viAak * x-AD   -aml.0   .2D.0    2t. fJ                               .9    1t62     t6.0     143    7Mf.0    2142    2M1.9    M23
Etts                                 W2    3%4        YS    4fiB        W2      4.7    02.1   SM2    SWZ.1   6135.7   6U? 7          3
ls                                  2$.1    023       WAS   41S7A       M9      USt.7   .S0      SM   5$0.5    M5          61WA    64.1
MP at -ml P pion                     I?r3   t9W.    V0.1   BfA   ItA   tlA   W.9   ZM.A   2V.9   ZW13   74:2   7g
awsity to iwt
Tom, of abm  ia*mf                     49.0   -*A    -MD2        -25.9    -343    --VA     *U73    4&.9    -IS      -1t5   V-6.    -Iffl
GOwDmsc         t7 7 2 5 V3 3M                          M1.0 tS/67  I7A   I.A UN6A 1Q#K.6   2MB2   223ES.   2Y77s 2 2416.0
sM   =tc    9 *Nbw                    W        4W.1   15.1   4MS         02      5W3    5013    513    W.0    6W.90    MA9.    6M.9
wxu dmL s. rawe                        ..      h.7     -A       *9.4    ID.?     90J?    43.1    31.0    as.0        A4      Z53     Z.1
SP 0906 (t9-4
Oo&ptn..                                        .        ..       .       ..       ...              ...              ...               .            n
P                                     .      .          .        .       ..      .         .       ..      .         .       .. 
IDP St qm,qp 55D.t                   S9D.1   3107     Sr#S  7IW.0   711.1 7M2    7WA   7W2                 WSZ s.t   9011t9    9WW
.   _   .   .   ..  .   .   _  .  ..  _                        .    .   _          .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C



- 52 -                                     ANNEX 1
POLAND                                        Page 7 of 7
Fjnancial Instio  Develonrmrt L.
T    6: Base Case
(Including Debt Reducton)*
Crediorthiness and Bank Exposure
m    Iw   1 99  W1                   1W 6  1sr tws aw? m WA
COW. er.       US)             cul    t        -.-.-.-.-.-.... ---.......................................................
....................... . . ............................. . ..... ... . . . .................. . ........ . ....*........
OV T Olin US)                  45a78  48A   47M9   MP?        M f.S         MIa  3P  A      0    40M    41S    41712
aC Igo                            0      54   121m    1w      au    s1s    4018   460   5me    54         5915   6s0
P.A)ts                            0       0      4  C         14?     332    3      57      67  757 8U   972
Dm w                              0    SD   159  Z2          301    319    W        1716   12 Be     O     550 B    Z5
PROW"  aU                         0      25     51    146    316    m        48     475    s1s       2    45    348
am E818.    1 N  SflK ls          0            6W    11W    16W   O                             ae2o 49 6 M4   7i7
Posw   Om ItB, E  a NW sista.     a      0      58     59      a       1    as      0       577    789 X         1153
W* Een:
DM lowV UNtT                    0.00   O.tX   2.SE   3.9    ?.Mk    RU    QM7   12.1  12A    13U.!R   14.4%  15.18S
pgjm  OUR I    AM               0.0    O.OAO   0.0.43   O.1M   o.M    I.M    13    20%   2.0%   2.07X   2.16%
P-Wfsr crsur: *
DM PM. OWEDMLT                  O.31   15    6.a9    9.1&   17.18    1   251 =  2D Z% 32 5    .aS1     A.= 2x.L
Pa_ts Om Pif. 0Md.=             0.Z   0.J    GAll  I.37X   23        3.3    3.5S   4.13C  4.4;5   4A43   4.39V   4.M
As aI   :in wtR  I EI  12.



- 53 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 1
Warsaw, May , 1991
REPUBLIQUE DE POLOGNE
MINISTERE DES FINANCES
Mr. Barber Conable
President
The World Bank
Washington D.C., 20433
USA
Dear Mr. Conable,
We request a Financial Institutions Development Loan from the
World Bank in the amount of US$200 million equivalent in support of our
Government's program to reform the Polish financial sector. The main elements
of the program and the specific policy measures already taken during the past
months or to be taken in the near future are spelled out in the attached
Statement of Financiil Policy.
It is our intention to implement the program, as described, to
ensure the prompt development of a vigorous, largely private market-oriented
financial system that is capable of responding in a competitive fashion to the
financing needs of a rapidly-changing economy.
The action program to be supported by the Loan is ambitious and
comprises a complex array of policy and institutional reforms needed to
establish a modern financial system in Poland. Important human resource
development programs will also be carried out to enable bank staff to operate
efficiently in a market environment.
We are fully committed to actively implementing the program, and
to the need for a close monitoring of its various aspects, which we will
undertake with the assistance of the World Bank. We also fully recognize that
the successful continuation of the stabilization program is critical to the
success of reforms in the financial sector, and in that respect, we are
committed to the effective continuation of our Economic Transformation
Program, which we are carrying out in close cooperation with the World Bank
and with the IMF.
Grzegorz Wojtowicz                              Leszek Balcerowicz
President                                   Deputy Prime Minister
National Bank of Poland                         and Minister of Finance
Attachment



- 54 -
Atta hment- I
Page 1 of 17
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT LOAN
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POLICY
I. Background
1.          In early 1990, the Government of Poland initiated an ambitious
Economic Transformation Program (ETP) to support the rapid creation of a market
economy through thorough systemic and macro-economic management changes. The
priorities of the Polish reform are threefold--macroeconomic stability,
restructuring, and growth. The main reforms introduced under the ETP consist
of enterprise sector reforms and privatization to promote an active supply
response, financial sector reforms to develop a modern institutional basis for
resource mobilization and allocation, and a social safety net to alleviate the
burden during adjustment and to deal with poverty. These three aspects of the
reform program are key to establishing the conditions necessary for and fostering
the development of the private sector. The ETP is now entering into a second
phase, that will focus on the continuation of programs initiated under the first
phase of the program, including privatization, industrial restructuring, further
price rationalization through subsidy reductions, further improvement of the
safety net, and continued improvements in the environment.
2.          From the outset, the introduction, in parallel, of far-reaching and
broad-based measures to reform the financial sector have formed an integral part
of the ETP, to sustain the rapid pace of the economic reforms that have been
initiated. The challenge has been to foster the development of independent,
mostly private, market-oriented banks providing general banking services to the
economy, and able to mobilize savings, evaluate risk, and efficiently allocate
resources to investments with the highest returns. The Government is fully aware
of the complexity of this process, and the close linkages with progress in the
real sector. The extent and complexity of the reforms required to achieve such
objectives, the required linkages of the financial sector reforms with those in
the real sector, and the need for radically transforming approaches to banking,
will require enormous efforts which must be sustained over the medium-to-long
term.
3.          In  this  context,  the  Government  has  requested  a  Financial
Institutions Development Loan (FIDL) from the World Bank, to support the
introduction of measures which further extend the reforms already initiated, and
to provide a framework for forthcoming sectoral programs with a bearing on the
financial sector, aiming at ensuring their consistency with sound financial
policies.
4.          The success of the reform program for the financial sector will hinge
on successful continuation of the stabilization program, rapid progress in the
implementation of a number of critical programs, inter alia the restructuring
and privatization of enterprises, and the introduction of pollcies and procedures



- 55 -
ANNEX 2_
Attachment
Page 2 of 17
which ensure and safeguard autonomy and accountability in financial institutions.
A number of policy variables are identified which will have an important impact
on  economic  performance.    These  and  other  aspects  of  the  Government's
macroeconomic adjustment program have been discussed with the World Bank and will
be reviewed on a regular basis.
II.  The Government's Program for the Financial SectorV
5.          The Polish banking system is just emerging from several decades of
meeting the needs of a centrally planned economic system. Starting with the
institutional reforms of January 1989, and further developed through those
included in the ETP of 1990, the Polish Government's vision of a revitalized and
modern financial system is beginning to take shape. This vision calls for a
vigorous, market-oriented system that is capable of responding in a competitive
fasnion to the financing needs of a rapidly-changing economy. The first phase
consists of the liberalization of financial policies to impose discipline both
on the banking institutions, as well as on the enterprises.   Accompanying
financial liberalization is the rapid modernization of the banking system, to
bring it in line with those of the EC, into which the Government hopes to be
integrated as soon as possible.   In this context,  state banks are to be
strengthened and privatized, and the establishment of private baiks is to be
encouraged. Finally, development of capital markets, to allow for flexibility
in financing options, in part to support real sector privatization objectives,
is being pursued.
6.          The Government's objective is to develop rapidly a financial sector
which is fully capable of supporting the efforts to privatize the real sector,
and to encourage development of the private sector. Government policies in this
respect are articulated around four elements: (i) improved financial policies;
(ii)  modernized  banking  legislation  and  supervision;   (iii)  extensive
institutional development as a first stage in the privatization of the state
commercial banks; (iv) development of financial markets and deepening of the
financial system. While a number of changes can be promptly introduced, progress
in some areas, particularly as regards the development of human resources and
the cleaning up of the bank portfolios, will necessitate more time. Moreover,
political and economic uncertainties are such that goals can be spelled out
specifically only for the short-term. On this basis, the Government's program
consists primarily of targeted measures aimed at achieving selected practical
objectives.   It includes a number of important sector-wide reforms, and in
addition a comprehensive institutional development program focussing primarily
on the nine state-owned commercial banks established in 1989 in the context of
the restructuring of the National Bank of Poland (NBP), and aimed at readying
them for privatization.
7.          Central to the Government's strategy is its commitment to ensuring
that adequate financial resources are made available to emerging market-oriented
enterprises.   In light of the need for promptly and efficiently channelling
resources to a number of critical sectors, the Government has decided to give
priority to the rapid development of a largely private, national network of banks
I/      e      --. a......,V i_,4ns nVni,4A&A 4* Annandilx 1



- 56 -
ANNEX 2
Attichment
Page 3 of 17
offering basic banking services.   The strategy to achieve this objective is
four-pronged: (i) the establishment of viable new private banks is being
fostered; (ii) the establishment of foreign bank branches, subsidiaries, and
joint ventures is being encouraged; (iii) the privatization of the state-owned
commercial banks subsequent to their institutional strengthening, including
improvements in management through transformation into Joint-stock companies;
and (iv) limiting Government involvement in credit allocation to those areas
where there is clear market failure to provide finance to areas of critical
social or economic importance. Longer-term objectives include the deepening of
the financial system through the fostering of the establishment by the private
sector of specialized financial institutions, including non-bank financial
institutions, and the concerted development of financial markets.
8.          Financing needs previously covered through the centralized allocation
process including to the housing, agriculture and industrial sectors, will
require specific attention. With the anticipated rapid shift towards a market-
oriented environment, the need for such specialized programs should subside,
since developments in the financial system resulting from the removal of
rigidities, as well as the improved economic environment should gradually
eliminate current financing imperfections. However, there is a need to ensure
that critical needs are met during the transition period.
9.          As regards the financing of aericulture, the current reforms will
focus on the enhanced role of the cooperative bank network, in particular as
regards the mobilization of resources.   This is in contrast to the current
situation whereby agriculture finance relies principally on NBP refinancing
through BGZ. In this context, the Government has sought World Bank assistance
to support policy reform, and strengthen institutions.
10.         Housing finance has been the responsibility of PKO BP, which
currently holds most housing loans in Poland. Until the end of 1990, housing
credit has been heavily subsidized.   In the light of changes in ownership,
housing finance, the construction industry, and the role of banks, the
authorities are preparing a program involving the introduction of a new legal
framework, institutional support, and new instruments both for lending and for
mobilizing resources.
11.         Central investment financing (e.g., power plants, large manufacturing
complexes), has been done in the past through bank loans refinanced by the NBP.
The Government is introducing policies so that future public investments will
be financed through budgetary allocations, as part of the public investment
program undertaken by the Government, or through direct recourse to financial
markets.
12.         Finally,  the authorities have initiated a specific program for
speeding up the industrial restructuring and privatization process, and have
created as part of this effort the Industrial Development Agency and the Polish
Development Bank, which will generally be operated on a commercial basis. The
commercial banks are nevertheless expected to play the central role in the
financing of the restructuring of the enterprise sector, given their sizable
branch network and to take advantage of their extensive knowledge and involvement
in the sector.



- 57 -
Attachment 1
Page 4 of 17
13.         Other &uiding nrincinles of the Government's strategy are to clarify
promptly governance issues in state-controlled banks, since these banks will
continue to play an important role over the coming years. In the context of
privatization of the state banks, the daily management of banks will be vested
with efficient, autonomous, and accountable professional managers. This will
be undertaken as part of the process of the corporatization of the banks-.
transforming them into joint-stock banks.  In addition, all banks, including
state banks, will be expected to carry the full risk resulting from their
operations, in particular as regards lending, and in this context, a number of
actions, inter alia the stepping-up of efforts for introducing strengthened
supervision and annual audits, will be carried out to encourage banks to deal
actively with their non-performing loans. In this context, if the Government
elects in some exceptional circumstances to direct a bank to continue lending
to a problem borrower, financing will come from the budget, and the loan would
not appear on the books of the bank, or alternatively, the Government will
provide the concerned bank with an appropriate guarantee.
III. Financial Policies
14.         With the objective of furthering the objectives of the stabilization
program, fostering efficient resource mobilization and credit allocation through
a banking system based on market principles, and shielding that system from the
potential effects of continuing macro-economic instability, a number of actions
will be taken to develop policies, or put into place those recently developed,
in the following areas: (i) close monitoring of preferential credit programs,
with a view to limiting their impact on credit growth and reducing their
importance over time; (ii) efficient management of the banking system's
liquidity; (iii) full liberalization of interest rates; and (iv) improved
framework for managing bank foreign exchange activities.
A. Government Credit Programs
15.         The authorities realize that credit which is subsidized, directed
to specific borrowers or groups of borrowers (including mandatory interest
capitalization), or which is extended or guaranteed by the central Government
or specialized Government credit institutions is cushioned to a degree from
market forces, and that due caution should be given to limit the possible
drawbacks of such lending. First, excessive credit allocation of this type could
crowd out market-based lending by private institutions and/or lead to
inflationary credit growth.   Second,  the promotion of such programs and
institutions may impede the creation of a competitive banking system able to
operate on market principles: by imposing financial discipline on enterprises,
a competitive banking system is a key element in the overall objective of
promoting efficient allocation of resources in the economy. To address the first
concern, the Government intends to limit the share of total credit growth in the
form of directed or subsidized credit, and credit extended or guaranteed by the
Government or specialized Government credit institutions.   For the second,
programs will be adopted to phase out the share of subsidized interest, reduce
reliance on directed credits and lending by Government or its specialized credit
institutions over time, and operate majority-owned Government banks on a fully
commercial basis. These policies are specified below.



- 58 -
ANNEX 2_
&tgachment 1
Page 5 of 17
16.         Limits on Government credit programs:  From a system where, until
the end of 1988, virtually all credit was centrally allocated, the Government
has made substantial progress toward and is firmly committed to the rapid
development of a largely private financial system.  To this objective,   growth
of the Government credit programs will be closely controlled and the overall
share of credit extended under these programs as a percentage of total credit
growth will be reduced over time. For 1991 and 1992, the Government's objectives
are as follows:
(i) Maximum share of credit growth: Total growth of credit extended
under Government credit programs will be subject to specific limits in 1991 and
1992. Included in these limits is all credit which is explicitly subsidized by
the Government, directed by the Government to be made to a particular borrower
or group of borrowers (including credit with mandatory interest capitalization),
and extended or guaranteed by the Government or by specialized Government credit
institutions. Specialized Government credit institutions are those institutions
which are established and majority-owned by the Government to participate in or
carrv out Government credit programs. Foreign-sourced funds which are additional
to funds otherwise available and which are explicitly linked to onlending for
Government credit program purposes are excluded.   Owing to a severe housing
shortage, the Polish legislature has enacted a program for funding mandatory
interest capitalization of housing loans. To ensure that this program does not
contribute unduly to an inflationary credit expansion, the growth of credit under
this program will not exceed 22.3 trillion zlotys  in 1991.   It is the
Government's intention that the amount of credit growth in 1992 for this purpose
will not exceed the amount of credit growth in 1991 in real terms. In addition,
total growth in other Government credit programs in 1991 will not exceed 15X of
the total growth in credit to the non-governmental sectors or 11 trillion zlotys,
whichever is less.   It is the Government's intention to further reduce this
share in 1992 and the average share of such credit growth will not exceed 121
of total growth in credit to the non-governmental sectors over this period. The
Government further commits that the growth in its credit programs other than
housing in 1992 will not exceed the amount extended in 1991 in real terms.
(ii) Monitoring. To arrive at these limits, a trial credit balance will
be prepared and limits and priorities for the above Government credit programs
will be established. The budgeted or projected growth of credits under these
programs will not exceed the agreed amounts and shares of total growth in credit
to the non-government sectors for 1991-1992. A reporting system of total credit
under the Government programs has been developed by NBP for monitoring purposes.
This will enable mid-course corrections through budget reallocations or credit
ceilings on the specialized Government credit institutions if growth in these
credits threatens to exceed the agreed limits.
17.         Medium-term  objectives.    As  an  important  component  of  the
Government's program for moving to a system of market-based lending by private
institutions, a program is now in place for corporatizing existing state-owned
banks with the intent to convert these institutions to majority-owned private
banks.   Lending by these institutions to state enterprises is being put on
strictly commercial terms. No Government credit programs for subsidized credit
will be conducted through the banking system except for existing programs for
agriculture, housing and central investments and loans cofinanced or refinanced
on strictly market terms by the specialized government credit institutions. All



- 59 -
ANNgX 2
Page 6 of 17
such programs will be conducted directly by the Government or its specialized
credit institutions. Moreover, programs are being adopted for phasing out the
share of subsidized interest, reducing the reliance on directed credit over time,
and limiting direct lending or credit guarantees by specialized Government credit
institutions. Details are as follows:
(i)   Interest rate subsidies. In the recent past, interest rate subsidies
have been limited to agricultural and housing lending.   Initial measures to
control the effect of such subsidies in the case of agriculture, and to
substitute it by a preferable program in the case of housing, are being
introduced under a new program in 1991 while specific measures aiming at the
phasing out of these programs are being or will be adopted separately as part
of sectoral development programs currently under discussion with the World Bank.
Under the new program, for agricultural credits, the rate paid on
loans for specific nurnoses (including loans for purchasing specific produce and
livestock, soil conservation and reclamation, environmental protection, and other
limited objectives) will be set at 1/2 of the refinancing rate with a minimum
of 20% when the refinancing rate is above 20.   The subsidized portion of
interest on these loans will not exceed the budgeted amount of 1.35 trillion
zlotys for 1991. A schedule for limiting the share of interest subsidized for
1992 will be agreed under the agricultural sector operation currently under
discussion with the World Bank. For working caRital credits, no new subsidized
loans are being extended at present; the Government's intention is to not
continue this program.
For housing, the initial subsidized portion of interest rates was
converted into a capitalized portion beginning January, 1991. A new program
being introduced links the capitalized portion of rates to borrower's income.
Under this program, rates on housing loans to cooperatives will be established
by a formula which sets the current payment on a loan for an average sized flat
to an amount equivalent to one-half the average basic wage; the current payment
is adjusted for the actual size of the housing being financed and all interest
above this current payment amount will be capitalized.   Housing loans to
individuals are based on the same formula but are further capped by a maximum
of 25% of family income but not less than principal. For loans on housing under
construction, 40% of the capitalized interest ac_ruing in 1991 is purchased by
the Government.   For housing loans on completed construction, 100l   of the
capitalized interest accruing in 1991 is purchased by the Government. Total
amounts purchased cannot exceed the amount provisioned in the budget. This
program has the effect of reducing the capitalized portion of interest payments
automatically as real wages increase.   A schedule for reducing further the
remaining capitalized portion of interest is expected to be agreed upon and
implemented under the sectoral program for housing currently under discussion
with the World Bank;
(ii)  Central investments:   Future central investments will be funded
through budgetary allocations and nfr new central investment projects will be
financed through the banking syste..   Additional bank funding of central
investments will be limited to expenses of existing projects.
(iii) Other lending bv the banking system:   As regards their lending
-*)4-n4V4      wI,ln a Av B aRneeted to be operated as fully autonomous institutions,



- 60 -
ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 17
extending credit on a risk and return basis, and therefore bearing the full
commercial risk on their loan portfolio.  For existing loans to enterprises,
banks now are required to classify non-performing loans and provision against
them.   A bank will not be required to extend new credit to non-creditworthy
enterprises, which either will be liquidated or recapitalized by the Government.
The cap on preferred credit would therefore not apply to this category.
(iv)    Lending by  the  Government  or  sRecialized Government  credit
institutions: Government involvement in credit allocation is limited to direct
credit extension and guarantees by the central Government or by specialized
Government credit institutions. So as not to subvert the objective of increasing
over time the share of total credit allocated according to market principles by
private institutions, all such Government lending activities will be strictly
controlled. Credit extended or guaranteed by the Government or its specialized
credit institutions will be limited to situations where alternative sources of
funds are unavailable to meet priority needs. Moreover, programs will be adopted
to convert over time such specialized government credit institutions to second-
tier lenders or cofinanciers. All lending at such credit institutions will be
at or above market rates. Additional details for achieving these objectives will
be agreed under the sectoral operations now under discussion with the World Bank.
Any subsidies will be provided as grants financed by direct budget expenditures.
All credit extended or guaranteed by the Government or its specialized credit
institutions will be included in the overall cap on growth in preferential credit
detailed in para 16 (i). Loans with partial guarantees will be excluded provided
that the direct lende: retains the majority of the risk; otherwise such
guarantees will be included in the cap on a pro rata basis.
B. Banking system liquidity
18.         Despite the improvements in the system of monetary control in Poland,
indirect monetary controls have not become fully effective. NBP continues to
be a net provider of liquidity to the banking system. However, NBP is taking
steps to reduce the refinancing of bank credit and to further the market for NBP
bills as a first step towards effective open market operations. NBP also is
committed to improving the structure of reserve requirements. The main elements
of the program in this area are as follows:
(i) Refinancing. A program for limiting the scope of refinancing at banks
is being implemented by NBP. Under this program, NBP has agreed with each bank
an amount of refinancing that will be available for central investments. Other
amounts of refinancing credit are being repaid in equal annual installments
beginning December 1990 and will be fully repaid b; 1995.   The automatic
rediscounting of agricultural bills will be reduced to .ero by July 31, 1991.
Rediscounting of eligible bills of exchange is limited to 20X of each bank's
capital. To replace this source of bank liquidity, NBP introduced in April a
system of repurchase agreements for NBP bills, Treasury bills, agricultural
bills and bills of exchange. Available repurchase credit will be auctioned each
week, with credit extending for two weeks. It is considered that the seasonal
needs for agricultural credits will be met in this way.
(ii)   Bills market.   Maturities of NBP bills have been extended and
Treasury  bills  recently  have been  issued.    The  program  for  auctioning



- 61 -
ANNEX 2
,UtachmenD
Page 8 of 17
repurchasing agreements for NBP bills, Treasury securities, and bills of exchange
should contribute significantly to the broadening and deepening of the market
for these instruments.   To further the market for Treasury securities, NBP will
act as broker for interbank transactions. Banks also are permitted to operate
as broker/dealers for Treasury issues. As part of its efforts to rationalize
the development of Treasury securities, the Government has suspended issuance
of convertible Treasury bonds.
(iii)   Reserve reguirements:  NBP will implement a program to reduce the
effective rate of taxatien of reserve requirements on zloty deposits, reduce the
reserve requirement differential between sight and time deposits, and introduce
reserve requirements on foreign exchange deposits. The reduction of effective
reserve taxation can be accomplished either through the reduction of reserve
requirements or by permitting a portion of required reserves to earn interest
or to be met through holdings of NBP or Treasury bills, depending on the
effectiveness of open market operations in controlling bank liquidity and the
competitiveness of bank interest rate setting on loans and deposits.   It is
expected that a reserve requirement differential between sight and time deposite
will be retained, but at a reduced level and that reserve requirement regulations
will continue to be applied equally to all banks. Finally, to improve monetary
control, reserve requirements will be introduced on foreign exchange deposits
and gradually increased to a level at least equivalent to those on zloty
deposits. The phasing in of reserve requirements on foreign exchange deposits
will depend, in part, on the availability of foreign exchange assets, as
described in para 24 (v).  A system for achieving these objectives will be
included in the new banking law and/or by Act of NBP.
C. Interest Rates
19.       Appropriate interest rate policies are a central element of the
Government's stabilization program. In this context, the refinancing rate has
generally been set to remain positive in real terms. Moreover, banks have used
this rate as a basis for setting most deposit and loan rates.   In view of
residual instability in the macroeconomic framework, limited inter-bank
competition, and the lack of skills in banks for pricing loans and deposits, NBS
has been providing guidance to banks in setting rates of loans and deposits.
Beginning January 1991, this guidance was ended. Also, the introduction of the
auction system for repurchase agreements of NBP bills is expected to further
promote market determination of interest rates compared to the somewhat
administered nature of setting the refinancing rate at present. However, in
order to meet the objective of 7X real growth in net domestic assets for the
first half of 1991 agreed under the macro-economic stabilization program, NBP
has agreed with each of the state banks limits on their total credit growth.
To the extent such "moral suasion" is effective, the incentives for determining
market interest rates are distorted. In this context, the Government will adopt
policies for the full liberalization of interest rates as follows:
(i)   in consonance with  the achievement  of the objectives  of the
macroeconomic stabilization program NBP will remove the agreed limits on credit
growth of the state banks; and
(ii) the use of moral suasion to guide banks in setting rates will be
avoided and banks will be encouraged to establish rates for loans and deposits



- 62 -
AMNEX 2
AttachmntnX
Page 9 of 17
on the basis of the strength of loan demand and the creditworthiness of the
borrower along with the supply of deposit sources of funds. The training being
provided in credit analysis and asset and liability management under the planned
program for the institutional development of the commercial banks should
contribute to this objective.
D. Foreign Exchan_e Denosits
20.         A key objective of the Government's financial policy reform is for
a convertible zloty to replace the bulk of foreign currency deposits in the
domestic money supply, reducing the reliance on private domestic deposits as a
source of foreign exchange. In this context, the Government has developed a
program for achieving this objective and for compensating banks for past foreign
exchange losses. The program will be carried out in phases, starting with the
issuance by the Government of foreign exchange-indexed bonds, mostly denominated
in dollars, equal to its obligation from past devaluations. These bonds will
be given to Bank Handlowy to discharge its claim on the Government.   Bank
Handlowy in turn will pass the bonds through to the banks and remove the past
obligatory foreign exchange deposits of domestic banks from its books.
21.         Although terms have not been finalized, the proposal currently under
discussion calls for a total Treasury bond issue of about $4.8 billion. The
bonds will have a final maturity of 20 years. The Government will repurchase
a minimum of 1/20th of the bonds each year.   Additional amounts may be
repurchased as needed to meet conversions of foreign exchange deposits to zlotys
or as additional foreign exchange is available. Interest on the bonds would be
pegged to the six-month London Interbank Bid Rate (LIBID) and paid semi-
annually. All servicing of interest and principal would be in zlotys, although
because the bonds are indexed to foreign currencies, the zloty cost of servicing
would increase with future devaluations. The bonds would be in bearer form, and
could be traded among all banks with Polish capital. At current LIBID of about
6 1/8X, the cost to the budget of the above program is estimated at about US$540
million for the first year and will decline annually as principal is repaid.
The average annual cost would be about US$400 million.   The current budget
authorizes the issuance of these bonds and commits the Government to provide
adequate budgetary resources to service these bonds in the future. The budget
expense in 1991 is expected to be about US$150 million, representing 6 months
interest.
22.          Circumstances are somewhat different for the nine banks which were
former branches of NBP. When these banks were split off, they inherited the
foreign exchange deposits while NBP retained the foreign exchange assets. The
nine banks were compensated with a claim in zlotys against NBP. Losses at the
nine former branches on their foreign exchange deposits amount to about US$875
million. NBP has accepted an obligation to repay US$685 million of these losses
and plans an issue of its own bonds in this amount that will be given to the nine
banks in compensation.
23.         The commitment by the Government to compensate banks for their past
foreign exchange losses is vital to the long-term viability of the commercial
banking system. The bonds also will replace the illiquid claims of the banks
for past devaluation losses with more liquid foreign exchange-indexed bonds.



- 63 -
ANNEX 2
Page 10 of 17
With the change in Government policy, banks will be solely responsible for
managing their own foreign exchange risks. Given their relative inexperience
in this area, stringent supervisory and regulatory standards governing banks'
foreign exchange exposure will be adopted.  Moreover, steps will be taken to
ensure that adequate foreign exchange assets will be available to banks to enable
them to manage the exposure from foreign exchange deposits and to promote the
gradual substitution of zloty for foreign exchange deposits over time.
24.  To ensure the long-run success of this plan, additional actions will be
undertaken as follows:
(i)   Finalize terms for the Treasury and NBP bonds by June 1991 to permit
their issuanc. as soon thereafter as possible;
(ii) The remaining net foreign exchange losses in the banks' accounts at
the time of the bond issues will be recognized over a three-year period. The
Government will provide additional funds within the following budgetary year for
capitalization of state-owned banks whose capital falls below regulatory minimums
as a result of these losses. This adjustment may be carried out in the context
of a broader restructuring program for the concerned bank;
(iii) NBP will adopt tight supervisory and regulatory standards governing
the mismatch between foreign exchange assets and liabilities, the risks of
offshore transactions, and domestic lending in foreign currencies by July 1,
1991. These regulations also will require banks to maintain a minimum amount
of liquid and secure hard currency assets to meet potential withdrawal needs.
Until such regulations are in place, NBP will require banks to acquire at the
time of the bond issue sufficient foreign currency assets which, along with the
new bond issues, enable them to match foreign exchange assets to foreign exchange
liabilities.   NBP also commits to making adequate foreign exchange assets
available to the banks to match their liabilities;
(iv) NBP will provide banks with sufficient foreign exchange assets to
match assets and liabilities and to meet net withdrawals of foreign exchange.
The maturities of the bonds therefore are being selected carefully in light of
current projections of foreign exchange availability. NBP also will repurchase
the bonds on a contingency basis if necessary to meet net withdrawal needs or
if foreign exchange deposits are converted to zloty deposits. Even so, until
the zloty becomes fully convertible, there can be no guarantee that if the
initial supply of bonds is insufficient to allow banks to fully hedge their
foreign currency liabilities that adequate foreign exchange reserves will be
available for this purpose.   Therefore,  the Government further commits to
protecting banks against future exposure through rollover of the initial Treasury
or NBP bonds, or through issuance of new bonds or "forward" contracts if foreign
exchange restrictions prevent banks from managing their exposure from domestic
deposits.
(v)   Reduce the relative attractiveness of foreign-exchange deposits and
to promote the substitution of these accounts by zlotys.  The imposition of
reserve requirements on foreign exchange deposits is one such step.  These
requirements could be phased-in gradually, taking care to preserve the confidence
of foreign exchange depositors in the liquidity of their accounts and the
availability of adequate foreign exchange assets.   It is expected that the



- 64 -
MUNE 2
Page 11 of 17
relative tax effects will be equalized within three years, depending on the
stability of foreign exchange deposits.
IV. Banking Legislation
25.         The shift to a market environment requires considerable changes in
the legal framework, and a number of important legal reforms have already been
initiated, with a view to seek a rapid harmonization of Polish laws with those
of countries embodying advanced market economies, and particularly with the
European Community. With the assistance of the Legal Advisory Committee chaired
by the World Bank, the authorities are actively pursuing this process, and
reforms currently contemplated include: (i) a comprehensive revision of the
Banking Law and of the Act on the National Bank of Poland, including a further
strengthening of prudential regulations. together with the development of
legislation for ensuring the protection of depositors and for dealing with
distressed and insolvent banks; (ii) the introduction of a Law on Collateral
Security; (iii) the introduction of a legal framework for capital market
activities; and (iv) the revision of the bankruptcy and company laws.
26.         The Polish authorities are reforming the Banking Law and the Act on
the National Bank of Poland in two stages. First, these laws will be amended
to deal quickly with a number of critical elements (including management of state
banks, bank licensing requirements, withdrawal of bank licenses, unauthorized
banking activities, and instruments of monetary policy). The Amendment to the
Banking Law and the Act on the National Bank of Poland was approved by the
Council of Ministers and presented to the Parliament in April 1991.
27.         The second stage of the reform process contemplates a follow-up of
the urgent amendments by a more comprehensive updating of the banking law.   A
preliminary draft of a totally new Banking Law which is consistert' -4th many
features of the EC guidelines, has been circulated for further discussion among
the authorities and with the World Bank's Legal Advisory Group. Work is also
expected to begin on a revision of the Act on the National Bank of Poland.
Adoption by the Parliament of a comprehensive, revised Banking Law and Act on
the National Bank of Poland, which is in more complete accord with modern banking
legislation in developed market economies, is expected in 1992.
28.         Parallel to this work, a draft of a Law of Collateral Security has
been prepared by the Legal Advisory Group in consultation with the Polish
authorities.   Legal work is also being undertaken on the subject of deposit
protection and winding up of failed banks, which may be dealt with in the new
Banking Law or in a separate law.   These laws are expected to be presented to
the Parliament in 1992.
29.         Corporatization and z;rivatization of banks.   The Government's
strategy with regard to the banking system calls for banking services to be
provided largely by private banks. In this context, it is seeking to transform
the nine state-owned commercial banks into joint-stock status (corporatization)
in order to provide them with efficient and independent management, as a first
step towards privatizing tlhem. This would involve the introduction of a two-
tier management structure in the banks. The first step in this regard was taken
4n Anril 1991. when the Economic Subcommittee of the Council of Ministers



- 65 -
ANNEX 2
Page 12 of 17
approved the submission by the Ministry of Finance to transform the banks into
joint-stock banks.   The transformation process is expected to be initiated
shortly. Although no obstacles are expected, the process has not thus far been
tested, and delays may materialize. Hence, the completion of the process of
corporatization of all nine state banks is expected to be completed latest by
September 1992. In anticipation of the completion of this legal process, which
may take some time, specific actions will be initiated towards bank
corporatization, possibly with the assistance of twin foreign banks, including
the cleaning-up of balance sheets and loan portfolios, the clear spelling out
of rights and responsibilities, and the introduction of more transparent
relations with the authorities and with the banks' borrowers.
30.         Subsequent to this process, the Government intends to initiate the
privatization of the nine banks.   At this time, the Government intends to
privatize two of the banks by December 1991, and also one of the specialized
banks. The privatization process is expected to involve foreign banks. This
involvement could result from various processes. For some foreign banks, their
participation in the capital of Polish banks could come about as a natural
extension of the twinning arrangements in which they are engaging.
31.         Law on Public Trading of Securities.  The Law on Public Trading of
Securities was approved.  In the context of the rapid developments in other ares
of the reform program, there are several issues in the new Law which may prove
to be of concern. These include issues such as the authority of the Securities
and Exchange Commission to regulate private placements, the ability of banks to
deal in securities and other banking related activities, the capital and
organizational requirements for such activities, the regulation thereof,
exclusion of short term instruments from the definition of securities and
treatment of closed-end mutual funds. Some of these areas may warrant further
review, particularly, but not only in the context of their applicability and
relevance to the program of privatization and restructuring of enterprises that
has been initiated by the Government and coordination between securities
regulators and bank regulators.
V. Institutional Strengthenin; of Banks
A.    Main Elements of the Profram
32.         In addition to the corporatization of banks, another core element
in the Government's program for further development of banks is the initiation
of a massive effort to support institutional development and strengthening in
the banking sector, in view of the extensive weaknesses in existing institutions.
The central objective is to elicit the development of a mostly private banking
system fostering financial discipline, allocating credit on the basis of risk
and return, and discontinuing support to inefficient industries. The program is
envisaged to revolve around:   (i) the development of bank institutional
capabilities; and (ii) the financial restructuring of existing institutions, as
appropriate.



- 66 -
ANNEX 2
Attachment I
Page 13 of 17
B.  Bank Financial Restructuring
33.         Concerted efforts are required to ensure the sustained financial
soundness of commercial banks, under the close and constant monitoring of the
supervisory authorities.   Corrective actions will be promptly initiated 88
required, including the liquidation of insolvent banks, whenever this course of
action is determined to be the most appropriate. This process will involve a
systematic and continuous review of the portfolios of the banks, with a view to
ensuring that credit is allocated only to sound enterprises, particularly in the
emerging private sector. As already spelled out in the context of the proposed
policy reforms, Government will generally refrain from financing through the
banking system inefficient enterprises at non-market conditions.   Whenever
special circumstances lead the Government to extend support to non-creditworthy
enterprises, this will be achieved through direct recapitalization by the
Government, or subsidization from budgetary proceeds. Further, the introduction
of modern accounting and auditing standards, combined with effective bank
supervision, will enhance the overall soundness of the banking system, and is
expected to highlight the need to liquidate or restructure failing banks.
34.         The audits of the 1989 statements of the state-owned bank accounts
all call for provisions to be made against non-performing assets.   It is
important that banks act promptly to effect the required provisions, and deal
as appropriate with delinquent borrowers.   In addition, new financial and
portfolio audits for calendar year 1990 will provide an updated assessment of
the financial condition of the banks, their solvency, their financial structure
and prospects for future financial viability.   Interim results and other
available data suggest that the nine commercial banks, inter alia, benefitted
considerably from the hyperinflation which prevailed in late-1989 and early-
1990.  Even after making the recommended level of provisions, the banks are
estimated to have adequate capital-to-risk assets ratios.
35.         However, a close analysis of banks'  financial accounts clearly
reveals that banks are extremely vulnerable to the rapidly changing economic
environment and their solvency seems fragile. The main risks relate to their
foreign exchange exposure, the uncertain performance of their loan portfolio,
the questionable sustainability of current capitalization levels, and the degree
of flexibility available to the banks for managing their assets and liabilities.
36.         The review of the condition of bank portfolios will be initiated
immediately, on the basis of the recommendations of the 1989 audits. Current
regulations require banks to classify non-performing loans and provision against
them. With respect to Central Investments, since February 1991, the Government
formalized a full guarantee scheme on all claims (principal and interest) that
commercial banks have on existing central investments. Sufficient amounts of
refinancing credit will be allotted by the National Bank of Poland to each bank
for the financing of existing central investments.
37.         Against the back-drop of a possible deterioration of the financial
condition of banks in the short-term, a number of measures will be introduced
for instilling financial discipline in banks' operations over the longer-term.
The authorities commit to undertake an action program around the following
elements: (i) request that state-owned banks take prompt actions on the basis
of the recommendations of the 1989 audits, particularly as regards their



- 67 -
ANNEX 2
AttachmeniX
Page 14 of 17
portfolio of non-performing loans; (ii) request that full audit of these banks
be carried out again for 1990. Given the uncertainties of the loan ;ortfolio
and the need to control loan losses, the auditors should review the loan
portfolio to assess trends in the banks' credit management and the impact on
profits and solvency. Full audits would be repeated at the end of each fiscal
year; and (iii)  for state-owned banks that do not meet the required capital
adequacy requirements, recapitalization programs would be carried out within the
following budgetary year. This would be accompanied by in-depth restructuring
programs aimed at correcting the poor financial performance of the concerned
banks and would include measures to restore their profitability.
38.         In view of the uncertain economic environment, and the lack of
experience of banks in operating in a market environment, it is possible that
the condition of some banks deteriorate to a point where the intervention of the
authorities may be necessary, including the introduction of a program for
liquidating or restructuring failing banks. While over the medium-term, this
process would be in principle supported by the combined action of the supervisory
authorities and a proposed deposit insurance fund, the Government, in addition
to stepping-up efforts to strengthen bank supervision and request banks to
enforce audit recommendations, will take some immediate preventive measures to
be prepared in case of sudden collapse of some banks.
39.         In this context, the Government plans to establish in 1992 a Deposit
Insurance Fund which could be used for recapitalization and restructuring of
banks. To this effect, the Government will carry out shortly a study on the
modalities for establishing such a Deposit Insurance Fund, its organization,
initial capital (including proposed budgetary allocation), and premium
requirements, based on terms of reference agreed with the World Bank.
C.    Institutional Development
40.         The current incapacity of existing state banks to conduct efficient
banking activities in a liberalized market-based economic environment warrants
the prompt introduction of extensive institutional development programs supported
by a strong program of technical assistance.
41.         The Government's preferred approach with regard to the provision of
this technical assistance is to foster twinning arrangements with reputable
Western banks. It is hoped that this process will serve the purpose of ensuring
a rapid and efficient transfer of banking know-how to the Polish banks, and pave
the way for a gradual integration of the Polish banks with the Western banking
system, including the participation of foreign banks in the capital of existing
Polish banks. Since mid-1990, the Polish authorities, with the assistance of
the World Bank and the IFC, have been identifying Western banks interested in
"twinning" with Polish banks. At this stage, prospects for twinning the nine
banks with reputable twinning partners within the next months are encouraging,
and the identification of foreign twins for at least four banks is expected by
June 1991. In the event, however, that twinning arrangements cannot be secured
for all of the nine banks, consulting firms would be approached to provide the
necessary services.   The  training of counterpart staff,  as well as the
undertaking of institution-wide training programs (and in addition the provision



- 68 -
Page 15 of 17
of support to the Banking School ir, Katowice), will be an essential element in
the proposed program of assistance to the banking system.
42.         In  anticipation  of  the  provision  of  full-fledged  technical
assistance, arrangements are also being made to establish under the aegis of the
National Bank of Poland, a pool of 5-6 credit advisors financed by US, French
Government, and Japanese grant aid. These advisors would assist banks in coping
in the short-term, through the introduction of proper credit appraisal and
follow-up procedures, with the rapidly increasing credit risk exposure that they
are facing as a result of their new operational autonomy, and rapid economic
changes, and would also help them strengthen and develop credit policy.
43.         The program of institutional development and strengthening for the
nine banks is based upon the findings of the diagnostic studies completed in
March-April 1991. Similar studies have been conducted for all (except PKO BP,
the study of which is expected to be started shortly) state-controlled banks.
The institutional development programs are comprehensive, and will require
serious commitment and dedication of qualified resources.
44.         The institutional development efforts will be complemented by the
introduction of automated account processing and a management information system.
In the first phase basic automation infrastructure will be introduced in the
banks.  The banks are seeking to implement integrated hardware and banking
software to automate certain basic banking functions as a result of the pending
withdrawal by NBP of the data processing services it now offers. During the
second phase, an integrated management information system, tailored to the
institutional objectives, structure, and services, of the bank will be developed.
45.         The institutional development efforts and the introduction of an
efficient payments system will be complemented by the introduction of automated
account processing and management information systems within each major financial
institution. A set of automation needs will be defined for the banks, keeping
in mind the need for congruence with business goals, strategy and existing
technology, and the need to integrate new initiatives internally, with regard
to a compatible system of hardware, software and communications from branch to
head-office, and externally, with any new payments system and inter-bank
arrangements.
D. Additional Measures
46.         Important measures have already been initiated to improve the banking
and  accounting  professions.    New  accounting principles  for  all  Polish
enterprises, consistent with EC guidance, and requiring that annual audits be
conducted were introduced on January 1, 1991. Training programs for trainers
in accounting will be provided by the UK Know-How Fund and by the French
Association of Chartered Accountants.
47.         With regard to inter-bank gavment settlements, the Government is
developing a two-pronged strategy. A high-valu6, low-volume clearing system
("NBP Wire") will be introduced by mid-1992 to reduce the float in the financial
system and expedite settlements. This system will account for approximately 80X
of all transactions by value. The remaining 20X will be handled by the BTT, a
newlv-formed subsidiary of the NBP and several banks. The regulatory framework,



- 69 -
ANlEX 2
Attachmet1
Page 16 of 17
and monetary reporting requirements for the payments system are also being
developed.
VI. Development of Financial Markets
48.         In order to deepen the financial system, ensure a more efficient
mobilization of resources, as well as broaden the sources of financing for the
corporate sector, the Government intends to further expand its stance on the
development of financial markets.
49.         As regards the suRDlv of securities, the authorities fully realize
that the development of the financial market will not be achieved solely through
the expected large supply of shares. Government securities likely to be issued
in the future for the purpose of financing fiscal deficits or restructuring
banks/public entities will be carefully devised so as to accommodate market
needs, in terms of the maturities, coupon rates, and tax treatment. Further,
NBP bills have been recently issued with longer maturit5es in order to increase
their marketability.
50.         The issue of domestic demand has not been broadly addressed so far,
and in that context, a sZudv will be carried out, taking stock of existing
studies already completed in this area, to review the development of
institutional investors, the desirability of establishing incentives to develop
the demand from the public, and the impact of demand for securities on the
banking system. Both closed and open-end mutual funds will be established as
a part of the privatization process and as collective investment vehicles with
different scopes and purposes. The regulation of mutual funds will be broadly
modelled along the line of EC's UCIT's directives. The Government appreciates
the importance of treating mutual funds as pass- through vehicles for tax
purposes. Prudential investment guidelines will require that a minimum portion
of their portfolio be invested in debt securities or bank deposits. Training
and education of investors will be developed--courses in the areas of, among
others,the securities market, trading of securities, and ethical conduct, will
be included in the program of the Banking Training Center in Katowice, and
awareness programs for the general public will also be developed.
51,         The Warsaw Stock Exchange began operation in April 1991, and the
process of establishing the Securities Commission is being finalized.  The
initial range and volume of trading instruments is small, but will increase
substantially as public awareness of investment opportunities and market
infrastructure is enhanced, and with the stepping-up of the privatization
program.
VII.  IMplementatiou A rrZ      s
52.         In order to monitor the implementation of the program, a Steering
Committee, will be established in June 1991, to oversee the implementation of
the program. It will be co-chaired by the Under Secretary of State in the
Ministry of Finance and the Vice President, National Bank of Poland. Given the
complexity of the proposed program, this Committee will need to ensure close
coordination of the related actions, and meet at regular intervals to monitor



- 70 -
ANNiLL
Page 17 of 17
their timely implementation and initiate remedial measures as required. In order
to ensure a close follow-up of the various aspects of the program, it will be
assisted by a recently-established inter-ministerial group on restructuring and
privatization of banks, foreign experts, and other sub-committees as required.



POLAD
THE PROGRAM OF FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM
Area of Reformllssue                     Action Atready Take                       Board Presentation                       December 1992
1. PROGRAM OF STADILIZATION
AND REFORN UNDER SUA AND
SML
A. Externalelnternal                     Comprehensive program of
tgwbtamaes                           stabilization and reform
initiated in 1990. supported by
SAL and SBA. Main elements
include: freeing price
controls, limiting wage
increases, return to fiscal
balance, and tightening of
credit.
Comprehensive stabilization              Satisfactory continuation of              Satisfactory macroeconomic
program uwder preparation,               ipltementation of Economic                performance as a8reed under
including further                        Transformation Program (ETP).*            ETP.*
liberalization of prices,
exchange system, and interest
rates.
B.  Foreign Exchanfe foreign exchange markets                                      Maintain competitive exchange
Svstea                               unified, exchange rate                    rate.
devalued.
C. Credit oblectives                     Agreement to limit growth of              Satisfactory "4A growth over             Satisfactory NDA growth over
net domestic assets ("DA) under          first quarter.                            1991 and first half 1992.
macro-economic stabilization
program for 991.
* Proposed core conditions for Board Presentation and second tranche release.
0



Area of Reform/lssue                        ctlion Alreadv Taken                  Soard Presentation                      December 192
It. FINANCIAL POLICIES
A.  Government Credit Porams
1. Absence of overall                    Interest rate subsidy programs           Agreement to set limit on                Satisfactory performance under
eoordination on Goverrnent               have been reduced and those              growth of total Goverlnent               agreed 1991 and 1992 ceilings
credit programs credit                   remaining put on budget.                 credit programs.  The growth of          for Government credit
allocation may lead to crowding                                                   credit under the program for             programs.*
out of efficient market-based                                                     capitalized interest wilt not
lending and/or excessive credit                                                   exceed 22.3 trillion zlotYs in
growth.  The creation of new                                                      1991 and will decrease in real
specialized Government credit                                                     terms in 1992.  Total growth In
Institutions to meet specific                                                     other Government credit
sector financing needs could                                                      programs will not exceed 1SX of
create new pressures to                                                           total credit growth to non-
increase the share of credit on                                                   government sectors in 1991 and
non-market terms.                                                                 an average of 12X for 1t91-
1992. In addition, such credit
growth wilt not exceed 11
trillion zlotys in 1991 and
will not increase in real terms
in 1992.*
2.  Interest rate subsidies for          Steps have been taken to reduce          Government commitment to reduce          Subsidized portion to dectine
agriculture and housing                  interest rate subsidies in               subsidized portion of                    over tine per schedule agreed
increase automaticatty with              1991.  For housing.  previously          agriculture and housing                  under World lank sectoral               4
inflation.                               subsidized component is being            credits.  For agriculture the            projects. For housing. expected
capitalized.                             rate paid on subsidized loans            real wage increases should
for special purposes will be             result in reduction of
1/2 of the refinancing rate,            capitalized portion.
when the refinancing rate is
above 20X. The rate subsidy
will not exceed 1.35 tril(ion
zlotys for 1991. A schedule
for timiting the share of
interest subsidized for 1992
witt be agreed under sector
operations. The program for
subsidized working capitat
toans has been discontinued.
For housing, the subsidized
portion converted to
capitalizaticn and linked to
wages; schedute for reduction
of capitatized portion to be                                                 oo la
agreed under forthcoming
housing project being discussed                                               N go
with the world Bank.                                                          0r.



Arem  of oaforissues                    Action Atredv d   k                      Boaprd Presentation                      Wcmber 1992
3. Estabtlishent of, or plans                                                    Program agreed for limiting             Activities of specialized
for, a mmSb  of govermwent-                                                      directed credits by Government          Goverwuent credit institutions
sponsorod specialized IondinS                                                    or specialized Governfent               closety monitored.  Lending
Institutieni including PDoe  IDA                                                 credit institutions:  no nem            rates to be at market or above.
nd an export credit agemy.                                                       Goverrwent credit programs for          Limits agroed for Wortd Bank
subsidized credit through               sectoral projects realized. fo
banking system; Goverruent              additionat disbursements under
invotvement in credit                   central invest ents except as
atlocation limited to cases of          needed for disbursement under
clear market failure to provide         existing projects.
critical financing on
reasonable terms; loan rates at
specialized Government credit
institutions set at market or
above. Loans partially
guaranteed excluded from cap
provided the lender retains the
majority of the risk.
I. Central Investments.                 No new central investment                8anks would not be required to          Loans to state enterprises on
projects will be financed               extend new  credit to non-               futly cowercial terms.
through the banking system, new         creditworthy enterprises.
loans are timited to
disbursements under existing
comal twsot. 
a 1
o



arm of ftformlsel                        Action Already Taken                     Board Presentation                        Rleceaber 1992
It. FINANCIAL POLICIES (Cont.)
S. Control of Banking System
Limaiditv
1. "8P is net provider of                NBP has agreed with banks                Agreement signed with each bank          Automatic rediscounting of
liquidity to the Banking System          limits on amounts available to           on amount of central                     agriculturat bills eliminated.
owing to the partial                     refinance central investments            investments refinanced and               Refinancing of central
effectiveness of the system of           and other refinancing credits.           schedule agreed for repayment             investments remains within
indirect controls and                    Program in place for                     of other refinancing credits             limits.  Repayment of other
subsidized refinancing of                eliminating automatic                    within 5 years.  Program in              refinancing credits contirues.
central investments and                  rediscounting of agricultural            place for reducing automatic
agriculture credits.                     bills and to limit                       rediscounting of agricultural
rediscounting of eligible bills          bills to zero by July 31, 1991.
of exchange to 202 of each
bank's capital.
2.  Reserve requirement of 302           NIP has agreed in principle and          NBP commitment to program for            Effective taxation on required
of sight deposits. the legal             has discussed preliminary plans          reducing tax effect of reserve           reserves reduced.  Differential
ceiling, and 102 of time                 for imposing reserve                     requirements either through              between reserve requirements en
deposits.  Large tax effects             requirements on foreign                  reducing requirements if open            sight and time deposits
since reserves pay no interest.          exchange deposits                        market operations fully                  reduced.
Differential between ratios has                                                   effective or by permitting
discriminatory effects on                                                         portions of requirements to be           Reserve requirements imposed en
different types of banks.  No                                                     met by "SP or Treasury bills.            foreign exchange deposits.
reserve requirements on foreign                                                   Reserve requirement regulations          Ratio to be gradlly increased
exchange deposits.                                                                apptied equalty to all banks.            to at least equalize tax
effects between domestic
foreign exchange and zloty
deposits.
3.  The lack of government               NIP has begun series of bill             Program for auctioning                   Additional maturities of
securities and security markets          auctions to absorb reserves and          repurchase agreements of NSP             Treasury Securities offered.
has prevented use of open                promote development of markets.          bills. Treasury Securities and           System of brokers/dealers
market operations.                       Additional maturities of ISP             bills of exchanse begun.  NIP            established.
bills and Treasury Securities            to facilitate interbank market
have been offered.                       for bills by acting as broker.
NBP's own purchases limited to
open market operations.
Issuance of convertible
Treasury Securities
discontinued.
C.  Interest Rate Policies                                                                                                                                      to >
1. Refinancing rate primary              Refinancing rates set                    *BP commitment to remove limits          Bank rate settings fully               la
instrument of monetary/credit           periodically to Incorporate               on credit growth at state                tiberatized: no guidance on
policies.  Noral suasion used            expected inflation and to                bank's once object;ves under             toan or deposit rate setting by      .. CL
to persuade banks to more                achieve desired credit growth.           macro-economic stabilization             *BP.                                 0 X
closely link deposits and                NBP stopped use of moral                 policy achieved.                                                              "u
lending rates to refinancing            suasion In setting deposit and
rate.  Limits on credit growth           loan rates January 1991.                                                                                               0
at state banks distorts
incentives for market
determination of bank loan and
deposit rates.



Area of ROefoMlssue                     Action Alreadb taken                    Board Presentation                      Deceaber 1992
It. FINANCIAL POLICIES (Cont.)
D. forein Exchanae Deoosits
1.  anks previously required to         Governffent plans issuance of           Final terms of foreign                  Foreign exchange bonds issued
surrender foreign exchange              foreign exchange-denominated            exchange-denominated bonds             and transferred to banks.
acquired from domestic                  bonds to banks in cmpensation          presented to banks to permit            Adequate X993 budget allocation
deposits, leading to large              for past losses.  WBP will              their exchange with banks as            for timely servicing.
foreign exchange exposure and           issue additional bonds to               soon thereafter as possible.           Government or NaP continues
losses from past devaluation.           former branches.                        Government to commit to                issuance of foreign exchange
allocate budget for servicing.*        bonds as needed to manage
NoP commitment to sell banks            foreign exchange risk.*
sufficient foreign exchange
assets to tatch assets and
liabilities. Government and
NBP comnitment to provide
additional foreign exchange
assets in future if foreign
exchange controls prevent banks
from acquiring sufficient hard
currency to match assets and
liabilities.
2. As bond issues matures,              Uithin certain limits, banks            New regulations to be                   Supervision and regulatory
banks will need to acquire              are nm wuthorited to deposit            developed, requiring banks to           requirements revised as and
sdditional foreign exchange             ftunds in correspondent accounts        closely manage foreign exchange         ihen ztoty eonvertibitity
assets.                                 abroad.                                 risks.   New regulatory and             liberalized.                          on
supervisory standards will
govern foreign exchange
exposure of bank assets and
liabilities, domestic foreign
exchange lending and minisw*
holding of liquid hard currency
assets.
~00



Area of Reforllssue                      Action Already Taken                     Board Presentation                       Decewber 1992
111.  LEGAI FfE9K
A. lankina Law and Prudential
Retulation
1. Banking lam and regulations           New Banking Law, and Act on the          Approval by the Council of               Adopt comprehensive, revised
outdated and incomplete.                 NSP Introduced January 1989.             Ministers and presentation to            Banking Law and Act on the MSP
Amendments to Banking Law being          Parliament of Amendhent to               which is in more complete
prepared.                                Banking law and Act on "8P               accord with modern banking
concerning management of state           legistation in developed market
banks, bank licensing                    economies.*
requirements, withdrawal of
bank licenses, unauthorized
banking activity, and
instruments of monetary
policy.*
Temporary guidelines issued in                                                    Revise prudential regulations
August 1990 covering key areas                                                    on capital adequacy; ticensing
of prudential regutations,                                                        requirements; credit and
including: (i) licensing                                                          investment concentration; loan
requirements; (fi) credit and                                                     classification, provisioning,
investment concentration; (III)                                                   and interest accrua;t
capital adequacy; (iv) loan                                                       accounting and auditing
classification, provisioning                                                      requirements and standards.*
and interest accrual; (v)                                                         Review capital and
accounting and auditing                                                           organizational requirements for
requirements and standards,                                                       securities and other banking-
(vi) liquidity requirements and                                                   related activities, the
tvii) objectives, scope and                                                       regulation thereof, and
implementation of prudentiat                                                     coordination with sesurities
supervision.                                                                      regulators.
2. Banking Plan of Accounts is
outdated.                                New Plan of Accounts has been            Adopt new Plan of Accounts for           Futl compliance with new Ptan
prepared with assistance of              banks.                                   of Accounts by banks.
Banque de France under IMF
auspices.
3. Adequate development of
Inter-Bank Payments Clearing             Legal framework for payments                                                      Adopt Payments Systems
Systems.                                 systems being reviewed.                                                           regulations that deals with,
inter atio, etectronic funds
transfers, aoney transfer        eu V
services, finality of payments. 10
B.  Inadecajte Collaterat on
Bank Loans: Problematic              First draft of Law on                    Commence interministeriat                Present to Parliament            o
Enforcement of Existing              Collateral Security prepared             review process to produce final          comprehensive Law an Collateral tt
tegistation                          for Government by Legal                  draft on Proposed law of                 Security.
Advisory Group.  Draft law               Collateral Security (It Is                                                O
would provide banks with                 intended be presented to the
security over all kinds of               Council of Ministers by
commercial assets In simple and          November 1991).
quick manner, without resorting
to court svstem.



Aea Of Ref orinIlasue
Action lreatgyTaken                    Board Presentation                     Deceber 1992
C. Debt Enforcement                                                                                                   Amend, revise or replace
MinkrufttffRdU                                                                                                    bankruptcy taw and law on
insolvency of state
enterprises; improve measures
for debt mforceme't -
D. Depasit insursnte
Guarantees of deposit covers
only certain types of deposits,        Legislatin on deposit                                                          Adopt regulations on deposit
aNd only in state banks, not in        insurance and bank insolvency                                                  insurance or include provisions
private banks.                         being drafted.                                                                 in new Banking La.
0    l
tD*
:1!
gqhz
o .4



Area of Reforfl ssu                      Action Alreadv Taken                    Beard Presentation                       eeebr  1992
IV. QVEtPIXtu MED
A. Governance and Coroorate
Structure of State hanks
Existing laws contain                   Approval by the Coumcil of               Cocplete corporatization of all
provisions for corporatization          Ninisters of Plan for                    nine cOmerCiat banks.
and privatization of banks.             corporatitaton and                       Selection of at least two
privatization for nine                  commercial banks for
coumercial banks.                       privatization.*
B. Financial Strengthenina of
Banks
1.  Financial condition of              Financiat portfolio and                  Commitment by Government to             Complete study on the
banks.                                   institutional diagnostic                establish a Deposit Insurance           modatities for establishing a
studies completed/underway for          Fund for bank recapitalization          Deposit Insurance Fund with
all existing state banks.               and bank restructuring.*                 respect to organization.
capital, and premium
requirements. based on terms of
reference acceptable to the
bank. Estabtishment of a
Deposit insurance Fund to
tevels defined in study. from
budget, banking institutions,
or other sources.*  Ensure              3
continued ffnancial sourdess           C
of banks through inspection and
adequate bonks supervision
Effect bank recapitalization,
In conjunction with broader
restructuring programs.
Agreement on annual audits of           On basis of 1990 audits.
state-owned banks to be carried         Government to tak  remedial
out according to international          measures* as appFopriste, to
standards, by auditors                  restore financial viability of
acceptable to Bank. and for             state-owned banks per capital
government to take remedial             adequacy requirements. and
action on basis of arnual               along principles agreed with
audits.                                 Bank.
2. Central Inmestnents                                                                                                                                      Go
Banks portfolios include                Goverwuent has signed guarantee
central investments (CIe), (up          agreements with bhnks for all                                                                                       o
to SOX in same cases).                  central Investment loans.



Area of ReforWlssue                    Action Already Taken                    Board Presentation                      Deceomber 1992
IV. DEEON           AND
STRENGTHENING OF BANKS
{Cant.)
C. instituticonal Strengthenina
1.  State-owned comaercial              Institutional diagnostic                Identification of foreign twins         Satisfactory progress in
banks are new to market                 studies of 9 state-owned                for at least 4 comuerciat               ioplementation of institutionat
coppetition, and lack banking           comercial banks underway.               banks.  Identification of 3            development programs for all 9
skills and expertise in core            Institutional strengthening             Credit advisors to be placed in         state-onemd banks.
functional areas.                       programs being developed: (i)           MOP to assist state-owned
credit advisors to guide banks          banks.
on credit policy and
evaluation; (ii) preparation of
comprehensive institutional
development action programs
with assistance of western
banks to Improve
competitiveness of banks,
modernize them, and strengthen
their functional capabilities
and skills, including in areas
of strategic plarning, credit,
asset liability _magemmnt,
MtS. internal audit.                                                                                                   1
2. Bancs are dependent upon             Banks taking steps to automate                                                 Completion of automation of             -4
SOP for accounting and data             basic banking functions.                NWP and banks to jointly               basic banking functions.                0
processing.                                                                     develop timetable for each bank                                                I
to support its oam data
processing needs and to
continue to provide services in
the interim.
D. Inter-Bank Payments
Clearirm  Svt
NIP developing large-value             Large-value interim procedures          Complete syste design. select
credit transfer system  in              to be operatioral.                     software and comwence
conJunction with US Federat                                                    operations an a pilot basis.
Reserve.
am



rea of  efomltasua                        dian Alresa  Takentati                                                         pecedwer199
V. DEVEL   O
A. sypervision and Reaulation
Law on Public trading of                Establishment of Securities             SEC in operation and its rules
Securities approved by                  Coumission tSEC).                       and regulations issued.
Parlimnent 1n April 1991.
S. Institutional DeveloPsent
Stock exchange in operation                                                     Preparation of comprehensive
since April 1991                                                                program for coordinated
Weekly auctions UBP bills                                                       development of financial
started mid-1990. weekly                                                        markets, based on study of
auctions of T-bills started in                                                  demand for securities,
April 991.                                                                      promotion of mutual funds.
developnent of training
curriculum, and education of
irwestors.
Develop secondary bill market.
od
l o
0
em 
mir



- al -
ANNEX 3
POLAND - FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT PROJE
SuRglementary Project Data Sheet
Sectin, I:        Timetable of Key Events
(i)   Time taken to prepare project:                    15 months
(ii)  Responsibility for project preparation:          Government/Bank
(iii) First Bank mission:                               February/March 1990
(iv)  Appraisal mission departure:                     March 25, 1991
(v)   Negotiations:                                    May 10, 1991
(vi)  Planned ds.e of effectiveness:                   August 1991
Section LI:       Soecial Bank Imolementation Actions
See page 38, Table 4.



- 82 -
ANNEX 4
POLAND - FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT LOAN
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN POLAND
A.      STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS  '
(as of Narch 31. 1391)
Amount in USS millions
Loan       Fiscal                                                                (Less cancellations)
-No.       Year           Borrower                      Purooe                     Bank      Disbursed
3166        1990     Natl Bank of Poland          Ind. Exp. Promotion            260.00        248.11
3167        1990     Natl Bank of Poland          Agroind. Exp. Promotion        100.00         85.09
3190        1990     Republic of Poland           Environment Managemt            18.00         17.36
3193 qt     1990     Republic of Poland           Transport                        4.75          4.75
3194        1990     Polish Railway Corp.         Transport                      145.00        141.83
3215        1990     Polish Oil & Gas Corp.       Energy Resources Devt.         250.00        231.31
3247        1991     Republic of Poland           SAL I                          300.002       Z1.38
Subtotal 1/                                                1077.75       949.83
of which repaid                                             0.00
Total now outstanding                                     1071.75
Amount Sold                                                   QLOO
Total now held by Bank 4'                                  1077.75
Total undisbursed                                                        949.83
B. &TATEQENT OF tFC INVE$TMENTS
(as of March 31. 1991)
Grass Commitments
Fiscal                                                                                USt million
Year             Obliggr                 TM  of Business                   Loan      Eauitv       Total
1989          Hortex                      Horticulture                     17.12                  11.12
1990          Export Oevt. Bank           Export credit                    31.66                  31.66
1991          Bristol Hotel               Hotel development                              -
TOTAL     Original Gross Comitments                          58.84        0.00     58.84
LESS      Cancellations. Repayments & Sales
PLUS      Exchange Adjustments                                .12         -
TOTAL     Comnitments now held by IFC                        SS.7         -
TOTAL     Undisbursed                                                     -  _      21
TOTAL     Outstanding                                        14.S7        0.00      14.57
tt  The status of projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA financed
projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on
April 30th and October 31st.
T' Two loans for one project.
3/  Excludes of loan of S120 million for a Telecommunications Project which was approved by the Executive
Directors on April 23. 1991, and has not yet been signed.
4/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
SAL. SECAL or Program Loan.



- 83 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 4
POLAND - FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT LOAN
Financial Sector Legislation
1.          The Banking Law (Act of January 31, 1989) recognizes four classes
of banks beyond the central bank. These are (i) state banks of which the nine
commercial banks and PKO (BP) are important examples; (ii) cooperative banks;
(iii) state cooperative banks, viz. the Bank for Food Economy; and (iv) banks
in the form of joint stock companies.
2.          In the past, the nine commercial banks, currently operating in the
form of state banks, were undifferentiated components of a single mono-bank
system.   Decisions for the allocation of credit were centrally made by the
government and credit was then dispensed to the particular target enterprises
through the mono-bank system.   There was no need for independent credit
evaluation by banking personnel in such a system. The role of credit personnel
was merely to monitor the targeted projects, their use of the allocated credit,
and their repayment of it. Under this system, if a borrower displayed a tendency
to fall behind in repayment, the mono-bank was in a position to assure such
repayment. The means of assurance arose from the fact that the balances of state
enterprises had to be held with the mono-bank and it, accordingly, was in control
of incoming credits and outgoing payments. Thus, the mono-bank could direct
incoming payments to satisfy credits that it had extended to a given borrower
so that if the borrower was experiencing financial difficulties, the difficulties
would affect the suppliers of the borrowing enterprises and other creditors
rather than the mono-bank.
3.          In 1989 a decision was made to split the mono-bank into a two-tier
system. The first tier would be composed of a central bank (National Bank of
Poland - NBP) with powers comparable to those of traditional central banks. From
the mono-bank there were derived nine commercial banks whose branches were
organized on a regional basis. These nine commercial banks, comprising the bulk
of the second tier, were capitalized and to them were distributed the accounts
of the state enterprises operating in their regions together with the associated
credits which had been made to those enterprises through the functioning of the
mono-bank. As a part of this reform, enterprises were no longer required to
operate through accounts held with a single designated bank.
4.          While the nine commercial banks are, in theory, autonomous, in fact
they are closely allied with the NBP from which they are derived. It should be
noted that the state banks currently enjoy two important benefits under the law.
First, they may secure their loans on movable property through non-possessory
liens under Article 305 of the Civil Code. Other banks and creditors who wish
to secure their loans must rely on (i) possessory liens where the article pledged
must be in the possession of the pledgee, or (ii) guarantees by third parties.
Sacon, a system of state guarantees for savings deposits currently applies to
state banks but does not extend to joint stock banks (Article 49 of the Banking
Law).



- 84 -
Page 2 of 4
5.          The authorities have expressed their intention to transform state
banks into joint stock banks. Initially, the ownership of the joint stock banks
would be held by the Ministry of Finance but ultimately all or most of the shares
of these banks would be sold to the public. As a consequence the two benefits
referred to in the previous paragraph would be lost or endangered. In addition,
the authorities have recently licensed several dozen new banks which would not
be entitled to these benefits. To address these issues, the authorities intend
to introduce legislation on deposit insurance and on collateral security (para.
10 and 11).
6.          The movement from a command economy to a market economy together
with the goal of transforming the state banks into independent and, ultimately
private, entities which can intermediate financial resources according to market
criteria requires an appropriate framework of law.  While under the command
economy relationships radiate outward from tne state which serves as the central
decision-making authority, under the market economy, a set of rules must be
established in which a number of independent decision makers may function. It
is accepted that since their decisions may conflict and since they cannot be made
on the basis of a total command of information, failure as well as success may
be the result. The legal framework must be ready for the consequences of both
such results.   The basic rules of a legal framework must. in the financial
sector. address at a minimum (i) the law of bankikn  (as well as the  rotectin
that may be accorded degositgrs and the treatment of failing banks) and the means
of making and clearing payments, (ii) the law of securing or collateralizing
credit, (iii) the law of issuing and trading in securities. In addition, certain
associated laws are of importance, notably: (iv) the ggMpanies law, and (v) the
law of bankruntcX.
7.          In Poland, the banking law is largely contained in the Banking Law
and the Act on the NBP. The law of negotiable instruments is contained in laws
dealing with checks, bills of exchange and promissory notes. There is currently
no law to regulate electronic fund transfers or bank collections. A limited
means of securing credit on movables is contained, as noted above, in Article
305 of the civil code. The companies law and the law of bankruptcy are contained
in the commercial code. The latter two laws basically date from 1934 and have
been little used for several decades.
8.          At the request of the NBP, the World Bank accepted the task of
coordinating and supervising the work of revising and modernizing the basic
legislation that is critical to the reform of the financial sector. Accordingly,
the Office of the General Counsel in the World Bank's Legal Department, convened
a group of legal experts to take stock of the current laws and recommend changes,
revisions and, as appropriate, new legislation. Members of this group have had
a series of meetings with counterparts from the NBP and the Ministry of Finance
to consider the ways in which the laws may be modified. The following indicates
the progress that has been made ia the various areas of concern.
9.          The bankipg law.  A number of areas were identified in which the
current banking law appears to be deficient. The authorities have opted for a
two pronged approach. (1) Amendments to the cuSrent bankine law, drafted by
the authorities following discussions with the group of legal experts, have been



- 85 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 4
prepared and submitted to a committee of the Council of Ministers. At the same
time, prudential regulations prepared with the assistance of the Bank of France
were issued under the authority of the current law to cover: (i) procedure for
granting loans; (ii) classification of receivables; (iii) solvency factor; (iv)
large loan exposure; and (v) financial solvency measurements. At the same time
(2) a new draft banking law is being prepared that would supersede the current
law.  A draft prepared by the group of legal experts was discussed with the
authorities in March, 1991. The NBP and Ministry of Finance will shortly convene
a joint committee to prepare a new draft banking law taking into account the
discussion.
10.         The law of collateral security.  Originally it had been proposed
that a new law of collateral security for the use of banks be appended to the
proposed amendments of the current banking law. The project, however, evolved
into a more general law that would be independent of the banking law.  The
current draft provisions, drawn in part from English and American law and drafted
by the group of legal experts, would permit the creation of a non-possessory
security interest through a process of registration. Extensive powers would be
given to the holders of the security interest to enforce their rights without
recourse to the courts through the appointment of a receiver or receiver and
manager. The security interest is intended to apply to all types of property
including stock in trade. The draft, which was discussed in January 1991 with
the authorities, is currently being translated into Polish and then would be
considered by a commission on the subject. IFC Legal Department was consulted
during the preparation of the draft.
11.         DeDosit insurance.  A draft deposit insurance law was also prepared
by the group of legal experts. It covers both deposit insurance and the related
matters of how to deal with failing and insolvent banks. The draft was discussed
at a meeting in March 1991 with members of the staffs of the NBP and the Ministry
of Finance. There appeared to be a general acceptance that deposit insurance
should supersede the current system of state guarantees. The insurance coverage
would extend to all banks and would cover savings and checking deposits. The
precise form of the agency that would administer the scheme has not been decided.
It may take the form of a fund to be administered by the NBP. A joint committee
of the NBP and the Ministry of Finance will consider the matter further. The
new draft of the banking law may incorporate provisions dealing with deposit
insurance as well as provisions that would take banks out of the bankruptcy law
by way of governing their insolvency and liquidation.
12.         The securities law.  A draft securities law that would regulate the
public issuance and trading of securities was approved by the appropriate
committees of the Sejm. It provides for the creation of a Securities Committee
to regulate trading, requires the licensing of stockbrokers and contemplates the
establishment of stock exchanges. The law was prepared by the authorities with
the assistance of foreign experts. It was not reviewed, however, by the group
of legal experts which considered it outside of the scope of their immediate
attention and within the jurisdiction of another task force.
13.         The law Of  ayments and collections.   In Poland, the negotiable
instruments laws are based on the Geneva Conventions. These conventions form



- 86 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 4
the basis of the negotiable instruments law of most continental Eurorean
countries. While the group of legal experts has not reviewed the Polish laws
on negotiable instruments as yet, they are likely to prove to be satisfactory.
Provisions to deal with the collection of checks and other negotiable
instruments, as well as with electronic fund transfers, will be considered in
connection with the next draft of the banking law.
14.         Aankruptcy law and companies law.  These laws will be crucial to
business activity in Poland, as privatization proceeds. While not within the
core, they are closely associated with the legal framework of the financial
sector and are in need of modern revision. The group of legal experts gave
priority in their work to those laws that must form the core of the financial
sector and have not focused on these related laws.   It is suggested for
consideration that special experts be retained by the World Bank to report on
the changes that should be considered in these associated laws.



- 87 -
ANNEX 6
Page I of 8
POLAND - FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT LOAN
Institutional Development and Strengthening in Commercial Banks
1.          Background.  The nine state commercial banks were established under
a directive issued by the Council of Ministers on April 11, 1988, and started
operations in February 1989. Following the directive, the banks took over the
designated branches of the National Bank of Poland (NBP), together with all their
accounts, customers and staff. The NBP was left with its Head Office, its main
regional branches and certain branches which had a high concentration of foreign
currency deposits and foreign exchange operations.
2.          The commercial banks were organized on a regional basis with Head
Offices in Warsaw, Krakow, Lodz, Katowice, Wroclaw, Szczecin, Gdansk, Lublin,
and Poznan.   At the onset of their commercial operations, each bank inherited
a head office, 25 to 50 branches, about 2,000 to 2,500 employees (about 95X of
who were in the branches). They also inherited a portfolio of loans to state-
owned companies and cooperatives, a liability structure made up mostly of NBP
refinancing credits (but a significant amount of company deposits as well), a
common portfolio of products and services,  NBP's systems and procedures, a
common organization structure and a skill-base developed for a central bank in
a centralized-style economy.
3.          Although all the banks started at roughly the same asset size, their
advantages or disadvantages were based largely on the make-up of their inherited
loan portfolios and their geographical concentrations. Since February, 1989,
each bank has evolved and made improvements, several new branches have been
opened, additional staff has been hired, private customers are being added at
a rapid pace, relationships are being developed with foreign banks, some new
products (deposit instruments, foreign exchange lending, collateral-based
lending), new systems and procedures, and new skills are being developed, and
the culture is changing towards a more commercial orientation.
4.          Despite the changes made in the banks since their opening as
commercial banks, only two years have passed and the banks have not moved far
from their original roots: their business strategy has not evolved, and their
organization structures, staff and skills, procedures, products, and most loans
are the same as when they started operations.
5.          Business strategy. In general, the banks' 'business strategy" tends
to focus on growth (mainly on number and geographical coverage of branches), and
to a lesser degree on scope of products and services and on internal development
(development of organization, computerization, and controls and procedures).
However, the plans are not well-developed, mainly because there is little
underlying analysis of market, profitability, competition; and few financial
targets. Results are *.ot modeled to test their practicality and there is no
linkage to a financial plan or unit budgets. The banks are yet to develop a
comprehensive strategic planning process and adopt internal skills required for



- 88 -
Page 2 of 8
preparing and implementing a concrete and realistic plan. Fundamentally, the
banks need to significantly strengthen the planning exercise and build insightful
strategic plans that will provide a concrete and practical blueprint for success
in the new competitive and highly volatile near-term transitional environment
marketplace in Poland.
6.          Structure. The Presidents of the banks were nominated by the
Prime Minister in office in early 1989, on the recommendation of the President
of the NBP.  The Presidents were authorized to appoint two Vice Presidents
(subject to the ratification of the Prime Minister) and to engage selected Head
Office staff.  They had no influence, however, over the branches which were
transferred to their banks.
7.          The banks' statutes are very similar and provide for two levels of
authority: the President and the Executive Committee (EC). The ECs consist of
the President, Vice Presidents and three or four of the managers of the more
important branches, nomintated by the President. They meet at least once a month.
The statutes do not clearly define the relationship between the President and
the EC and this is variously interpreted; some Presidents consider themselves
to be bound by the majority view of the EC; others view the EC as an advisory
council.
8.          All the banks have identical organization structures, as inherited
from the NBP. Each is divided into three main Divisions: Economic and Credit;
Operations and Accounts; and Organization and Administration. These Divisions
operate at the Head Offices and at each branch.
9.          The branch managers report directly to the Presidents.  Each Manager
is whollv responsible for all the operations of the branch. The Divisions within
the branch report to the Manager and there are no direct reporting lines to the
equivalent Division at Head Office. The branch/head office relationship gives
very high authority (e.g. in credit decisions) and independence to the branch
manager.   One significant outgrowth of this situation is that the branches
control the data, and the bank's balance sheet and profit and loss (P&L)
statements are a consolidation of individual branch balance sheets and P&L
statements. In addition, all 30 to 50 branch managers report to the President,
who cannot exercise effective leadership and control over individual mAnAgers
with that scope of reporting relationships. All branch managers are at the same
hierarchical level in the organization structure, though three of four of the
managers (usually of the largest branches) are also members of the EC. The
branch organizarion structure appear to be overstaffed (partly caused by
voluminous manual operations), inefficient, not well-organized for optimal
customer service, and not standardized, which creates problems of control,
training, efficiency, and staffing.
10.         Egrsonnel.  The Head Offices usually consist of 90 to 100 staff;
branches tend to be categorized as small (fewer than 50 employees), medium (50-
80) and large (over 80).  The largest branches number around 200 employees.
Employees with higher academic qualifications include the manager and the staff
in the Credit Department.



- 89 -
ANNSL 6
Page 3 of 8
11.         Around 90X of the banks' staff is female, although they form a
minority at and above the level of branch manager. The banks were traditionally
low salary employers, perceived as "second rate" employers, and were not
competitive with industry in attracting the best people. The main requirements
were accuracy and consistency. Only recently have bank salaries caught up with
those in other industries and senior management has been able to be selective
in employing staff. In general, human resources are significantly undereducated,
underskilled and underqualified for modern commercial banking operations; on
average only about 20X of staff are university graduates and another 20X has less
than a secondary education.   Human resource management skills and tools are
inadequate; the lack of commercial banking skills and a non-commercial work
culture are the most fundamental human resource issues. Moreover, the banks lack
the formal skills, tools, and other resources to redress these fundamental
problems. Training resources are far from what is needed to meet each bamx!s
enormous training requirements. Demands (and thus "learning-on-the-job') have
been minimal; in addition the vast majority of existing staff have developed in
a central bank in a centralized economy.
12.         Each bank needs  to build a set of practical human resources
management programs - -recruiting, compensation, manpower planning, training needs
analysis, training performance/potential appraisal, management development,
performance management--and implement them (with expert staff) expeditiously to
build the skills and attitudes required to implement its strategy. Without
significant action in this area, other improvements will be difficult to
implement successfully.
13.         Services. While new products are being introduced by the most
aggressive banks, most of the services provided by the banks still largely
reflect the previous role of the NBP. Their main activity is providing operating
accounts, effecting funds transfers, and extending credit to state sector
enterprises, although credit extended to the emerging private se.._tor conitnues
to grow.   Their main source of finance, apart from their customers' credit
balances, has been, until recently, refinancing credit from the NBP.
14.         Funds  transfers  are  normally  effected  by  the  payer  giving
instructions to his branch to pay funds to the beneficiary's account at a
designated bank branch. The banks are attempting to introduce cheques as an
alternative means of payment. There is presently no clearing system. Cheques
are exchanged between branches on a bilateral basis, and are in any event very
rarely acceptable as a form of payment. Some banks have introduced "guaranteed'
cheques to selected customers, undertaking to honor such cheques unconditionally.
Banks are aiAing to agree to a basis on which they will accept each others'
cheques for crediting customers' accounts.
15.         A new product, already developed by some of the banks, is bill
discounting. This is based on a pre-war Bills of Exchange Act, which has been
recently reactivated. It is seen as a means oi dealing with the acute problem
of inter-company debt. However, companies hava so far been reluctant to use
this mechanism, probably on account of the severe consequences of dishonor.



- 90 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 8
16.         Since January 1991, all nine commercial banks have been authorized
by NBP to provide international banking facilities for their customers. Although
described in their statutes as "Foreign Exchange Banks", previously they required
approval of the NBP to establish nostro accounts overseas, and to deal in foreign
exchange.
17.         Among the assets transferred into the commercial banks' portfolios
were Central Investments (CIs).  These represent the major centrally planned
investments, mainly in the infrastructure and industrial sectors. Each CI is
linked to a particular project, and one enterprise may be responsible for several
CIs. Central investments are financed through the refinancing credit at the NBP
on an individual basis, and are guaranteed by the Government. The role of the
banks in these investments is to be agents for the government, without any
responsibility for the project or associated credit risks. The banks' earnings
from CIs are a standard commission of 0.25X per month on the outstanding amount
plus a once-only fee of 1X flat payable v7hen the facility is negotiated.
18.         CIs fall into two categories.  The first are projects in the course
of realization. The banks approve loan drawdowns in accordance with the project
plans. They are refinanced automatically by the NBP. Interest on these loans
is capitalized. Recent high inflation has caused major problems in administering
these loans as original costs and drawdown projections became outdated. The
banks were permitted to make allowance for higher costs in assessing the
project's development. Finance for such projects must be approved by the Budget.
The second category covers projects which have been completed and are in the
repayment phase. Repayment terms vary from project to project. Apart from the
interest charges, some of which have been permitted to be capitalized, all CI
debt appears to be sezviced punctually. However, many enterprises undertaking
CIs clearly have se'v,re financial problems and an uncertain future in the new
market-oriented economy.
19.         ODerations.  The operations  of the banks reflect  the lack of
technology.  Automated transactions are still largely conducted through NBP,
which satisfies certain basic operational needs of the banks. NBP, however, is
planning to terminate these services by the end of 1991. Each bank is therefore
planning intensively for (and some are executing) their near-term automation
needs.
20.         An inefficient interbank funds transfer mechanism and the absence
of cheques as a form of payment mean that Poland is largely a cash-based economy.
Consequently, branches must hold substantial quantities of cash. The logistics
of cash movements become particularly complex during the three day period at the
end of each month when enterprises withdraw cash in order to pay salaries and
wages. The cash holding requirement places rigorous demands on branch premises.
Indeed, all branch premises must be approved by the NBP and must qualify from
the point of view of safe and vault facilities. Suitable premises are in short
supply throughout Poland, and this is presently the main constraint to banks
extending their branch networks.
21.         There is a common accounting system for every branch, with uniform
account names and numbers, inherited from the NBP. Each branch must hold an



- 92 -
ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 8
26.         Treasury and asset./liability management are basically undeveloped
in each bank, although some credit and liquidity risk management is conducted.
Little is done to manage interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk.
Information, skills, policies, and methodologies all are lacking. Each bank's
management information system provides voluminous data, but is inefficient and
inadequate to support decision-making. Moreover, information requirements are
increasing faster than the bank's ability to meet them.  Planning, budgeting
and performance measurement processes, tools and skills are rudimentary and not
sufficient for moving the banks into a commercial and competition environment.
Internal audit in most of the banks started with two of three people. Some staff
have been added, but scope and coverage is totally inadequate, methodologies
are weak and skills are lacking.
Assistance Program for the Commercial Banks
27.         In addition to the corporatization of banks, another core element
in the Government's program for further development of banks is the initiation
of a massive effort to support institutional development and strengthening in
the banking sector, in view of the extensive weaknesses in existing institutions.
The authorities'central objective is to elicit the development of a mostly
private banking system fostering financial discipline, allocating credit on the
basis of risk and return, and discontinuing support to inefficient industries.
The program is envisaged to revolve around:   (i) the development of bank
institutional capabilities; and (ii) the financial restructuring of existing
institutions,  as appropriate.    This annex presents  the program  for the
development of bank institutional capabilities.
28.         As indicated earlier, substantial efforts will be placed on the
rapid reorientation and privatization of state-controlled existing banks. With
a view to provide rapidly basic banking services to the domestic economy, the
focus of the proposed Loan will be in part on the nine state-owned commercial
banks, since these banks currently hold most of the credit to the enterprise
sector. This process will involve close coordination with the Privatization and
Restructuring Project, which is being processed in parallel with the proposed
Loan, and which includes an investment component to provide financing for
restructuring investments in privatized enterprises or enterprises in the
privatization process.   Provision under this Loan will also be made for
supporting programs in other state banks as required, including possibly BGZ and
PKO BP, and would therefore require   close coordination with on-going and
forthcoming Bank programs in the agriculture and housing sectors. In addition,
technical assistance could be provided to the nascent private sector banks.
29.         Institutional Develogment.   The current incapacity of the state
banks to conduct efficient banking activities in a liberalized market-based
economic environment warrants the prompt introduction of an extensive
institutional development program aimed at developing stronger institutional
capabilities in system, with the objective of readying these banks for
privatization.
30.         Apgroach.  The Government's preferred approach with regard to the
provision of this technical assistance is to foster twinning arrangements with



- 93 -
ANNEX 6
Page 7 of 8
reputable Western banks.   It is expected that this process  will serve the
purpose of both ensuring a rapid and efficient transfer of banking know-how to
the Polish banks, as well as to pave the way for a gradual integration of the
Polish banks with the Western banking system, which might include the
participation of foreign banks in the capital of Polish banks, Since mid-1990,
at the behest of the Polish authorities, the Bank and IFC have been involved in
the process of identifying Western banks interested in "twinning' with Polish
banks.  Most of the Western banks contacted indicated a desire to participate
in the program as consultants rather than participate in the equity of the polish
banks. As a result, the Bank is working with the IFC to involve some of these
banks, as part of a competitive process, in providing the necessary technical
assistance through a consulting process. Terms of Reference for this program
were prepared by the Bank, and they are available in the Project Files. At this
stage, prospects for finding twinning partners for the nine commercial banks are
encouraging. In the event that twinning arrangements cannot be secured for all
of the nine banks, consulting firms would be approached.  The training of
counterpart staff, as well as the undertaking of institution-wide training
programs (and in addition the provision of support to the Banking School in
Katowice), will be an essential element in the proposed program of assistance
to the banking system.
31.         Institutional strengthening   In anticipation of the provision of
full-fledged technical assistance, the Bank is assisting the Polish authorities
in establishing under the aegis of the MOF, a pool of 5-6 credit advisors
financed by US and Japanese grant aid. Terms of Reference drafted by the Bank
are available in Project Files. These advisors would assist banks in coping,
through the introduction of proper credit appraisal and follow-up procedures,
with the rapidly increasing credit risk exposure that they are facing as a result
of their new operational autonomy, and rapid economic changes, and would also
help them strengthen and develop credit policy.
32.         The program of institutional development and strengthening for the
nine banks, will be based upon the findings of the recently completed diagnostic
studies. Terms of Reference were prepared by the Bank, and the studies were
financed by the British Know How Fund, Japanese grant aid, and banks own
resources. The institutional development programs are comprehensive, and will
require serious commitment and dedication of qualified resources during the
three-year period over which they are to be implemented.
33.         The main areas and objectives of the programs are to: (i) develop
a comprehensive strategic plan and a statement of policies, including guidelines
detailing the bank's object and operating principles; (ii) develop and implement
an appropriate organization structure; (iii) undertake a comprehensive training
needs analysis, and establish a formalized training program; (iv) develop credit
policies, with emphasis on credit management, and portfolio control and problem
loan  management;   (v)  develop  comprehensive  asset/liability  management
capabilities; (vi) design and implement a comprehensive management information
system; (vii)  organize and implement a comprehensive, formalized system of
planning, budgeting, and performance measurement; (viii) develop and implement
a model branch; (ix) develop a detailed marketing plan for the bank and each of
its major business units; (x) develop and document the internal audit function;



- 94 -
ANNEX 6
Page 8 of 8
and (xi) evaluate the bank's automation program, in light of the bank's business
strategy and needs.
34.         The institutional development efforts and the introduction of an
efficient payments system will be complemented by the introduction of automated
account processing and a management information system. These efforts vill be
undertaken in two phases. The first phase will introduce a basic automation
infrastructure in the banks. As a result of the pending withdrawal by NBP of
the data processing services it now offers, the banks are seeking to implement
integrated hardware and banking software to automate certain basic banking
functions, including customer accounting, loan portfolio analysis, foreign
exchange operations, and also to provide linkages between branches and head
office. In this regard, the first step would be to undertake a study to identify
business services and requirements, and to produce a tender document.
Subsequently, the proposed Loan would finance the procurement of hardware and
software, implementation expertise, and training. During the second phase, an
integrated HIS tailored to the institutional objectives, structure, and services,
as defined under step (xi) above, would be developed.



- 95 -
Attachmenl
Page 1 of 3
Assessment of Status of Banking Training in Poland
1.          The Need for Trainine.  The banking system has an urgent and massive
need for skilled banking professionals at all levels of management and staff and
in the technical functions. The nine commercial banks created from the lending
activities of the National Bank of Poland (NBP), the five formerly specialized
banks whose banking powers have been expanded, and the influx of new banks into
the financial market create the need for a substantial increase in number of
banking professionals at all levels, and for the introduction into Poland's
financial sector of new banking and bank management methods.
2.          Training Initiatives.   A number of training programs have been
initiated. Foreign banks have invited staff of Polish banks for short courses
and educational visits. Training institutes and banks have offered seminars in
Poland. Staff of Polish banks have participated in international seminars for
bankers on specific topics such as financial markets and privatization. These
initiatives have exposed participants to banking techniques used in highly
developed financial markets and have undoubtedly assisted in preparing them for
future opportunities offered by Poland's financial liberalization.
3.          The need for in depth skills development to prepare the banks'
management and staff to function effectively in the evolving Polish financial
markets has been recognized. Measures taken to respond to this need include
the establishment of a training institute for bankers at Katowice and the
undertaking in comprehensive institutional development programs, initially for
the nine commercial banks,  to be extended to other banks later on.   The
institutional development programs are anticipated to transfer banking skills,
techniques and management methods, while at the same time they transform the
institutions themselves through the introduction of new management and
operational systems.
4.          The Katowice Institute for Training in Banking and Finance.  The
Katowice institute is a joint venture with share capital held by the Center
Internationale Pour la Formation de la Profession Bancaire (CIFPB), 20X, The
National Bank of Poland, 50X, and 23 Polish Banks, 50X. The Director of the
institute has been appointed by the NBP. The Director for curriculum is from
CIFPB and has been appointed for a period of three years.  To date, courses
offered in the institute have been provided by CIFPB and financed by donor funds.
5.          The institute benefits from excellent modern facilities.  There are
currently 6 classrooms functioning.   By October 1991, there will be 20. The
dormitory consists of 130 rooms; by the end of the year there will be 180.
6.          Though the institute officially opened on March 15, 1991, courses
have been conducted since October 1990. To date 700 participants have attended
the courses. Training at Katowice has emphasized the principles of credit,
lending to small and medium size enterprises, and the bank-borrower relationship



- 96 -
ANNEX 6
Attachment
Page 2 of 3
in a market economy. There has also been one 15 day course given on Warsaw on
foreign exchange dealing. The initial courses are short -- three to ten days
in duration - -. However, they build upon each other in a modular fashion so that
a participant could follow a series of courses leading to true skills
development.  The need for longer courses, particularly in the principles of
credit, has also been recognized by the Institute.
7.          As a result, new modules have been added to the program.  However,
banks are somewhat reluctant to release staff for long courses.   Given the
shortage of experienced and trained staff in the Polish banking system there is
a critical tradeoff between utilizing partially trained staff for current
operations or providing for long term skills development.
8.          These initial credit skills courses are relevant to the new credit
management needs of the Polish banks. However, substantially more training is
required to meet the developmental needs of the Polish banking system. In an
attempt to further develop the curriculum, the institute plans to initiate two
new programs, one, a comprehensive year long program intended for secondary
school graduates, the second, a four month management program intended for
university graduates.   These courses will cover a broad range of banking
disciplines and techniques: introduction to banking, deposit taking, credit,
financial instruments, treasury management, and some or-anizational issues.
9.          Additional Training Needs.  The diagnostic studies performed in the
nine commercial banks, discussions with the banks and banking sector authorities
highlighted skills development and training needs in several areas not currently
covered by courses offered in Poland, among these areas are financial analysis
and general management. As the financial markets develop and as banks expand
their lines of business and strengthen their management, considerable incremental
training will be needed. The institutional development programs carried under
twinning arrangements with foreign banks are anticipated to have a training and
skills development effect through on the job training as well as semituars and
visits to the twinning bank's offices. Nevertheless, there are likely to be
unsatisfied training needs as institutional development identifies skills gaps.
Therefore, the project would include funds for identified as well as unidentified
training programs.
10.         Support Under the ProRosed Loan. The Technical assistance component
included under the proposed Loan would provide resources to cover future training
needs, particularly on areas such as: capital markets, marketing, retail banking,
management information systems, asset and liability management, internal audit.
An amount of $250,000 has been included for these purposes. Training programs
to be financed under this component would be subject to review by the
Coordinating Committee established under the Ministry of Finance and the World
Bank.
11.         In the ir,erim two courses have been identiftev as priorities: a
general bank management course for executive bank managers, *nd a financial
analysis course.



- 97 -
ANNEX 6
&ttachme:nt
Page 3 of 3
12.         The course for Senior Bank Managers would cover:
-     Strategic, Operational and Financial Planning;
*    Performance Measurement;
*    Human Resource Management;
-    Risk Kanagement; Credit Risk, Financial Risk, Operating
Risk;
-     Internal Controls;
*     Information Technology in Banking
13.         The course objective would be to present and discuss general and
functional management from the top management perspective. Participants would
be executive managers based in the banks' head offices. Ideally, the course
would be attended by the banks' presidents.   It would be taught by senior
managers of major European Savings banks and professional instructors.  This
course would be given over a period of three to five days. Approximately twenty
five participants could attend.
14.         The financial analysis course would focus on techniques for the
financial management of banking institutions as well as for lending, credit
analysis and borrower selection. The course would cover:
=     principles of accounting according to International Accounting
Standards, highlights of any divergent Polish accounting
principles;
-    balance sheet analysis of various industrial sectors;
=     financial performance ratios;
-     analysis of the financial statements of banking institutions;
-     financial projections;
-     funds flow and cash flow analysis.
15.         The course would be taught by bankers or by a bank training institute
from Western Europe or the United States. It would be taught over a session of
three weeks-period and be offered three times during the first year.



- 98 -
ANNEX 7
Page I of 4
POLAND - FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT LOAN
Technical Assistance on Automation
Automation program of state commercial banks
1.          Background.  The National Bank of Poland's (NBP) computer centers
currently process all the customer and general ledger accounts for the nine
state commercial banks. Current NBP's computing capacity and system constraints
cannot adequately accommodate the one million transactions daily, and result in
undue delays in clearing and settling both intra-bank and inter-bank
transactions. Furthermore, because the NBP system is basically an accounting
system and was not designed for on-line operations, the commercial banks cannot
open new customer and enterprise accounts nor offer an accepted level of banking
services. NBP is planning to devolve itself of the responsibility of processing
the customer and general ledger accounts of the nine state commercial banks by
the end of 1991, and transfer the responsibility to the Banking Telecommunication
Society (BTT), a newly created joint venture computer service bureau facility.
2.          The BTT, with NBP and the major Polish financial institutions as
shareholders, has almost completed development of a 'back-bonea or the TELBANK
network to improve the data flows between the NBP regional and the central data
processing  centers.    This  will  utilize  the  Polish  Post  Telegraph  and
Telecommunication (PPTT) microwave television network to connect 17 cities, of
which 12 are data processing centers. The network is expected to be transparent
and "vendor-free", and will accommodate inter-bank clearings as a mandated
minimum. The inter-bank "low value" and high volume transactions will utilize
the network for the interconnection with other banks and individual branch
networks. It will also be able to support all the intra-bank transactions since
the network has sufficient capacity at 34MB transmission rates through the trunk
lines and 8MB rates through the feeder links.
3.          The 12 data processing centers currently operated by NBP will be
acquired by BTT, which will offer data transmission link, processing and banking
services to the commercial banks. The commercial banks will have the option of
leasing or purchasing services from BTT on a charge-back basis. Additionally
Electronic Data Systems (EDS) is in the process of negotiating a joint venture
agr6ement with BTT to design and implement a payments system for inter-bank
clea^rings, and jointly offer the targeted data processing services to the
commercial banks.   BTT is also evaluating a commercial banking application
software package to replace the antiquated accounting system which was developed
over fifteen years ago
4.          The functionality of the proposed BTT package, unknown service fees
and service levels, and lack of competitive advantage owing to the constraint
of using a common suite of software has, however, induced most of the state
commercial banks to embark on in-house automation efforts. One bank has already
made a major investment in hardware and software, while another has equipped its



- 99 -
ANELX 7
Page 2 of 4
branch network with microcomputer-based locally developed banking software.
Seven banks have requested financing from the proceeds oi the Loan to invest in
tailored banking software and the necessary hardware to facilitate expansion into
their respective markets, mobilize resources, initiate foreign exchange
operations, offer new products and services, and reduce the time taken to clear
both internal and external financial transactions. Another bank has postponed
a decision on whether it would utilize BTT service bureau facilities, or invest
in an in-house capability.   In both scenarios  (in-house automation or BTT
services), the banks will have to make substantial local investments to create
and operate electronic linkages between their head offices and the branches
located in areas where the BTT network does not provide gateways.
5.          Automation Program.  Requirements to be met under the monetary
program, and under banking supervision and prudential regulations has added
emergency to implement a program to provide the state commercial banks with a
basic automation framework to facilitate management decision-making, banking
operations and reporting modalities.   It is clear for example,  that NBP's
existing regional data processing centers and software do not have the capacity
to consolidate the banks' liquidity or provide information to conform with
supervision reporting. Furthermore, the imperatives on banks to operate in a
market environment, which require an agile and effective management of
information, call for immediate attention to the resolution of the automation
of commercial banks.   However,  the automation strategy of banks must be
integrated in their overall development strategy. This is the approach followed
under the proposed Loan, and thus the automation program is an integral part of
the institutional development program (IDP) of the banks.
6.          Two phases are envisaged in the implementation of the automation
program.  The first chase, which will be implemented over three years, will
enable the banks to effectively monitor operations of the branch network. The
first phase will accommodate the opening of new customer accounts in the Customer
Information Files, maintain the headquarter and subsidiary (branch) ledgers,
improve on liquidity management, promote direct deposits, facilitate loan
portfolio management, and provide appropriate linkages between headquarters and
the branches. The hardware architectures are based on various minicomputer
hardware platforms and microcomputers, and, for the most part, the use of the
UNIX operating system which supports common system engineering across all
categories  of hardware.    The hardware  could be expanded,  relocated,  or
interconnected depending on the results of the business strategy, organizational
structure, and staffing plans as defined through the IDP program. The employment
of software, transportable across the varied categories of hardware, will also
promote flexibility for future customization.
7.          The second phase will be initiated as soon as the Management
Information System (HIS) requirements are defined through the IDP program. The
basic capability established in phase one would be enhanced to provide due
functionality in compliance with the institutional objectives, products and
services. The MIS needs will be developed as a complement to the "core" software
implemented in the first phase. At the conclusion of the second phase, the banks



- 100 -
ANNFX 7
Page 3 of 4
will have a comprehensive data registration, analysis, planning, reporting and
an informational technology base.
8.          Imnlementin_ arranjements.  The banks will select one of the two
available options for the first phase automation program. These are: (i) the
procurement of packaged banking software together with the hardware, aTd (ii)
the purchase of hardware to support banking software which is currently being
developed with the assistance of local expertise. The automation program will
be preceded by a short study (4-5 staff months) for each bank to investigate
and elaborate on the following areas:
-     identification of the basic business services to be offered by the
bank in the near term, pending the clarification of the business
strategy through the IDP program,
-     definition of the hardware architecture and system engineering based
on   the   present   organizational   structure   and   management
accountabilities,
-     technical specifications of the banking application software required
from the suppliers.   This would include the minimum functional
requirements and incorporate the possible long-term needs to ensure
that the package offered is responsive, and
-    production of a tender document in compliance with the World Bank
procurement standards.
9.          Draft terms of reference for the study for each bank are contained
in Attachment 2 of this Annex. A central pool of specialists will be created
to offer this technical assistance, which would comprise specialists from the
prospective "twinning banks", and individual consultants with extensive
experience in automating commercial banking operations. (Information technology
specialists from the consulting firms which conducted the institutional
diagnostics might also be included). The employment of senior specialists from
the "twinning" banks will ensure continuity of design parameters and provide
appropriate linkages with the IDP program.
10.         In view of the time criticality of compiling the tender documents,
the commercial banks are expected to use proceeds from existing Bank operations
(the Industrial Export Development Project) to finance the estimated 32-40 staff
month effort for all banks (equivalent to a total of approximately US$800,000);
this would enable the consulting exercises to commence as soon as possible. The
tender documents would be finalized by September 1991 and the contract for the
procurement of hardware/software could be signed by late 1991 assuming
expeditious action by the banks. The implementation activities would commence
early 1992 with the back-office (head office) functions being automated by fall
1992. Thereafter, automated systems would be extended to the branch network in
turn, or by function, depending on the institutional preferences and constraints.



- 101 -
ANNEE Z
Page 4 of 4
11.         The activities included in the first phase of the automation program
will be extended over a 3-4 year period, due to the inherent problems in
extending automation to remotely located branches, availability and skills of
the data processing staff, and the bank's absorptive capacities. Six-monthly
reviews of progress will be conducted by the Bank project team to incorporate
findings from the institutional development studies and to ensure a coordinated
approach. The first two years of the automation program will require intensive
surveillance, review of the procurement processes and contractual conditions.
The Loan would, therefore, finance one of the consultants from the pool of
specialists who conducted the initial requirements definition and tender
formulation studies to be available on as-when-needed basis to facilitate the
various implementation activities and liaise with the Bank. This level of effort
is estimated to be one staff year over the three-year implementation period of
the first phase of the automation program. Draft terms of reference for this
technical assistance are included as Attachment 3 to this Annex.
12.         Automation Programs for Individual Banks. Based on discussions held
with representatives of each of the commercial banks interested in borrowing from
the Loan proceeds, Attachment 1 describes the preliminary costs estimates for
each bank for their respective first phase automation programs. These estimates
are to be revised as the long-term automation strategy is defined in the context
of the IDP of each bank.



- 102 -
A ?
Attachm,e, 1.
Page 1 of 2
Automation Needs and Estimated Financ.nz
Requirements of the Commercal Banks
1.          Bank Depozytowo-Kredytowy - LUBLIN.  The bank has a network of 48
branches with one large branch, seven big branches and an expected expansion of
another four within two years.   The hardware architecture includes duplexed
minicomputer configurations at the head office and 8 large branches.   The
remaining branches will be s-,rviced by local area networked and individual
microcomputers.   The estimated investments for the bank, including banking
software, total US$6.0 million.
2.          Pomorski Bank Kredvtowt     - SZCZECIN. The bank has defined a hardware
architecture based on minicomputers in the major branches and powerful
microcomputers in the smaller branches.   It will purchase packaged banking
application software.  Its foreign exchange financing requirements have been
estimated at US$5 million.
3.          Panstwowv Bank Kredytowv - WARSZAW.  The bank has a network of 45
branches with four classified in the large category. An increase of 10 branches
is expected over the next five years. The bank is joining the Eurocard network
and plans to offer Automatic Teller (ATM) services as soon as the hardware is
installed and becomes operational. It is using a banking software package which
operates under the UNIX operating system and will be used on the new hardware.
Twenty five branches will be configured with varying sizes of minicomputers with
the remaining using powerful microcomputers. The total financing requirement
has been estimated at US$7.0 million.
4.          Bank  PrzemZslowg-Handlowv  - KRAKOW.    The bank has  installed
sophisticated local area networked microcomputers in its branch network of 40
offices.   The banking software was produced locally in conjunction with an
expatriate software company, but is currently not performing up to expectations
and is scheduled to be replaced.   The bank plans to procure an integrated
software package together with large duplexed minicomputers for its head office.
Financing will also be provided to support automation for the planned expansion
of the branch network to a total of 60-70 branches over the next three years.
The total financing requirements are estimated at US$4 million.
5.          Bank Zachodni - ROCLW.  The bank has a 60 branch network which is
planned to increase to 75 branches in the next four years.   In addition to
duplexed minicomputers in the head office, the bank plans to install 51
minicomputer configurations in its larger branches and utilize powerful
microcomputers in the remaining branches. It will procure a banking package.
The total financing requirements are estimated to be US$10.0 million.



- 103 -
AN'NEX 7
Page 2 of 2
6.          Powszechny Bank GoSDOdArCZY - LODZ.  The bank has a network of 30
branches and will employ a mix of minicomputers and mic.ocomputers with a banking
software package. Its estimated financing requirements total US$ 4.0 million.
7.          Wielkopolski Bank Kredytowy - POZNAN.  The bank has a network of 42
branches and is currently developing banking software with the assistance of
foreign and local consultants.   This software presently provides processing
capability for current, checking, deposits and term deposit accounts, and will
be enhanced to provide due functionality.   It is being developed to operate
under the UNIX system and will be transportable across the hardware product lines
to be procured through the FIDL project. The estimated financing requirements
total US$6.0 million.
8.          Bank GDANSKI.  The bank has a network of 47 branches with 14 large
branches.   It has invested in five small minicomputers for foreign exchange
transactions and is developing banking software for current and savings accounts
with the assistance of local consultants. The bank has not yet decided on its
automation strategy and is investigating the possibility of using BTT service
bureau facilities.



- 104 -
6gEX 7
AlM:hen  2
Page 1 of 3
Compilation of Tender Documents for Commercial Banks
Terms of Reference
Background
1.          Nine regional commercial banks participating in the World Bank
financed Financial Institutional Development (FIDL) project are embarking on an
extensive institutional development program. Of these, eight banks are desirous
of implementing in-house information technology programs to facilitate
operations, improve planning and customer services and enhance their capacities
to accommodate additional accounts and increase market coverage. Presently, the
National Bank of Poland (NBP) processes all the customer and general ledger
accounts on an IBM hardware architecture using a batch updating system.
Financial transactions are entered at twelve regio-v-al clearing centers which
maintain regional accounts and are transmitted to Warsaw for consolidation and
inter-bank  settlements.     Owing  to  an  ineffective    telecommunication
infrastructure and inadequate processing capacities, inter-bank transaction
processing and enterprise payments can take up to 3 - 4 weeks. The seven banks
are therefore planning on implementing in-house automation programs to improve
operations. A sophisticated national telecommunication network, using microwave
technology is being introduced; it will be operational by mid-1991 and will offer
thirteen gateways for connection to the network. The commercial banks will have
to use this network for inter-bank clearing transactions, while intra-bank
transactions will use it to the extent possible for linkages with the head office
and the branch network.
2.          Each of the commercial banks has an average of 40 - 60 branches with
about 15 large branches holding 250,000 accounts, and processing in excess of
12,000 daily transactions. Approximately 10 - 25 branches can be characterized
as being small with an average of about 1000 daily transactions.
3.          The banks are presently limited to offering basic banking services
-- current, savings accounts, foreign exchange accounts,etc. due to the nature
of the NBP's batch accounting system. They plan on modeling their operations
and services alonb the lines of commercial banks in developed economies,
extending their branch networic, and commencing introduction of in-house
automation by the end of 1991. Some banks have already started developing and
utilizing  application  software  using  a  variety  of  equipment--including
minicomputers and microcomputers.    The banks realize that these are interim
measures and that these will have to be replaced with sophisticated systems in
the near future.
4.          The automation program will be undertaken in two phases.  The first
phase, which is the subject of this consultancy assignment, will provide a basic
data processing infrastructure designed to fulfill the immediate needs. The



- 105 -
ANE  7
Ateachment 2
Page 2 of 3
second phase will develop this to accommodate the institutional MIS which will
be defined by the FIDL program.   The MIS requirements will incorporate the
modalities of the defined business strategy, revised organizational structure,
staffing and training plans, and other IDP recommendations.  The phase one
architecture should therefore be flexible to incorporate the longer term
operational and information needs of the banks.
5.          The  consultancy  assignment--to  be  supported  by  contracted
consultants--will involve four steps with the objective of producing a tender
document.  These cotnsultants will be supplemented with specialists from the
prospective "twinning" banks. In most cases the banks will procure an integrated
suite of hardware and banking application software; however, two banks are
already using software either developed internally or procured from commercial
sources. In these two cases, the tenders will focus on hardware together with
certain software utilities, training and other technical support from the
hardware vendor.
6.          The four areas which would be investigated and elaborated by the
consultants include, but are not limited to:
o     the identification of the basic business services to be offered by
the bank in the near term pending the clarification of the business
strategy through the IDP pro-tram.   The institutional diagnostic
reports should be studied to assess the banks' strengths and
weaknesses, and extensive "requirements definition" meetings should
.; convened with key senior operational managers to assess their
information requirements and recommend a data processing staffing
and skills profile.
o     definition of the hardware architecture and system engiineering based
on the present organizational structure, linkages, lines of
reporting, and management accountabilities. An initial architecture
has been considered and will need to be refined.   The use of
minicomputers    (with   possibly   back-up   processors)   with
indicative/generic sizing based on transaction and workload volumes,
should be considered to allow subsequent flexibility. For the banks
requiring application software, packaged solutions are preferred;
these should be transportable across the hardware platforms (both
mini and microcomputers) for standard system engineering and to
minimize training and maintenance efforts. The architecture should
also support the concept of processing nodes and the use of the BTT
telecommunication network for both inter and intra bank transactions.
o     technical specifications of the banking a2Dlication software required
from the suppliers.   This would includs the minimum functional
requirements and incorporate the possible long-term needs to ensure
that  the  package  offered  is  responsive  to  the  desired



- 106 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 3
functionalities.     These  specifications  should  include  data
characteristics of key elements and record and transaction volumes
to enable prospective suppliers to configure and size the hardware.
O     production of the tender dogcument in compliance with the World Bank
procurement standards. A sample document will be available with each
bank; this will contain the Instructions to the Bidders, Conditions
of the Contract, Evaluation Methodology, Sample Guarantee Forms,
Description of the Existing Technical Environment, and the Technical
Specifications.   To facilitate the compilation of the required
technical specifications, a sample set for a commercial bank is
included in the package; this will need to be refined, improved, and
made specific to the bank under consideration.
Desired Oualifications of the Consultants
7.          A central pool of consultants will be created to offer this
consultancy assistance. The contracted consultants should be cognizant of both
commercial banking requirements and imperatives, and be experts in information
technology in the banking industry.   The consultants should have designed,
implemented and managed the operations of on-line computerized commercial bank
systems, offering both retail and commercial services. The consultants must have
also undertaken automation strategy studies in the banking industry, be cognizant
of institutional development imperatives, be familiar with telecommunication
technology, and be able to assess the absorptive capacities of the banks in order
to recommend viable solutions. Each commercial bank will interview and retain
the services of the preferred consultant from the central pool. This consultant
will work closely with the specialist from the "twinning" bank to ensure that
the findings and technical specifications of the requirements is in general
conformance with the operational environment of the "twinning "bank.
Duration and Level of Effort.
8.          The individual assignments are expected to range from a 2 - 3 staff
month effort depending on the complexity of the tender document to be formulated.
The banks are desirous of completing the exercise as soon as possible, and
applicants are requested to take this into consideration by perhaps proposing
a two member team. Every attempt should be made to conclude this assignment
within a two-month elapsed time period.



- 107 -
AtInghment 3
Page 1 of 2
Advisory Services fgg Bank Automation
Dragt Terms of Reference
Background
1.          To assist the nine regional commercial banks who are participating
in the project with their automation programs under the program supported by
the Financial Institutions Development Loan, advisory services will be needed.
The advisory services pertinent to the automation activities are designed to
facilitate the individual automation programs, provide technical advice,
undertake periodic status assessments, clarify and resolve issues, and also act
as a conduit for transmission of appropriate data and reports to the World Bank.
The nine banks are expected to enter into "twinning" arrangements with foreign
commercial banks who will second specialists for training and in assistance in
operations, and the advisors should liaise closely with these seconded
specialists. The advisory services will comprise on-going review tasks as well
as on-demand technical assistance which member institutions will require from
time to time.
Scope of Work
(i)   On request, assist member institutions to define their automation
needs, conceptualize the hardware/software/information architectures,
delineate the major implementation activities, estimate the resource
and  skill  requirements,   provide  guidance,   and  develop  a
implementation schedule.
(ii) On request, review and comment on the recommendations, outputs, and
services provided by the vendors of hardware and software and, if
need be, jointly resolve issues and problem areas. In cases where
resolution is not possible, coordinate remedial measures with the
concerned institution and the World Bank.
(iii) On request, analyze the client institutions' automation requirements,
and recommend an appropriate procurement strategy (one or two stage)
conforming with the World Bank procurement guidelines, and
procurement documentation standards. Also, assist in the evaluation
of tenders and in the finalization of the contracts.
(iv) On request, prepare Terms of Reference for automation strategy
studies, definition of Management Information Systems, technical
assistance and consultancy and support assignments, and application
software development and customization efforts.



- 108 -
ANNEX 7
Attachment 3
Page 2 of 2
(v)   On  request,  provide  assistance  in  formulating  "requests  for
proposals" for the procurement of consultant services. Also, assist
in the review of consultant proposals, in the selection of
consultants, and in finalizing the contract.
(vi)  On request, undertake a diagnostic and assess the status of the
automation programs, and recommend measures, if necessary, to
expedite the progress.
(vii) Every three months, review briefly the progress of the automation
programs in each of the participating institutions, compile an
overview status report, and submit the report to the senior
management of the concerned institutions, and the World Bank; a
standard reporting format should be developed.
(viii)As and when requested by the World Bank, investigate and forward
appropriate clarifications or information pertinent to the automation
programs; this could include status reports, documents, proposals,
bids etc.
(ix)  Maintain a close liaison with the institutional development, twinning
bank specialists, and procurement specialists to ensure a coordinated
approach and to obviate any conflicting recommendations or
duplicative endeavors.
(x)   Compile and maintain a roster of consultants (both individual and
companies) with the appropriate information technology skills; this
would enable institutions to draw-up a short list of suitably
qualified consultants, if such is requested.
(xi)  Maintain an account of foreign exchange expenditures financed through
the World Bank project, and incurred by the institutions, in the
procurement of automation goods and services.
Expected Consulting Effort
2.          The requirement of the services will be "demand driven", and the
expected level of effort will vary. The periodic status report will ensure that
senior management are aware of progress of automation and the availability of
the above services. However, the periodic status reporting and other on-going
activities will require a minimum of three man-months every year.



