Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19349
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT LOAN
(Loan no. 3341-PL)
June 21, 1999
Private and Financial Sector Development
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of June 15, 1999)
Currency Unit        PLN
PLN 1         US$0.25
US$1          PLN 3.94
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
End-1996      end-1997       June 1998       December 1998       June 1999
3.0           3.2             3.5              3.6              3.94
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIB   -  Allied Irish Bank
ATM   -  Automated Teller Machine
BDK   -  Bank Depozytowo-Kredytowy
BGZ   -  Bank Gospodarki Zywnociowej
BPH   -  Bank Przemyslowo-Handlowy
BRE  -  Bank Rozwoju Eksportu
DDSR   -  Debt and Debt Service Reduction
DIF  -  Deposit Insurance Fund
EFSAL  -  Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
ETP  -  Economic Transformation Program
IBRD   -  Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDP  -  Institutional Development Program
IEDP  -  Industrial Export Development Project
ING   -  Internationale Nederlanden Bank
MoF  -  Ministry of Finance
NBP  -  Narodowy Bank Polski
PBK Szczecin  -  Pomorski Bank Kredytowy in Szczecin
PBK Warsaw   -  Powszechny Bank Kredytowy in Warsaw
Pekao SA      Polska Kasa Opieki
PHRD   -  Japanese Grant For Policy And Human Resource Development
PKO BP       Powszechna Kasa Oszczednosci
PRP  -  Privatization and Restructuring Project
SAL  -  Structural Adjustment Loan
WBK   -  Wielkopolski Bank Kredytowy
POLAND'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director: Basil Kavalsky, ECCO9
Team Leader: Stanislas Balcerac, ECSPF
Sector Leader: Ilham Zurayk, ECSPF



FOR OFFICLIL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT LOAN
(Loan 3341-PL)
Contents
Preface ................................. i
Evaluation Summary ............................................                                         ii
Part 1. Project Implementation Assessmelnt ..................................I
A. Introductioni ..................................                                             i
B. Project Objectives ..................................2
C. Aclhievement of Objectives ..................................3
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project .............................. ..8
E. Project Sustainability                                   .8
F. .  Bank Performance ....................8
G. Borrower Performance ....................9
H. Assessmenit of Outcomie .....................9
1. Future Operation ...................                                                       10
J. Key Lessons Leared ...................                                                     10
Part 11. Statistical Tables .........................                                                  12
Appendixes:
A. Borrower contributioni to the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT LOAN
(Loan 3341-PL)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Financial Institutions Development
Loan (FIDL) in Poland, for which Loan 3341-POL in the amount of US$200 million equivalent was
approved on June 6, 1991 and made effective on January 14, 1992.
The loan consisted of two components: a US$150 million policy-based quick-disbursing
component and a US$50 million institutional development and investment component. The loan allowed
for up to US$100 million of the quick-disbursing component to be made available for supporting a debt
and debt service reduction program with commercial banks, with the balance of this component targeted
for disbursement in two tranches of US$25 million each.
The loan was closed on December 31, 1998, compared with the original closing date of June 30,
1995 to allow for completion of disbursements for bank automation projects under the investment
component. The first adjustment tranche, released upon effectiveness, was fully disbursed on January 14,
1992. The final adjustment tranche was released in September 1995. Final disbursement took place on
February 22, 1999, at which time a balance of US$1 1.8 million was cancelled. There was no co-
financing of the project.
The ICR was prepared by Stanislas Balcerac, Financial Economist, ECSPF and reviewed by
Ilham Zurayk, Sector Leader, ECSPF; and Basil Kavalsky, Director, ECCO9. The borrower provided
comments that are included as appendixes to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the 1Bank's final completion mission, on April 14-28,
1999. It is based on material in the project file and draws on information from the Country Assistance
Review - Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department
in 1996. The borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by preparing its own evaluation and
commenting on the draft ICR.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT LOAN
(Loan 3341 .PL)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
i.      The Government of Poland's Economic Transformation  Program  (ETP), launched at the
beginning of 1990, focussed on stabilizing the economy, accelerating systemic changes and restoring
Poland's creditworthiness. At that time, the financial sector was composed mainily of the central bank
(National Bank of Poland - NBP), nine state-owned commercial banks creatcd from the former regional
branches of NBP, five specialized banks, a development bank and about 1,700 rural cooperative banks.
The commercial banks lacked the technical skills and financial strength needed to survive and grow in an
increasingly  market-based  environment.   The Government's reforn  program  included  actions to
strengthen the banking system and to transform the banks into autonomous and accountable commercial
banks.
ii.     The World Bank supported the Government's reform  program  through a combination of
investment and policy-based loans, including the Financial Institutions [)evelopment Loan (FIDL),
which was designed to help (i) improve financial policies; (ii) modernize banking legislation and
supervision; (iii) promote extensive institutional development as a first stage in the privatization of the
state-owned commercial banks; and (iv) develop financial markets and deepen the financial system.
Further support was provided through the Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (EFSAL)
approved in 1993, which was designed to reinforce and build on these previous efforts by resolving at the
same time the systemic crisis facing banks and enterprises and by supporting privatization. Other
operations, including the Industrial Export Development Project (IEDP) and the Privatization and
Restructuring Project (PRP), focused on the enterprise sector. A Debt and Debt Service Reduction
(DDSR) Loan contributed to the international effort to complete the commercial DDSR Program',
without which the process of reforms would be undermined.
Project Objectives
iii.    The FIDL included two components: a quick-disbursing policy component (US$150 million) and
an institutional development component (US$50 million). The Government had an option to use up to
US$100 million out of the US$150 million associated with the policy component to support a commercial
bank DDSR program, subject to an implementation agreement expected to be concluded by June 30,
1992. The balance was to be disbursed in two tranches of US$25 mil]ion each. The aim of the quick-
disbursing policy component was to support ongoing and new policy and institutional reforms to be
Before Paris and London Club debt reduction agrcements were concluded, the capital account recorded huge net capital outflows (-12% in
1990) which become positive only in 1995, reaching 46.6", in 1998. Based on the 1994 Financing Plan, the DDSR program reduced
approximately US$14.3 billion debt and past due interest due to commercial creditors (London Club) through a menu of options including:
(i) mixture of discount and par bonds bearing below-market fixed interest rate; (ii) debt-conversion par bonds at below-market fixed
interest rates or new money par bonds at market rates; (iii) debt buy-back at discount, and (iv) conversion of past due interest into par
bonds with below-market interest rates.



- iii -
undertaken in the financial sector over the 1991-1992 period. The institutional development component
provided technical assistance and training for the commercial banks, including support for innovative
"twinning" arrangements between foreign and participating Polish banks. This component also included
financing of the basic computerization and automation projects of the banks, which were needed to
improve their information management (accounting, reporting) and consumer service (transaction
management).
Implementation Experience and Results
iv.    Overall, the project-supported financial sector policy reforms and the institutional development
programs were implemented satisfactorily. The FIDL achieved its development objectives, although with
some delays in the case of the policy-based component and the bank automation program.
v.    Poland made substantial progress in achieving macroeconomic stabilization and implementing
structural reforms. The Polish authorities liberalized interest rates, reduced subsidized and directed
credit, introduced indirect monetary controls, and provided independence to the banking institutions in
their credit decisions. Similarly the legal framework for the financial sector was enhanced, particularly
through improvements in the legal and regulatory framework for the banks, and adoption of new
legislation to enable capital market development. Progress in developing prudential regulations and in
improving banking supervision capability were also satisfactory. Establishing the Deposit Insurance
Fund (DIF) took longer than initially expected, due to the time needed by the Polish authorities to agree
on its features and operational modalities. In view of the substantial progress made in this area, the Bank
waived this as a condition of second tranche release, which was implemented in January 1995.
vi.    The bank transformation and privatization process was also successfully implemented. The nine
state-owned commercial banks were corporatized in late 1991. Two banks were sold to foreign banks by
end- 1994, three others were subsequently sold to foreign or domestic investors and an agreement with a
foreign bank for the sale of the sixth bank was signed in May 1999. The remaining three banks were
merged into the banking group headed by Pekao SA and are targeted for privatization by end-1999.
vii.   The twinning program was highly successful as a first-stage pre-privatization, institutional
capacity building exercise and contributed effectively to the success of the Govemment's program of
transformation and privatization of the State-owned banks. Seven banks were twinned with major
Western European banks. The collaboration and support of both the IFC and the Bank were important
factors in the twinning exercise. The twinning program, implemented over about 2.5 years, was a success
in six out of the seven banks and improved their management, planning and operational processes. It also
helped in establishing long-term commercial banking relations between the domestic and foreign twins.
viii.   Two banks used the FIDL funds for their automation investments and it was agreed that similar
investments in the other three banks could be financed from the IEDP. In the end, for a variety of
reasons, only one bank (with financing from the FIDL) succeeded in fully implementing the integrated
automation project under the Bank financing. The participating banks benefited from the assistance
received from Bank staff and advisors in defining their IT needs and systems, but the bank automation
procurement processes were much more time-consuming than initially expected, due to factors such as
inexperience of local counterparts with the international bidding procedures and delays in management
decisions concerning award of contract. Furthermore, the experience of the procurement of integrated
automation systems raises a number of questions about how these kind of investments should be prepared
and financed and whether they are appropriate investments for international competitive bidding (ICB)
under Bank rules.



- iv -
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
ix.    Poland succeeded in effective implementation of its ETP. Although implementation of some
legislative reform, finalizing the DDSR program and establishing the DIF took longer than originally
anticipated, the policy actions taken to improve and modernize the legal framework for the financial
sector, facilitate financial restructuring of the banks and to develop the capital markets were timely and
much needed to readjust the Polish financial sector to the changing economic environment in the early
1990s. Consecutive Polish Governments maintained strong commitment to the FIDL-supported reform
program. The current Government is committed to further privatization in the financial sector, with the
privatization of the two largest savings banks and the ex-state monopoly in the insurance sector
announced for 1999-2000.  Strong economic performance by Poland combined with gradual
strengthening of bank management have contributed to substantial and sustained development of the
banking system, which is expected to continue to grow in the coming years. Implementation of the
institutional development component took substantially longer than anticipated, requiring a three-year
extension of the Loan Closing date, specifically to permit completion of the bank automation programs.
x.     The share of foreign capital in the Polish bankmg system reached over 48 percent by end-1998,
and will increase with the expected takeover of potential foreign investors of a majority stake in the
Pekao SA Group. The other large savings bank, PKO BP, is slated for privatization in the year 2000.
Most of Poland's largest banks have strategic investors, including major foreign banks. Given these
significant achievements, there should be no need for World Bank involvement in such broad-based
banking sector projects. Further support, if requested by the Government, should be targeted to specific
areas, such as further improvement of the legal and regulatory framework and development of specialized
finance.
xi.    Some of the main lessons learned from the preparation and impleimentation of the FIDL are
summarized below:
-  The implementation of reforms in the banking sector was successf'ul because of successive
Governments' ownership of the program and the commitment to move to a market-based economy.
The close cooperation of the Bank and the Government was instrumental in ensuring the quality of
the design and effective implementation of both the policy-based and institutional development
components of the project. The FIDL also demonstrates the value of close coordination and
cooperation within the World Bank Group, i.e. between IFC and the Bank, as well as the important
role which the Bank Group can play in working with other donors and the bank twinning partners.
*  The twinning worked well in the case of Poland and proved to be an efficient mechanism for
transferring know-how effectively.  The results from the twinning experience provide several
valuable lessons for similar programs. Although the start-up of such arrangements may be painful
and disruptive for management and staff, twinning can succeed if it is well prepared and well-
managed by suitably qualified people. However, such undertakings should be considered carefully,
as similar approaches in other countries have had varying degrees of success. Clear expectations
reflected in sound work schedules, based on a realistic pace and understanding of the absorptive
capacity of the local partner, are of key importance. The twinning work must be closely and candidly
monitored, especially in the early stages, to correct problems and difficulties. Senior management of
the local bank must be fully involved and committed to the success of the program. The cost of
twinning arrangements is high and may only be justified for larger banks. Twinning is not
necessarily a panacea for problems faced by all banks.



- v -
The project demonstrates that institution building is a medium  to long-term process requiring
significant change in minds and systems, and significant training. The Bank was over-ambitious in
estimating the time needed to implement the comprehensive policy and institutional development
reforms. Furthermore, proper implementation of bank twinning and automation project components
require significant supervision effort by the Bank, in terms of staff weeks and resources.
* In spite of considerable advice provided by IT specialists to facilitate bank automation procurement,
the Bank's procurement procedures were perceived as being complex, rigid and not fully suitable for
dealing with procurement of complex software-based information technology. Banking automation
investments seem to be more suited to the procurement practices followed by the private sector.
which permits such practices as strategic alliances between purchaser and supplier to allow fast
response and access to state of the art solutions before they are released. l3ank procurement rules, on
the other hand, require the borrower to tender for a very specific package of equipment, software and
services, which, in the case of rapidly changing banking needs and rapidly changing technology, may
be difficult for the borrower to fully determnine in advance.
* Taking into account the difficulties encountered in procuring complex, integrated automation systems
for the banks, and the fact that, for a variety of reasons, only one integrated system was financed and
implemented in full, in hindsight, it may have been better to have stayed with the original project
proposal to finance the basic, initial automation needs of the banks and to leave the financing of fully
integrated systems for the future. Such systems could then have been financed directly by the banks
which would have had more flexibility to choose the supplier and approach which they felt best met
their needs at the time.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS DEVELOPMENT LOAN
(Loan 3341-PL)
Part 1. Project Implementation Assessment
A.      Introduction
1.      The Government of Poland launched its Economic Transformation l'rogram  at the beginning of
1990. The program focussed on stabilizing the economy, accelerating systemic changes and restoring
Poland's creditworthiness.  Before the start of these reforms, in 1988-89, the financial sector was
composed mainly of the National Bank of Poland (NBP), five State-owned specialized banks2, a small
State-owned development bank3 and 1700 rural cooperative banks. In 1989, the commercial banking
functions were separated from the central banking functions of the National Bank of Poland (NBP), thus
creating a two-tier banking system. Under the new structure, the NBP retained only typical central
banking activities4. Its commercial banking activities were transferred to a network of nine State-owned
commercial banks, created from the regional branches of the NBP. These banks lacked the technical
skills and financial strength needed to survive and grow in an increasingly market-based environment.
2.       The challenge Poland faced in the early stage of the banking reform  program  was to transform
the banks into autonomous and accountable commercial banks. To this end, the Government had to
quantify and deal with the poor quality of the banks' portfolios and the lack of solvency and the dearth of
credit experience, risk assessment and control systems, qualified management, and banking skills. The
FIDL, for which preparation started in 1990, was designed to address four issues articulated in the
Government's program including: (i) improving financial policies; (ii) modernizing banking legislation
and supervision; (iii) promoting extensive institutional development as a first stage in the privatization of
the State-owned commercial banks; and (iv) development of financial markets and deepening of the
financial system. The Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (EFSAL) which was approved
in 1993 was designed to reinforce and build on these initial financial sector reform efforts by dealing
simultaneously with the debt overhang of state-owned enterprises and the portfolio problems in the
banking system. To that end, it helped create a framework forrestructuring the debts of these enterprises
and helping them to modernize and improve their operations, while at the same time helping the banks to
restructure their inherited portfolios and make the banks more attractive candidates for privatization5.
2    Pekao SA (Savings Bank), PKO BP (Housing Bank). Bank Handlowy (Foreign Trade Bank), BRE (Export Development Bank) and BGZ
(Agriculture Bank)
Polish Development Bank (Polski Bank Roz:uoju)
4    In 1990, the NBP was granted independence from the Govemment, its Govemor was henceforth to be appointed for a six-year term by
Parliament to which the NBP would report directly.
In March 1993. after considerable analysis, the Government decided to proceed with a decentralized approach to debt resolution; the
State-owned banks were re-capitalized and given the task of restructuring most of the debtor enterprises. This program was supported by
two Bank-financed projects: the Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan and the Privatization and Restructuring Project.



-2 -
3.    In the early 1990s, therefore, FIDL and the EFSAL were the key Bank operations focussing on
financial sector reform. They were also linked to the Bank's support for restructuring of Poland's
external commercial bank debt, which was also supported with the Debt and Debt Service Reduction
(DDSR) Loan (approved in 1994). Two other operations, the Industrial Export Development Project
(IEDP) and the Privatization and Restructuring Project (PRP) focused on providing credit and technical
assistance for the modernization and privatization of the enterprise sector.
4.    By the time the FIDL was approved, the Government had moved on a number of fronts in the
implementation of its reform program. It had set strict limits on the growth of government credit
programs; set appropriate terms for the bonds that were to compensate the banks for post-devaluation
foreign exchange losses, developed new regulations to improve foreign exchange risk management,
prepared the ground for creation of the DIF and established the Securities and Exchange Commission
(SEC). It had also presented to Parliament amendments to the Banking Act and the Act on NBP to
strengthen, inter alia, bank licensing and supervision.
B.    Project Objectives
5.    The FIDL included two components: a quick-disbursing policy component (US$150 million) and
an institutional development component (US$50 million). The Government had an option to use up to
US$100 million out of the US$150 million associated with the policy component to support the
commercial bank DDSR program, subject to an implementation agreement expected to be concluded by
June .30, 1992. The balance was to be disbursed in two tranches of US$25 million each.
6.    Policv Componient. The aim of the quick-disbursing policy component was to support ongoing
and new policy and institutional reforms to be undertaken in the financial sector over the 1991-1992
period. These refonns included more efficient credit allocation, improved management of specialized
Government-owned financial agencies, introduction of market-based instruments of monetary control and
interest rate policy management, liberalization of foreign exchange operations of the banks, improvement
and modernization of the legal framework for the financial sector, development of the legal framework
for capital markets, and creation of a stock exchange and of a supervisory and licensing authority.
7.    The Institutional Development Comnponent provided technical assistance and training for the
commercial banks. A major element of this component provided support for innovative "twinning"
arrangements between foreign and participating Polish banks. These programs covered a wide range of
basic banking areas including: strategic planning, budgeting and performance measurement, organization
structuring, human resource management, training, credit management, asset/liability management,
financial controls and accounting, branch operations, marketing, intemal audit, management information
systems, and automation planning. The institutional component also included financing of the basic
computerization and automation projects of the banks, which were needed to improve their information
management (accounting, reporting) and consumer service (transaction management).
8.    This component also included technical assistance aimed at supporting further development of
bank regulations and training of bank supervisors, design of a collateral security system and a deposit
insurance system, strengthening of bankruptcy and liquidation regulations, development of the securities
markets and design of privatization strategies for the banks.
9.    Of the US$50 million financing under the FIDL for the institutional development, US$22 million
was allocated for twinning, US$26 million for automation and US$2 million for consulting services to



carryout the activities listed in para 8 above. Participating banks were to contribute an additional US$33
million in foreign exchiange, bringinig the total estimated cost of this componienit to US$83 millioll.
C.     Achievement of Objectives
10.    Overall, tihe finaticial sector policN reforms and the instituitional developilmenit programiis supported
by the FIDL were implemilenited satisfactorilN. The FIDL achieved its development objectives, althougi
implemenltationi of some of the policy-based actions and completion of the bank automationl investimienits
took longer tlhan initially expected.
Polici, ReLf rms
11.    Sicabiliziztionl PrOogiram111.   Poland  made substanitial progress in acihieving  macroeconiomic
stabilization and implementing structural reforms. The rate of GDP growth increased from 2.6 percent in
1992 to between 5 percent and 7 percent in 1994-1997. Intlation declined on an annual basis from about
600 percent in 1990 to 35.3 percent in 1993. moderatino further to 1 1.8 percent in 1998. Economilic
recovery was marked by stronog growth of the private sector, which now accounts for 70 percent of
industrial activity and mor-e than 67 percenit of t[)I' and emilplolmeit. On the external front. Poland was
able to re-orient its trade flows to\\ards western markets. particUlarly to Eulopean Union countries.
Furthermore. Poland received consider-able SUppOrt fi-omil the intel-liational comIllunity in restoring its
creditworthiness. In April 1991. the Plaris Club gorailted a 50 percent reduction of the outstandilig Polish
debt, which was completed in two plhases, the second taking place in April 1994.  A comparable
agreement was reached with the London Club in October 1994. and was supported in part by the DDSR
Loan and the FIDL.
12.    Finaniiicial Policies. The Governimlent adopted siginificant finanlcial policy reforms required for
increasing the efficiency of resouIce mzobilization and credit allocation, including liberalizing interest
rates. reducing subsidized and directed credit. intiodulcing indirect monetary controls, and providing
indepcndence to the banliinig institLItionls in their credit decisions. By end-1994. credit growth under the
Government credit programs (housing, agricultural and central investmenlts) had been reduced and direct
lending and credit guarantees were limited to specialized Govermilent credit institutions.   The
Government compenlsated the nille comillercial banks and three specialized banks for the foreign
exchange losses incurred by them  tlhrough two bond issues in September 1991 and September 1994,
totaling US$6.4 billion eqLivalenlt.
13.    Legail candl Regzulalorv Fralnew ork.  The Polish autilorities also proceeded with substantial
improvemenits in the legal and regulatory framework for the bankinig sector, through a series of
amendments to the existing Banking Laws and Act on NBP. which inter alia: (i) reinforced NBP's
independenlce: (ii) provided new powers to NBP to enable it to establish and enforce binding prudential
regulations. (iii) set tighter licensing requiremilenits foir new  banks; (iv) increased control over bank
ownerslhip to limit the possibilities for banlks to own other financial and noni-financial entities; and, (v)
established tighter- regulations for banks regarding large exposures. Although the new Bankinig Law and
the Act on NBP were not adopted until 1997, given the significalit progress in preparatory work, the Bank
considered that the related second tranchie condition had been substantially met.
14.    Progress in developing bank supervision and prudential regulations was also satisfactory. The
borrower adopted and successfully implemented comprehensive prudential regulations on licensing,
capital adequacy, credit and investment concenitration, loan classification, provisioning, interest accrual,



- 4 -
foreign exchange exposure, accounting and auditing. The banking supervision capability has been
improving gradually as well through intensive training of staff and strengthening of regulations.
15.    Establishment of the DIF took longer than initially expected, due to the time needed by Polish
authorities to agree on its features and operational modalities. Major progress was made in December
1994 when the Act on the Deposit Insurance Fund was adopted by Parliament. The Act established the
DIF, regulated its operations and set limits on the amount of coverage for individual depositors. The DIF
as an institution was established in the first half of 1995. However, based on the satisfactory progress in
actions leading to the establishment of the fund, the Bank waived this condition and approved the release
of the second tranche of the FIDL in January 1995.
16.   Development and Strengthenzing of Banks.  Nine commercial banks were corporatized and
transformed into Treasury-owned joint stock companies in November 1991. Under the new charters,
MoF was able to appoint the members of the supervisory boards with the aim of improving the banks'
governance and accountability. Bank corporatization was the first step in a process leading to successful
restructuring and sale of the State-owned commercial banks, supported by both the FIDL and the EFSAL.
Two of these banks were sold to foreign banks by end- 1994, three were subsequently sold to foreign or
domestic investors and an agreement with a foreign bank for the sale the sixth bank was signed in May
1999. The remaining three banks were merged into the banking group headed by Pekao SA and are
targeted for privatization by end- 1999.
Debt and Debt Service Reductioni (DDSR)
17.   In accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement, US$100 million from the quick
disbursing funds of the FIDL were set aside to support a DDSR program and could, after June 30, 1992,
be reallocated to the first and second tranches. As the debt rescheduling agreement was not reached by
June 30, 1992, in July 1993 the Bank agreed to the Govemment's request to use this amount for the quick
disbursing component of the FIDL. The first tranche was therefore increased by US$50 million. When
an agreement on commercial debt rescheduling with the London Club was finally reached on October 27,
1994, the Bank agreed to the Government's request to reallocate, from the second tranche, a set-aside of
US$30 million to be linked to the Debt and Debt Service Reduction Loan approved by the Board of
Executive Directors on October 25, 1994. This set-aside was disbursed in December 1994.
Institutional Development
18.   The loan also achieved its institutional development objectives. The twinning program was
highly successful as a first-stage pre-privatization institutional capacity building exercise and contributed
effectively to the success of the Govemment's program of transforrmation and privatization of the State-
owned banks. The immediate purpose of the twinning was to help the Polish banks transform themselves
from ex-regional operations of the NBP into successful, independent, commercial banks ready for
privatization, based on support provided through a contractual relationship with a Westem bank. The
longer-term purpose was to establish a close business relationship between the two banks, which could
include a significant equity investment by the Westem bank and continuing transfer of technology, as
well as to accelerate the integration of the Polish banks into the Western banking system. The twinning
partner provided direct technical assistance and transfer of know-how in a range of agreed-on areas,
through various resources such as resident experts, manuals, systems, demonstrations, training and site
visits. The Polish banks delegated key counterpart staff with commitment and willingness to learn and to
change and provided a range of local support resources.



- 5 -
19.    IFC and the Bank played important roles in carrying out this effort. IFC focused on identifying
and "match-making" for the pairs of banks to be twinned and the Bank on defining and organizing the
substance of the development work needed and the relationship between the twinning parties. With the
assistance of IFC, significant donor financing was secured to prepare diagnostic studies of each bank,
which served as the basis for preparing their institutional development plans. MoF took an active role, as
owner and facilitator, in transforming the institutional capabilities of the banks. However, the contract
negotiation process was long and difficult due to the relative inexperience of all interested parties. The
partners involved in the twinning arrangements were also concerned about protecting their legitimate
business interests, while maintaining flexibility in developing the agreed upon terms of reference and
ensuring the assignment of adequate staff on both sides.
20.    Between March and May 1992, seven of the nine State-owned commercial banks were twinned
with major Western European banks: Bank Gdanski with ING Bank (Netherlands), BPH Krakow with
ABN-AMRO (Netherlands), BDK Lublin with the Bank of Ireland, WBK Poznan with Allied Irish Bank
(Ireland), PBK Szczecin with Unibank (Denmark), PBK Warsaw with the Instituto Bancairo SanPaolo
(Italy) and Bank Zachodni Wroclaw with Midland Bank (United Kingdom). Of the two remaining banks,
PBG Lodz was unable to find a suitable partner and decided instead to use traditional consulting services
from a major international firm. Following initial contacts, BankSlaski decided not to proceed with the
twinning arrangement or with classical consulting assistance because of considerations of cost and
implementation effectiveness. Of the seven participating banks, four banks used FIDL funds and three
banks used their own funds in supporting the twinning arrangements.
21.    The twinning program was implemented over about 2.5 years and was a success in six out of
seven cases. Major factors contributing to this success included senior management's commitment to
change, the willingness of the domestic staff to leam, the competence and experience of the foreign staff,
the frankness of the communications between the parties, and the flexibility shown by the foreign twins in
adapting to the Polish environment. Only Bank Gdanski felt that its foreign twin, ING Bank, had a
conflict of interest as ING Bank had access to confidential and sensitive information on Bank Gdanski's
clients at a time when it decided to open its local office in Gdansk. Moreover, ING Bank become a
shareholder of a different bank (Bank Slaski).
22.    Each bank developed a sound strategic plan, strategic planning skills, and budget and
performance targets for branches and head office units. Modem credit, treasury and asset/liability
management processes were implemented. The banks also created marketing departments and
strengthened their audit departments. Other positive aspects included development of a new management
philosophy and methods, definition of a vision for the future of the banks, new insights into the roles and
responsibilities of management and professional development of staff. However, due to the lack of
specialist skills, design of information technology strategies in the banks progressed more slowly, which
hampered full development of management information systems and accounting. Other difficulties
identified by the domestic banks included lack of experience in how to conduct comprehensive
organizational change and difficulty in changing corporate culture, perhaps the most difficult aspect in
any institution.
23.    The twinning arrangements were also successful in establishing long-term commercial banking
relations between the domestic and foreign twins. Most banks have maintained correspondent accounts
and other business ties with their twins. In some cases, foreign banks continued to provide formal and



- 6 -
informal assistance to the Polish banks. Twinning also encouraged direct foreign investment and
facilitated the implementation of a privatization program. Two twinned banks were sold by end-19946.
Bank Automation
24.   The initial aim of the FIDL was to finance only the basic automation infrastructure that the banks
needed to improve their information management and consumer service. However, as work on the design
of the information technology strategies for the banks progressed, the banks decided, in light of rapid
developments in information technology, to bypass the basic automation phase and move directly to the
design and preparation of integrated MIS investment proposals.
25.   Five banks (Bank Gdanski, Bank Pomorski, Bank Zachodni, BPH Krakow and BDK Lublin)
applied for financing of their respective automation programs, based on the strategy and needs defined by
them together with extemal advisors and experts from their twinning partners. As the amount of
financing available under the FIDL was insufficient to cover the potential integrated automation needs of
all the banks, MoF decided to use the financing provided under the FIDL on a first-come-first-served
basis. As BPH Krakow and BDK Lublin were the most advanced in defining their needs and in carrying
out the procurement process, they were able to sign Subsidiary Loan Agreements with NBP (acting as an
agent for MoF) in 1995. MoF and the Bank agreed in principle that the automation programs of the other
three banks could be financed, if necessary, from proceeds of the IEDP Loan. To give BDK and BPH
sufficient time to complete the tendering for their automation projects, as well as enough time to install
their new systems, the closing date of the loan was extended for three years to June 30, 1998, and
subsequently for one final extension to December 31, 1998.
26.   In the case of BDK Lublin, the two-stage IT procurement process took much longer than initially
expected, owing in large part to the bank's inexperience in handling such a complex tender as well as the
bank's lack of familiarity with complex IT systems, which were themselves undergoing development as
new technology and software became available. As a result, the bank's intemal decision making process
turned out to be quite lengthy and the bank was not ready to sign a contract with the winning bidder until
mid- 1996. Unfortunately, by the time BDK was ready to go ahead with the installation of its integrated
automation system, it had been merged with the Pekao SA Group, and it was not allowed to signthe IT
contract because the new group managers wanted to develop a consistent IT strategy for the whole group.
The Bank agreed that BDK could use part of the sub-loan (about US$5 million out of the initially planned
US$15 million) to purchase IT equipment and ATMs which were still needed by BDK and which were in
any case consistent with the new strategy of the Pekao Bank group as a whole. Under this arrangement,
BDK went ahead with about US$2.4 million in purchases of computer software and hardware from the
integrated automation systems contract and carried out a new US$2.6 million tender for 100 ATMs.
27.   The three other banks (Bank Gdanski, Bank Pomorski, Bank Zachodni) also experienced
considerable delays in preparing their automation projects and in carrying out the two-stage procurement
process. Bank Gdanski reached the final contracting stage, but then canceled the bid, as its own needs
had evolved over time, and it felt that the automation package no longer fully met its changed
requirements. With the approval of the Bank, Bank Gdanski opted to rebid for the automation system.
However, the rebid was also ultimately canceled, as Bank Gdanski did not feel sufficiently comfortable in
working with the short-listed bidders (the same bidders who participated in the first round of the first
bid). Bank Pomorski also reached the final contracting stage after taking three to four years to complete
the two stage bid. However, as was the case with BDK, it was merged with the Pekao SA Group and was
6   AIB invested in its twin, WBK Poznan and ING invested in Bank Slaski Katowice.



- 7 -
forced to stop its automation procurement and wait for the rest of the group.  Bank Zachodni, which
initiated its procurement of an integrated automation system in 1993, also found the process to be very
difficult, particularly since it was also unable to decide on the type of system which best met its business
needs and requirements.  As a result, the bank went through a very long post qualification stage and
postponed a final decision as long as possible. In the end it was not possible to finance the proposed
contract out of the IEDP loan, as Bank Zachodni had Introduced a number of technological changes
during the post qualification phase in a manner which was inconsistent with the Bank's rules for
competitive bidding.
28.   BPH Krakow was the only bank which succeeded in fully implementing an integrated automation
project with financing from FIDL. The tender process was carried out efficiently and in good time
reflecting the strong commitment of the Bank's management to the program and the willingness todecide
relatively quickly on a system and supplier, even though the automation system details were not fully
worked out and its own needs continued to evolve. BPH felt that it was important to get started quickly
and to adapt and develop its system during installation, as it needs changed and new technology became
available. BPH's approach was successful. It now has a fully integrated system which is already
operating at the bank's headquarters and most of its branches and which will be fully operational by July
1999. BPH used US$ 26.6 million in FIDL funds to finance its comprehensive IT system.
29.   The automation procurement process provided both BDK and BPH staff with an opportunity to
gain a broad understanding of modem banking information management, architecture and the
performance of centralized IT systems. This has helped BDK and BPH to improve their service capacity.
Moreover, the skills acquired by BDK's staff are currently being used for the benefit of the Pekao SA
Group as a whole. BPH's management considers the assistance received from Bank staff and advisors on
its IT needs and systems, as having been as crucial to improving the effectiveness and profitability of the
bank as the assistance received from its twinning partner. This learning and development process was
equally important for the three other banks even though the tenders were ultimately canceled for the
reasons given above. Despite these successes, the difficulties and long delays encountered during the
procurement of integrated automation systems, raise a number of questions about how these kind of
investments should be prepared and financed and whether they are appropriate investments for
international competitive bidding (ICB) under Bank rules.
30.   First of all, implementing an integrated automation system in any bank is a complex and time
consuming process. It is even more difficult to introduce such systems into a banking system in
transition, where the banks involved are relatively new and only just beginning to develop and define
their own role, the type of bank they would like to be and the mix of services that they want to offer. It is
not surprising, therefore, that for at least four of the five banks which requested financing from the Bank,
that the tendering and decision making process was a difficult one and took much longer than initially
expected. Second, IT hardware and software are evolving very quickly, making it even harder for the
banks to decide quickly on the most appropriate kind of technology.
31.   Third, because of the evolving requirements of the banks and the changing state of technology, a
two-stage procurement process is essential. Under this approach the banks asksuppliers to provide initial
proposals indicating the kind of IT solution and design that they want to offer. Based on these proposals,
the bank refines its technical specifications and asks the suppliers selected for the second stage to submit
second stage bids with financial offers attached. However, based on the experience in Poland, even the
two stage approach is difficult for the banks to implement, since their needs and expectations continue to
evolve and they are reluctant to agree on a particular, more or less fixed, IT solution which is made by the
lowest evaluated bidder. Given these complexities, borrowers undertaking complex IT procurement, may



want to have more flexibility, than allowed under the rules of ICB, to choose the provider they feel most
comfortable with and one with whom they think they will have the flexibility to quickly change
technology and approach as their needs change and the technology evolves.
Technical Assistance
32.   Most of the US$2.0 million of FIDL funds, intended to support consulting services for further
development of the financial sector was not used, as other sources of (grant) funds became available at
the time to finance the elements of this assistance program. The remaining funds were reallocated to
increase financing of the bank automation programs and for consulting services related to the
restructuring of the Agriculture Bank (BGZ).
D.    Major F'actors Affecting the Project
33.   Factors GenerallU Subject to Gover,nment Control: Consecutive Polish Governments maintained
strong commitment to the FIDL reform program throughout its implementation period. Implementation
of the FIDL was also facilitated by several years of strong economic growth in Poland beginning in 1992,
which made bank rehabilitation less costly and improved bank privatization prospects. However, the
implementation of certain policy reforms (establishment of the DIF and adoption of a new banking law)
took more time than initially expected due to extensive and lengthy consensus-seeking negotiations.
34.   The VAT exemption for goods purchased with FIDL funds increased the interest of the Polish
banks in using these funds for their twinning and automation investments. However, the Government-
imposed bank consolidation of three state-owned commercial banks around the Pekao Group in 1996 had
a negative impact on the implementation of the agreed automation program for BDK Lublin.
35.   Factors Not Generall, Suibject to Goveriment Control: The increasing attractiveness of Poland
as an investment market, including in financial services, resulted in a significant number of equity
investments in Polish banks and green field investments and in significant acceleration of the process of
transformation of the Polish banking sector. Better lending performance and significant bond portfolio
revenues increased banking sector profits and the banks' self-financing capacity, decreasing the need for
external funding for their twining and automation needs.
E.    Project Sustainability
36.   The banking sector reform program supported by the FIDL and subsequently by the EFSAL was
one of the critical elements contributing to the success of the Government's overall structural reform
program and played a major role in helping lay the basis for restoring growth and reestablishing macro-
economic stability. The Polish economy has continued to grow and macroeconomic balances have been
maintained and strengthened. Banking supervision has been strengthened and banking regulations
reviewed and revised. The current Government is strongly committed to completing privatizationof the
financial sector, with the privatization of the two largest savings banks and the ex-state monopoly in the
insurance sector slated for 1999-2000.  Strong economic performance by Poland combined with
continued strengthening of bank management have contributed to substantial and sustained development
of the banking system, which is expected to continue to grow in the coming years, supported by
continued strong involvement of foreign banks which continue to increase their equity investments and
transfer of know-how to the Polish financial sector.



-9 -
F.    Bank Performance
37.   Overall Bank performance was satisfactory. The Bank mobilized a high quality team of experts to
prepare and negotiate the loan. The Bank also demonstrated flexibility in proposing bank twinning as
opposed to the prevailing traditional approach to delivering technical assistance.
38.    Early bank supervision missions helped to review and correct problems identified in the twinning
partnerships, and contributed to the overall success of the twinning process. Bank-selected experts
effectively assisted the MoF and the banks in preparing bank automation programs. Although Polish
bank counterparts perceived Bank procurement procedures as being too rigid, they acknowledged that
these procedures allowed them to better structure their IT investment requirements and negotiate with
suppliers.
39.    Starting from 1993, the project was supervised by headquarters staff assigned to the Poland
Resident Mission. This has permitted more frequent contact with Polish counterparts and a faster
response time on routine supervision matters.
G.    Borrower Performance
40.    The borrower's performance was also satisfactory. The Government was strongly committed to
the FIDL, and the project was actively managed by staff from the Banking Department in MoF. NBP
also played an effective role as an agent for MoF in dealing with the automation investment part of the
project. The approach to the reform was successful thanks to the Government's clear commitment to
move to a privately based market economy and to use its political capital to reach that objective. There
was a clear willingness to adopt the often painful measures required to introduce the much needed
financial discipline in banks through the effective use of MoF's ownership rights and promotion of
increased (domestic and international) competition. The management teams of the commercial banks
involved were also strongly committed to the success of both bank twinning and bank automation
programs.
H.    Assessment of Outcome
41.    The FIDL was approved by the Board of Executive Directors on June 6, 1991, and became
effective on January 14, 1992. The first tranche of US$25 million7 was disbursed on January 14, 1992.
The second tranche of US$45 million was released on January 25, 1995, upon compliance by the Polish
authorities with all release conditions, except one, for which a waiver8 was granted, and was fully
disbursed by September 1995. The original closing date of June 30, 1995 was extended three times: to
June 30, 1996; June 30, 1998; and finally to December 31, 1998 to allow for completion of the
institutional development component and particularly the bank automation programs. The loan was
completed and closed on December 31, 1998. US$188.2 million was disbursed out of the US$200
million loan, with the balance of US$11.8 million cancelled.
42.   Implementation of the quick disbursing policy-based and the institutional development
components of the FIDL was satisfactory. Poland succeeded in effectively implementing its economic
transformation program and in restoring domestic ,and external balances. Policy actions to improve and
7   Subsequently increased by US$50 million in July 1993.
8 Concerning the establishment of the Deposit Insurance Fund (Gwarancyjny Fundusz Bankowy).



- 10 -
modernize the legal framework for the financial sector, facilitate financial restructuring of the banks and
develop the capital markets were timely and much needed to readjust the Polish financial sector to the
changing economic environment in the early 1990s. However, implementation of some of these actions
took longer than originally anticipated9.
43.     The twinning program  contributed to the success of the Government's program  of
transformation, facilitated the privatization of the state-owned banks, and encouraged direct foreign
investment. The participating banks are convinced that the twinning had a positive impact on their
financial results, although the banks' good financial performance cannot be attributed entirely to these
twirning arrangements. Rapid recovery of the Polish economy beginning in 1993, the success of the
stabilization program, the privatization process, and the boom in the external sector of the economy
which returned many companies to profitability, were also important and created new opportunities for
the banks to exploit. The twinning experience helped to prepare the banks for this. Most of the State-
owned commercial banks have now been privatized, including two that were sold to twinning partners by
end-1994. The automation component helped two banks improve their service capacity. Over 95 percent
of the loan was disbursed, providing the Government and the banks with timely financial support.
I.    Future Operation
44.   The privatization of Poland's financial sector is entering a critical stage. The share of foreign
capital in the Polish banking system reached over 48 percent by end-1998 and may soon exceed 50-
percent, given the negotiations with two potential foreign investors concerning the takeover of a majority
stake in Pekao SA Group. The other large savings bank, PKO.BP, is slated for privatization in the year
2000. Most of Poland's largest banks have strategic investors, including major foreign banks. Given
these significant achievements, and subject to continuing favorable macroeconomic developments, there
should be no need for further World Bank involvement in such broad-based banking sector projects in
Poland. Further support, if requested by the Government, should be targeted to specific areas, such as
further improvement of the legal and regulatory framework and development of specialized finance.
J.    Key Lessons Learned
45.   The implementation of reforms in the banking sector was successful because of successive
Governments' ownership of the program and the commitment to move to a market-based economy. The
close cooperation of the Bank and the Government was instrumental in ensuring the quality of the design
and effective implementation of both the policy-based and institutional development components of the
project. The FIDL also demonstrates the value of close coordination and cooperation within the World
Bank Group, i.e. between IFC and the Bank, as well as the important role which the Bank Group can play
in working with other donors and the bank twinning partners.
46.   The twinning worked well in the case of Poland and proved to be an efficient mechanism for
transferring know-how effectively. The results from the twinning experience provide several valuable
lessons for similar programs. Although the start-up of such arrangements may be painful and disruptivc-
for management and staff, twinning can succeed if it is well prepared and well-managed by suitably
qualified people. However, such undertakings should be considered carefully, as similar approaches in
other countries have had varying degrees of success. Clear expectations reflected in sound work
schedules, based on a realistic pace and understanding of the absorptive capacity of the local partner, are
of key importance. The twinning work must be closely and candidly monitored, especially in the early
9   Establishment of the DIF and implementation of the DDSR Program.



- I1 -
stages, to correct problems and difficulties. Senior management of the local bank must be fully involved
and committed to the success of the program. The cost of twinning arrangements is high and may only be
justified for larger banks. Twinning is not necessarily a panacea for problems faced by all banks.
47.    The project demonstrates that institution building is a medium to long-term process requiring
significant change in minds and systems, and significant training. The Bank was over-ambitious in
estimating the time needed to implement the comprehensive policy and institutional development
reforms. Furthermore, proper implementation of bank twinning and automation project components
require significant supervision effort by the Bank, in terms of staff weeks and resources.
48.   In spite of considerable advice provided by IT specialists to facilitate bank automation
procurement, the Bank's procurement procedures were perceived as being complex, rigid and not fully
suitable for dealing with procurement of complex software-based information technology. Banking
automation investments seem to be more suited to the procurement practices followed by the private
sector, which permits such practices as strategic alliances between purchaser and supplier to allow fast
response and access to state of the art solutions before they are released. Bank procurement rules, on the
other hand, require the borrower to tender for a very specific package of equipment, software and
services, which, in the case of rapidly changing banking needs and rapidly changing technology, maybe
difficult for the borrower to fully determine in advance.
49.    Taking into account the difficulties encountered in procuring complex, integrated automation
systems for the banks, and the fact that, for a variety of reasons, only one integrated system was financed
and implemented in full, in hindsight, it may have been better to have stayed with the original project
proposal to finance the basic, initial automation needs of the banks and to leave the financing of fully
integrated systems for the future. Such systems could then have been financed directly by the banks
which would have had more flexibility to choose the supplier and approach which they felt best met their
needs at the time.



- 12 -
Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1:   Summary of Assessment
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation*
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project
Table 8:   Project Costs and Financing
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits*
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements*
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions
* - Not applicable



- 13 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial        Partial        Negligible       Not aplicable
Macro Policies                      E3               0l 00
Sector Policies                                      Q 00
Financial Objectives                 O                               i 0                  i
Institutional Development                            Q               j O
Physical Objectives                 E                0l              0E
Poverty Reduction                    n               oE
Gender Issues                       E               [                 El
Other Social Objectives              n               E                
Environmnental Objectives            n               ol o                               7
Public Sector Management                            EJ O                               E 
Private Sector Development                          l                 E Ol
l               El               El                O
B. Project Sustainability             Likely                   Unlikely                  Uncertain
El                        E



- 14 -
Highly
C. Bank Performance                  satisfactory             Satisfactory                Deficient
(/)                      (~/)                       ($)
Identification                      j]                                                  II
Preparation Assistance              Z                                                   LI
Appraisal                            an1                                                 g
Supervision                         LI                                                  iz
Highly
D. Borrower Performance              satisfactory             Satisfactory                Deficient
(V)                      (V)                       (V)
Preparation                         []
Implementation                       oI
Covenant Compliance                 D Izj                                               n
Operation (if applicable)           F                          1                        [a
Highly                                             Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome            satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory     unsatisfactory
(L)             (L)              (L) (I)



- 15 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan title            Purpose            Year of approval           Status
Preceding operations
1. Industrial Export  Line of credit to             1990           Completed
Development Project    improve the convertible
(IEDP)                currency trade balance,
improve project
financing capabilities of
the banks and support
private sector
development
2. Structural         To support Polish              1991          Completed
Adjustment Loan       Government efforts to
(SAL)                 stabilize the economy,
to implement structural
reforms to establish a
market economy, and to
restore Poland's
creditworthiness in
international markets
3. Privatization and  To support enterprise         1991           Ongoing
Restructuring Project    privatization program
(PRP)
Following operations
1. Enterprise and     Policy-based support          1993           Completed
Financial Sector      for the Government's
Adjustment Loan       Enterprise and Bank
(EFSAL)               Restructuring Program
(EBRP).
2. Debt and Debt      To support the debt            1994          Completed
Service Reduction Loan  reduction program, in
parallel with the FIDL



- 16-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                Date Planned           Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)             ---          March 1990
Preparation                                                         Feb. 1990-March 1991
Appraisal                                                           March 1991
Negotiations                                                        May 10-13, 1991
Statement of Financial Policy                                       May 16, 1991
Board Presentation                                     ---          June 11, 1991
Signing                                                ---          August 14, 1991
Ef fectiveness                                 August 1991          January 14, 1992
First Tranche Release                          September 1991       January 1992
Second Tranche Release                         December 1992        September 1995
Project Completion                             June 30, 1995        December31, 1998
Loan Closingc                                  June 30, 1995        December 31, 1998
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ nillions)
FY93   FY94    FY95    FY96   FY97           FY98      FY99
Appraisal estimate         135.0   180.0   200.0   200.0   200.0    200.0          200.0
Actual                     24.7    81.2    82.7       169.5   182.6    185.9       188.2
Actual as % of estimate     18%    45%      41%      85%      91%       93%        95%
Date of final disbursement   February 22, 1999



- 17-
Table 5: Key Policy-Based Indicators for Project Implementation I/
si Second Traniihe Release                          Actual Secondl Iraiche Release
____ _____                                        (I)eceniner 19921                                     ISepteniber 1995)
/ .Salah,izalo l'l Pogram.
I:xtecrna /lntcrnIo l Iimhaliiances              SatissiactorN perloriiiaitce as (igrced tinder      F hi,, condition %%as iet. laoilid hals made
[he Ecioino ic I ransflnllnaiOii Progi_,ram      Iremarkable progrCss towards restorinig domliestic
and e\mernal balances and hias succeeded in the
inpleinmen tation ol'thc package oi'stabilizationi
and structural rei'ormiis.
II I11111(lllUI/'a/It.clt'
o cnumlienlt (OCdii l'rograill                   SatislaciorN perl orinatiice Uinder a crced         I ItI s conL idiiIot X' as nlleit I  end - 1 994 the stock
1991 MIaid 1992 Ceilings tir (lo eni itte lIl     of) Lired Cl credit (especialIl\ houising ;1li
crcLlil proggrantis                               agriciiltural) (ILecCeICs1Cd to 1 3"Y. o total credit
'ronlt 2t)0oo I 19911
Flreigin I xhAIlange I)eposits is                P     Cit il nXCllbaitC buoils INssiC(I aitd LI    I'tis cotndlition \%as iiet 'I'lIe (ioveillileiti
transferreLl to hanitks   dIeqLuate 1 993         cttimpensateLd t he itiilc coitiinierciail banlks and
hudget al locat ion tor tinittl\ serI Icing.      tircc spccializ.ed baitiks lor the foreign exchanige
(io cri niienlt or Nli3' cttiiiitties isstl;aiice 01  losscs itcictrred     t Iteill tlhrougIl two boind issties
loreigit exchange honds iIs needeLd to            In Septeimber 1991 atild Septentber 1994.
manage foreigin exchltige risk                   iotalinig  !S$6. 4 billitont euLlivalent.
111.  Icga.  1 1i'1111Wut'1'.
1 1aitkinig L .a amN  i L'ideIttial Recgu I1at oti  Adopt conitprehenisi c. re% isel Ban kitig      I'this conditiot l was tict ill sLibstaitce. l3v the
Laim attd Act on the NBP                          tiiite ol'thIc secotid traithlie release. the legal anid
recti I 1ttt1  framncw\orks i'or the batiki ng
iislittitioits were substantiiallN imiproved tlhrotigi
a sCries oi lilendmeiLis. altihotigih tile new
R ianking t aw and Act oin the N131P. whIicii
Incorporated thcse aiilcnt iidmeits. were adopted
onl1v in 1997.
Re\ ise prrudlential reguilatioiis on capital     'I'lic horrow%er adopted and successfi Ily
adeqLlilOc\ liceinsinig reLuirllelmls: credit     iilplciieiited coitiprehienisive prudential
alid incsillcmlen  curtncentratiol: loaln         reguiIationitsi icluidin g all ihe oines agreed under
cktassiticatiol: pro' isionit ig anid ilitcrcsi   this cond ition.
accruall: aiCCOUntilgt iltl( atiLlitiLt
reqitirerilcnis atid standards.
'I)t /)'c'vc/upioti  to Nlll ',nRev th'Junlllg 0/ /Iiuik;
ioeiteritance and C orporate Structui r of       C. tomplpetc corporat/atioal  o t'all it tie      13Banks were corporatized in Septemher 1 991
Rlantks.                                         cotiriitercial baiks. Selcctioit ol'flt least      attd two ol'the m were privatized belore second
t%k o commercial haniks lor pri\ atizationi       tranchie release. Six banks are now private and
the remaininig three (part of'ihe Plekao SA
(iroupl should be privatized by end-1999.
Iitnitcial Strengiheinige o  Baniks.             C'ompilete smudy out niodalities for               'I'his condition was waived for second tranche
establishing a Deposit Insurance Fuund            release. Although the study on the DIF was
(D)IF). Establishmtent  f thc D)11 to lescls       completed and the law on deposit itisurance was
defined b\ studN. iroti hLudget. banking           adopted ili cnd-1994. the D)IF was established
iUstitutiolls or other soiurces                   only  in early 1995. due to delays in agreeing on
certain ot' its strategic and institutional features.
Sitice then the DIF has become a strong
institution with a successful track record and a
model for other countries in the region.
1/ A in iinplemeuntationi indicator-s in Presidentt :s Reporti



- 18-
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not applicable
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                                          Purpose as defined at appraisal    Status                Impact of study
or redefined
1. Studies on banks participating in the twinnig   To present and evaluate the achievements  Completed    Summarized the twinning
program tunded by FIDL.                        and impact ot'the twinning program on the                program achievements and
participating banks.                                     helped the banks to assess
their further institutional
development needs.
2. Studies on automation strategy and needs for   To define in detail the automation needs  Completed    Enabled the banks to
the banks which intended to participate in the    and automation improvement strategy tor               better negotiate their
automation program funded by FIDL.            the banks and to prepare them for                         automation needs with the
negotiation of'procurement contracts                    selected suppliers.
3. Study on the modalities for establishing a  To define and ev aluate in detail the      Completed    Lead to the establishment
Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF).                 strategic and operational teatures of the                of the DIF.
I  DIF.                                    I_I_                                      I
Table 8: Project Cost and Financing
Appraisal estimate                           Actual estimates
(US$ million)                               (US$ million)
Item                                             Local    Foreign          Total              Local    Foreign           Total
costs       costs                           costs        costs
IBRD                                          0.0           200.0       200.0              0.0           188.2        188.2
Other Extemal Sources                          0.0          0.0         0.0                0.0           0.0          0.0
Domestic Contributions 1/                      0.0          31.0        31.0               0.0           N.A.        N.A.
Total                                          0.0          231.0       231.0              0.0           188.2        188.2
Footnote 1: The commercial banks contributed to the cost of the twvinning and automation programs but details of the amounts involved are not
available.
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable



- 19 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant, Present   Original       Revised         Description of Covenant              Comments
Agreement   Section      Type      Status   Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date         Date
LA           3.01(b)   03          C        11/14/91     01/14/92    In order to enable the Participating  None
(for Fiscal   Banks properly to carry out their
Agency      respective activities under part C
Agreement)  of the Project, the Borrower shall
make available to each
Participating Bank the proceeds of
the Loan referred to in Part A. I of
Schedule 5 to this Agrcement.
LA           3.02(a)   09          CD       02/14/92      10/31/93    (a) The Borrower and the Bank     None
and (b)                                                 shall from time to time, exchange
views on the progress achieved in
carrying out the program and the
actions specified in the Schedule 6
to this Agreement.
(b) Prior to such exchange of
views, the Borrower shall fumish
to the Bank for its review and
comment a report on the progress
achieved in carrying out the
Program.
LA           3.03      05          C        11/14/91     01/14/92    The Borrower shall establish and    None
thereafter maintain with
membership, staff and other
resources and under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank:
(a) a steering committee to be
responsible for the provision of
policy guidance in the execution of
the Program and the Project, and
(b) an implementation unit within
the Borrower's Ministry of
Finance, to function as the
secretariat for the steering
committee and to be responsible
for the overall coordination of the
execution of the Program and the
Project.
LA           3.05      09         CD        06/30/92     3/10/94      The Borrower shall, as soon as    At Borrower's request,
possible, submit a debt reduction    US$30 million was
plan to the Bank for its review. If,  provided to support a debt
such plan meets the Bank's        service reduction package.
requirements for Bank support of
debt Teduction operations, the
Borrower and the Bank shallI seek
to conclude an implementation
Covenant t)pes:                                       Present Status:
01 = Accounts/audits; 03 = Flow and utilization of project  C = covenant complied with
funds; 05 = Management aspects of the project; 09 =  CD = complied with after delay
Monitoring, review and reporting                    CP = complied with partially



- 20 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Not applicable
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Actual
Stage of project cycle  Weeks     US$
Preparation to Appraisal    134.1  357.8
Appraisal                 34.8     100.3
Negotiations through Board   6.0    16.6
approval
Supervision              191.7     542.5
Completion                14.0      40.0
Total            380.6    1057.2



- 21 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating           es of
Stage of project cycle   Month/  No. of Days in  Specialization'    Implem.          Developm.  Problems3
Year   Persons  Field                         status      objectives
Through Appraisal          5/90      5       6        B, FE, F
9/90      6       12       B. FE, F, BA
12/90     6       12       B, FE, F. BA
Appraisal through Board    01/91     4        10      B, FE, F, BA
approval                   05/91     4        10      B, FE, F, BA
Supervision (a)            9-10/91   7       21       B, FE, F
12/91     4       10       B, FE, F, PR     HS           HS
3/92      4       27       B, FE, F, PR     HS           HS
10/92     5       20       B, FE. F, PR     HS           HS
6/93      1       1        0                HS           HS
3/94      1       1        0                S             HS
5/95      1       1        0                S            HS
3/96      1       1        0                S             HS
11/96     1       1        0                S            HS
6/97      1       1        0                S             HS
5/98      1       3        0                S             HS
2/99      1        1       0                S             HS
Completion                 4/99      1        14      FE                S            HS
Total
I - Key to Specialized staff skills:  2 - Key to Performancc Ratings:  3 - Key to Types of Problems:
B   Banking Sector                   HS  Highly satisfactory
BA Bank Automation Specialist        S    Satisfactory
FE Financial Economist               U    Unsatisfactory
F  Financial Sector Specialist       HU  Highly unsatisfactory
0  Operations Officer
PR Procurement Specialist
Footnote: Starting from 1993, the supervision was carried by the Poland Resident Mission stafl



- 22 -                       Appendix A
Page 1 of 6
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Undersecretary of State
Rafat Zag6rny
FlIMSJIX54099
Warsaw,l1 June 1999 r.
The World Bank
Washington
On account of closing of the Financial Institutions Development Loan (FIDL)
and the World Bank's preparation of the Implementation Completion Report, the
Ministry of Finance has prepared its evaluation of the FIDL programme which is
presented below. That evaluation has been prepared in accordance with questions
addressed by the Wurld Bank to the Ministry of Finance.
The Ministry of Finance highly appraises the FIDL project. Furthermore,
borrowers (banks participating in the FIDL project) also highly evaluate help of the
World Bank and find it very useful and professional. Amongst strengths of the
programme, borrowers particularly emphasised the favourable date of the
programme's coming into force. Start of the programme in 1991 had been preceded
by implementation of the Law on Restructuring of Companies and Banks which
enabled drawing from experiences of the FIOL programme implemented within the
framework of banks' restructuring of the commercial sector.
The role of the FIDL was vital for the operations of reduction Poland's
debts in relation to foreign commercial banks. One of parts of that project included
support for implementation of the aforementioned plan. Initially, in accordance with
the FIDL agreement, the amount of USD 100 million was appropriated for the
aforementioned objective. Finally, on account of prolongation of negotiations with the
London Club, within the FIDL framework, USO 30 million was appropriated for
implementation of the debt reduction programme and its servicing. The above
amount together with another funds was used for implementation of obligations
1



- 23 -                       Appendix A
Page 2 of 6
related to the operations of reduction Poland's debts at the end of November and the
beginning of December of 1994. Thanks to the agreement with the London Club, the
Polish State Treasury's foreign debt related to commercial creditors, members of the
London Club, fell from approx. USD 14 billion to approx. USD 8 billion. The total of
USD 400 million with the framework of the World Bank's loans was used for
supporting debt for the London Club. The assistance and involvement of the World
Bank providing essential and financial support for debt reduction transactions are
highly appraised by the Polish party. At the same time, it is worth emphasising that
proper agreements signed with the World Bank and pertaining to release of funds
within the framework of the World Bank's loans, including FIDL, for debt reduction
transactions were well prepared, quickly signed and efficiently implemented, all of
which was possible thanks to the high degree of involvement and professional
qualifications of the Bank's employees and the Polish party as well as flexibility of
work of both parties. The above action allowed to efficiently complete the Poland's
debt reduction transaction and its servicing in relation to foreign banks.
Use of the second tranche of the Quick Disbursement Money was
dependent on fulfilment of a number of conditions associated with the process of
restructuring of the Polish banking sector. That tranche was used in 1995, after the
World Bank's taking a decision on Poland's fulfilment of terms of release of the
second tranche of the FIDL. In years 1991-1995, Poland made enormous progress
in the process of structural and business transformation moving in the direction of
bringing back the equilibrium, achievement and maintenance of assumed
macroeconomic indicators, and it introduced a package of stabilising structural
reforms. At the same time, the restrictive financial policy was being implemented
which played a part in increasing effectiveness of mobilisation of resources and
allocation of loans which was achieved in consequence of e.g. liberalisation of
interest rates, limitation of subsidised loans, intermediate monetary control and
independence of credit-related decisions of banking institutions. Proper legal
regulations within the scope of insurance in the banking sector and development of
the capital market were introduced. Actions aimed at strengthening institutional and
operating potential of commercial banks as well as speeding up the process of
privatisation of banks were taken up. As early as in 1991, the problem pertaining to
compensation for losses incurred by State banks on account of change in the
exchange rate for PLN was resolved. Expedient legal regulations within the scope of
banking prudence were also introduced.
Despite the fact that the procedure for acceptance and introduction of the
banking law was not finished until January of 1995, it was recognised that proper
amendments to binding regulations and the National Bank of Poland Act provide a
sufficient legal basis for operations of banking institutions in Poland. There was a
number of reasons due to which new versions of the Banking Act and the National
Bank of Poland Act were adopted as late as in August of 1997. Reasons of objective
nature included very broad objective scope and the necessity to hold long-lasting
inter-departmental consultations and negotiations with the commercial banks'
environment represented by the Polish Banks' Union for the purpose of ensuring the
high quality of new regulations. In the course of preparatory work, year after year,
the need to provide for recommendations of the European Union's directives to as
broadest scope as possible has been becoming more and more apparent and self-
evident. A big difference in views of the Polish government represented by the
2



- 24 -                         Appendix A
Page 3 of 6
Minister of Finance and the National Bank of Poland on positioning of the banking
supervision lasting from 1993 until the middle of 1997 was also one of the reasons.
The Law on Bank Guarantee Fund was adopted in December of 1994. In the
same year, the European Union adopted a directive on that subject-matter. The
Fund started its factual operations in April of 1995. At that time, the World Bank
assessed that the aforementioned Law meets world standards.
In accordance with terms of release of the second tranche, as early as in
August of 1995, nine State banks were transformed into joint stock companies, while
two of them were privatised in January of 1995.
From the point of view of the technique and procedures associated with
release of funds, it has to be pointed out that in the course of release of that
component, the World Bank proposed the Polish party simplification of the
procedure for releasing credit funds which considerably increased efficiency of the
process of acquisition of funds for implementation of structural reforms. The first
tranche was implemented on the basis of import documents of Polish companies
specialising in international business transactions. Acquisition of proper documents
was a lengthy and complicated process. The second tranche was implemented in
accordance with the World Bank's proposal on the basis of data from SADs (Single
Administrative Documents) required by the Bank. This allowed the Polish party to
considerably speed up and increase efficiency of the fund withdrawal process.
Seven out of nine banks separated from the National Bank of Poland
participated in the twinning program, namely: Powszechny Bank Kredytowy S.A.,
Bank Gdanski S.A., Bank Zachodni S.A., Pomorski Bank Kredytowy S.A., Bank
Przemystowo-Handlowy S.A., Wielkopolski Bank Kredytowy S.A. and Bank
Depozytowo-Kredytowy S.A.
Two banks i.e. Powszechny Bank Gospodarczy S.A. and Bank 8la,ski S.A. did
not take part in the programme. Initially, Bank glflski S.A. established a contact with
Den Norske Bank ASA. However, because of delays in implementation of the
programme resulting from difficulties which the potential twin partner was beginning
to experience as well as due to signals coming from other commercial banks on their
problems with implementation of agreement, Bank 8leLski S.A. decided to conclude a
contract for provision of consultancy services with SBC. Yet, the high cost of
implementation of the contract led to the contract not being signed at all. On account
of approaching of the date of privatisation, it was decided that functions of the twin
partner involving implementation of modern banking procedures will be served by a
strategic partner. Powszechny Bank Gospodarczy S.A. did not participate in the
programme, because it did not find a suitable partner for the twin agreement.
Four banks out of those participating in the twin agreement programme, that
is, Bank Zachodni S.A., Pomorski Bank Kredytowy S.A., Wielkopolski Bank
Kredytowy S.A. and Bank Gdanski S.A. used the equity to finance that programme.
These banks recognised that costs of implementation of the agreement will not
constitute too big of a burden for the bank. One of the banks (Bank Gdanski S.A.)
also indicated a complicated procedure for application for the World Bank's loan as
an additional reason for the decision on financing the programme by the equity.
Majority of banks highly evaluated the effectiveness of their twin partners. In
particular, their high degree of involvement in work done, level of professional
knowledge and skills represented by consultants of twin partners were emphasised.
Only Powszechny Bank Kredytowy S.A. pointed to consultants' lack of experience in
3



- 25 -                    Appendix A
Page 4 of 6
implementation of this type of an undertaking. Furthermore, in the opinion of Bank
Gdanski S.A., the partner's effectiveness was not satisfactory at the first stage of the
project implementation process when the remuneration for consultancy services was
exclusively dependent on the time dedicated by consultants to work, regardless of its
results. In opinion of Bank Gdar6ski S.A., that effectiveness improved substantially
once the twin partnership agreement was replaced by a typical business framework
contract where the remuneration of consultants was more connected with results of
their work.
It is difficult to evaluate financial benefits derived from implementation of the
programme in comparison to its costs. This is consequential to the fact that these
benefits are of indirect nature as the most valuable benefits include banks'
acquisition of the broadly understood know-how. In that respect, the majority of
banks appraised the programme very positively or as a balanced one in comparison
to its costs.
Partners of six banks (out of seven participating in the twin agreement
programme) did not take part in their privatisation. Majority of foreign banks
explained lack of their interest in taking over shares in the Polish twinning partner by
problems experienced on account of their involvement in that time in the
consolidation process (Sanpaolo, Midland Bank), necessity to restructure own
investment portfolio (Bank of Ireland), lack of substantiated plans of entry into the
Polish market in economic conditions of the time (ABN AMRO, Unibank A/S) or
investment in shares of a different Polish commercial bank (ING Bank). Only Allied
Irish Bank invested in shares of its partner, Wielkopolski Bank Kredytowy S.A., and
at the moment it is its major shareholder with 60.8% shareholding.
Most banks maintain that the consolidation did not have a direct impact on the
twin agreement programme. Only Bank Depozytowo-Kredytowy S.A. emphasises
that the consolidation made the evaluation of benefits derived from the programme
more difficult. The consolidation had a decidedly negative influence on the
automation programme which after preparation of the integrated IT system and
purchase of the equipment for approx. USD 1 million was interrupted due to the
decision on consolidation within the scope of Grupa Pekao S.A.
Among others, the following solutions were prepared and implemented in the
majority of banks within the programme's framework:
* modern methods of strategic and marketing planning as well as new budgeting
solutions were introduced,
* a system for monitoring the risk of liquidity, interest rate and the foreign
exchange rate risk was implemented,
* procedures for management of the bank's financial risk were prepared,
* thanks to descriptions of functional solutions received from twin partners, new
procedures were prepared and implemented in Polish banks,
* organisational structures of banks were either improved or new ones were
prepared,
* strategic plans for banks were drawn up,
* new IT systems were prepared and implemented,
* knowledge and professional qualifications of banks' personnel, including the
management teams, were improved,
* principles of the human resources management (HRM) policy and the idea of the
training system were prepared.
4



- 26 -                     Appendix A
Page 5 of 6
As benefits of the programme, banks most often identified the following:
* co-operation with twin partners sped up the process of adjustment of banks and
management methods to those being effective in the free market economy and
West European banks; the programme also prepared banks for operations in the
competitive business environment,
* versatility of the programme,
* impact of the co-operation on changes in the general approach and the way of
thinking about banking,
* the fact that the programme was preceded by each bank's financial audit
conducted by international and world-class auditors on the basis of international
standards which allowed banks to standardise their approach to the book-
keeping as well as practically indicated fundamental differences between Polish
and international reporting standards,
* selection of banks with international reputation for the twin agreement
programme.
As weaknesses of the programme, banks most often identified the following:
* long preparatory period preceding signing of the twin partnership agreement (e.g.
letter of intent between boards of ABN AMRO and BPH S.A. had been signed on
21 May 1991, whereas the final agreement was signed on 14 February 1992),
- not participation of the majority of twin partners in the process of privatisation of
banks, while that was one of assumptions to implementation of the FIDL
programme,
- relatively high costs of advisory services.
In general, banks highly evaluate the twin partnership agreement. They
emphasise that the period of co-operation was used maximally for improving the
bank's redevelopment and adjustment of its operations to the free market economy.
Positive results achieved were the basis for next steps in the bank's transformation
process (e.g. privatisation).
In opinion of beneficiaries of the loan, the automation programme did not
fully meet expectations and hopes set on it.
Two banks (Pomorski Bank Kredytowy S.A. and Wielkopolski Bank Kredytowy
S.A.) from among banks taking part in the twin partnership agreement did not
participate in that project.
The following two banks (Bank Depozytowo-Kredytowy S.A. and Bank
Gdariski S.A.) had to stop implementation of the programme due to their
consolidation. In case of BDK S.A., implementation of the programme was stopped
at the time of considerable advancement of the project i.e. after final designing of the
integrated IT system, finishing all tendering procedures and purchase of the
equipment for the amount of approx. USD 1 million. The bank used its equity to pay
for costs of the project. In years 1996-1998, using the FIDL, BDK S.A. purchased the
computer equipment and automatic teller machines (ATMs).
Bank Zachodni S.A. gave up on using funds from the World Bank and decided
to use its equity to implement the programme which was the result of prolonged
tendering procedures which disable use of the loan before its closing.
5



- 27 -                      Appendix A
Page 6 of 6
Powszechny Bank Kredytowy S.A. implemented part of the programme
pertaining to automation involving preparation of the draft design of the system's
architecture which was used at the moment of selection of the IT system for the
bank.
Bank Przemyslowo-Handlowy S.A. used funds from the World Bank within the
framework of the automation project. The bank finalised an international tender for
selection of a computer system and its supplier. The bank continues the process of
implementation of the centralised IT system called PROFILE. At this moment, that
system has already been implemented in over 80% of the bank's network of
branches. It is assumed that the entire project. will be completed by the end of June
of 1999.
The biggest benefits from the automation programme were derived by bank at
its initial implementation phase involving assistance in designing of the most
appropriate IT system for the particular bank. The veryimplementation of the system
was impeded by consolidation processes, too lengthy tendering procedures as well
as a relatively low competitiveness of the FIDL.
In opinion of banks, the biggest benefit resulted from a decision of the
Minister of Finance on VAT exemption of purchases made using funds from the
World Bank.
Banks participating in the programme very highly evaluate training
programmes organised by the World Bank which covered the management team. In
particular, banks emphasise the proper selection of topics covered by training
programmes as well as a high essential level of professional knowledge of lecturers
involved. Banks assure that the knowledge acquired within the framework of training
programmes will be effectively used in operations of banks.
Banks participating in the programme positively evaluate the World Bank's
effectiveness, in particular, preparation of the FIDL project itself as well as day-to-
day co-operation with the World Bank. However, all banks point out that procedures
of the World Bank were laborious, too formalised and lengthy, especially
international tendering procedures which delayed effects and increased costs of
preparation, thus, decreasing the programme's economic attractiveness.
Both Ministry of Finance and borrowers evaluate program FIDL as a very
useful, especially for restructuring of the banking sector. Therefore, we would like to
thank the World Bank's employees for theirs involvement in this program.
Sincerely yours,
Rafat Zag rny
6



