Page  1
March 1, 1991
The President
National Bank of Poland
Swietokrzyska 11/21
00-950 Warsaw, Republic of Poland
          Re:  Japanese Grant Agreement
               (Financial Intermediaries Modernization Project)
               Amendment
Dear Sir:
1.   We refer to our discussions on the above Agreement and to the
Government of Japan's agreement to provide additional funds for the
purposes of the Project.  We hereby agree to amend said Agreement as
follows:
     (a)  The name of the Project is amended to read: "Financial
          Institutions Development Project."
     (b)  Section 1.03 of the Agreement is amended to read:
               "Section 1.03. The Consultants are expected to
          commence their services on December 3, 1990, and to
          provide a total of about 250 man-weeks of service
          between that time and December 30, 1991."
     (c)  Section 2.03 of the Agreement is amended to read:
               "Section 2.03. The amount of the Grant to be
          provided by Japan for the Technical Assistance pursuant
          to Section 2.02 shall not exceed the equivalent of two
          hundred and ten million yen (\1a210.0 million)."
     (d)  Schedule 1 to the Agreement is amended to read:
                      "SCHEDULE 1
          Description of Technical Assistance
               The Technical Assistance comprises the provision
          of expert services to assist in: (i) carrying out of
          comprehensive diagnostic studies of select commercial
          banks to identify and recommend necessary elements for
          the preparation of restructuring plans for these banks,
          including their recapitalization to suitable levels in
          accordance with international banking practices; (ii)
          developing comprehensive credit procedures, advising
          bank management in loan processing and preparing
          bankable workouts for problem borrowers; and (iii)
          preparing restructuring plans for selected banks."
2.   Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by signing
and dating the form of confirmation on the enclosed copy of this
letter and returning it to us.
                                   Very truly yours,
                                 INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                             RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                             as Administrator of the Grant
                                        /s/
CONFIRMED: by NATIONAL BANK OF POLAND as Representative of Republic
of Poland
Page  2
Date:  3/8/91
