                                                                 75850


           	  

	  

	  

	  




                                    POLAND
                  The Polish Banking Industry Twinning Program

                                           1994

                                            by

                                Marie-Renée Bakker
	  

	  

	  

	  

	  

	  

	  

	  



Private and Financial Sector Development Department
Europe and Central Asia Region
The World Bank
	  

	  

	  

	  

	  

	  

	  

	  

	  

	  

	  

	  

	  

The	  Polish	  Banking	  Industry	  Twinning	  Program	  by	  Marie-­?Renée	  Bakker	  was	  originally	  published	  as	  a	  
chapter	  in	  Eastern	  European	  Bank	  by	  James	  Essinger,	  pp.	  73-­?83,	  Chapman	  and	  Hall,	  1994.	  	  

Reproduced	  with	  permission	  of	  Cengage	  Learning	  (EMEA)	  Ltd.	  

©	  1994	  Cengage	  Learning	  (EMEA)	  Ltd	  

This	  paper	  can	  be	  used	  under	  the	  World	  Bank	  Terms	  and	  Conditions	  at	  
http://www.worldbank.org/terms	  

	                                              	  




                                                                           	                                                                   2	  
                                                                                  	  
             ACRONYMS


       FSU       Former Soviet Union
       IFC       International Finance Corporation
       NBP       National Bank of Poland
       MIS       Management Information System
       TA        Technical Assistance




	  




                  	                                 3	  
                         	  
                                              TABLE OF CONTENTS



A Brief History of the Polish Bank Twinning Program............................................................5

How Were the Pairs of Twinning Banks Matched?..................................................................6

Why Twinning?.........................................................................................................................6

What was to be Achieved under the Twinning Arrangements?................................................7

Results Achieved To Date…………………………….............................................................8

Which Factors Contribute to Success of Failure, And What Lessons Can Be Learned?.........11

           Commitment	  to	  Twinning…………………………………...........................................................	  11	  

           A	  Flexible	  Approach……….…………………………………............................................................13	  

           Shareholder	  Control……….…………………………………............................................................13	  

	  




                                                                      	                                                                  4	  
                                                                             	  
                          The	  Polish	  Banking	  Industry	  Twinning	  Program	  
As	  part	  of	  its	  financial	  sector	  reform	  program,	  the	  Polish	  government	  has	  embarked	  on	  a	  set	  of	  
innovative	  twinning	  arrangements	  between	  Polish	  state-­?owned	  banks	  and	  West	  European	  commercial	  
banks,	  comprising	  comprehensive,	  two-­?	  to	  three-­?year	  institutional	  development	  programs	  covering	  all	  
aspects	  of	  banking.	  This	  article	  explores	  how	  the	  pairs	  of	  Polish/West-­?European	  twinning	  banks	  were	  
matched,	  why	  the	  concept	  of	  twinning	  was	  chosen,	  rather	  than	  more	  traditional	  technical	  assistance	  
(TA)	  arrangements,	  what	  the	  twinning	  arrangements	  were	  to	  achieve,	  the	  initial	  results,	  and	  lessons	  to	  
be	  learned	  from	  the	  Polish	  experience	  for	  applying	  the	  concept	  of	  twinning	  to	  other	  Eastern	  European	  
and	  Former	  Soviet	  Union	  (FSU)	  countries.	  

A	  Brief	  History	  of	  the	  Polish	  Bank	  Twinning	  Program	  

In	  early	  1989,	  nine	  regionally	  organized	  banks	  were	  split	  off	  from	  the	  National	  Bank	  of	  Poland	  (NBP).	  
These	  nine	  banks	  inherited	  the	  physical	  branch	  networks,	  staff	  and	  the	  loan	  and	  deposit	  portfolios	  of	  the	  
former	  monobank.	  Under	  Polish	  banking	  legislation,	  they	  were	  all	  licensed	  as	  universal	  commercial	  
banks.	  During	  1990-­?91,	  the	  government	  undertook	  to	  corporatize	  the	  banks,	  and	  by	  October	  1991	  all	  
the	  new	  banks	  had	  been	  transformed	  into	  joint	  stock	  companies	  100%	  owned	  by	  the	  Ministry	  of	  
Finance.	  Turning	  the	  banks	  into	  joint	  stock	  companies	  allowed	  newly	  appointed	  supervisory	  boards	  to	  
exercise	  governance	  over	  the	  banks'	  managements,	  and	  created	  the	  possibility	  of	  eventually	  privatizing	  
the	  banks.	  The	  corporatization	  and	  other	  reforms	  initiated	  in	  that	  period	  (macroeconomic	  stabilization,	  
adoption	  of	  new	  banking	  legislation	  and	  liberalization	  of	  interest	  rates)	  set	  the	  stage	  for	  the	  
development	  of	  an	  efficient	  banking	  system.	  The	  new	  banks	  still	  suffered,	  however,	  from	  major	  
distortions	  inherited	  from	  past	  policies.	  Their	  major	  weaknesses	  included	  a	  lack	  of	  autonomy,	  small	  
branch	  networks	  and	  a	  limited	  product	  range	  inhibiting	  the	  development	  of	  competition,	  a	  lack	  of	  
banking	  skills	  needed	  in	  a	  market	  economy	  environment,	  and	  an	  inadequate	  financial	  structure.	  

To	  address	  these	  shortcomings,	  and	  as	  banking	  skills	  were	  scarce	  and	  the	  legal	  and	  regulatory	  
infrastructure	  was	  weak	  in	  Poland,	  the	  Ministry	  of	  Finance	  as	  the	  banks'	  new	  owner	  looked	  for	  options	  
to	  bring	  in	  foreign	  banking	  expertise.	  The	  Ministry	  early	  on	  announced	  its	  intention	  to	  eventually	  
privatize	  all	  nine	  banks,	  in	  an	  attempt	  to	  bring	  in	  new	  capital	  and	  banking	  expertise	  and	  to	  strengthen	  
governance.	  The	  World	  Bank,	  which	  at	  that	  time	  was	  designing	  a	  loan	  supporting	  the	  authorities'	  reform	  
efforts	  in	  the	  financial	  sector,	  suggested	  the	  pursuit	  of	  twinning	  arrangements	  between	  foreign	  banks	  
and	  the	  newly	  created	  Polish	  banks.	  Under	  such	  arrangements,	  foreign	  banks	  were	  to	  build	  up	  strong	  
institutional	  relationships	  with	  Polish	  banks,	  including	  equity	  participations,	  and	  were	  to	  undertake	  
comprehensive	  technical	  assistance	  and	  institutional	  development	  programs.	  The	  Bank	  argued	  that	  
twinning	  arrangements	  were	  the	  most	  suitable	  vehicle	  for	  developing	  the	  Polish	  banks'	  institutional	  
strength,	  not	  only	  because	  of	  the	  inherent	  advantages	  of	  such	  partnership	  arrangements	  over	  more	  
traditional	  TA	  arrangements,	  but	  also	  because	  of	  Poland's	  proximity	  to	  Western	  Europe	  (see	  below).	  

It	  soon	  became	  apparent,	  however,	  that	  at	  this	  early	  stage	  of	  Poland's	  development	  foreign	  banks	  could	  
not	  be	  convinced	  to	  take	  equity	  participation.	  The	  macroeconomic	  and	  political	  environment	  were	  
perceived	  to	  be	  too	  unstable,	  high	  inflation	  obscured	  the	  true	  financial	  condition	  of	  the	  banks,	  and	  

                                                                           	                                                                              5	  
                                                                                  	  
unfamiliarity	  with	  Polish	  accounting	  practices	  complicated	  due	  diligence	  efforts.	  Also,	  restrictions	  on	  
foreign	  majority	  ownership	  may	  have	  deterred	  some	  banks.	  To	  preserve	  the	  transfer	  of	  banking	  skills	  
and	  other	  institutional	  relationship	  benefits	  sought	  through	  foreign	  investment,	  the	  authorities	  
therefore	  decided	  to	  pursue	  twinning	  arrangements	  without	  the	  requirement	  for	  foreign	  banks	  to	  take	  
equity	  participation.	  

How	  Were	  The	  Pairs	  Of	  Twinning	  Banks	  Matched?	  

At	  the	  request	  of	  the	  Polish	  authorities	  the	  International	  Finance	  Corporation	  (IFC),	  the	  private	  sector	  
arm	  of	  the	  World	  Bank	  Group,	  undertook	  to	  assist	  in	  the	  'match-­?making'	  of	  the	  pairs	  of	  banks	  to	  be	  
twinned.	  To	  find	  the	  best	  matches,	  IFC	  visited	  each	  of	  the	  nine	  Polish	  banks,	  and	  a	  number	  of	  foreign	  
banks	  with	  whom	  it	  had	  developed	  good	  relationships	  in	  the	  course	  of	  its	  normal	  operations.	  IFC	  also	  
arranged	  meetings	  in	  Poland,	  where	  foreign	  and	  Polish	  banks	  were	  given	  an	  opportunity	  to	  familiarize	  
themselves	  with	  the	  terms	  and	  conditions	  of	  the	  prospective	  twinning	  arrangements,	  and	  to	  verify	  the	  
validity	  of	  the	  proposed	  matches.	  As	  the	  twinning	  arrangements	  were	  not	  eligible	  for	  IFC	  funding,	  the	  
Ministry	  of	  Finance	  agreed	  to	  finance	  the	  arrangements	  using	  World	  Bank	  resources1.	  

Why	  Twinning?	  

At	  the	  time	  the	  Polish	  twinning	  arrangements	  were	  designed,	  other	  Eastern	  European	  countries,	  with	  
the	  assistance	  of	  the	  World	  Bank,	  were	  pursuing	  institutional	  development	  efforts	  for	  their	  banking	  
systems	  using	  more	  traditional	  TA	  schemes.	  Until	  the	  Polish	  twinning	  arrangements	  came	  along,	  the	  
Bank	  had	  no	  experience	  with	  large-­?scale	  twinning	  of	  universal	  banks	  in	  commercially	  attractive	  markets	  
close	  to	  the	  foreign	  banks'	  home	  base.	  Positive	  results	  at	  that	  time,	  however,	  were	  already	  apparent	  
from	  using	  the	  concept	  of	  twinning	  for	  development	  finance	  institutions	  and	  mortgage	  banks,	  as	  well	  as	  
in	  other	  sectors	  such	  as	  energy,	  water	  supply,	  other	  municipal	  services,	  and	  education.	  Therefore,	  
bringing	  Western	  European	  banks	  into	  Poland	  through	  twinning	  arrangements	  was	  considered	  an	  
effective	  mechanism	  of	  institutional	  development	  and	  of	  increasing	  foreign	  interest	  in	  the	  Polish-­?	  
banking	  market.	  

The	  aim	  of	  twinning	  arrangements	  is	  to	  build	  strong	  institutional	  relationships	  between	  entities	  
performing	  similar	  activities.	  In	  such	  relationships,	  more	  experienced	  entities	  transfer	  skills	  to	  less	  
experienced	  counterparts.	  Transfer	  of	  skills	  is	  to	  be	  distinguished	  from	  development	  of	  skills.	  The	  
rationale	  for	  using	  twinning,	  rather	  than	  more	  traditional	  TA	  schemes,	  is	  to	  provide	  the	  counterpart	  with	  
established	  and	  successful	  ways	  of	  improving	  organizational	  efficiency	  and	  effectiveness	  through	  the	  
selection	  of	  a	  foreign	  twinning	  partner	  involved	  in	  similar	  activities.	  Furthermore,	  rather	  than	  merely	  
agreeing	  to	  provide	  a	  set	  of	  predefined	  services,	  under	  a	  twinning	  arrangement	  a	  foreign	  twinning	  
partner	  is	  expected	  to	  be	  interested	  in	  maintaining	  a	  strong	  institutional	  relationship	  with	  the	  
counterpart	  beyond	  the	  duration	  of	  the	  twinning	  arrangement.	  A	  single	  twinning	  partner	  normally	  


	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	   	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  
1
 	  The	  Financial	  Institutions	  Development	  Loan,	  Report	  Number	  P-­?5535-­?POL.	  See	  also	  http://www-­?
wds.worldbank.org/external/default/WDSContentServer/WDSP/IB/1991/05/16/000009265_3961001015241/Ren
dered/PDF/multi_page.pdf	  

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    	            6	  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           	  
arranges	  for	  all	  activities	  to	  be	  undertaken	  under	  a	  twinning	  arrangement,	  although	  subcontracting	  
arrangements	  for	  parts	  of	  the	  work	  are	  also	  possible.	  

Twinning	  differs	  in	  some	  important	  aspects	  from	  more	  traditional	  TA:	  

	  •	    The	  scope	  of	  the	  services	  performed	  by	  a	  foreign	  twinning	  partner	  under	  a	  twinning	  
arrangement	  is	  much	  broader	  than	  under	  more	  narrowly	  defined	  TA	  schemes	  and	  the	  duration	  is	  much	  
longer	  (two	  to	  three	  years,	  as	  opposed	  to	  a	  few	  months)	  

•	     A	  foreign	  twinning	  partner	  may	  at	  an	  earlier	  stage	  of	  development	  have	  experienced	  certain	  
operational	  problems,	  specific	  to	  its	  activity,	  that	  are	  now	  facing	  the	  counterpart.	  It	  can	  use	  that	  
experience	  in	  dealing	  with	  such	  problems	  in	  approaching	  the	  counterpart's	  problems.	  

•	         A	  foreign	  twinning	  partner	  can	  tap	  into	  a	  reservoir	  of	  ready-­?made	  systems,	  products,	  and	  
procedures,	  and	  can	  use	  operational	  experience	  and	  in-­?house	  resources	  not	  available	  to	  more	  
traditional	  TA	  providers	  (e.g.	  international	  accounting	  firms;	  while	  such	  firms	  may	  have	  staff	  with	  
banking	  expertise,	  the	  experience	  they	  can	  draw	  on	  is	  limited	  as	  banking	  is	  not	  their	  main	  operational	  
focus).	  

•	        A	  foreign	  twinning	  partner	  is	  expected	  to	  be	  able	  to	  more	  flexibly	  adjust	  its	  staffing	  to	  the	  
absorptive	  capacity	  of	  the	  counterpart.	  Traditional	  TA	  suppliers	  may	  have	  more	  difficulty	  doing	  so,	  due	  
to	  widespread	  use	  of	  subcontracting.	  Also,	  staff	  from	  a	  twinning	  partner	  are	  usually	  available	  for	  back-­?
stopping	  and	  follow-­?up	  on	  implementation	  of	  recommendations,	  thereby	  ensuring	  that	  the	  assistance	  is	  
more	  productive.	  

•	        Through	  a	  twinning	  arrangement,	  a	  counterpart	  can	  access	  commercial	  services	  offered	  by	  the	  
foreign	  twinning	  partner	  more	  easily	  than	  it	  otherwise	  could	  (i.e.	  establishing	  correspondent	  banking	  
relationships,	  obtaining	  co-­?financing	  or	  guarantees	  for	  attractive,	  but	  large	  lending	  operations	  exceeding	  
the	  capital-­?capacity	  of	  the	  counterpart	  bank,	  etc.).	  

What	  Was	  To	  Be	  Achieved	  Under	  The	  Twinning	  Arrangements?	  

Under	  the	  Polish	  twinning	  arrangements,	  the	  foreign	  banks	  were	  asked	  to	  implement	  extensive	  
institutional	  development	  programs	  in	  their	  counterpart	  banks,	  in	  order	  to	  facilitate	  their	  transition,	  
within	  a	  three	  to	  five-­?	  year	  time-­?frame,	  to	  autonomous,	  competitive	  commercial	  banks	  capable	  of	  
functioning	  in	  a	  market	  environment.	  The	  arrangements	  envisaged	  work	  to	  be	  undertaken	  by	  the	  
foreign	  banks	  in	  separate	  modules	  to	  be	  implemented	  successively	  or,	  in	  some	  cases,	  in	  parallel,	  
depending	  on	  their	  urgency	  and	  the	  extent	  of	  any	  interdependencies:	  

•	    Development	  of	  a	  strategic	  planning	  capability	  and	  preparation	  of	  an	  initial	  strategic	  plan	  and	  
supporting	  business	  plans.	  

•	     A	  review	  and	  revision	  of	  the	  existing	  organizational	  set-­?up	  and	  the	  introduction	  of	  budgeting	  
systems,	  to	  build	  a	  structure	  and	  internal	  financial	  and	  managerial	  tools	  conducive	  to	  realizing	  the	  
objectives	  identified	  in	  the	  strategic	  plan.	  

                                                                           	                                                                                7	  
                                                                                  	  
•	        Strengthening	  the	  banks'	  credit	  function	  by	  developing	  prudent	  credit	  policies	  and	  procedures,	  
and	  building	  an	  asset-­?	  and	  liability-­?management	  capability.	  

•	    Assisting	  the	  automation	  of	  the	  banks'	  operations	  and	  building	  management	  information	  
systems.	  

•	       Building	  marketing	  and	  human	  resource	  development	  capabilities,	  strengthening	  and	  
modernizing	  the	  banks'	  internal	  audit	  function,	  and	  developing	  large-­?scale	  staff	  and	  management	  
training	  programs.	  

For	  the	  foreign	  banks	  to	  be	  able	  to	  formulate	  detailed	  technical	  proposals	  for	  the	  provision	  of	  these	  
services,	  they	  received	  copies	  of	  diagnostic	  studies	  undertaken	  by	  international	  accounting	  firms	  at	  the	  
request	  of	  the	  Polish	  Ministry	  of	  Finance.	  These	  studies	  analyzed	  the	  banks'	  recent	  financial	  
performance	  and	  identified	  their	  major	  institutional	  weaknesses.	  They	  also	  included	  a	  credit	  exposure	  
analysis,	  an	  internal	  control	  review,	  a	  financial	  assessment	  and	  a	  business	  and	  organizational	  review.	  

Results	  Achieved	  To	  Date	  

The	  foreign	  banks	  developed	  their	  technical	  proposals	  in	  the	  latter	  half	  of	  1991.	  While	  it	  was	  expected	  
that	  the	  Polish	  banks	  would	  review	  these	  technical	  proposals	  and	  negotiate	  the	  resulting	  contracts	  on	  
their	  own,	  the	  World	  Bank	  guided	  the	  process	  to	  ensure	  that	  the	  final	  proposals	  were	  sufficiently	  
responsive	  and	  that	  the	  final	  contracts	  were	  fair	  to	  both	  parties.	  Seven	  twinning	  arrangements	  were	  
reviewed	  and	  negotiated	  during	  December	  1991	  and	  the	  first	  quarter	  of	  1992.	  The	  final	  contracts	  were	  
signed	  in	  March—May	  1992.	  

Teams	  from	  the	  foreign	  banks	  started	  to	  work	  in	  the	  Polish	  banks	  in	  mid-­?	  1992.	  The	  arrangements	  have	  
been	  running	  as	  of	  the	  time	  of	  writing	  for	  just	  over	  a	  year.	  Thus,	  it	  is	  still	  too	  early	  for	  an	  in-­?depth	  
assessment	  of	  the	  results	  achieved.	  However,	  regular	  consultations	  between	  the	  Polish	  banks	  and	  the	  
World	  Bank	  provide	  strong	  evidence	  of	  early	  favorable	  results.	  

Most	  counterpart	  banks	  have	  succeeded	  in	  developing	  sound	  strategies	  and	  business	  plans,	  combining	  
consolidation	  of	  their	  traditional	  operations	  with	  focused	  expansion	  in	  a	  limited	  number	  of	  high-­?profit	  
areas	  (e.g.	  trade	  finance,	  leasing,	  advisory	  services).	  However,	  as	  counterpart	  management	  was	  
unfamiliar	  with	  the	  concepts	  routinely	  used	  in	  strategic	  planning,	  some	  delays	  occurred	  as	  the	  foreign	  
banks	  first	  had	  to	  undertake	  substantial	  management	  training.	  For	  some	  counterpart	  banks	  that	  had	  
already	  embarked	  on	  a	  rapid	  expansion	  of	  their	  branch	  networks,	  the	  strategic	  planning	  exercise	  served	  
the	  purpose	  of	  showing	  the	  risks	  and	  downsides	  of	  such	  an	  approach.	  

Developing	  and	  implementing	  new	  organizational	  structures	  has	  been	  slower	  than	  anticipated,	  as	  
documenting	  existing	  structures	  has	  been	  hindered	  by	  language	  and	  communication	  problems.	  There	  
has	  also	  been	  some	  initial	  reluctance	  to	  change.	  Nevertheless,	  the	  first	  results	  are	  encouraging,	  
demonstrating	  a	  strong	  learning	  effect	  on	  the	  part	  of	  bank	  managers.	  A	  few	  banks	  have	  completely	  
overhauled	  their	  organizational	  structure,	  reigning	  in	  the	  power	  of	  the	  branches.	  Others	  have	  enhanced	  
control	  over	  their	  branch	  networks	  by	  lowering	  credit	  competencies	  for	  individual	  branch	  managers,	  or	  


                                                                                    	                                                                                      8	  
                                                                                           	  
by	  creating	  regional	  'lead	  branches'.	  Slow	  progress	  towards	  the	  automation	  of	  the	  banks'	  operations	  has	  
complicated	  the	  detailing	  of	  organizational	  structures.	  

Most	  banks	  have	  developed	  a	  budget	  format	  and	  are	  preparing	  for	  use	  of	  these	  formats	  in	  future	  
budgets.	  Some	  banks	  have	  requested	  that	  loss-­?making	  branches	  should	  develop	  business	  plans	  to	  
improve	  their	  financial	  situation.	  Others	  are	  developing	  systems	  linking	  managers'	  performance	  against	  
budget	  to	  their	  remuneration.	  Problems	  have	  been	  posed	  by	  the	  unfamiliarity	  of	  counterpart	  
management	  with	  the	  concept	  of	  transfer	  pricing,	  and	  by	  the	  need	  to	  distribute	  banks'	  overall	  credit	  
ceilings	  among	  branches	  in	  the	  absence	  of	  branch	  profitability	  analysis.	  

Impressive	  progress	  has	  been	  made	  by	  the	  counterpart	  banks	  in	  strengthening	  their	  regular	  credit	  
function.	  Credit	  policies	  have	  to	  a	  large	  extent	  been	  redefined,	  and	  new,	  lower	  competencies	  for	  the	  
branches	  have	  been	  set	  by	  most	  banks.	  Loan	  classification	  systems	  have	  been	  introduced	  ahead	  of	  the	  
issuance	  of	  prudential	  rules	  by	  NBP.	  Due	  to	  repeated	  portfolio	  reviews	  by	  external	  auditors,	  the	  banks'	  
managers	  have	  become	  increasingly	  familiar	  with	  the	  techniques	  underlying	  proper	  loan	  classification.	  
Manual	  monitoring	  of	  the	  portfolio	  on	  a	  monthly	  basis	  is	  now	  in	  place	  in	  all	  banks.	  Existing	  credit	  
procedures	  also	  have	  been	  improved	  in	  most	  banks.	  A	  number	  of	  banks	  have	  introduced	  standardized	  
credit	  application	  formats.	  In	  some	  banks,	  new	  credit	  manuals	  have	  been	  completed	  and	  draft	  manuals	  
for	  dealing	  with	  problem	  loans	  have	  been	  prepared.	  Most	  banks	  are	  running	  large	  training	  programs	  in	  
credit	  analysis.	  Little	  training	  has	  been	  undertaken,	  however,	  in	  recovery	  strategies	  and	  corporate	  
finance	  packaging.	  Not	  all	  foreign	  twinning	  banks	  have	  been	  allowed	  immediate	  and	  full	  access	  to	  data	  
relevant	  for	  building	  new	  policies	  and	  procedures.	  Problems	  have	  also	  been	  posed	  by	  confusion	  over	  
decision-­?making	  responsibilities	  of	  different	  organizational	  levels	  of	  the	  counterpart,	  including	  
supervisory	  boards,	  with	  regard	  to	  large	  lending	  operations	  and	  troubled	  asset	  restructuring.	  

The	  counterpart	  banks'	  managers,	  while	  unfamiliar	  with	  certain	  types	  of	  risks	  and	  risk	  management	  
techniques,	  have	  quickly	  perceived	  the	  importance	  of	  asset	  and	  liability	  management.	  Counterpart	  staff	  
are	  perceiving	  work	  in	  the	  treasury	  area,	  which	  is	  new	  and	  non-­?contentious,	  as	  potentially	  rewarding.	  
Some	  banks	  have	  completed	  the	  organizational	  structure	  of	  the	  treasury	  function,	  including	  the	  creation	  
of	  asset	  and	  liability	  management	  committees.	  These	  banks	  have	  generated	  substantial	  profits	  through	  
short-­?term	  interbank	  placements	  of	  excess	  liquidity	  previously	  kept	  in	  unremunerated	  balances	  with	  
NBP.	  Constraints	  are	  posed	  by	  the	  poor	  quality	  of	  management	  information,	  and	  the	  quality	  and	  number	  
of	  staff	  with	  risk	  management	  capabilities.	  

Progress	  in	  automation	  and	  management	  information	  systems	  (MIS)	  is	  mixed.	  Some	  counterpart	  banks	  
have	  contracted	  with	  suppliers	  for	  a	  comprehensive,	  sometimes	  very	  expensive	  capability.	  Others	  have	  
upgraded,	  with	  limited	  investment,	  their	  core	  processing	  capabilities,	  and	  are	  planning	  to	  use	  their	  
strategic	  plan	  as	  the	  basis	  for	  purchasing	  a	  comprehensive	  MIS	  capability.	  Still	  others	  have	  chosen	  to	  
first	  detail	  their	  strategic	  information	  needs	  and	  organizational	  structure.	  The	  main	  bottleneck	  to	  
quicker	  progress	  has	  been	  the	  need	  for	  the	  banks	  to	  first	  complete	  the	  modernization	  of	  their	  internal	  
accounting	  systems.	  Progress	  in	  this	  area	  accelerated	  noticeably	  when	  NBP	  expanded	  and	  clarified	  its	  
plan	  of	  accounts	  for	  supervisory	  reporting	  purposes.	  



                                                                          	                                                                             9	  
                                                                                 	  
Progress	  has	  also	  been	  made	  in	  the	  area	  of	  human	  resource	  development.	  Some	  banks	  have	  created	  a	  
data	  base	  concerning	  staff	  skills,	  and	  have	  introduced	  performance	  measurement	  and	  bonus	  systems.	  
While	  sizeable	  training	  programs	  are	  in	  place,	  however,	  most	  banks	  do	  not	  yet	  use	  adequate	  training	  
methodologies	  (e.g.	  case	  studies	  and	  `train-­?the-­?trainer'	  approach)	  and	  structured	  training	  needs	  
analyses	  to	  target	  efforts.	  Few	  banks	  have	  addressed	  their	  overstaffing	  problem,	  which	  will	  become	  
increasingly	  apparent	  once	  their	  operations	  are	  fully	  automated.	  Lay-­?offs	  are	  hindered	  by	  low	  labor	  
mobility	  as	  a	  result	  of	  a	  severe	  shortage	  of	  affordable	  housing.	  This	  factor	  also	  may	  have	  driven	  some	  
banks	  to	  open	  new	  branches	  and	  hire	  new	  employees,	  rather	  than	  to	  reallocate	  staff	  of	  existing	  
branches.	  

Few	  counterpart	  banks	  have	  started	  to	  develop	  marketing	  strategies	  and	  tools.	  Some	  banks	  expect	  to	  
obtain	  an	  increased	  share	  of	  target	  markets	  as	  a	  result	  of	  rapid	  growth	  of	  demand	  for	  banking	  services	  
ensuing	  from	  privatization	  and	  private	  sector	  development.	  Others	  have	  undertaken	  market	  research,	  
often	  in	  support	  of	  strategic	  planning,	  and	  occasionally	  using	  newly	  emerging	  external	  market	  survey	  
bureaus.	  Given	  other	  urgent	  priorities,	  particularly	  in	  the	  credit	  area,	  there	  is	  a	  risk	  that	  counterpart	  
management	  will	  pay	  insufficient	  attention	  to	  developing	  a	  more	  proactive	  marketing	  stance.	  

Progress	  in	  internal	  audit	  has	  been	  limited.	  While	  most	  counterpart	  banks	  have	  hired	  additional	  audit	  
staff,	  they	  are	  just	  starting	  head	  office	  function	  audits.	  For	  historical	  reasons,	  internal	  auditing	  is	  still	  
perceived	  by	  counterpart	  staff	  as	  an	  uninteresting	  profession,	  and	  the	  banks	  have	  difficulty	  attracting	  
staff	  with	  modern	  audit	  skills.	  

There	  are	  indications	  that	  the	  twinning	  arrangements,	  while	  only	  one	  factor	  among	  many	  influencing	  
their	  financial	  position,	  are	  generating	  positive	  financial	  results	  for	  the	  Polish	  banks.	  One	  area	  where	  
gains	  are	  apparent	  is	  in	  asset	  and	  liability	  management.	  More	  generally,	  portfolio	  reviews	  and	  audits,	  
commissioned	  by	  the	  Ministry	  of	  Finance	  point	  to	  more	  autonomous,	  market-­?oriented	  lending	  practices,	  
contributing	  to	  a	  reduction	  in	  future	  losses.	  Increasingly,	  banks	  are	  asking	  their	  customers	  to	  provide	  
them	  with	  enforceable	  security	  for	  their	  loans,	  where	  previously	  unsecured	  lending	  was	  the	  norm.	  In	  a	  
significant	  number	  of	  cases,	  banks	  have	  actively	  initiated	  foreclosure	  on	  enterprise	  assets	  or	  have	  
petitioned	  for	  formal	  bankruptcy	  or	  liquidation	  of	  enterprises.	  Action	  of	  this	  nature	  has	  become	  
significantly	  more	  pronounced	  with	  the	  creation,	  at	  the	  instigation	  of	  the	  Ministry	  of	  Finance,	  of	  bad	  
loan	  departments	  in	  the	  banks,	  charged	  with	  the	  task	  of	  resolving	  problem	  loans.	  The	  banks	  also	  have	  
managed	  to	  keep	  loans	  to	  loss-­?making	  state-­?owned	  enterprises	  more	  or	  less	  stable	  in	  real	  terms.	  While	  
the	  Ministry	  of	  Finance	  instructed	  the	  banks	  early	  in	  1991	  no	  longer	  to	  extend	  new	  loans	  to	  borrowers	  
classified	  by	  external	  auditors	  as	  doubtful	  or	  loss,	  the	  banks	  themselves	  also	  have	  shown	  an	  increasing	  
awareness	  of	  the	  risks	  they	  face	  in	  lending	  to	  non-­?restructured	  enterprises	  which	  continue	  to	  be	  state-­?
owned.	  With	  the	  economy	  in	  recession,	  there	  have	  been	  few	  attractive	  alternative	  lending	  
opportunities.	  In	  this	  environment,	  the	  banks	  have	  resorted	  to	  less	  risky	  uses	  of	  funds	  such	  as	  short-­?
term	  interbank	  lending	  and	  investment	  in	  government	  securities.	  

The	  efforts	  by	  the	  banks'	  management	  to	  become	  independent,	  commercially	  operated	  banks	  can	  also	  
be	  seen	  in	  the	  diversification	  that	  has	  taken	  place	  in	  their	  funding	  base.	  In	  the	  period	  1989-­?92	  the	  banks	  
significantly	  reduced	  their	  dependence	  on	  NBP	  refinancing	  as	  a	  source	  of	  funds,	  and	  successfully	  

                                                                                	                                                                                10	  
                                                                                       	  
attracted	  a	  large	  share	  of	  household	  and	  private	  enterprise	  deposits.	  Increasingly,	  banks	  are	  using	  
interest	  rates	  as	  a	  tool	  to	  compete	  with	  traditional	  monopolies	  in	  the	  deposit	  taking	  area,	  such	  as	  the	  
Polish	  savings	  bank,	  PKO	  BP.	  

The	  Polish	  banks	  also	  have	  significantly	  widened	  the	  range	  and	  quality	  of	  the	  services	  they	  offer	  (e.g.	  
foreign	  operations,	  credit	  cards,	  Euro	  cheques).	  Most	  notably,	  banks'	  headquarters	  and	  key	  branches	  
have	  been	  physically	  upgraded.	  The	  attitude	  of	  management	  has	  changed,	  with	  managers	  
demonstrating	  a	  noticeably	  stronger	  commitment	  to	  preserving	  their	  banks'	  assets	  and	  financial	  
integrity.	  

Generally,	  co-­?operative	  relationships	  have	  evolved	  between	  the	  foreign	  twinning	  banks	  and	  the	  
counterpart	  banks.	  There	  have	  been	  numerous	  visits	  of	  teams	  of	  counterpart	  management	  to	  the	  
headquarters	  of	  the	  foreign	  banks.	  Some	  foreign	  banks	  have	  provided	  assistance	  to	  their	  counterparts	  in	  
developing	  work-­?out	  plans	  for	  individual	  bad	  loans,	  going	  beyond	  the	  original	  scope	  of	  work	  envisaged	  
under	  the	  twinning	  arrangements.	  Not	  all	  twinning	  arrangements,	  however,	  have	  been	  equally	  
successful.	  As	  is	  apparent	  from	  the	  earlier	  description	  of	  progress	  in	  individual	  modules	  of	  work,	  there	  
are	  differences	  in	  the	  speed	  with	  which	  the	  Polish	  banks	  are	  acting	  on	  the	  foreign	  banks'	  advice,	  driven	  
primarily	  by	  variations	  in	  the	  philosophy	  and	  sophistication	  of	  counterpart	  management.	  Also,	  there	  are	  
differences	  in	  the	  extent	  of	  flexibility	  the	  foreign	  banks	  have	  demonstrated	  in	  the	  staffing	  and	  timing	  of	  
the	  provision	  of	  services.	  These	  and	  other	  factors	  are	  likely	  to	  be	  important	  determinants	  of	  success	  or	  
failure.	  

Which	  Factors	  Contribute	  to	  Success	  of	  Failure,	  And	  What	  Lessons	  Can	  Be	  Learned?	  

Commitment	  to	  Twinning	  

Counterpart	  management	  must	  be	  committed	  to	  the	  twinning	  arrangement.	  If	  management	  is	  resistant	  
to	  change,	  or	  unwilling	  to	  acknowledge	  its	  inexperience	  and	  to	  accept	  the	  foreign	  bank's	  
recommendations,	  the	  chances	  of	  a	  successful	  co-­?operation	  emerging	  are	  slim.	  

One	  way	  to	  tackle	  management	  resistance	  would	  be	  to	  allow	  foreign	  banks	  to	  act	  in	  a	  line	  (i.e.	  decision-­?
making)	  capacity,	  rather	  than	  in	  a	  purely	  advisory	  capacity.	  There	  is	  a	  risk,	  however,	  that	  allowing	  
foreign	  banks	  to	  assume	  line	  responsibility	  will	  backfire,	  if	  it	  is	  perceived	  by	  the	  authorities	  as	  selling	  out	  
to	  foreign	  interests.	  Also,	  shifting	  decision-­?making	  authority	  to	  foreign	  bank	  managers	  may	  weaken	  the	  
counterpart	  management's	  sense	  of	  responsibility	  and	  may	  undermine	  the	  spirit	  of	  a	  twinning	  
arrangement.	  A	  less	  drastic	  alternative	  would	  be	  to	  allow	  an	  independent	  third	  party	  to	  perform	  quality	  
control	  on	  the	  services	  provided	  by	  the	  foreign	  bank	  and	  on	  the	  co-­?operation	  by	  counterpart	  
management,	  and	  to	  arbitrate	  in	  case	  of	  disputes.	  The	  quality	  of	  twinning	  services	  is	  hard	  to	  measure,	  
and	  counterpart	  management,	  due	  to	  its	  inexperience,	  cannot	  be	  relied	  upon	  to	  make	  sound	  judgments.	  
Using	  independent	  outsiders	  may	  help	  overcome	  counterpart	  management	  resistance.	  It	  may	  also	  be	  
advisable,	  rather	  than	  defining	  terms	  of	  reference	  up-­?front,	  to	  split	  a	  twinning	  arrangement	  into	  two	  
separate	  phases,	  a	  diagnostic	  phase	  and	  an	  implementation	  phase.	  During	  the	  diagnostic	  phase,	  the	  
foreign	  bank	  and	  the	  counterpart	  bank	  can	  then	  work	  together	  to	  define	  in	  more	  detail	  the	  scope	  of	  


                                                                               	                                                                                11	  
                                                                                      	  
work	  to	  be	  undertaken	  during	  the	  implementation	  phase,	  thereby	  building	  counterpart	  commitment	  to	  
the	  arrangement.	  

Commitment	  to	  a	  twinning	  arrangement	  by	  counterpart	  management	  may	  become	  apparent	  in	  the	  
extent	  to	  which	  the	  counterpart	  bank	  is	  willing	  to	  pay	  for	  the	  twinning	  services.	  In	  the	  case	  of	  the	  Polish	  
twinning	  arrangements,	  the	  counterpart	  banks	  paid	  fully	  for	  the	  services,	  thus	  strengthening	  their	  
interest	  in	  receiving	  maximum	  benefits	  out	  of	  the	  arrangement.	  There	  is,	  however,	  also	  a	  possible	  
downside	  to	  the	  counterpart	  bank	  paying	  100%	  of	  the	  costs	  of	  the	  services.	  In	  the	  Polish	  banks,	  there	  
has	  on	  occasion	  been	  resentment	  of	  the	  large	  number	  of	  staff	  employed	  by	  the	  foreign	  bank,	  and	  of	  the	  
high	  salaries	  paid	  to	  such	  staff.	  Inevitably	  counterpart	  management	  will	  compare	  their	  own	  salaries	  with	  
those	  earned	  by	  the	  foreign	  twinning	  bank's	  staff,	  who	  are	  often	  junior	  in	  rank.	  

One	  way	  to	  deal	  with	  such	  resentment	  would	  be	  to	  reduce	  the	  foreign	  bank's	  project	  management	  staff	  
to	  as	  low	  a	  level	  as	  is	  compatible	  with	  maintaining	  high	  quality	  of	  services,	  and	  to	  avoid	  multiple	  layers	  
of	  project	  management	  in	  the	  field	  and	  at	  headquarters.	  Also,	  minimizing	  subcontracting	  arrangements	  
might	  lower	  the	  foreign	  banks'	  staff	  costs.	  Allowing	  counterpart	  staff	  to	  be	  associated	  with	  the	  
successful	  introduction	  of	  deliverables	  such	  as	  manuals,	  guidelines,	  etc.	  may	  stimulate	  staff	  enthusiasm	  
for	  the	  twinning	  arrangement.	  

When	  the	  counterpart	  bank	  is	  very	  small	  in	  terms	  of	  total	  assets,	  however,	  it	  may	  be	  unrealistic	  or	  even	  
irresponsible	  to	  encourage	  it	  to	  pay	  the	  full	  cost	  of	  a	  twinning	  arrangement.	  While	  twinning	  
arrangements	  for	  smaller	  banks	  will	  require	  less	  resources,	  they	  are	  by	  their	  nature	  expensive	  and	  the	  
counterpart	  bank	  should	  assess	  the	  maximum	  burden	  it	  could	  carry	  in	  relation	  to	  its	  normal	  operating	  
costs	  and	  profit	  margins.	  Seeking	  a	  blend	  of	  grant	  and	  loan	  funding	  may	  be	  justifiable	  for	  smaller	  banks.	  
A	  consideration	  to	  keep	  in	  mind	  in	  this	  respect	  is	  the	  extent	  to	  which	  such	  a	  blend	  of	  financing	  will	  
impact	  on	  the	  level	  playing	  field	  between	  large	  (in	  Eastern	  Europe	  and	  the	  FSU	  mostly	  state-­?owned)	  and	  
small	  (mostly	  privately	  owned)	  banks.	  

The	  foreign	  twinning	  bank	  must	  also	  be	  committed	  to	  the	  success	  of	  the	  arrangement.	  While	  it	  seems	  
obvious	  that	  any	  foreign	  bank	  entering	  into	  such	  an	  arrangement	  is	  interested,	  the	  degree	  and	  the	  
nature	  of	  individual	  foreign	  banks'	  interest	  may	  differ.	  Some	  banks	  may	  be	  interested	  in	  twinning	  
exclusively	  for	  the	  fee;	  capital	  adequacy	  standards	  are	  driving	  banks	  in	  the	  direction	  of	  pursuing	  more	  
fee-­?generating	  business,	  as	  opposed	  to	  lending	  activities.	  Other	  banks	  may	  be	  interested	  in	  familiarizing	  
themselves,	  through	  twinning	  arrangements,	  with	  the	  local	  market	  with	  a	  view	  to	  prospective	  lending	  
operations	  or	  co-­?financing	  with	  the	  counterpart	  bank.	  Yet	  another	  factor	  influencing	  the	  commitment	  of	  
foreign	  banks	  to	  twinning	  arrangements	  is	  whether	  or	  not	  they	  are	  allowed	  to	  open	  branches	  or	  
subsidiaries	  in	  the	  country	  concerned,	  or	  whether	  they	  can	  enter	  the	  domestic	  banking	  market	  only	  
through	  buying	  into	  local	  banks.	  In	  the	  latter	  case,	  entering	  into	  a	  twinning	  arrangement	  may	  be	  the	  
only	  way	  for	  a	  foreign	  bank	  to	  gain	  access.	  

One	  way	  in	  which	  the	  authorities	  of	  a	  recipient	  country	  can	  influence	  foreign	  bank	  interest	  in	  twinning	  
arrangements	  is	  to	  allow	  entry	  only	  though	  buying	  into	  local	  banks.	  By	  maximizing	  the	  existing	  banks'	  
franchise	  value,	  foreign	  banks	  may	  be	  more	  easily	  persuaded	  to	  enter	  into	  and	  successfully	  conclude	  


                                                                                	                                                                                 12	  
                                                                                       	  
twinning	  arrangements.	  Particularly	  small	  countries,	  where	  foreign	  interest	  is	  in	  any	  event	  limited,	  may	  
benefit	  from	  such	  an	  approach.	  

A	  Flexible	  Approach	  

The	  foreign	  twinning	  bank	  should	  be	  able	  to	  respond	  flexibly	  to	  changes	  in	  planned	  time	  schedules	  for	  
work	  to	  be	  delivered,	  and	  in	  planned	  staffing	  requirements.	  All	  seven	  Polish	  twinning	  arrangements	  
have	  experienced	  delays	  in	  one	  or	  more	  modules	  of	  work.	  Foreign	  banks	  working	  with	  subcontractors,	  
particularly	  consulting	  firms,	  may	  find	  it	  difficult	  to	  accommodate	  such	  delays.	  Also,	  during	  the	  
implementation	  of	  individual	  modules	  it	  may	  become	  apparent	  that	  the	  technical	  proposal	  is	  deficient	  in	  
certain	  areas	  or	  redundant	  in	  others.	  Thus,	  the	  foreign	  bank	  should	  be	  able	  to	  exchange	  or	  supplement	  
staff	  already	  committed	  to	  the	  work.	  Another	  problem	  for	  foreign	  banks	  in	  these	  long-­?term	  
arrangements	  is	  that	  they	  may	  have	  difficulty	  finding	  qualified	  staff	  willing	  or	  able	  to	  spend	  long	  periods	  
of	  time	  in	  the	  recipient	  country.	  

One	  way	  to	  enhance	  flexibility	  would	  be	  to	  request	  the	  foreign	  bank	  to	  work	  with	  a	  very	  small	  resident	  
staff,	  supplemented	  by	  periodic	  short	  missions	  from	  staff	  permanently	  employed	  in	  the	  foreign	  bank	  
headquarters.	  Another	  possibility	  would	  be	  to	  limit	  the	  extent	  to	  which	  foreign	  twinning	  banks	  can	  use	  
subcontractors.	  As	  already	  noted,	  limiting	  subcontracting	  is	  also	  likely	  to	  contribute	  to	  lowering	  the	  
costs	  of	  a	  twinning	  arrangement;	  it	  may	  also	  avoid	  foreign	  banks	  becoming	  mere	  wholesalers	  of	  more	  
traditional	  consulting	  services.	  

The	  counterpart	  bank	  should	  also	  be	  able	  to	  absorb	  effectively	  the	  advice	  provided	  by	  the	  foreign	  
twinning	  partner.	  This	  requires	  full-­?time	  availability	  of	  key	  counterpart	  staff,	  as	  well	  as	  foreign	  language	  
skills.	  As	  particularly	  the	  latter	  may	  be	  lacking,	  it	  may	  be	  advisable	  to	  request	  the	  counterpart	  bank	  to	  
engage	  in	  language	  training	  as	  a	  precondition	  for	  a	  twinning	  arrangement.	  To	  avoid	  the	  risk	  of	  
counterpart	  staff	  benefiting	  from	  language	  training	  and	  from	  technical	  training	  provided	  under	  the	  
arrangement,	  then	  leaving	  the	  bank	  to	  earn	  higher	  salaries	  elsewhere,	  counterpart	  management	  may	  
consider	  using	  incentive-­?based	  schemes	  to	  retain	  such	  staff.	  Incentive-­?	  based	  schemes	  are	  commonly	  
used	  in	  Western	  banks.	  

Shareholder	  Control	  

It	  is	  important	  that	  some	  shareholder	  control	  is	  exercised	  over	  the	  counterpart	  bank's	  management,	  to	  
keep	  it	  as	  much	  as	  possible	  under	  pressure	  to	  ensure	  that	  the	  arrangement	  is	  successful.	  In	  the	  case	  of	  
Poland,	  the	  Ministry	  of	  Finance,	  as	  the	  banks'	  owner,	  has	  been	  able	  to	  exert	  such	  shareholder	  control	  
effectively	  through	  the	  supervisory	  boards	  of	  the	  banks	  it	  selected	  and	  appointed.	  These	  supervisory	  
boards	  were	  given	  significant	  powers	  to	  replace	  or	  otherwise	  correct	  management.	  When	  such	  control	  
is	  absent,	  or	  supervisory	  boards	  themselves	  are	  reluctant	  to	  change,	  it	  will	  be	  much	  harder	  to	  
implement	  twinning	  arrangements	  successfully.	  

Similarly,	  strong	  regulatory	  control	  exercised	  by	  the	  bank	  supervisory	  authority	  will	  enhance	  the	  chances	  
of	  successful	  co-­?operation.	  By	  imposing	  regulatory	  constraints	  on	  counterpart	  management	  behavior,	  
the	  foreign	  banks'	  recommendations	  will	  be	  reinforced.	  While	  there	  has	  been	  some	  delay	  in	  

                                                                              	                                                                               13	  
                                                                                     	  
implementing	  key	  prudential	  rules	  in	  Poland,	  NBP	  nevertheless	  has	  succeeded	  in	  ensuring	  that	  minimum	  
controls	  are	  now	  in	  place.	  The	  supervisory	  authority	  also	  has	  an	  important	  role	  to	  play	  in	  steering	  
counterpart	  management	  towards	  adopting	  sound	  accounting	  and	  auditing	  practices	  and	  management	  
information	  systems,	  including	  loan	  classification	  and	  provisioning	  systems.	  Finally,	  a	  strong	  supervisory	  
authority	  will	  also	  be	  able	  to	  provide	  assurances	  to	  foreign	  banks	  that	  the	  counterpart	  management	  is	  
not	  dishonest.	  This	  may	  help	  in	  overcoming	  foreign	  bank	  aversion	  of	  twinning	  arrangements	  with	  private	  
banks,	  where	  there	  is	  a	  larger	  risk	  of	  the	  foreign	  bank	  becoming	  associated	  with	  bank	  scandals.	  Thus,	  it	  
would	  be	  advisable	  to	  supplement	  a	  program	  of	  bank	  twinning	  arrangements	  with	  a	  program	  to	  
strengthen	  bank	  regulation	  and	  supervision.	  




                                                                            	                                                                            14	  
                                                                                   	  
