Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14935-JO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MARCH 7, 1996
Private Sector Development and Infrastructure Division
Middle East Department
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY
Currency Unit: Jordanian Dinar (JD)
(As of December 1995)
JD 1.0 = 100 fils
JD 1.0 = USSI.40
US$1.0= JD 0.71
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACC          =      Agricultural Credit Corporation
AFM          =      Amman Financial Markets
CBJ          =      Central Bank of Jordan
ERDL         =      Economic Reform and Development Loan
EU           =      European Union
FDI          =      Foreign Direct Investment
FIAS         =      Foreign Investment Advisory Service
FRR          =      Financial Rate of Return
FZC          =      Free Zone Corporation
GTZ                 Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
IDB          =      Industrial Development Bank
IMF          =      International Monetary Fund
iPC           =     Investment Promotion Corporation
ISO          =      International Standards Organization
JIC          =      Jordan Investment Corporation
LIBOR        =      London Interbank Offered Rate
MOP          -      Ministry of Planning
MSTQ         =      Metrology, Standards, Testing and Quality
PB           =      Participating Bank
SSC          =      Social Security Corporation
USAID        =      US Agency for International Development
WTO           =     World Trade Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ...........                       ............................ i
I. INTRODUCTION .1
II. CONSTRAINTS TO EXPORT COMPETITIVENESS AND GOVERNMENT
STRATEGY. .                                                                               1
A. Characteristics of the Export Sector..                                                    1
B. The Government's Export Strategy..                                                        1
C. Term Finance..                                                                           4
Constraints in Access to Term Finance..                                                4
Investment Requirement..                                                               6
Government Agenda to Deepen the Financial Sector        ..                             6
D. Rationale for Bank Involvement.                           .         .                     7
III. THE PROJECT. . .                                                                             8
A. Project Objective..                                                                       8
B. Project Description..                                                                     8
Principal Features of the Line of Credit       ..                                      8
Participating Banks..                                                                  9
IV.  PROJECT COST, FINANCING, AND IMPLEMENTATION   .......                           ........... 10
A. Project Cost and Financing ........................................ 10
B. Project Implementation and Supervision ................................ 10
Implementation .      .............................................. 10
Supervision . ................................................ 10
C. Procurement .       ................................................ 11
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Jordan in June 1995. The mission comprised
Mme./Messrs. Tufan Kolan, Principal Operations Officer/Mission Leader; Kalyan Banerji, Sr. Financial Officer; Arvind
Gupta, Private Sector Development Specialist; and Tribhuwan Narain, Operations Officer. The report was produced
by Mmes. Eugenia Dennis and Clara Lobo. Peer reviewers were: Messrs. Elkyn Chaparro, Shyam Khemani, James
Hanna, and Tyler Biggs. The Regional Vice President is Mr. Kemal Dervis; the Department Director is Mr. Inder Sud;
and the Division Chief is Mr. Alastair McKechnie.



ii
D. Disbursements . ........................................ 11
Special Account ......................................... 11
E. Accounting, Auditing, and Reporting .       ................................. 11
Reporting .......................................                                        12
F. Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Involvement .......              .................. 12
G. Project Sustainability  ........................................    12
H. Project Objective Category ........................................ 12
1.  Environmental Impact ........................................   12
J.  Participatory Approach  .........................................  13
V.   BENEFITS AND RISKS ........................................ 13
A. Project Benefits ......................................... 13
B. Project Risks .....................                                                         13
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED .13
ANNEXES
Annex  1   - Letter of Export Sector Development Policy
Annex  2   - Constraints to Supply of Medium- to Long-Term Finance
Annex  3   - Terms and Conditions of the Line of Credit
Annex  4   - Project Cost and Financing Plan
Annex  5   - Supervision Plan
Annex  6   - Procurement Arrangements
Annex  7   - Disbursement Schedule



THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower                   The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Implementing Agency        The Central Bank of Jordan
Beneficiaries              Private-sector banks and enterprises
Loan Amount                US$40 million
Terms                      20 years, including a 5-year grace period, at the Bank's standard LIBOR-
based interest rate for US dollar single currency loans
Commitment Fee             0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver
Onlending Terms            The Government would, through the Central Bank of Jordan (CBJ),
onlend proceeds of the loan to private banks in US dollars or Jordanian
dinars (JD) at interest rates that reflect market conditions. Funds would
be onlent to participating banks (PBs) under subsidiary financing
agreements with CBJ. The PBs would make subloans to private
borrowers in US dollars or JD at terms to be freely determined, and
would bear the credit risk on the amounts onlent and commitment
charges. Subborrowers would need to have a total debt-equity ratio of
less than 2:1 and a minimum debt service ratio of 1:3. The maximum
repayment period for the subloans would be 7 years, including up to 3
years of grace. The maximum size of subloans would be US$2 million.
Project Objective
and Description            The principal objective of the project is to support the Government's
Export Sector Development Program, which aims at enhancing
international competitiveness of Jordanian exports and increasing export
revenues. The immediate objective of the project is to help private
firms expand their productive capacity through a credit line for term
lending.



.i;
Subloans under the credit line would finance viable medium- and longer-
term investments in plant and machinery in productive activities (real
estate and housing are not eligible); permanent working capital,
marketing and training associated with new investments; and investments
in energy conservation and pollution control equipment. The PBs would
require detailed appraisal of the proposed subprojects in accordance with
the agreed eligibility criteria and operating guidelines, as specified in the
subsidiary financing agreements.
Benefits and Risks           The principal benefit of the project would be the expanded productive
capacity of Jordanian private firns. Approximately 80 firms would
receive subloans to make the investments necessary to develop capacity
to exploit export opportunities. It is expected that these investments
would generate about 1,000 additional jobs, thereby raising total
employment. The participation of private banks in the project would also
enhance financial sector competition and build project-financing
capabilities. The eligibility criteria for subprojects include a minimum
financial rate of return of 15 percent, which is considered a good proxy
for the economic rate of return.
Deterioration of macroeconomic conditions as a result of various factors,
including adverse capital movements, could delay disbursements.
However, the risk is small given the commitment the Government has
demonstrated to maintaining a stable macroeconomic environment,
including flexible exchange and interest rate policies, under adjustment
programs supported by the Bank and IMF. Additionally, Jordanian banks
are relatively new to project appraisal and term-lending techniques. This
risk will be addressed through close World Bank supervision-including
a project launch seminar-clearly specified operating guidelines and
eligibility criteria, and training of selected PB staff in project appraisal
seminars.
Estimated Project Cost
Local           Foreign              Total
--------------------------- (US$ million)------------------------------
Credit Line                      20.0             40.0                60.0
Total Base Cost                  20.0              40.0               60.0
Physical Contingencies           n.a.              n. a.               n. a.
Price Contingencies              n.a.              n.a.                n.a.
Total Project Cost               20.0              40.0               60.0



iii
Financing Plan
Funding Sources               Local       Foreign       Total    % of Financing Plan
-. ----(US$ million)----
IBRD                            0            40.0       40.0              67
Private Sector                 20.0           0         20.0              33
Total                          20.0          40.0       60.0             100
Estimated Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year
(US$ million)
1996           1997           1998           1999           2000
Annual              4.0                8.0        10.0           10.6               7.4
Cumulative          4.0               12.0        22.0           32.6              40.0
Note: Initial disbursement into the Special Account (US$4 million) will be recovered during the last
four semesters.
Economic Rate of Return    Not applicable.  The minimum  15 percent financial rate of return
required as one of the eligibility criteria for subprojects is considered to
be a good proxy for the economic rate of return.
Poverty Category           Not applicable.
Project Identification No.    35995






THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1   Following strong economic growth over 1973-1984, Jordan's GDP contracted by an annual
average of 1.2 percent during 1985-89 as a result of the oil crisis. This reflected declines in output,
consumption, employment and investment. In response, the Government adopted a stabilization and
adjustment program, backed by the IMF and the World Bank, to trim budget deficits, reduce foreign
exchange controls, and implement other deregulatory measures. Concurrently, the Paris Club and the
London Club rescheduled Jordan's external debt payments. As a result, real GDP growth climbed to 6
percent by 1992, inflation fell below 5 percent, unemployment declined from 25 percent to 15 percent,
and external debt as a percentage of GDP fell to 120 percent, after peaking at 190 percent in 1990.
1.2    While this progress has been significant, Jordan still faces major challenges in maintaining its
positive economic momentum. The primary sources that have supported its balance of payments and
public investments-remittances, official grants, concessional assistance, and regional trade under
noncompetitive protocol trade arrangements-are untenable as a foundation for sustained growth. The
domestic economy is small and regional markets offer limited employment opportunities. Jordan,
therefore, needs to build its export competitiveness and integrate into the global economy to exploit the
benefits of rapidly expanding world trade. The regional peace process, potential partnership status in the
European Union and membership in WTO provide Jordan unprecedented opportunities to do so.
1I. CONSTRAINTS TO EXPORT COMPETITIVENESS AND GOVERNMENT STRATEGY
A. Characteristics of the Export Sector
2.1    In 1994 the value of Jordan's exports was about one-third that of imports despite 6 percent a year
real export growth of over 1990-94. Jordan's exports are concentrated in natural resource industries,
such as phosphate- and potash-based products, which represented 36 percent of all exports in 1994.
More than half of manufacturing is concentrated in pharmaceuticals, food, beverages, clothing, wood,
and furniture. Firms are small, with 98 percent employing fewer than 20 workers. High tariffs and
transaction costs, institutional and regulatory rigidities, weak enterprise support systems, and limited term
finance have hurt the competitive position of Jordanian firms and left them ill equipped to compete in the
global marketplace. Firms have relied on intergovernmental barter trade (protocol) arrangements with
neighboring countries, which has further shielded them from developing the know-how needed to produce
for, or sell in, global markets. While nontraditional exports (those other than natural resource industries)
rose significantly-from -2 percent per annum in real terms between 1985 to 1990 to 10 percent between
1991 and 1994, Jordan needs to accelerate the momentum of its export growth and eliminate the policy,
institutional, technological, and financial bottlenecks that restrain export-led growth.
B. The Government's Export Strategy
2.2    The centerpiece of the Government's strategy is private-sector led, outward-oriented growth. The
strategy has three main thrusts: (i) policy reforms to create an enabling environment for the private sector
to develop; (ii) institutional and administrative reforms, coupled with support to private firms for
acquisition of technical and marketing skills, to enhance international competitiveness; and (iii) reforms
to deepen the financial sector and improve private-sector access to investment finance. These reforms
are outlined in the Government's September 1995 Letter of Development Policy for the Economic Reform
and Development Loan (ERDL, Loan 3947-JO). On the policy side, with support from ERDL, Jordan
has already reduced maximum tariffs for non-luxury goods from 70 to 50 percent; consolidated taxes and



2                                                                                Export Development Project
surcharges into tariffs; reduced tariff exemptions; lowered border taxes on almost 500 capital goods
categories; and effectively eliminated import licensing requirements. Parliament recently enacted a new
Investment Law, for which IBRD and FIAS provided advice (Figure 1), and amended the Income Tax
Law, reducing maximum corporate tax rates from 55 to 35 percent. The Government, with support from
the proposed ERDL II, plans to carry out further trade reformns, accelerate privatization, and reduce
regulatory and administrative constraints to private-sector growth.
2.3     The Government also recognizes that trade liberalization and other broad economic policy changes
will not, alone, deliver sustained growth, and that measures need to be put in place to generate a speedy
and effective supply response. It has, thus, with Bank assistance, prepared an Export Sector Development
Program and presented it in a Letter of Export Sector Development Policy to the Bank on March 7, 1996
(Annex 1). The letter confirms the Government's commitment to carrying out the Program.
2.4     The Program, which is to be financed by the Bank and donors, focuses on two key areas. The
first is -strengthening the legal framework and institutional and firrn-level capabilities to foster
competitiveness of Jordanian goods in global markets. 'This includes streamlining import and export
procedures and reducing related transaction costs; facilitating investments; and improving product
standards, quality and marketing. Figure 1 below summarizes the issues faced by existing and potential
exporters in these areas-Customs, free zone regime, investment mobilization, production for export-and
the corresponding actions the Government plans to take under the Program. These elements of the
Program  have drawn strong support from  donors, including GTZ, USAID, the European Union (EU),
Canada, and the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development.
2.5     The Program's second area of focus is improving private firm  access to term  finance for
investments in productive capacity expansion. The project would address this element of the Program
through a credit line of US$40 million for onlending to private firns. The background on constraints
to term finance and details of the Bank support under the project to address those constraints are discussed
in the sections following Figure 1.
Figure 1: Jordan's Export Sector Development Program (ESDP)
Issues                                                                      ESDP Actions
Customs Administration
Key issues with Customs are two-fold: (i) The Customs Law   The Government is drafting a new Customs Law in line
is outdated in its approach as well as penalty structures; and  with international standards and the requirements of
(ii) the procedures are cumbersome, discretionary, and  proposed EU partnership and WTO membership. The draft
lengthy, leading to high transaction costs. There are no  Law will be submitted to the Parliament in 1996. Customs
standard operating procedures.  Tariff classification and  operations are to be simplified; self declaration adopted;
valuation of imports are major problems.  Staff are not  standard operating procedures prepared; clearance times
adequately trained: they set values at high levels to  reduced; a reference-based price system  established to
compensate for expected undervaluation by traders. Export  reduce valuation disputes (pending adoption of the WTO
facilitation schemes such as duty drawback and temporary   Valuation Code); and enforcement and penalty structures
entry are complex, non-transparent and administratively  updated. Customs operations are to be automated, and staff
costly. Customs officers are rewarded with bonuses of 40  given intensive training. A merit-based incentive system
percent of the  fines  they  levy, which  encourages  will replace the present bonus system.  The GTZ  is
overzealous behavior.                                  providing grant financing to support the above reforms.



Export Development Project                                                                                      3
Issues                                                                       ESDP Actions
Free Zone Regime
The free trade zones in Jordan, which are in the public  The Governrnent plans to amend the Free Zone Law in
sector, have been dominated by trading, rather than export  1996 to allow the private sector to set up export-oriented
oriented manufacturing and service operations. They have  free trade zones for manufacturing and services; remove the
had limited success in attracting private domestic and   ambiguities in the law; and establish  a Free Zone
foreign investment; the private sector is not allowed to own   Regulatory Office to license and regulate public and private
land in the zones-or develop export processing zones;  free zones. Further, the Free Zone Corporation (FZC),
eligibility criteria for certificates of origin for goods  which heretofore has had both regulatory and development
manufactured in the zones are ambiguous; and backward  functions, would be recorporatized and its responsibilities
supply linkages with the domestic industries are inhibited by  limited to the development and management of the public-
inadequate incentives and cumbersome procedures for local  sector free zones. GTZ is providing grant funds for the
purchase and processing of inputs.                      technical assistance services related to these reforms.
Investment Promotion
Despite the world trend of increasing  foreign direct  In 1995 Jordan enacted a new  Investment Law  that
investment (FDI) to developing countries, FDI in Jordan has  provides uniform treatment of Arab and non-Arab investors;
been negative in three of the past six years.  Jordan's  substantially removes restrictions on foreign ownership;
investment regime was biased against non-Arab investors:  introduces transparency of incentives; replaces tax holidays
was discretionary in determining eligibility for incentives;  with lower corporate taxes; and introduces international
restricted foreign equity participation; relied on tax holidays  arbitration.   The  Law  also  created  an  autonomous
that were costly, ineffective and vulnerable to abuse; and  Investment Promotion Corporation (IPC) to facilitate and
did not provide internationally recognized dispute resolution   promote investments, especially FDI. With support from
mechanisms. The Investment Promotion Department was  USAID grant funds, the Government plans to develop IPC
poorly staffed and  operated as a regulator rather than a  to  international standards  and  streamline  investment
promoter or facilitator.   These factors, coupled with  procedures.
perceived instability in the region, impeded FDI flows to
Jordan.
Metrology, Standards, Testing, and Quality (MSTQ)
Poor product quality is a key factor behind Jordan's poor  Jordan is taking steps to strengthen its MSTQ infrastructure
export performance in more demanding export markets.  to  raise  product standards  to  the  requirements  of
The MSTQ system and related services have been weak.  international markets.   These include   upgrading the
Jordan  has  nearly  100  public  and  private  testing  technical and managerial capability  and private-sector
laboratories, but no internationally recognized accreditation   orientation of the Jordan Institution for Standards; preparing
or calibration system. The Jordan Standards Institution has  several product testing laboratories for international ac-
focused on writing and enforcing Jordanian standards, and   creditation; establishing a calibration system; setting up an
has not developed technical capability or a market-oriented   Enquiry Point, as required for WTO membership, as a
focus. The Institution does not have a system for certifying   repository of Jordanian and international standards; guiding
companies to ISO 9000 series standards. There is no public  qualified Jordanian firms in obtaining ISO 9000 certification
or private facility providing exporters information on  services: and establishing an MSTQ Extension Service to
foreign standards and certification requirements.       help firms raise their product quality. GTZ is providing
grant financing to upgrade the Standards Institution. The
Canadian Government has expressed interest in financing
the MSTQ program also.



4                                                                             Export Development Project
Issues                                                                    ESDP Actions
Export Quality and Marketing
Most Jordanian manufacturers have not learned how to  The Government intends to establish an exporter support
produce for, or sell in, export markets. Jordan's weak  program to address the technical and marketing know-how
domestic infrastructure for supplying specialized exporter  of existing and potential exporters. The program would
support services severely handicaps exporters. They face  provide grant assistance on a cost-sharing basis (up to 50
difficulties in obtaining export market information or  percent) to private firms to employ consultants specialized
securing specialized consulting services in packaging,  in exporting to help them improve production quality,
product adaptation and quality assurance.  Developing   diversify product lines, and penetrate new markets. The
technical know-how, producing to market requirements, and  program  would support overseas market research and
market research and penetration requires investments that  promotion, minor product adaptation, quality certification
many small and medium firms are reluctant to undertake.  and assurance programs, test marketing, and training. It
Limited financial resources also constrain them  from   would also help develop local export consulting capacity by
business promotion travel, product launch, advertising or  providing assistance to service delivery organizations,
utilizing-specialized export consulting services.     including industry and trade associations.  The EU  is
providing a grant of ECU7 million for some elements of
the program; and the Government has also requested
additional fulancing from the Arab Fund.
C. Term Finance
2.6     Constraints in Access to Term Finance. Shortage of term finance is a major constraint to Jordan's
export growth. Although Jordan has a well developed banking system, the financial sector on the whole
is not sufficiently deep. The banking sector caters mainly to financing trade and working capital
requirements of the private sector. The bulk of bank deposits are short-term and the capability of banks
to carry out term transformation is limited. The capital market is shallow and has been a marginal source
of funds to private Jordanian companies. Therefore, most private investors have to rely on internally
generated funds and borrowing from banks through overdrafts. This severely restricts investment in
projects that require long gestation periods. The very small size of the manufacturing sector, which
accounted for only 12 percent of GDP in 1994, is evidence of this. (Annex 2 provides an overview of
financial markets in Jordan.)
2.7     A Bank survey l of constraints faced by exporters identified limited availability of term resources
as a major bottleneck in competing with foreign firms and realizing their full export potential. Most of
the respondents indicated that they were unable to leverage internally generated funds with long-term
borrowing.2 A series of round-table discussions held with enterprises as part of project preparation also
1/      The project preparation mission conducted formal interviews with 28 current and potential exporters,
using a standard questionnaire. The survey results are presented in "Export Constraints Faced by
Jordanian Enterprises - A Survey of Jordanian Firms", Rhee and Katterbach, World Bank, December
1994. In addition, interviews were conducted with over 100 other small-and medium-size firms during
project preparation.
2/      For example, five firms in the survey indicated that they had enough demand to justify new investments
in plant and machinery of around JD300,000 each. However, since obtaining term finance was a
difficult and prolonged process, they would have to postpone capacity expansion until they accumulated
sufficient amounts of internally generated funds.



Export Development Project                                                                 5
confirmed the problem of limited access to term funds.  Most enterprises indicated that financial
institutions were reluctant to commit term funds to other than large clients.
2.8   Interviews with 15 private commercial and investment banks and analysis of their loan portfolios
also confirmed that there is a constraint in the availability of term finance for capacity expansion. The
banks acknowledged that they have not been able to satisfy the demand for term loans because their
deposit base is mainly short term. Over 70 percent of the loans extended by the banking system carry
maturities of less than a year, with 35 percent of all outstanding loans consisting of overdraft facilities.
In most instances, loans with repayment periods in excess of three years were restricted to large
companies, arranged either through loan syndication or through rolling over short-term credit facilities.
The transaction costs associated with loan syndication prevented most small and medium enterprises from
taking this route. Banks also acknowledged that fear of maturity mismatches prevented them from
frequently resorting to short-term credit rollovers, and that without an identified and reliable long-term
funding source, they would not expand their term-lending operations.
2.9    The government-owned Industrial Development Bank (IDB) is the main source of term credit for
the productive sector. IDB has traditionally relied on term funds exclusively from the Central Bank of
Jordan (CBJ), the Government, and concessional financing from bilateral sources. However, recent
monetary and fiscal restraints have prevented an increase in supply of funds from CBJ and the
Government, while concessional aid has become scarce. As a result, IDB's share of extended and
outstanding credit by the financial system is smaller than 8 percent. In addition, cumbersome approval
procedures and high collateral requirements have prevented most small and medium firms from obtaining
IDB term loans.
2.10   The capital market also has not been successful in providing firms with longer-term capital.
While there has been an increase in new equity issues, the main beneficiaries have been large established
companies. Small and medium enterprises have no access to equity or debt funds from the capital
market-the costs are too high, regulations onerous, and often it is not practical to finance modernization
or one-off equipment replacement needs through direct placements in the capital markets. Even larger
companies face constraints in accessing capital markets due to regulatory and transactional impediments
to smooth functioning of the stock exchange. The corporate bond market is underdeveloped because the
Companies Law imposes rigid and stringent conditions for issue of corporate debt and because the bond
market is accustomed to government guarantees on bond issues. As a result, even private investment and
commercial banks have not been able to use bond markets to fund their term-lending operations.
2.11   Private contractual savings institutions are small and mutual funds do not exist, aue important
reason being the absence of an appropriate and independent regulatory framework.  As a result,
institutional demand for either traded or privately placed corporate debt and equity is limited. Most of
the long-term financial savings generated in the economy through pension and retirement schemes are
held in the government-managed Social Security Corporation (SSC). Despite significant annual inflows
of long-term savings, SSC has not been successful in channeling these into the private sector (SSC assets
amount to about US$800 million equivalent). As SSC has most of its investments-by mandate-in short-
term bank deposits and in certificates of deposit (about 65 percent) or in housing loans, it has failed to
catalyze the growth of the equity and bond markets, and investment in corporate equity or debt
instruments is a very small percentage of its total assets. The insurance sector accounts for only around
4 percent of the total assets of the financial system; competition is limited and public confidence in the



6                                                                   Export Development Project
insurance industry is low, mainly because of a weak regulatory and supervisory framework. The leasing
industry is not developed because of deficiencies in leasing laws.
2.12   Investment Requirement.  Deregulation of the real sectors such as telecommunications,
agriculture, and power have increased opportunities for private investment and will require term
resources. The impact of these developments is already being felt. In 1994, 123 projects with an
aggregate investment of JD 257 million were approved, nearly double the amount approved in 1992.
Annual imports of electrical and non-electrical machinery have increased from JD 150 million in 1990
to more than JD 360 million in 1994. Progress in the regional peace process and prospects for closer
cooperation with the EU are enhancing Jordan's attractiveness as a location for export-oriented production
facilities. Furthermore, tariff, investment, and tax reforms supported by ERDL will establish the
framework for increased competition; improved access to international markets under the proposed
exporter support program (Figure 1) will also create more demand for plant and machinery. Over the
period 1995-2000 gross fixed investment is projected to grow at a rate of 27 percent. This would require
a total investment of JD8.6 billion (US$12 billion equivalent). Out of this amount, JD2.6 billion (US$3.6
billion) would be required for machinery and equipment. It is unlikely that the Jordanian economy will
be able to finance such an investment from internal sources. As access to international capital markets
will expand only gradually, a major part of this financing requirement will need to be funded from
multilateral and bilateral sources. The project would finance a part of this requirement, albeit small, and
enable Jordan's private sector to undertake investment projects that contribute to economic growth and
generate jobs and foreign exchange.
2.13   Government Agenda to Deepen the Financial Sector. The Government has begun implementing
policy reforms with a view to deepening financial markets and improving intermediation efficiency.
Considerable progress has been made in strengthening the safety and soundness of the banking system;
commercial and investment banks are now required to follow Basle norms relating to capital adequacy
and, as reported by CBJ, most banks are already in compliance.  Prudential lending guidelines
conforming to international practices have been put in place; and loan loss-provisioning has been
increased, with bad and doubtful loans fully provided for. Tighter prudential lending guidelines, the
enhanced powers of CBJ to intervene in cases of incipient financial distress, and improved on-site and
off-site supervision have together resulted in a significant decline in bad loans, which are currently less
than 6 percent of outstanding loans. These measures aimed at improving the stability of the banking
system have been accompanied by changes in bank regulations aimed at enhancing competition and
intermediation efficiency. All interest rates have been deregulated and direct credit controls are being
replaced by indirect monetary control. Since 1993 CBJ has been issuing certificates of deposits as part
of its monetary management. In 1994 CBJ repealed regulations that restricted credit expansion to no
more than ten times the size of each bank's capital; in 1995 it aiso eliminated the credit-deposit ratio.
Recently, CBJ has also allowed banks to lend a portion of their foreign exchange deposits to domestic
borrowers. However, the ability of the banks to do this is constrained by the fact that most foreign
currency deposits are from non-residents and have short maturities.
2.14  In its Letter of Development Policy for ERDL, the Government identified additional actions to
further improve competition and efficiency in the financial system and increase the mobilization and



Export Development Project                                                                 7
intermediation of long-term savings by the capital markets, contractual savings institutions, and the
insurance industry. These actions include:
(a)    To enhance competition within the banking system for both deposits and loans, the
Government plans to remove reserve requirements on inter-bank deposits so as to
enhance flow of resources between banks; adopt more transparent financial disclosure
based on internationally accepted accounting principles; and further strengthen CBJ's on-
site and off-site supervision.  Also, in a move towards universal banking, the
Government intends to reduce the difference between reserve ratios applied to commercial
and investment banks to a maximum of 5 percent in 1996.
(b)    The specialized credit institutions will be reformed. Their special privileges will be
eliminated and they will be subject to the same regulatory regime as private commercial
and investment banks.
(c)    Capital markets will also undergo reform. Their operational and supervisory functions
will be separated; a modern trading, settlement, clearing and depository system installed;
transparency introduced to the regulation of brokers and underwriters; and fuller financial
disclosure guidelines based on internationally accepted accounting principles adopted.
(d)    The Companies Law will be amended. Pricing of equity issues will be determined by
the market and not by the "Issuing Committee"; companies will be allowed to issue
unsecured bonds, and the amount of such bonds will be permitted to exceed their paid-up
capital; and shareholders will be allowed 100 percent pre-emptive rights.
(e)    Finally, contractual savings institutions will be strengthened. The Insurance Law will be
modified to allow new entry under a strengthened and independent regulatory body;
private management of social security and pension schemes will be permitted; and the
Companies Law will be amended to permit establishment and supervision of private
mutual funds.
2.15   The long-term efforts discussed above, however, are not sufficient to deal with the immediate
need of firms for long-term funds, particularly in foreign exchange. With the resumption of economic
growth, and a strong economic liberalization program in place, private investments in Jordan are expected
to improve significantly and will need to be supported by term resources. Implementation of the
Government's medium-term economic development strategy would address constraints that now prevent
the financial system from fully responding to the investment finance needs of the real sectors. However,
the impact of the financial sector reforms will be felt only over the medium term. The line of credit will
enable the private sector to undertake investments that will enable the economy to grow and create jobs.
Increasing productive investment, especially for exports, is essential for the economy. The project (paras.
3.1-3.7) would therefore serve as a useful vehicle to support the private sector while the financial sector
reforms are being implemented and consolidated.
D. Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.16   The project builds on the work done by the Bank on the industry and export sectors and policy
reforms in Jordan and is fully consistent with the Bank Group Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)



8                                                                     Export Development Project
discussed by the Board on October 24, 19953. The CAS reflects the Government's central theme:
promoting private-sector led, rapid and sustainable outward-oriented growth as a vehicle for reducing
poverty and unemployment. The project supports this objective by helping firms expand their productive
capacity and export potential. The Bank was also closely involved with the Jordanian public and private
sectors in preparing the Government's Export Sector Development Program. The project is an integral
part of this Program. In addition, the Bank played a catalytic role in attracting grant financing from
donors for the other components of the Program. The project will also support IFC's strategy of
developing Jordan's capital markets through new financial institutions, instruments, and services,
including investments in a credit rating agency, and possible support for establishing a leasing company.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objective
3.1    The principal objective of the project is to support the Government's Export Sector Development
Program, which aims at enhancing international competitiveness of Jordanian exports and increasing
export revenues. The immediate objective of the project is to help private firms expand their productive
capacity through a credit line for term lending. The benefits of the project would be monitored through
a set of indicators agreed on with the Government [paras. 4.2 and 6.1 (c)].
B.  Project Description
3.2     Principal Features of the Line of Credit. The US$40 million credit line would provide private
banks with access to term resources at market rates for financing medium- and long-term investments in
plant and machinery for productive activities other than real estate and housing construction. The CBJ
would serve as the fiscal agent of the Government: it would onlend funds from the credit line to
participating banks (PBs) and monitor the performance of PBs. This arrangement would not impose any
significant new burdens on CBJ, which already closely monitors and supervises banks. As noted earlier,
in the last three to four years there has been considerable improvement in both on-site and off-site
supervision and in the authority available to CBJ in supervising and regulating banks.
3.3    The CBJ would onlend, under subsidiary financing agreements, only to financially strong private
commercial and investment banks that conform with all applicable banking laws and have at least a
satisfactory rating from CBJ.4 Funds would be onlent to eligible banks on a first-come, first-serve basis.
As part of the eligibility criteria, PBs would satisfy CBJ that they possess adequate skills in project
3/     Industry and Trade Policy Adjustment Loan (Ln. 3142-JO, 1989); 'Export Incentives and
Technological Capabilities' (Report No. 10228-JO, 1992); Economic Reform and Development Loan
(Ln. 3947-JO, 1995); and "Private Sector Assessment" (Report No. 14405-JO, 1995).
4/     The CBJ has adopted the Basle guidelines relating to capital adequacy, and has also issued detailed
guidelines relating to classification of loans that are in conformity with international practices. Most
Jordanian banks would meet these requirements.



Export Development Project                                                                                 9
financing; alternatively, they would agree to strengthen their project appraisal and monitoring skills under
a plan acceptable to CBJ.
3.4     The Bank loan would be extended to the Government as a single currency loan in US dollars at
the Bank's standard LIBOR-based rate. The CBJ, on behalf of the Govermment, would onlend the
proceeds of the Bank loan to PBs in US dollars or Jordanian dinars (JD). Jordan has a relatively open
capital account and recently accepted the IMF's Article VIII obligations.  Under current market
conditions, the US dollar onlending rate would be LIBOR plus a spread of 100 basis points, and the JD
onlending rate would be the Jordanian Treasury Bill rate plus 50 basis points (including 25 basis points
to cover CBJ's administrative costs). The CBJ would review and adjust onlending rates every six
months, as required, and inform the Bank [para. 6. 1(b)].
3.5     Participatina Banks. To date, CBJ has prequalified six banks as potential borrowers; they have
confirmed their intention to enter into subsidiary financing agreements with CBJ. Table 1 provides
selected financial indicators on these banks. They account for 30 percent of the assets of private banks,
35 percent of loans, and 36 percent of deposits; and are well capitalized and profitable. Returns on
equity range from 5 to 23 percent. Given the number of banks, there will be adequate competition in
the use of the credit line.
l___________ -         Table 1. Participating Banks: Financial Highlights (1994)
Thousands of Jordanian Dinars                                 Percentages
Banks           Total      Total      Total    Shareholder    Net    Return    Return         CapitaU
Assets     Loans    Deposits       Equity     Income      on        on        Deposit
Assets    Equity      Ratio
Cairo Amman   426,333   186,361    367,095         18,116      4.132       1.0      22.8         4.9
Bank
Jordan          220,088    95,985     183,824      18,547     865,116     0.4       4.7          10.1
Kuwait Bank
Housing Bank    972,984    524,220    822,300      43,901       4,953     0.5       11.3         5.3
Jordan          177,042    67,838     151,955       11,327      1,999      1.1      17.6         7.4
Investment &
Finance Bank
Union Bank for   159,891    58,494    135,173      11,849       1,010     0.6       8.5          8.8
Savings &
Investment
Arab Banking    154,190    70,224     115,348      14,004       1,933      1.2      13.8        12.1
Corporation
Source: Amman Financial Markets Report. 1995
3.6     The PBs would onlend these funds to private subborrowers in US dollars or Jordanian dinars, at
terms to be freely determined, and would bear the credit risk on the subborrowers and commitment
charges on the Bank loan. The maximum repayment period of any subloan would be 7 years, including



10                                                               Export Development Project
3 years grace. Eligibility criteria for subborrowers are designed to ensure that financing is extended for
sound projects promoted by creditworthy private-sector borrowers. To ensure that procedures for
onlending by PBs are kept simple, prior approval of CBJ would not be required except for the first two
subloans extended by each PB. The subborrowers would have to be majority privately owned and would
need to have a total debt-equity ratio of less than 2:1 and a minimum debt-service ratio of 1:3. A
minimum projected financial rate of return of 15 percent would be required for subprojects financed by
the subloans. The maximum size of individual subloans would be US$2 million. The subloans are
expected to finance about 80 subprojects, at an average subloan size of around US$500,000. Annex 3
details the terms and conditions of the credit line.
3.7    During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Goverm-nent that CBJ will: (a) implement
the project in accordance with the eligibility criteria for PBs, subborrowers, subloans, and subprojects;
and (b) review every six months and adjust US Dollar and JD onlending rates to reflect market
conditions. Signing of the subsidiary financing agreements between CBJ and at least two prequalified
banks to serve as PBs would be a condition of loan effectiveness [paras. 6.1(a), 3.4, 6.1(b) and 6.2,
respectively].
IV. PROJECT COST, FINANCING, AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Cost and Financing
4.1.   Total project cost is estimated at US$60 million, of which the foreign exchange component
represents US$40 million (67 percent). The Bank loan-US$40 million-would finance 100 percent of
the estimated foreign exchange cost. Borrowers of subloans would contribute an estimated US$20 million
(33 percent) and would cover applicable taxes and duties from their own funds. Annex 4 shows the
project cost and financing plan.
B. Project Implementation and Supervision
4.2   Impiementation. The CBJ will be the implementing agency; it has established a two-person unit,
supervised by the CBJ Executive Manager, External Debts and Agreements Department, to oversee
implementation of the project. The unit would monitor project performance, accounts, expenditures,
costs, and compliance with Bank guidelines; it would forward all withdrawal applications, reports and
other documentation to the Bank. Each PB would forward the first two subloan applications to CBJ and
the Bank for prior approval. Thereafter, the PBs would forward a subproject data sheet Xneach subloan
extended to CBJ which would tabulate the information for presentation to the Bank in its regular reports.
The format and coverage of the data sheets have been agreed with CBJ. In order to assess job creation
impact of the project, PBs would include information on projected new employment under the subloans
financed on the data sheets. Moreover, the Bank would review macro indicators of export performance
to determine the extent to which the Government's Export Sector Development Program is meeting its
objectives.
4.3    Supervision.  The project would be supervised twice a year.  The total number of Bank
supervision staff-weeks is estimated at 48, for a cost of US$200,000, of which 31 weeks would be spent
in the field at an estimated cost of US$124,000. The initial supervision mission would be a project



Export Development Project                                                               11
launch seminar to be held with the members of the CBJ implementation unit and PB representatives. The
seminar would discuss the Implementation Plan, including operating guidelines, disbursement, accounting
and auditing arrangements, and reporting requirements. A Mid-Term Review would be held in January
1998, in addition to Annual Reviews, to examine disbursement progress to date, subproject pipelines of
PBs, and availability of term finance and interest rates in general. The project supervision plan is
provided in Annex 5. During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government that a Mid-Term
Review will be carried out on or about January 1998 to assess progress and introduce any required
measures to improve project execution [para. 6.1(d)].
C. Procurement
4.4    Procurement of goods, services and works under the subloans would be carried out in accordance
with normal commercial practices of enterprises. These are acceptable to the Bank. The PBs would
maintain- records of procurement procedures and methods used, summarizing offers and awards for ex-
post review by the Bank on a periodic basis.
D. Disbursements
4.5    The project would be implemented over a four-year period, with a completion target date of
December 31, 1999. The commitment deadline for the credit line would be January 31, 1999. The loan
closing date would be June 30, 2000, six months following the project completion date.  The
disbursement period of 4 years or 16 quarters is shorter than the country disbursement profile of 6.5
years or 26 quarters. This is deemed achievable because the credit line, which is a relatively small
amount compared to anticipated demand for term funds, is expected to be disbursed within a reasonably
short time, as six banks have already confirmed their interest in and entering into subsidiary financing
agreements with CBJ. The estimated schedule of disbursements from proceeds of the Bank loan by
semesters is provided in Annex 7.
4.6    Special Account. To facilitate disbursements, the Government will open and maintain, under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account at CBJ with an authorized allocation of
US$4 million, representing 10 percent of the credit line. The Special Account will be replenished on
a monthly basis or when its balance is equal to 50 percent of the authorized allocation, whichever comes
first. Withdrawal applications will be supported by appropriate documentation, including a copy of the
monthly bank statements and their reconciliation with the Special Account transactions. Disbursements
can be made through direct payment or special commitments (subject to a minimum application size of
US$800,000) from the Bank.
E. Accounting, Auditing, and Reporting
4.7    The Borrower is in compliance with IBRD audit reporting covenants. During negotiations, the
Government gave assurances that: (a) project accounts, including the Special Account, will be maintained
in a format acceptable to the Bank and audited in accordance with Bank guidelines; and (b) the audit
reports will be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year, in such scope and
detail as the Bank may reasonably request, including a separate opinion by an independent auditor
acceptable to the Bank, on disbursements against the Special Account [para. 6. l(e)].



12                                                                Export Development Project
4.8    Reporting. In addition to monthly status update forms, which would include information on
disbursements, CBJ would submit annual imnplementation progress reports in November of each year, to
the Bank. The update forms and reports would follow a standardized format that would be finalized
during the project launch seminar. They would cover implementation status; deviations, if any, from the
Implementation Plan and reasons; problems and constraints, and the corrective actions being taken; and
updated disbursement and commitment tables. CBJ would also prepare a detailed Mid-Term Report and
submit it to the Bank by end November 1997 to serve as the basis for the Mid-Term Review, and an
Implementation Completion Report to the Bank within six months of the Closing Date of the Bank loan.
F. Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Involvement
4.9    The Bank has not been involved in an industrial credit finance operation in Jordan since the late
1970s; however, the lessons of Bank experience with such operations in other countries are reflected in
the design of the credit line. Specifically, funds would be onlent to eligible private banks at market
interest rates on a first-come, first-serve basis, and the- participating banks would price the subloans
freely. In addition, the macroeconomic environment is stable, inflation is low, interest rates are
deregulated, and the credit line would not be distortionary. Bank experience also shows that prospects
for achieving sustainable export competitiveness are greatly enhanced through a comprehensive approach
covering relevant policy and institutional reforms, support mechanisms to improve technical and
marketing know-how  at the firm  level, and availability of investment financing.  The parallel
implementation of this project with the rest of the Government's Export Sector Development Program,
complemented by policy reforms supported by ERDL operations, provides such an approach.
G. Project Sustainability
4.10    The project would enhance the capacity of participating banks to provide term finance and to
lend in foreign exchange. It would thereby create a base for increased longer-term lending under the
financial sector reforms that will be deepened with support from ERDL II. To help ensure sustainability,
the design of the credit line has been based on market conditions. Also, it is expected that the credit line
will serve as a catalyst to stimulate term finance by the banks. However, as the financial markets are not
yet sufficiently deep and term transformation limited, further support through credit lines may be needed
until the financial sector reforms take hold.
H. Project Objective Category
4.11    The project objective is classified under "Private Sector Development".
I. Environmental Impact
4.12  In view of the potential environmental impact of subprojects financed under the credit line, the
project is rated under Environmental Category "B." The PBs will ensure that each subproject application
under the credit line will comply with environmental standards satisfactory to the Bank and applicable
laws and regulations of the Government relating to health, safety and environmental protection. For this
purpose, the Bank has prepared an environmental manual for use by PBs to screen subloan applications
for environmental impact of proposed subprojects.



Export Development Project                                                            13
J. Participatory Approach
4.13 The project was prepared jointly with the Government, CBJ, and private sector firms and banks.
Interviews and group meetings were held with 125 firms and 15 of the 21 banks. The eligibility criteria
and operating procedures were developed with CBJ, taking into account the results of the interviews, as
well as Bank experience with credit lines. As part of the Bank support to the Government in formulating
its Export Sector Development Program, workshops were held in December 1994 and January 1995 with
public and private sector representatives on Jordan's export performance, elements of modern Customs
legislation, and international competitiveness.
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
5.1    The project would give Jordanian firms a timely opportunity to enhance their competitiveness and
productive capacity to enable them to participate more effectively in the global economy-either directly
or through joint ventures with regional or extra-regional partners. Approximately 80 firms would receive
subloans to make the investments necessary to develop capacity to exploit export opportunities. In
addition to increasing trade integration, it is expected that these investments would generate about 1,000
additional jobs, thereby raising total employment. Another benefit of the project would be to improve
access to term lending. The participation of private banks in the project would also improve financial
intermediation, enhance financial sector competition and build project-financing capabilities. The
eligibility criteria for subprojects include a minimum financial rate of return of 15 percent, which is
considered a good proxy for the economic rate of return of the project.
B. Project Risks
5.2    Deterioration of macroeconomic conditions as a result of various factors, including adverse
capital movements, could delay disbursements. However, the risk is small given the commitment the
Government has demonstrated to maintaining a stable macroeconomic environment, including flexible
exchange and interest rate policies, under adjustment programs supported by the Bank and IMF.
Additionally, Jordanian banks are relatively new to project appraisal and term-lending techniques. This
risk will be addressed through close Bank supervision-including a project launch seminar-clearly
specified operating guidelines and eligibility criteria, and training of selected PB staff in project appraisal
seminars.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED
6.1    During negotiations, Government gave assurances that it will cause CBJ to:
(a)   implement the project in accordance with the eligibility criteria for participating banks,
subborrowers, subloans, and subprojects (para. 3.7);
(b)   review, every six months, and adjust US dollar and JD onlending rates to reflect market
conditions (paras. 3.4 and 3.7);



14                                                                Export Development Project
(c)    carry out the project in accordance with the Implementation Plan, including target dates
of actions to be taken and monitoring indicators (paras. 3.1 and 4.2);
(d)    carry out a Mid-Term Review on or about January 1998 to assess progress and introduce
any required measures to improve project execution (para. 4.3); and
(e)    ensure that (i) project accounts, including the Special Account, is maintained in a format
acceptable to the Bank and audited in accordance with Bank guidelines; and (ii) the audit
reports are submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year, in
such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request, including a separate opinion
by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank on the Special Account (para. 4.7).
6.2    As a condition of loan effectiveness, subsidiary financing agreements shall have been signed
between CBJ and at least two prequalified banks to serve as participating banks (para.3.7).
6.3    The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis 'for a Bank loan to the Hashemite Kingdom of
Jordan in the amount of US$40 million at the Bank's standard LIBOR-based interest rate for US dollar
single currency loans, with a maturity of 20 years, including a 5-year grace period.



Annex I
Page 1 of 6
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
MINISTRY OF PLANNING                  1   r
AMMAN                                                                    I
Ref.        lo/L23J1 f_ _                                                                      _
Date A          .....5lA
Mr. James D. Wolfen.sohn
President
The World Bank
Washington, DC.
U. S.A-
Dear Wr. President:
Letter of Export Sector Development Policy
1.    As an integral part of its ongoing structural adjustment effort, The Govei nent of
The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan is pursuing a specific action- oriented prceram to
boost the efficiency, international competitiveness, and global market orientaticni of its
cxport sector. This letter describes the programs Iordan is undertaking, and confirms the
Government's comrmitment to carry out their implementation  The Government also
confirms its intention to seek a loan of USS 40 million from the World Bank to support
priority cornponents of its export development program.
2.    The action prograrn is designed to raise the international competitiveness of
exporting firms, increase export revenues by reducing trade transaction costs, liberalize the
free-trade zone regime, facilitate and promote investments, adopt intemational quality
standards, facilitate access of Jordanian firms to technical and marketing know-how, and
improve the access of firms to long-term financing.
L      Background
3.    Jordan's economy has shown consistent growth since 1992 when th: reform
program was rejuvenated aftcr the Gulf crisis. Preliminary estimates of GDP for 1995
show a growth of about 6.4 percent, led mainly by the increases in the output of
agriculture and mining sectors, which grew at 6 percent and 18 percent respectively.
Inflation remained below 4 percent and the extermal current aCcouat deficit was fiurther
reduced in 1995 by 1.5 percentage points to less than 5 percent of GDP. The export
sector also showed improvement. Merchandise exports increased by 14 percent in 1994
and 19.4 percent in 1995. The latter showed a strong performance of nontraditional
exports (which expanded by 24 percent). Tmport payments declined in nomina1 terms in
1994, but showed a shift in favor of raw materials a.nd capital equipment, which allowed
A.O.Bo~ :SSSCablu :NPCTc1u.1.     245 MMINP9.48 NPPcNf -PCe.44S'7.4 .: 14
P0.3cxo: 555 Cab1u: NPC Tel": 21319NTiC To. 24258 MIN?P JoTcIf=X: 649341 - Tdl.: 644486670 M4381125



Annex I
Page 2 of 6
for sustained econorric expansion. This shift conLinued in 1995, with imports going up by
11 1 percent, but those of raw materials increasing by 34.6 percenc. While the trade dcficit
remains high at about 31 percent of GDP, the government expects that the policies it is
pursuing to boost exports will bring it down to manageable levels over the next three to
five years.
4.    MIr. President, the Government of Jordan subriitted a medium-term economic
framework to the World Bank in a development policy letter dated September 25, 1995.
This programn is  well into its implementation phase and includcs major policy and
legislative reforms.  Actions already completed during  1995 include: removal of
cumbersome import licensing requirements; lowering and restucturing tariff; lowering
income taxes and streamlining tax procedures; equalizing domestic taxes on imports and
locally produced goods; and strengthening investment incentives to make tho business
environment more investment friendly.
5.    We strongly believe that the legislative and procedural changes recently introduced
will increase traasparency in the trade and banking regulations, simplify proccdures, and
reduce bureaucracy to enhance the private sector busincss environment. These measures,
-along with our futura straLegy of futher dcepening economic liberalization and reform,
are expected to contribute in a substantive way to our efforts to strengthen Jordan's
private sector, enhance its export potential, and bring about the developments nec.;-ary to
prepare our econoiny for further integration with the world economy.
6.     Sections II and 11 below describe the government's policy rationale for according
high priority to the export sector and a program of action in the policy, regulatory, and
procedural areas to achieve the desired results.
IL    Exports: A Priority Sector
7.    Concurrently with progress being made in the overall economic reform pxograrn,
the Government is focusing extraordinary attention to the development of its export sector
as a key element in sustaining a healthy economic growth over the mcdium-termL As we
make progress in negotiating trade agreements with the European Union and the World
Trade Organization (WTO), the need to organize the export scetor has become more
imminent. The challenges and opportunities generated by the progress in the rcgional
peace process exert further pressure to expedite this task. Expansion in intra-regional
tradc and new foreiga investments over the next two to three years is the most likely
expectation in Jordan.
8     lJordan's privatc sector, though willing and aware of these opportunities, needs
improvement. The majority of Jordanian exports are concentrated in natural resource
industries and primary products. Jordanian businesses remain small relative to their global
competitors, and their lack of intemational trade experience remains a serious handicap.



Annex 1
Page 3 of 6
9.    The overall development sLrategy for poverty reduction, employmnent generation
and improving Jordan's export potential rests on the roUowing three main policy dccisions
to which the govcrnment remains firmly committed;
*    A deliberate, private sector-led export oriented strategy will be followed to
diversify markets, increase private sector investments and improve the nation's
trade balance.
*    Economic growth will be sustained through; (a) increased investments in high
return expoLt-oriented industries; (b) eMicicncy and quality improvernents in
the productive sectors; and (c) development and enforcement of a regulatory
environment that is private sector-friendly.
*    yThe Govemrnent will provide practical tecnical and financial assistance oa a
cost-sharing basis to private sector enterprises to jump-start their growth and
enhance their competitiveness.
10.   With these pnrnciples in mind, the Governmcnt has formulated a comprehensive
program of policies and procedural reforms to develop the export sector. The proposed
Export Development Project would assist us in imnplementng some of the most critical
components of the Government's Export Developrnent Program.
ImL   The Program
Il.   The  Government's Export Development Program  cornprises  a  set of
comprehensive and action oriented steps to be implemented during the next two to, three
ycan. The various components of this program have been designcd in close cooperation
with private business leaders and representatives of public sector agencies such as the
Mnistry of Finaance, the Central Bank of Jordan, the Miaistry of Trade & Industry, and the
Investment Promotion Corporation. The program will work in tandem with the overall
economic reform activities. In specific, five broad areas relating to export promotion are
addressed:
(a)  Customs reforms
(b)  Liberalization of free trade zone regulations
(c)  Mobilization and enhancemcnt of invcstmcnts
(d)  Improvement of product standards and quality assurance
(e)  Increased access to term finance.
Customs Rcforms
12.   The present Customs Law does not provide clear guidelines regarding customs
declaration, valuation of goods, and the regulations eiiforcing penalty structures. It also
does not meet the WTO requiremeats for customs valuation. The government is in the
process of finalizing a new Customs Law that will be submitted to Parliament during 1996.
The new law woruld introduce the principle of self declaratior!, introduce clarity to
minimize the discretionary rreannent, update cnforcement mcasures, revise penalty
structures for violations, improve the definition of value to conform to GATTIWTO



Annex I
Page 4 of 6
requirernents foLlowing a transition period of refcrence-price based valuation.  A
reference-based price system would be adopted for problem conunodities while carrying
out preparatory work for introducing the GATT/WTO Valuation Code. The ncw law
would also establish  professional performance requirements for Customs personnel,
brokers and agerts.
13.   Reform of the customs rules and regulations is being undertaken with a view to
expediting and simplifying customs clearance for imports and expoits. The stream-lined
regulations will include: (a) a self-declaration system with only a random post-clearance
check of import declarations of up to 25 percent of all transactions; (b) setting of higher
processing targets to reduce clearance tirns; (c) reduction of physical inspection of
imports and exports to a maximum of 15 percent and 10 percent of all consignments
respectively; (d) exreading duty drawback and temporary cntry schemes to covcr
intelnediate producers; (e) replacing the cullelmany used incentive system of percenta-e of
fines for custorns officials with a more systematic merit-based reward program; and (i)
introducing a mechanism to appeal customs rulings.,
14.   The customs clearince procedures currently in force are not properly documented,
and are also not easily available to the concerned public. This causes unintended :d-hoc
and dissimilar handling of similar instances and introduces an element of discrct onary
treatment. In order to rectify this situarion, the government will devclop a detailed -nanual
of clearly designed operating procedures for customs operations that wil bc binding in all
rascs,  The manual win contain responsibilities of both customs clearance officers and
exporters and their agents. la order to implement the new customs regulations, an
intensive training program wil be carried out for customs ofEcials, broker-3 and agents.
The existing Custorns Training Center would be upgraded with qualified trainers, and an
Internal Affairs Deparument would be created within the customs organization to oversee
and implement a strict and transparent code of conduct and ethics.
15.     Finally, customs procedures would be automated in order to standardize
processing, facilitate enforcement and improve revenue collection.
Liberalizing the Free Trade Zone (FTZ) Regulations
16.   The currcnt legal framework governing the Free Trade Zones combiner  both
regulatory and management functions in the Free Zone Corporation (FZC). giving it
conflicting objectives.  To ease these conflicts, the government will reorganize and
reincorporate the FZC into a purely management entity for public sector free zones, while
transferring regulatory functions to a new entity under the Ministry of Finance. The
government also undertakes to introduce into Parliament during 1996, legislation to
amcnd the Free Zone law to allow private sector to establish and managc export oriented
and other special purpose free zones as well as allow private sector ownership of land and
factory premises at public sector free zones. The amended legislation would also thus
provide for dispute settement mechanisi, remnc-. a undue constraints rel-.1ing to
certificates of origin and minimurm export requirements.



Annex I
Page 5 of 6
Mobilizing Investments
17.   The government has recemtly establishcd an autonornous Investment Promotion
Corporation (rPC) with a mandate to work on activities that would encouragc direct
foreign investments through joint ventures, partnerships and equity participation.  It is
expected that the IPC will be responsible for market promotion activities and act as a
bridge to foreign companies interested in business collaborations. The government plauns
to strengthen the PC's technical capabilities through recruitment and retention of highly
skilled staff  and provision of short-term expatriate experts in the area of intemational
marketing, financial management and quality control. A training needs analysis of the
current IPC staff will be conducted and appropriate training modules will be dcsigned to
upgrade their skills.
Instituting Quality and Standards Controls
18. . It is widely understood that one of the most serious constraints to incteasing
Jordan's exports is the weakness in product standards and quality control. Manufacturers
realize that exports, particularly to the European Cormunity and beyond, can only
flourish if Jordanian products meet their stringent quality standards of the re(eiving
mar'Kets. To address this issue, the government plans to substantially upgrade the t-pacity
and technical eiciency of the Jordanian Institution for Standards and Metrology.
Jpgrading will involve institution restructuring, standards development, enforccment of
legal meLrology, establishing  national systems for laboratory  accreditation, and
certificatioa of products and quality systems. We intend to enter into a twinning
arran-ement with an international merrology, standards testing and quality (MSTQ)
institution to provide technical support and help train the technical and managerial staff of
the institution.
19.    The government recognizes that, in tandem with the upgrading of the Irnstitution, it
needs to accelerate accreditation of Jordanian laboratories by internationally recognized
bodies. Plans are underway to accredit over 10 laboratories that are heavily invoived in
tcsting for exports. we are also establishing a calibration system in Jordan w a joint
operation between the Royal Scientific Society and the Royal Jordanian Air Force. Under
the program, we will also carry out a program to assist enterprises in preparing for
obtaining IS09000 certification. Moreover, in preparation for WTO mcmbership -we will
establish a WTO Fnquiry PoiLnt as a central repository of lordanian and inter-ational
standards.
20.    As a fiurther effort to help firms develop their ability to compcte in the international
market, we wiU establish an MSTQ extension service to provide finns with diagnostic
scrvices on product standards and quality issues. We will also institute an Export Support
Progsam (ESP), to be operated on a cost-sharing basis with new or existing exporter
firns. to provide direct assistance in strategic export planning, product design and
customization, international marketing techniques and market intclligence, quality
certifl:ation, and traiing. The ESP will also provide test market facilities and assist with
other start-up costs, such as for initial promotion, overseas visits to negotiate nmarketing
contracts and technical advice.



Annex I
Page 6 of 6
Enhancing the Availability of Term-Fiuance
21.   The resumption of economic growth and Jordan's strong ecoeoriic liberalization
program are expectcd to increase private investments in Jordan significantly; these new
invesTnents will need to be supported by an adequate supply of term resources. Whilc the
governmcnt's economic development strategy wilI address many of the constralins Llat
now inhibit the financial system from filly responding to the investment finance needs of
the real sectors, the impact of financial sector reforms will be felt only over the medium
term. Increasing the availability of medium to longer-term finance will enable the private
sector to undertake investments that will enable the economy to grow and create jobs.
22.   Jordan's credit market has traditionally lacked medium-to long-term finance to
support industry expansion. Such credit is only avalable for real estate and housing
construction. An important component of the Export Developmeal Program is to initiate
a scheme to make available medium- to long-term loans for plant and equipment,
permitting working capital, and investments in energy conservation and polution controL
The World Bank loan will be used to set up a line of credit to be channeled fi2c;n the
Central Bank of Jordan to private commercial banks for on-lending to new or existing
pivac firms wanting to develop or expand productive capacity. This facility wil also help
Jordanian. commercial banks to stengthen their project appraisal and supervision
capabilities and make a substantial contnbution in enhancing the availability of medium- to
longer- term-finance to potential exporters.
Conclusion
23.   Mr. President, the Export Development Program outlincd above will complcment
Iordan's Econiomic Reform Program which is being carried out wiLh &iUll cooperati.n and
support of the World Bank and the Iaternational Monetary Fund. Jordan is sparng no
effort in getting organized and positioning itself to present one of the most invesmnent-
and trade-friendly environments in the Middle Est. Tlhe task is, by rLo means, n easy.
one. The transition towards a more private sector-lcd economy will require subsrantive
initial public sector investment to cover start-up costs. The Export Development Program
is also being supported by a number of other donors such as Germany, the European
Union, USAID and possibly the Government of Canada and the Arab Fund for Econornic
and Social Development. The World Bank's conLlibution toward its implementation will
be a key intervention not only as a direct investment, but also as a catalyst for attracting
other donors.
With my best personal regards.
Sincerely Yours,
Rima KhalafHunaidi
Minister of Plauling



Annex 2
Page I of 9
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Constraints to Supply of Medium- to Long- Term Finance
Background
1.    Jordan's success in stabilizing its economy has led to a resumption of growth. Coupled with
deregulation of the real sectors, tariff reforms, reform of investment and tax regulations, and progress
in the peace process, investments in Jordan are poised for rapid growth and demand for long-term credit.
Increased demand for term resources has been confirmed through field interviews with private investment
banks. All of them confirmed that private firms are considering investments to exploit emerging
opportunities and they have received many requests for term credit to finance new investment. However,
they indicated that they are unable to fully satisfy the demand for long-term finance as they do not have
an adequate supply of long-term funds. For large firms with whom banks have a long-standing credit
relationship, banks indicated that they attempt to provide term finance by rolling over short term loans
and through syndicated loans. For other firms, the banks indicated that they entertain requests for
medium- to longer-term lending only when they have an identified source of term funds. For example,
a few years ago, investment banks extended medium-term finance under a line of credit from the Islamic
Development Bank, which provided term funds through the Government of Jordan. If such sources are
not available, banks indicated that they either direct their clients to the Industrial Development Bank or
lend only against credit guarantees from the Jordan Credit Guarantee Corporation or under refinance
arrangements with the Central Bank of Jordan (CBJ). Some of the smaller banks also indicated that
greater availability of term resources would enable them to offer a fuller range of financial products and
assist them in competing with the bigger banks.
2.     These findings were confirmed by a recent survey of constraints faced by exporters.' The survey
identified limited availability of term resources as a major impediment to realizing full export potential.
Some of the main findings of the survey relating to access to preshipment export finance and investment
finance are:
*  Inadequate access to finance prevents firms from exploiting export opportunities. For example, a
manufacturer with a good export track record and export market prospects could not exploit the
demand because he did not have access to preshipment and medium-term finance.
*  Many exporters are interested in securing foreign currency loans to finance export production.
Banks, despite having large sums of short-term foreign currency deposits, were reluctant to satisfy
this requirement because the need to obtain prior CBJ approval on a case-by-case basis makes such
lending cumbersome (only very recently CBJ has announced measures to facilitate bank lending in
foreign currency).
The project preparation mission conducted formal interviews, using a standard questionnaire with 28
current and potential exporters. The survey results are presented in "Export Constraints Faced by
Jordanian Enterprises--A Survey of Jordanian Firms, " Rhee and Katterbach, World Bank, December 1994.
In addition, interviews were conducted with over 100 other small-and medium-size firms and 15 banks
during project preparation.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 9
* Most firms have recently invested in new machinery. Only a small number financed them through
medium- and longer-term loans, while most relied on self-financing. Five firms indicated that they
had enough demand to justify fresh investments in plant and machinery of around JD 300,000 each.
As they would not be able to access term finance, they would postpone these investments until they
accumulated sufficient internally-generated funds.
* Most firms indicated that CBJ's refinance scheme for term loans was not easily accessible due to
limited information about the scheme, restrictive eligibility criteria, and slow processing of
applications, as each request requires a detailed analysis by CBJ in addition to appraisal by the
Industrial Development Bank which implements the refinance scheme.
3.     Thus, particularly small- and medium-firms undertake fresh investments only when they have
accumulated enough internally generated funds. As a result, productive investments cannot occur quickly
and at the right time to exploit market opportunities. Financing the anticipated growth in investments in
the productive sectors of the economy will be a major challenge in the next few years. Systematic efforts
will be required to improve the performance of the financial system in mobilizing and intermediating
long-term savings. The Jordan Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 12645-JO) provides a
comprehensive review of financial sector constraints and their impact on financing longer-term
investments in the productive sectors.  The next sections summarize projections of investment
requirements and the main issues in increasing the supply of term resources through the financial system.
Investment Requirement
4.     Deregulation of the real sectors such as telecommunications, agriculture, and  power have
increased opportunities for private investments and will raise the demand for term resources. The impact
of these developments is already being felt. In 1994, 123 projects with an aggregate investment of JD
257 million were approved by the Investment Promotion Department of the Ministry of Industry and
Trade. The amount was nearly double that approved in 1992. Annual imports of electrical and non-
electrical machinery increased from JD 150 million in 1990 to more than JD 360 million in 1994.
Progress in the regional peace process and prospects for closer cooperation with EU are enhancing
Jordan's attractiveness as a location for export-oriented production facilities.  Furthermore, tariff,
investment, and tax reforms supported by the Economic Reform and Development Loan (ERDL),
approved in September 1995, will establish the framework for increased competition; improved access
to international markets under the proposed exporter support program (Figure 1 in the main text) will also
create more demand for plant and machinery.
5.     Over the next five years (1995-2000), gross fixed investment is projected to grow at a rate of 27
percent. This would require a total investment of JD8.6 billion (US$12 billion equivalent). Out of this
amount, JD2.6 billion (US$3.6 billion) would be required for machinery and equipment. It is unlikely
that Jordanian economy will be able to finance such an investment from internal sources. As the access
to international capital markets will expand only gradually, a major part of the financing requirement will
need to be funded from multilateral and bilateral sources. The project would finance a small part of this
requirement and enable the Jordanian private sector to undertake investment projects which will contribute
to economic growth of the country and generate much needed foreign exchange.
Constraints to Supply of Medium- to Long-Term Finance
6.     A wide variety of institutions intermediate savings and lending in Jordan. The main financial
institutions are the commercial and investment banks, specialized credit institutions, the Amman Financial
Market (AFM), pensions funds, insurance companies, and an investment company. While the financial
system has a variety of institutional players with a well developed banking system, ,t is not sufficiently
flexible and efficient to support a competitive trade and investment regime. Institutional, policy and



Annex 2
Page 3 of 9
regulatory rigidities have caused segmentation, muted competition, and thwarted efficient intermediation,
leading to a suboptimal pattern of savings mobilization and allocation. As a result, sources of long-term
finance are limited and are not effectively channeled to financing investments in the productive sectors.
7.     The banking system--21 licensed commercial and investment banks--is the largest component of
the financial system. In recent years considerable progress has been made in strengthening the banking
system. Commercial and investment banks are now required to follow the Basle norms for capital
adequacy and prudential lending guidelines conforming to international practices. According to CBJ,
most banks are now in compliance with the capital adequacy guidelines. Loan loss-provisioning has also
been increased and bad and doubtful loans have been fully provided for. The adoption of prudential
lending guidelines and enhanced powers of CBJ to intervene in case of incipient financial distress in
banks, coupled with improved on-site and off-site supervision, has caused a significant decline in bad
loans to less than 6 percent of outstanding loans.
8.     Even though the banking system is sound, mainly privately owned and effectively supervised, it
has had limited success in providing long-term credit to the economy. While loans to the private sector
account for nearly 90 percent of total outstanding bank credit, majority of the loans (approximately 70
percent in 1994) are for maturities of less than one year, with overdraft facilities accounting for nearly
35 percent of all loans. These loans are predominantly for short-term working capital purposes and
mainly to an established client base. On the remaining loans, repayment periods generally do not exceed
two years. Loans with maturities in excess of two years are generally extended on a syndicated basis and
restricted to large and we!l known companies. In some instances, longer-term loans have been provided
by rolling overdraft facilities. However, this arrangement is only made available to borrowers with which
the banks have long-standing credit relationships.
9.     The main reason for the limited supply of term resources from the banking system  is the
predominance of short-term deposit liabilities: deposits with maturities in excess of one year account for
a very small fraction of total deposit liabilities. Thus, fear of asset-liability mismatches prevents banks
from extending term loans. Privileges enjoyed by the specialized credit institutions and rigidities in the
capital markets have reduced incentives for commercial banks and investment banks to mobilize and
allocate long-term savings. Since banks cannot compete with specialized institutions that have access to
subsidized credit, they do not aggressively seek long-term savings. Instead they focus on providing short-
term working capital.
10.    Since 1989 CBJ has allowed the banking system to accept deposits denominated in foreign
currency. This has resulted in the healthy growth of banking system deposits denominated in foreign
currency. Such deposits accounted for approximately two-thirds of the increase in deposits between 1988
and 1993. Foreign currency deposits from both residents and non-residents now represent approximately
38 percent of banking system deposit liabilities. Until very recently, banks could not use these deposits
for extending loans to domestic firms. While this restriction has now been lifted and should encourage
banks to expand the choice of borrowing currencies they offer borrowers, it is unlikely to translate into
a significant increase in availability of term loans, as most of these deposits are short term.
11.    Until recently a number of other factors were also responsible for reducing the role of banks in
mobilizing and allocating long-term savings. The CBJ in the past used bank-by-bank credit ceilings as
an instrument of monetary control. While this prevented excessive credit expansion, it reduced incentives
for banks to compete for deposits and loans. The emergence of a liquid interbank market was also
thwarted because of reserve requirements on interbank deposits. The stunted development of the inter-
bank market in turn held back the growth of properly functioning money or bond markets, prevented
competition for funds between banks, and inhibited the smooth flow of funds between financial
institutions. Finally, in the past, CBJ involvement in individual bank credit decisions also reduced
incentives for banks to undertake term lending.



Annex 2
Page 4 of 9
12.    The CBJ has made a number of changes in rules and regulations aimed at improving incentives
and intermediation efficiency within the banking system without jeopardizing its integrity. All interest
rates have been deregulated and direct credit controls are being replaced by indirect monetary control.
Since 1993 the CBJ has been issuing certificates of deposit as part of its monetary management. In 1994
CBJ repealed regulations that restricted credit expansion to ten times the size of each bank's capital, and
in 1995 it eliminated credit/deposit ratios. These measures are expected to improve competition within
the banking system and enable smaller commercial and investment banks to compete more aggressively.
13.   Ideally, long-term investment funds should be provided from the capital markets. The Amman
Financial Market (AFM) is one of the largest stock exchanges in the region. About 150 companies are
quoted on the AFM with total market capitalization of JD2.267 million as at end 1992. The Arab Bank
accounts for nearly 40 percent of AFM's market capitalization and the five largest companies account for
nearly two-thirds of market capitalization. In the primary market between 1978-94, AFM supplied about
JD 1.5 billion of equity capital through primary market issues. However, its role as provider of capital
to the economy has been uneven. In 1981 new equity issues by new and existing companies represented
5 percent of GDP. By 1992 these had declined to 1.2 percent of GDP. During 1993 with the resumption
of economic growth new equity issues in the AFM aggregated about JD 230 million-about 6 percent of
GDP. About 60 percent of the newly raised capital went to existing companies quoted on AFM.
14.   While AFM has been at times an important source of long-term equity capital, its full potential
has not been achieved because of deficiencies in laws and regulations. The major constraints to AFM's
smooth functioning and its growth are: (i) requirements under the Companies Law that limit shareholdings
by each of the original promoters to less than 10 percent; (ii) determination of pricing of new equity
issues by the Government-appointed "Issuing Committee" instead of the market determining price of new
issues; (iii) cumbersome registration procedures including the small denomination of the face value of
shares; (iv) taxation of capitalized retained earnings; and (v) poor rules and regulations relating to
financial disclosure of companies and the activities of brokerage firms. These constraints have tended
to undermine public confidence.  They have also prevented the growth of the market makers,
underwriters, and brokers necessary to bring a larger number of companies to the market on a
competitive basis. Most firms other than large companies find the cost of raising equity capital through
AFM prohibitive.
15.    Bond markets in Jordan are underdeveloped and generally not accessible by the private sector
for a number of reasons. First, benchmarks for pricing bonds do not exist. Second, information on bond
markets is not easily available, making trading difficult. Third, the poor development of long-term
contractual savings institutions in Jordan has limited the demand for long-term debt instruments. Fourth,
the bond market is used to having government guarantees on bond issues. As a result, between 1988 and
1993, the private sector raised only JD 14 million through bond issues. In 1994 no private manufacturing
firm or investment bank managed to raise resources in the bond market.
16.   While transparent regulations and low transaction costs are necessary to motivate firms to access
capital markets, the existence of a strong supply side is equally important. In this context, contractual
savings institutions can play a catalytic role in developing vibrant capital markets. The institutional basis
for contractual savings is not fully developed in Jordan, primarily due to weak regulatory and institutional
framework that impedes the growth of private pension and mutual funds. As a result, individual savers
have limited institutional choices and limited financial products for storing their long-term savings.
17.   The growth of private contractual savings institutions has also been deterred by the existence of
the government-managed Social Security Corporation (SSC). The SSC manages the mandatory social
security contributions of employees and employers (15 percent of salaries have to be put towards social
security, with the employer contributing 10 percent and the employee, 5 percent). Total assets of SSC
are about US$800 million. Thle SSC has a substantial annual cash flow surplus and logically should be



Annex 2
Page 5 of 9
the source of long-term funds. However, the bulk of SSC's investments - over 50 percent - are in short-
term bank deposits. Loans account for another 23 percent of SSC's assets, with a significant portion of
these loans being to the G;overnment. Very few loans have been extended to purely private companies.
Equity investments are only about 13 percent of total assets and bond holdings are very small because
the Government requires SSC to keep a substantial portion of its funds as deposits with the Housing Bank
and give priority to purchase of short-term Government debt. As a result, SSC has been ineffective in
using its large annual flow of long-term funds to catalyze growth of equity and bond markets.
18.   One source of equity capital is the Jordan Investment Corporation (JIC) which is an investment
arm of the Government. Established in 1991 as a successor to the State Pension Fund, it is wholly owned
by the Government. It is the main institutional investor in the Jordanian economy and is funded
exclusively from Government equity contributions. At the end of 1993 JIC had invested in 43 companies
listed on the stock exchange that accounted for 60 percent of AFM's capitalization and JIC's own
investments accounted for 18 percent of AFM's capitalization. JIC is the majority shareholder in a
number of these companies. In addition, JIC has holdings in 28 companies not quoted on the stock
exchange. The total value of JIC investments as at end 1993 was JD 174 million. JIC has been an
important source of equity finance for Jordanian companies and has considerable influence and control
over publicly quoted companies. However, it is dependent on government financing and thus not in a
position to exercise independent corporate governance. Exclusive reliance on government funds has also
meant that it plays no active role in mobilizing and investing long-term savings from private individuals.
Thus, its impact on the growth of capital markets has been limited. In most instances its investments
have been in companies that are monopolies. Its role in promoting a competitive private sector has been
minimal. In addition to SSC and JIC there are private pension funds established by large companies and
banks. While not much is known about their investments their share in the financial system is very small.
19.   The insurance sector can also be a potential source of long-term funds. There are 17 insurance
companies in Jordan all of which are publicly quoted; however, the sector represents only 4 percent share
in the total assets of the financial system. The regulatory framework governing insurance companies is
not well defined and there are restrictions on entry of foreign insurance companies. As a result, the
insurance sector plays a very marginal role in the supply of long-term funds.
20.    The leasing industry in Jordan has not developed (there is only one leasing company, which has
had IFC involvement) for two main reasons: (i) restrictions on capacity to leverage; and (ii) deficiency
in collateral laws. Leasing companies are treated as non-financial companies. Hence their ability to raise
funds in the capital markets through bond issues is limited since they have to comply with leverage
restrictions of 1:1 set for companies that wish to issue corporate bonds. Furthermore, the Civil Code
does not provide adequate protection to leasing companies for using moveable property as the only
security in a lease transaction. The procedures for registering a lease interest or repossessing leased assets
is cumbersome.
21.   Another factor that has delayed the growth of long-term equity and debt markets is the privileged
position enjoyed by the four main specialized long-term financial institutions. These institutions were
established with a view to providing long-term loans for investment purposes. The Agricultural Credit
Corporation (ACC) finances the agricultural sector, the Cities and Villages Development Bank finances
municipal projects, the Industrial Development Bank (IDB) finances the industrial sector and the Housing
bank finances the real estate sector (it also has a commercial banking wing). As of the end of 1993, total
assets of the specialized financial institutions were JD 1,334 million, with loans and advances to the
private sector accounting for about 38 percent of total assets. Their share of credit extended by the
financial system was around 18 percent. During the past few years net new lending to the productive
sector has not been high-during 1994 net loan disbursements to the private sector were only JD 48
million.



Annex 2
Page 6 of 9
22.   These banks have enjoyed special privileges, in the form of access to funds from CBJ, the
Government, and from international financial institutions (concessional funds). In most instances these
resources were made available at subsidized interest rates, enabling these banks to lend at interest rates
lower than what private financial institutions were willing to charge. For example, ACC's agriculture
lending has been at interest rates much lower than the going interest rates on loans from private banks.
In some cases, the cost of funds has been further subsidized through exemption from income taxes or
from import duties. For example, IDB pays neither income taxes nor customs duties. These privileges
are being removed however. As stated below (para. 25) and in the Government's Medium-Term
Framework Policy Matrix, during the calendar year 1996, the special privileges of IDB and the Housing
Bank are to be eliminated and they are to undergo CBJ supervision as other banks. Furthermore, the
Government will dispose of its minority equity holding (20 percent) in the Housing Bank.
23.    These special privileges have had a distortionary effect on the rest of the financial system
particularly on the availability of long-term credit for small and medium firms. Typically such long-term
credit institutions raise resources through bond issues. Resources raised through bond offerings are then
onlent to borrowers who, on their own, cannot directly access capital markets--generally small and
medium firms. However, in Jordan because of access to subsidized funds, these institutions lack the
incentives, skills or strong balance sheets to access capital markets. Of late, these institutions have also
faced a resource crunch. Because of monetary reasons and the need to curtail government spending,
access to funds from the CBJ and the Government has been reduced. Concessionary finance from
external sources is also becoming scarce. As a result, these institutions have been unable to fully service
the long-term financing needs of Jordanian firms. At the same time, development of bond markets is
delayed since bond issues by such institutions can often form the basis for development of a vibrant bond
market.
Govermnent's Strategy for Financial Deepening
24.   The Government of Jordan recognizes the policy and institutional constraints in the financial
system that have slowed financial deepening, and has included financial sector liberalization as a major
focus of its medium-term economic development strategy. With support from the Bank, the Govermment
plans to implement financial sector policy and institutional reforms to facilitate the growth of competitive
and well-regulated financial markets.  These reforms are outlined in the Government's Letter of
Development Policy for ERDL, and the related policy matrix is provided at the end of this Anmex.
25.   For the near future, the Government has set two main goals for deepening the financial sector:
(i) improve competition and efficiency in the banking system; and (ii) increase the mobilization and
intermediation of long-term savings by the capital markets, contractual savings institutions and the
insurance industry. The Government's specific policy objectives are:
* Further enhancement of competition in the banking system, for both deposits and loans, through
additional reform measures consisting of: (a) unification of reserve requirements for all banks so that
the trend towards universal banking can be strengthened (by end 1996, the difference between reserve
ratios applied to commercial banks and investment banks will be reduced to a maximum of 5
percent); (b) removal of reserve requirements on inter-bank deposits so that flow of resources
between banks is enhanced; (c) further strengthening of CBJ's off-site and on-site supervision
infrastructure; and (d) more transparent financial disclosure based on internationally accepted
accounting standards.
* Reform of specialized credit institutions through: (a) elimination of special privileges; (b) application
of a regulatory regime identical to that for private commercial and investment banks; (c) privatization
of the Industrial Development Bank; and sale of Government shares in the Housing Bank; and (d)
comprehensive restructuring of the Agriculture Credit Corporation.



Annex 2
Page 7 of 9
*  Reform of capital markets through: (a) separation of operational and supervisory functions; (b)
installation of a modem trading, settlement, clearing and depository system; (c) adoption of fuller
financial disclosure guidelines based on internationally accepted accounting principles; and (d)
transparent regulation of brokers and underwriters.
*  Reform of the Companies Law so that (a) pricing of equity issues is determined by the market and
not by the "Issuing Committee"; (b) companies can issue unsecured bonds; (c) the amount of bonds
issued by companies can exceed their paid-up capital; and (d) share-holders can have 100 percent pre-
emptive rights.
*  Strengthening of the contractual savings institutions through: (a) reform of the insurance registration
allow new entry under a strengthened and independent regulatory body; (b) policy and regulatory
reforms that allow for private management of social security and pension schemes; and (c) amending
the Companies Law to permit establishment and supervision of private mutual funds.
26.    The long-term efforts discussed above, however, are not sufficient to deal with the immediate
need of firms for long-term funds, particularly in foreign exchange. The proposed credit line would
therefore serve as a useful vehicle to support the private sector in Jordan while the financial sector
reforms are being implemented and consolidated.



Annex 2
Page 8 of 9
The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Medium-Term Policy Framework Matrix
Financial Policy
Policy Arcs                      Policy Actions taken prior to    Policy Actions for Phase II    Policy Actions for Phase III
October 1995                    (1996)                           (1997-1998)
(Indicative)
1. Banking Sector: Objectives: to improve bank competition, and the efficiency of financial intermediation.
I.1 Reserve Requirement         Removed the provision subjecting   Reduce the difference between   Continue  progress  towards
interbank  deposits to  reserve   reserve  ratios  applied  to   unification of the reserve ratio
requirement.                     commercial  banks   and   consistent with the monetary
investment banks to a maximum    policy objectives.
of 5 percentage points.
1.2 Credit Control              Removed the Credit to Capital   Continue  to  adopt  and
Ratio as a monetary instrument   consolidate  the   indirect
and continue to use it only as a   monetary control instruments as
prudential instrument.           envisaged  in  the  macro
economic adjustment program.
Removed the Credit to Deposit
Ratio.
1.3 Local and regional Banking                                   Relax  the   constraints  on   Formulate a phased action plan
Competition                                                      mergers.                        to  eliminate  any   legal
discrimination   for  entry
Encourage the establishment of   between Jordanian and foreign
ownership  linkages  between   commercial banks.
Jordanian and foreign banks.
Complete the study on "Banking
Sector Competition".
1.4 CBJ's Rediscount/Advance   Reduced interest rate subsidies to   Reduce the interest rate subsidy   Eliminate  the  interest rate
Facility                        one percent except for ACC,   for ACC, handicraft industry   subsidy with the exception of
export credit and small handicraft  and   export  credit  to   2   ACC,  export  credits  and
industry.                        percentage points.              handicraft industry.
1.5 Foreign Exchange interbank   Accepted provisions under the
market                          Article VIII of the IMF Articles
of Agreement.
Permitted banks, without prior
approval of the CBJ, to use up to
50% of their foreign exchange
denominated deposits in:
(i) syndicated loans;
(ii) to lend to each other; and
(iii) to invest in AAA and AA
securities in the intemational
market.
2.0 Specialized Credit Institutions:   Objectives: to eliminate the financial distortions, and to improve the financial viability of the
institutions.
2.1 The Housing Bank                                             Eliminate special privileges of   Develop  an  action  plan to
the lHousing Bank, and make   privatize  the  Govemment's
the Bank subject to the same   ownership  in  the  Housing
Central Bank supervision as in   Bank.
the case of all other banks.
2.2  The  Agriculture  Credit                                    Finalizing   study  for  the   Commercialize the operations
Corporation (ACC)                                                restructuring of ACC to cover   of ACC through full financial
training of staff, diversifying its  and managerial autonomy.
portfolio, and formulating a
.__________________________  ____________________________  plan    for  com mercializing.



Annex 2
Page 9 of 9
Policy Area                      Policy Actions taken prior to    Policy Actions for Phase II    Policy Actions for Phase III
October 1995                    (1996)                           (1997-1998)
(Indicative)
2.3 The Industrial Development                                   Start  to  eliminate  special   Develop  an  action  plan  to
Bank (IDB)                                                       privileges of the IDB to convert   privatize  the  Govemment's
it into a full bank subject to the   ownership in the IDB while
Central Bank supervision.      maintaining  its provision of
medium-  and   long-term
financing to industry.
3.0 Long-term Financial Markets:    Objectives: to encourage longer-termi savings, and promote the development of capital markets
3.1   The  Amman  Financial                                      Conduct a study to determine   Based on study results, develop
Markets (stocks and bonds)                                       optimum  structure  for AFM    an  action  plan  and  start
including  the  feasibility  of   implementation.
separating  the  operational
function from  the supervisory   Automate  systems,  create
one.                            central   settlements  and
securities depository.
Acquire and install a trading
clearing   settlement  and   Adopt  and  announce  the
depository system.              principle of full and credible
financial disclosure.
Implement  new   procedures
concurrently on a stock by stock   Adopt a uniform  code  of
basis, starting with less active   general accounting principles.
stocks.
The Companies Law with
following provisions will be
presented to the Parliament:
(i) the removal of the provision
which requires that the issuing
price to be determined by the
Issuing   Committee,  and
replacing it with a provision
that  the  market  (i.e.  the
underwriting company)
determine the price at issue.
(ii)  the  removal  of  the
provisions requiring that the full
value of corporate bonds must
be guaranteed by a mortgage;
(iii) allowing 100% pre-emptive
rights for share-holders; and
(iv) removal of the provision
requiring that the value of
corporate bonds must not exceed
the paid-up capital.
3.2.  Contractual   Savings   Amended the Insurance Law  to   Adopt by law to set standards   Adopt policy and regulatory
Institutions                    open market for competition and   for insurance sector.          reforms  in  pension  fund
allow new entry.                                                 management as needed.
Conduct a study to review the
social security  and  pension   Continue  to implement and
funds to allow private pension   consolidate  the  regulatory
schemes.                        reforms   in  pension   and
insurance industries.
3.3 Financial Diversification                                    Companies Law be amended to   Consolidate the regulatory and
permit the  establishment of   supervisory capacity for the
mutual funds and the necessary   mutual  fund  industry  and
regulatory capacity.            establish   the   necessary
supervisory  institutional
I capacity.






Annex 3
Page 1 of 5
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terns and Conditions of the Line of Credit
Objective:   The objective of the credit line is to enable private firms invest in improving their
international competitiveness. The credit line would provide financially sound private commercial and
investment banks with access to term resources for financing medium and long-term investments of
private Jordanian firms. It would finance viable projects in all sectors other than real estate and housing
construction.
Borrower: The Government of Jordan
Loan Amount: US$ 40 million
Terms: The loan would consist of a single currency loan in US Dollars at the Bank's standard LIBOR-
based interest rate repayable over 20 years, including a grace period of 5 years. The last date for
commitment under the line of credit would be January 31, 1999.
Implementing Agency: The Central Bank of Jordan (CBJ), acting as the fiscal agent for the
Government of Jordan.
Beneficiaries: Private commercial and investment banks that meet the eligibility criteria established by
CBJ. The eligibility criteria are described on pages 4 and 5 of this Annex. During negotiations,
Government agreement was received on these criteria.
Onlending Terms to Participating Banks: Funds under the credit line would be onlent by CBJ to
participating banks (PBs) in US dollars or in Jordanian dinars (JD) at interest rates that, at a minimum,
cover the Government's cost of funds and reflect prevailing market conditions. Under current conditions,
the on-lending rate for US dollar loans would be LIBOR, plus a minimum spread of 100 basis points,
including 25 basis points for CBJ's administrative fee. For JD loans the on-lending rate would be the
Jordanian Treasury Bill' rate plus 50 basis points, of which 25 basis points would represent CBJ's
administrative fee.
The US dollar and JD on-lending rates would be reviewed every six months and, if necessary, new rates
reflecting the market conditions would be established; and the World Bank informed. The commnitment
charges paid by the Government to the World Bank would also be recovered from the PBs. The
repayment period for each loan extended to the PBs under the credit line would be the same as that on
the subloan extended by the PBs to private borrowers, subject to a maximum of seven years. Funds
would be onlent to PBs on a first-come first-served basis under subsidiary financing agreements executed
between the PBs and CBJ. Signing of subsidiary financing agreements between CBJ and at least two
prequalified banks to serve as PBs is a condition of effectiveness for the World Bank loan.
The 3-month Jordanian treasury bills are auctioned monthly by CBJ on behalf of the Government.
They have been issued since 1960s. The volumes issued in the last three years were JD1 billion each
in 1993 and 1994 and JD603 million in 1995. The large majority is purchased by private banks. In
January 1996, the interest rate on the treasury bills was 8.6%.



Annex 3
Page 2 of 5
Purpose of Subloans: The PBs would use loans under the credit line to fund medium- and longer-term
loans (hereinafter referred to as subloans), sanctioned and disbursed by them to private Jordanian firms
(hereinafter referred to as subborrowers) for financing eligible activities (hereinafter referred to as sub-
projects). The eligibility criteria for subborrowers, subloans and subprojects are described in Appendix
2. At negotiations, agreement has been reached with the Government on the eligibility criteria. The
activities to be financed would broadly aim at implementing well conceived strategies for enhancing
competitiveness and, would include the following:
(a)    plant improvements, construction of factory premises, and acquisition of new plant and
machinery; and purchase of technical know-how and quality assurance equipment;
(b)    investments in energy conservation and pollution control equipment;
(c)    incremental permanent working capital needs arising as part of investments in new plant
and machinery; and
(d)    one-time cost of establishing marketing arrangements and providing training associated
with the new investments;
Onlending Terms for Subloans. The PBs would onlend funds to eligible enterprises in US dollars or
in Jordanian dinars. There would be no ceiling on the final interest rate or on the spread to be charged
by the PBs on individual subloans. These would be freely determined by the PBs, based on their analysis
of credit risk and on their relationships with prospective borrowers. However, the maximum repayment
period on any subloan would not exceed seven years, including a grace period of not more than three
years. The maximum amount of an individual subloan would be US$2 million. The first two subloans
extended by each PB under the line of credit would require prior approval of CBJ and the World Bank.
Thereafter, the PBs would send details about eligible subloans to CBJ for purposes of authorizing
disbursements only.
Implementation Arrangements. The CBJ will implement the credit line. For this purpose, CBJ has
established a two-person unit, supervised by the Executive Manager, External Debts and Agreements
Department. The specific responsibilities of this unit are to:
(a)    prequalify PBs and execute subsidiary financing agreements;
(b)    ensure that PBs meet the eligibility criteria;
(c)    approve the first two subloans extended by each PB, as well as obtain World Bank's
approval;
(d)    ensure on ex-post basis that each subloan (with the exception of the first two sub-loans
extended by each PB) complies with the eligibility criteria relating to subborrowers and
subprojects;
(e)    monitor and supervise utilization of the credit line, and keep the World Bank periodically
inforrned;
(f)    obtain periodic reports from the PBs on the subloans; and



Annex 3
Page 3 of 5
(g)   ensure that disbursements under the credit line are in accordance with agreements reached
between the Government and the Bank on procurement and environmental assessments.
Environmental Impact. The PBs will ensure that each subproject will comply with the environmental
standards satisfactory to the Bank and with applicable laws and regulations of the Government relating
to health, safety and environmental pollution.
Procurement. Procurement of goods, services and works under the subloans would be carried out in
accordance with normal comnmercial practices of enterprises. These are acceptable to the Bank. The PBs
would maintain records of procurement procedures and methods used, summarizing offers and awards
for ex-post review by the Bank on a periodic basis.
Disbursements. Of the amounts disbursed by PBs under any subloan, subject to a maximum of US$2
million, the Bank loan would finance 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 90 percent of local
expenditures for goods and works, and 100 percent for consultants' services. Disbursements by PBs
would be against invoices. A Special Account would be opened by the Government of Jordan with CBJ,
with an authorized allocation of US$4 million. The Special Account would be replenished on a monthly
basis or when the balance is equal to 50 percent of the authorized allocation, whichever comes first.
Withdrawal applications would be supported by appropriate documentation, including a copy of the
monthly bank statements and their reconciliation with the Special Account transactions. Disbursements
can be made through direct payment or special commitments (subject to a minimum application size of
US$800,000) from the Bank.
Subloan Approvals and Free Linmits. It is expected that the average size of each subloan would be
US$500,000. As noted earlier, the first two subloans appraised by each PB under the line of credit would
be submitted to CBJ for prior approval. The CBJ would forward these to the World Bank for its
approval also. The request for approval would be accompanied by complete information on the subloans,
including a credit appraisal report prepared by the PB. Once CBJ and the World Bank have approved
the first two subloans, corresponding funds would be committed under the credit line. For subsequent
subloans, funds under the credit line would be committed to PBs as soon as they approve subloans that
meet the eligibility criteria. Details about subloans would be submitted by PBs to CBJ on a format
prescribed by CBJ. The CBJ would, in turn, keep the World Bank informed about the utilization of the
credit line on a monthly basis. Since the maximum amount of individual subloans is relatively small, no
separate free limits are being proposed.
Monitoring and Accounting. The CBJ would monitor implementation of the credit line. In January
1997 and 1999, Annual Reviews, and in January 1998, a Mid-Term Review would be held. In addition
to the monthly statements on the use of the credit line, CBJ would submit annual implementation progress
reports in November of each year, to the World Bank. The reports would follow a standardized format
that would be finalized during the project launch seminar. The reports would cover implementation
status; deviations, if any, from the Implementation Plan and reasons; problems and constraints, and the
corrective actions being taken; and updated disbursement and commitment tables. The CBJ would also
prepare a detailed mid-term report and submit it to the Bank by end November 1997 to serve as the basis
for the Mid-Term Review, and an Implementation Completion Report to the Bank within six months of
the Closing Date of the Bank loan. Progress on implementation of the credit line would be reviewed by
Bank supervision missions. The CBJ would ensure that the Special Account is audited by an independent
firm of auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audited accounts would be submitted to the Bank not later
than six months from the close of each fiscal year.



Annex 3
Page 4 of 5
Eligibility Criteria for Participating Banks
In order for commercial and investment banks to be eligible for acceding funds under the project,
they would be subject to the following criteria:
(a)    privately-owned and managed;
(b)   in compliance with all applicable banking laws and monetary regulations of the Central Bank of
Jordan (CBJ), including the capital adequacy requirements;
(c)    have the technical, financial, and administrative capacity to manage tern loans; and should have
prepared and adopted operating policies and procedures considered satisfactory by CBJ for
appraising and monitoring loans under the credit component; and
(d)    audited by independent external auditors and have an unqualified audit.
Eligibility Criteria for Subborrowers, Subprojects and Subloans
1 .    Subborrowers. Each subborrower should meet the following criteria:
(a)    privately owned, i.e., own at least 51 percent of the controlling interest;
(b)    have a maximum total debt-to-equity ratio of 2:1 and a minimum debt service ratio of at
least 1:3; and
(c)    have its accounts audited by independent external auditors.
2.    Subprojects. Each subproject should meet the following criteria:
(a)    eligible investments would include: (i) plant improvements, construction of factory
premises, acquisition of new plant and machinery, purchase of technical know-how and
quality assurance equipment; (ii) investment in energy conservation and pollution control
equipment; (iii) incremental permanent working capital arising as part of investments in
new plant and machinery; and (iv) incremental marketing and training expenses.
(investments in the housing or real estate sectors are not eligible);
(b)   investments in the housing or real estate sector are not eligible for subloans;
(c)    individual subprojects should have a projected financial rate of return of at least 15
percent; and
(d)   individual subprojects should comply with the environmental standards satisfactory to the
Bank and with applicable laws and regulations of the Government relating to health,
safety and environmental pollution.
3.    Subloans:  Each subloan should be backed by the following information:
(a)    descripticn of the subproject, including a detailed project report, description of the
proposed or existing enterprise including description of its products, past exports,
manufacturing capacity, organizational and management structure, and latest audited
financial statements;



Annex 3
Page 5 of 5
(b)    a detailed analysis of target markets, including a detailed description of the proposed
marketing strategy and analysis of existing capability to service the target market;
(c)    an appraisal report analyzing the commercial viability of the proposed investment and
covering, inter-alia: a detailed balance sheet and cash-flow analysis, analysis of market
demand-- both local and foreign; analysis of impact of tariffs; analysis of price-quality
competitiveness in target markets; analysis of access to inputs both local and imported;
and steps taken by the enterprise to improve competitiveness, establish marketing
channels, and enter into firm marketing arrangements; and
(d)    a financial analysis of past three years performance, if applicable, and projected financial
performance during the period of the subloan.






Annex 4
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost and Financing Plan
Project Cost Sunmmary
Local          Foreign             Total
-----------------------(US$  million)--
Credit Line                    20.0             40.0              60.0
Total Base Cost                20.0             40.0              60.0
Physical Contingencies         n.a.             n.a.              n.a.
Price Contingencies            n.a.             n.a.              n.a.
Total Project Cost             20.0             40.0              60.0
Financing Plan
Funding Source               Local      Foreign      Total    % of Financing Plan
-------------(US$ million)---).
IBRD                          0            40         40                67
Private Sector               20             0         20                33
Total                         20           40         60               100






Annex 5
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supervision Plan
Estimated Total Supervision Staffweeks Resources Required: 48
Estimated Field Supervision Staffweeks Required: 31
Approx.                              Supervision Activity                          Mission Composition                 Input
Date                                                                                                                   (sw)
April 1996    Project launch:  Review project implementation arrangements;         Task manager, procurement and         4
monitorable indicators; procurement, disbursement,  disbursement specialists, and
accounting and reporting procedures; and participating   financial sector specialist.
bank agreements (with CBJ project unit and PBs).
June 1996     Supervision:    Review status of line of credit implementation.      Financial sector specialist          4
Sept. 1996    Supervision:    Review progress and arrange for Annual               Financial sector specialist          2
Implementation Review.
Jan. 1997     Annual Implementation Review: Review progress over the previous      Task manager and financial sector     3
implementation period against monitorable performance and            specialist
disbursement indicators; make adjustnents as necessary.
June 1997     Supervision:    Review line of credit disbursements and pipelines.   Financial sector specialist,         2
Jan. 1998     Mid-Term Review: Review progress over the previous implementation    Task manager and financial sector     3
period against monitorable performance and disbursement indicators;  specialist
make adjustments as necessary.
June 1998     Supervision:    Review line of credit disbursements and pipelines.   Financial sector specialist           2
Jan. 1999     Annual Implementation Review: Review progress over the previous      Task manager and financial sector     3
implementation period against monitorable performance and           specialist
disbursement indicators; make adjustments as necessary.
June 1999     Supervision:    Review the line of credit operation. Initiate special  Task manager and financial sector   2
account recovery procedures and project completion  specialist
reporting.
Dec. 1999    Implementation Completion Report Mission                             Task manager, financial sector        6
specialist, disbursement officer,






Annex 6
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procurement Arrangements
Procurement Methods
Procurement Category             ICB      NCB        Other    NBF         Total
------------------------(US$ million)-----
Goods, works and consultants' services       0          0        60.0       0         60.0
financed by subloans under the credit line                      (40.0)'               (40.0)
Total                                        0          0        60.0       0         60.0
i  ______   (40.0)                (40.0)
1/   Procurement under subloans would be carried out in accordance with normal commercial practices in
Jordan. The subloans typically would finance investments by private firms for productive capacity
development or expansion.






Annex 7
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
IBRD Fiscal Year and Semester Ending:    US$ million    US$ million
(Cumulative)
FY 96      June 30, 1996                       4.0'          4.0
FY 97      Dec 31, 1996                        3.2           7.2
June 30, 1997                       4.8          12.0
FY 98      Dec 31, 1997                        5.1          17.1
June 30, 1998                       4.9          22.0
FY 99      Dec 31, 1998                        6.2          28.2
June 30, 1999                       4.4          32.6
FY 00      Dec 31, 1999                        4.8          37.4
June 30, 2000                      2.6          40.0
1/    Initial disbursements into the Special Account (US$4.0 million) will be recovered during the last four
semesters.









IMAGING
Report No:       14935 JO
Type: SAR



