Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21307
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-39930)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$40 MILLION
TO THE
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR AN EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
January 24, 2001
Private Sector Development and Finance Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of October 2000)
Currency Unit = Jordanian Dinar (JD)
JD 1.00 = US$ 1.409
US$ 1.00 = JD 0.71
JD 1.00 = fils 1,000
FISCAL YEAR
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CBJ                  Central Bank of Jordan
EDP                 Export Development Project
ERDL                 Economic Reform and Development Loan
ESDP                Export Sector Development Policy
FIL                  Financial Intermediary Loan
FSEZ                 Freeport and Special Economic Zone
GCC                 Gulf Cooperation Council
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
ICR                 Implementation Completion Report
IDB                 Industrial Development Bank
IMF                 International Monetary Fund
JD                  Jordanian Dinar
JEDCO                Jordan Export Development Corporation
MOP                 Ministry of Planning
MOP                  Memorandum of the President
PB                  Participating Bank
PMU                  Project Management Unit
QAG                 Quality Assurance Group
SAR                  Staff Appraisal Report
SME                  Small and Medium-Size Enterprise
TA                  Technical Assistance
USAID                United States Agency for International Development
SOE                 Statement of Expenditure
Vice President:   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:   Inder Sud
Sector Manager/Director:    Wafik Grais
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Victor Agius



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                           I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Dcsign, and of Quality at Entry                1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                     6
6. Sustainability                                                                         7
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                          7
8. Lessons Learned                                                                       10
9. Partner Comments                                                                      10
10. Additional Information                                                               11
Anncx 1 Key Performiance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    12
Aniex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                     13
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                     15
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                     16
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                     I g
Anicx 6. Ratings of Banic and Borrower Performance                                       1 9
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                    20
Aniiex 8. Borrowers Completion Report                                                    21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
LOAN NO. 3993-Jo
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Export Development Project to the
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan. The Export Development Project was approved on March 28,
1996 and made effective on April 15, 1996.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Sarshar Khan under the supervision of Mr. Victor Agius, Principal
Financial Sector Specialist and Ms. Elisabeth Sherwood, Operations Officer. The report is based
on material in the project file, additional material received from the Central Bank of Jordan, and
telephone interviews with Project counterparts.






Project ID: P035995                                       Proj _ect Name: JO-EXPORT DEVELOPMENT
Team Leader. Victor Emanuel Agius                         TL Unit: MNSPF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: January 24, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: JO-EXPORT DEVELOPMENT                          L/C/TFNumber: SCL-39930
Country/Department: JORDAN                                               Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/subsector: MY - Non-Sector Specific
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  12/12/1994                              Effective: 05/28/96            04/22/96
Appraisal:  06/28/1995                                MTR: 11/30/97              07/10/97
Approval:  03/28/1996                              Closing: 06/30/2000          06/30/2000
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/PCU; GOVERNMENT/MINISTRY OF PLANNING
Other Partners: None
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jean-Louis Sarbib                         Kemal Dervis
Country Manager:    Inder K. Sud                               Inder Sud
Sector Manager:      Wafik Grais                                Alastair McKechnie
Team Leader at ICR:   Victor Agius                             Tufan Kolan
ICR Primary Author:   Sarshar Khan
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
-Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1 According to the Memorandum of the President (MOP), the "overarching objective" of the project
was "to help enhance international competitiveness of Jordanian exports and thereby increase export
revenues." The project's "specific objective" was "to provide term finance to private firms to expand their
productive capacity." The broader objective was to be achieved through the country's export development



program set out in the government's Letter of Export Sector Development Policy (ESDP), which was
included in the SAR, as well as by implementing parallel economic reforms. The specific objective was to
be achieved by providing a credit line to intermediaries for onlending as term loans for investment by
private firms. The project thus formed part of a larger economic and export development program, as
discussed later in this section.
3.1.2 Project objectives and deliverables were elaborated further during the initial stage of implementation
and agreed with the government, as follows:
Development Objectives:
a) To promote the commercial banking system's ability to provide term financing for investment.
b) To increase output, employment, and export earnings by private sector enterprises.
Project Deliverables/Outputs:
a) Increased term lending and, eventually, increased term transformation, by commercial banks in a
manner consistent with prudent banking principles.
b) Increased capital investment by private firms participating in the line of credit.
3.1.3 The project was conceived against a background of an improving economy, ongoing economic
reforms, and anticipated benefits of peace in the region in terms of economic, export, and tourism growth.
The country was, therefore, in the process of preparing to meet the expected increase in domestic and
extemal demand. This was to be done by extending the ongoing reforms, relaxing financial sector
constraints, adopting measures for export development, and increasing investors' access to term finance.
3.1.4 The economic reforms initiated around mid-1990s, and substantially implemented since then, had
three main thrusts: (a) policy reformns to promote private sector development; (ii) institutional and
administrative reforms to enhance intemational competitiveness; and (iii) reforms to deepen the financial
sector. These reforms were supported by a series of Bank loans: Economic Reform and Development Loan
(ERDL) in 1995, ERDL II in 1996, and ERDL III in 1999. Some of the specific areas covered by the
reforms were: tariff and tax reforms; improvement of laws and regulations relating to investment, income
tax, the banking sector, financial markets, and customs procedures; privatization; and regulatory and
administrative reforms to relax constraints on private sector growth.
3.1.5 Although Jordan had a well developed banking system, the system, as well as the financial sector on
the whole, was not sufficiently deep. The banking sector catered mainly to financing trade, working capital
requirements, and investment needs of larger companies. The bulk of bank deposits were short-term and the
capacity of banks to carry out term transformation was limited. The capital market was shallow, private
contractual savings institutions were small, and mutual funds did not exist. Most of the savings generated
through pension and retirement schemes were not being channeled into private investment. Therefore, most
entrepreneurs had to rely on internally generated funds for their investments. All this severely restricted
investment in long-gestation projects. ERDL and ERDL II addressed the financial sector constraints by
focusing on: enhancing banking competition; reducing credit subsidies; strengthening bank supervision;
facilitating corporate bond financing; developing non-bank financial institutions; improving the working
and supervision of the securities market; and developing contractual savings institutions.
3.1.6 The country's export development measures were set out in the govemment's ESDP, which
complemented the project. ESDP focused on two key areas. The first was improving the legal and
- 2 -



institutional framework and firm-level capabilities to increase the competitiveness of Jordanian exports.
This included customs reforrms, trade deregulation, measures to facilitate investment, and improving
product standards. The second area was increasing private firms' access to term finance for investments.
3.1.7 Thus, while ERDL and ESDP addressed the systemic issues in the financial and export sectors, the
present project focused on providing long term finance, an important ingredient of the government's
program.
3.1.8 The specific project objective was clear and was in conformity with the country's economic program
and prevailing conditions, as well as with the Bank's CAS. The project design was relatively simple and
did not appear to place undue demands on the borrower or the implementing agency.
3.2 Revised Objective:
N/A
3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1 The project consisted of a credit line of $40.0 million for commercial banks to enable them to finance
medium- and longer-term investments in plant and machinery in productive activities. The banks were to
make subloans to private borrowers in US dollars or Jordanian Dinar (JD) at freely determined terms. The
firms receiving subloans, and the subprojects financed by them, were to meet specified financial viability
criteria. It was estimated that the fimns would contribute $20.0 million in the form of their expenditures on
the approved subprojects, thus bringing the total project cost to $60.0 million.
3.4 Revised Components:
3.4.1 Although TA was included in the objectives listed in the Loan Agreement, no specific amounts were
originally allocated for the purpose. The reason was that the government had requested that the TA
component be dropped from the project as donor funds were available for the purpose. However, in 1998,
the government, with the assistance of the World Bank, began to explore additional means of export
development. In this context, one of the country's priorities was the development of a freeport and special
economic zone (FSEZ) at the Aqaba port. The government requested the Bank to allocate funds from the
loan for carrying out a feasibility study for the proposed FSEZ. As such, the Loan Agreement was
amended to allocate $2.0 million for TA to finance the feasibility study, as well as any other studies related
to export promotion.
3.4.2 In addition, in view of the changed market conditions which, in some cases, required larger size
investments than originally envisaged by the project, the ceiling for financing subprojects was raised from
$2 million to $3 million.
3.4.3 The revised components were:
Line of credit facility: $38.0 million
TA:                   $2.0 million
3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1 The ICR rates the project's quality at entry as satisfactory. The Quality Assurance Group (QAG),
- 3-



when it carried out a rapid assessment of project supervision (see 7.2 below), also rated the project's quality
at entry as satisfactory.
3.5.2 The project was initially conceived as mainly a policy reform and TA project focused on export
development and covering the financial sector, trade policy, and institutional reforms. Responding to the
changing economic conditions in the country, other economic reforms under implementation, and the
government's desire not to borrow Bank funds for TA, the scope of the project continued to change up until
negotiations. The final project became a simple financial intermediary loan (FIL), although it was still
linked to export development through the government's ESDP and formed part of the larger export
development program.
3.5.3 As stated in 3.1 above, the project was prepared in the context of improving economic conditions
(GDP grew at 6% per annum during 1992-4 after several years of stagnation), expected benefits of peace
with Israel, and ongomg economic reforms in Jordan. The peace process was expected to lead to a
significant increase in exports, especially tourism. As such, the country needed to build the necessary
productive and hotel capacity to meet the anticipated demand. The reforms, supported by the IMF and the
Bank, covered, among other areas: macroeconomic policy, the financial sector, and private sector
development. The country's strategy emphasized private sector and export development, which was
reflected in the then-current CAS, as well as in the project. Earlier studies and interviews with over 125
firms and 15 banks during project preparation confirmed that lack of sufficient term finance was a major
constraint on investment and export growth.
3.5.4 The project, therefore, was designed to finance term loans, as well as to have a demonstration effect
on term financing in general. A line of credit financed by the Bank was to be administered by the Central
Bank of Jordan (CBJ), in which commercial banks would receive funds for on-lending, at market-based
interest rates, to qualified subprojects. Term loans were to be provided to private entrepreneurs for
investment in new projects, expansion, and modemization of their plants to enable them to become
competitive and, inter alia, increase their exports.
3.5.5 There were two weaknesses at the time of project entry. First, the "overarching" project objective
(namely, export development) and the remaining component of the project did not have a direct link.
Although investments financed by project funds could possibly be used for export production, the project
did not have any instrument to ensure that outcome. Second, development/performance indicators were
not clearly specified at this stage. This led to some difficulty in properly tracking and assessing the
performance of the project (see 7.1 below for details).
3.5.6 Overall, the project was responsive to the initial, as well as changing, economic conditions and
priorities, focused on an important link in the resource-investment-production-export chain, and took into
consideration the existing institutional constraints. The project was in accordance with Bank guidelines for
FILs, except covering financial sector policies, which were being addressed under a parallel adjustment
loan (see 3.1 above).
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4 1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1 The project has largely achieved and, in some respects, exceeded its objectives (see 3.1 above). Its
overall development impact, in fact, has been larger than was expected at appraisal. Although only about
- 4 -



80% of the loan was disbursed, substantial investment has been made in subprojects; significant new
employment has been created; subprojects have significantly increased firms' output and foreign exchange
eamings; and subloans are being serviced on schedule.
4.1.2 The project made a significant contribution towards providing long-term loans through commercial
banks. A total of $32.5 million (compared to the revised allocation of $38.0 million for the line of credit)
was advanced as subloans to private investors. The maturities of all subloans, except one, were in the
range of 5-7 years. Most of the subloans were relatively small; more than half were in amounts of less than
$1.0 million. Subborrowers have maintained a good record of loan servicing to participating banks (PBs),
with only one instance of loan rescheduling. PBs gained experience in term lending under World Bank
guidelines, including project appraisal and risk assessment (see 4.5 below). PBs and final borrowers regard
the activity as having been valuable to them. It is not yet clear if the project had any immediate effect on
term transformation by PBs or other banks. It would probably take time for this kind of effect to become
visible.
4.1.3 A total of 27 subloans were made, but two of them were canceled at the request of relevant PBs.
The remaining 25 were active at project closing. Project implementation went through three phases. The
first phase lasted for about one year, until mid-1997, during which about half of the project's funds were
committed for subloans. At that time, the governnent and Bank expected that the total line of credit might
be committed during the following year. CBJ, in fact, thought that a follow-up project might be justified.
The second phase, lasting until about mid- 1998, was characterized by a very low level of project activity
due to a general economic slow down in the country for various reasons (see 5.1 below for details). Several
proposals to accelerate the project activity were considered at this time, and some were implemented (see
7.2 below). The third phase lasted until early 2000, during which the level of commitment/disbursements
increased significantly, and over $ 10 million was committed in this phase.
4.1.4 Subloans were used for investment in manufacturing, agricultural products, and hotels/services
catering to tourists. Borrowing for hotels and other tourism-related projects accounted for over half of
subloans. The investments made have significantly increased output and service facilities. As of mid-2000,
the number of new jobs created by subprojects is about 2200, production capacity has nearly doubled, and
foreign exchange earnings amount to over $20 million. When all subprojects are fully operational, these
numbers are likely to increase by over 50 %, which would be far m excess of estimates at appraisal. This
is largely because complementary private sector funds amounting to nearly $240 million, or twelve times
the understandably conservative estimate at appraisal, have been invested in the subprojects, mainly in
hotels.
4.1.5 Not having targeted the line of credit on export production alone, the project rightly avoided giving
quantitative export projections against which the outcome can be judged. However, as stated above, the
export revenue potential of subprojects is relatively high. Several of the manufacturing subprojects are not
yet fully operational. Thus, at this stage, it is difficult to estimate with any accuracy final foreign exchange
earnings. Based on the information given in subloan applications, it is estimated that subprojects, when
fully operational, would earn about $34 million in foreign exchange. In addition, based on the feasibility
study of the proposed special economic zone at Aqaba, the government is proceeding with establishing the
zone. USAID has given a substantial grant for the purpose. The necessary law is being considered by
Parliament, and procedures and institutions are being established. The zone has a very large potential for
investment, employment, and exports. The study financed under the loan has proved to be a major catalyst,
and the government considers the zone as a comerstone of its economic strategy.
4.1.6 In terms of financial Impact, the share of term financing in total loans, as well as the size of total
- 5 -



loans, has not changed much during the last few years. This is not surprising in view of the economic
downturn discussed above. However, PBs show increased interest in extending term loans, especially
because subloans are being serviced on schedule.
4.1.7 Thus, despite the deterioration in the economic environment and its negative impact on investment
and loan commitments/disbursements after mid-1997, the project was successful in achieving its
development objectives.
4 2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1 As stated in 3.4 above, the revised project components are a line of credit ($38 million) and technical
assistance and studies ($2 million). The outputs of the two components are as follows:
Line of Credit
4.2.2 The line of credit financed term loans for private sector investment in 25 subprojects. Seven
commercial banks participated in the loan as intermediaries. The measurable outputs were: disbursements,
$32.5 million; total investment, including private funds, approximately $270 million; new employment
expected when subprojects are fully operational, over 3000; expected output increase, about $60 million;
and expected export increase, about $34 million.
Technical Assistance
4.2.3 A feasibility study for a special economic zone at Aqaba was completed. Based on the results of the
study, the govemnment is taking further steps towards establishing the zone.
4 3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4 4 Financial rate of return.
4.4.1 Not applicable to the project as a whole. However, intermediaries were responsible for ensuring a
minimum 15% financial rate of return for subprojects. According to subloan applications that contain this
information, practically all of them showed financial rates of return around 15%, and some around
20-29%.
4.5 Institutional development Impact:
4.5.1 One of the objectives of the project was to improve the institutional capacity for term lending.
Overall, the project appears to have had a positive, though modest, impact in this regard. There is
increased awareness, in both the public and private sectors, of the importance of term lending for
facilitating investment in plant and machinery. PBs, which were mostly smaller commercial banks, became
more familiar with the requirements of term lending and the need for appraising investment proposals on a
wider basis than just the collateral provided by a borrower. Borrowers, through workshops they attended
and their own experience of participating in the project, are now more familiar with the process and
benefits of access to term loans. However, according to some PBs, if technical assistance had been
available for strengthening their capacity for term lending, it would have been of significant benefit to
them. Although one operation of this type can only have a limited impact, it should in the long run help
- 6 -



increase both the demand for, and supply of, term loans.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency*
5.1.1 The implementation and outcome of the project was seriously affected by factors outside the control
of the government. The project was conceived in anticipation of (a) continuing economic liberalization and
reform and (b) at least moderate rates of economic and export growth during 1996-99 and the resultant
demand for capital investment. The government continued to implement a comprehensive reform program
supported by the IMF and the Bank. However, despite an improving policy environment, the economy
stagnated during the period for a number of reasons.
5.1.2 At the time of project appraisal, annual growth rates for the period 1996-99 were projected to be 2%
for per capita GDP, 5% for investment, and over 7% for exports. The actual outcome was that per capita
GDP dropped by nearly 2% per annum, and investmnent and exports stagnated. This was due to several
adverse developments: (a) needed fiscal correction and monetary squeeze dampened aggregate demand; (b)
exports weakened in the wake of the 1997 East Asian financial crisis; (c) remittances remained flat
(reflecting lower oil receipts in the region); (d) agricultural harvests were poor in 1997 and 1999; and (e)
exports to the traditional main markets (Iraq and GCC countries) did not recover as expected. In addition,
the lower-than-expected peace dividend, continued volatility in the region, and the uncertainty about King
Hussein's illness and succession affected the investment climate. As a result, investment did not return to
the 1995 level until 1999. Thus, the projected investment and export demand, the main underlying bases
for the project, did not materialize. Especially after the 1997 crisis, subloan applications were much slower
than projected earlier. Yet, despite these adverse developments, project disbursements amounted to a total
of $33.7 million (84% of the loan), over $10.0 million of which was disbursed during 1998-99. This
probably shows that there was sufficient unmet demand for term financing, which the project helped meet.
5 2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1 There were no avoidable factors within the control of the government that affected the project
outcome. Some policy actions that probably had an impact on investment demand were required by
macroeconomic management considerations.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1 CBJ took the positive actions within its control that facilitated the onlending process, as well as
familiarized the private sector with the project and its benefits. These actions included holding a seminar
for entrepreneurs, changing the reference rate for the lending interest rate, and increasing the upper limit for
subloans.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
5.4.1 The interest cost, based on a reference rate, turned out to be too high under the changed financial
conditions in the country and became unattractive to PBs and for potential borrowers. As such, the
reference rate was changed to better reflect the actual cost of funds faced by participating banks.
6. Sustainability
6 1 Rationale for sustainability rating
-7 -



6.1.1 Sustainability of the main project activity - encouraging provision of term finance for investment - is
rated likely. Both intermediaries and final borrowers had a positive experience with the project, and it is
likely that they, as well as other banks and investors, would find that continuing and expanding term
finance is mutually profitable. However, obviously, sustainability would also depend on other factors, such
as economic growth; export demand; an appropriate interest rate structure geared to loan maturities; and
increased supply of term deposits, which is, in turn, related to the interest rate structure.
6.1.2 On the whole, it can be reasonably expected that the project's impact on term lending, investment,
employment, and exports would be sustained provided the economnic environment continues to improve.
6 2 Transition arrangement to regular operations.
6.2.1 There are no plans to continue the line of credit or to re-circulate the funds received from repayments
of the original disbursements.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7 1 Lending.
On the whole, lending performance was satisfactory.
7.1.1 During the preparation of the project, the Bank correctly identified export development issues and the
measures needed to address them. The appraisal team was staffed by appropriate professionals: an
experienced task manager, a financial specialist, a private sector development specialist, and an operations
officer. The project drew upon the analyses and recommendations of previous bank reports. As stated in
Section 3.5 above, the Bank was responsive to the country's changing priorities and available donor
assistance and redesigned the project at a late stage - dropped the components related to technical
assistance and policy improvements, and focused the project on term fmancing.
7.1.2 The line of credit was based on a survey of private sector needs, expressed interest of potential PBs,
and projections for investment demand and export opportunities. Among other things, disbursements and
procurement procedures applicable to the project, the mechanism of interest rate determination, an
implementation plan, a draft subsidiary loan contract, and critena for the eligibility of subprojects were all
worked out by the time of negotiations.
7.1.3 Two points should be noted, however. First, as discussed in Section 3.5 above, in view of the fact
that the final project was a simple line of credit operation, project objectives and expected outcomes should
have been clearly linked to the design of the credit line itself In particular, increased exports should not
have been a direct objective of the project when the subloans were correctly not targeted on investment in
exports. Furthermore, a list of project deliverables, outcomes, and monitoring indicators should have been
prepared and agreed by the time of negotiations, which, in tum, would have helped clarify the expected
outcome of the project. Second, it would have been desirable to have some built-in flexibility about the
maximum size of subloans, which could have obviated the need for amending the Loan Agreement later on
for this purposes.
7.2 Supervision
On the whole, supervision was satisfactory.
-8 -



7.2.1 Supervision was done regularly and was geared to various implementation stages and their needs. It
focused on the implementation of the line of credit, although some missions also reviewed other
export-oriented initiatives of the government. Missions reviewed the performance of CBJ and PBs, as well
as visited selected subprojects. To facilitate project implementation, the Bank team gave a three day
seminar on implementation requirements, especially subproject evaluation, for the staff of CBJ and PBs. It
also participated in the presentation of the project to over 120 entrepreneurs/exporters, which was
organized by CBJ and the Jordan Export Development Corporation (JEDCO). In late 1997, a mid-term
review was carried out jointly with the government.
7.2.2 Appropriate actions were suggested for issues raised during supervision missions. Some of the main
actions suggested and implemented by the government and/or the Bank related to: a change in the reference
rate for the onlending interest rate; increasing the maximum amount of subloans; non-coverage of
statements of expenditures (SOEs) in audit reports; issues of subloan concentration and connected parties;
project restructuring to provide for TA for studying the feasibility of the proposed export processing zone
at Aqaba; and requinng PBs to submit annual reports on their subprojects. Some other actions aimed at
speeding up project implementation and/or helping in export expansion were explored but did not fully
materialize or were found unfeasible. These were: designing country risk insurance for exporters (Bank
assistance was provided to initiate the work); exploring the participation of the Industrial Development
Bank (IDB) in the project to widen the field of subprojects (this initiative led to providing technical
assistance to IDB to improve their loan workout capacity); possibility of having a subproject related to
potash or phosphate export capacity; and expanding subloans to small- and medium-size enterprises
(SMEs).
7.2.3 Supervision could have been improved in some respects. For example, it is not clear from the record
if some of the initiatives mentioned in the preceding paragraph were followed up, or what the final outcome
was. Fulfillment of covenants should have been pursued more vigorously. Supervision missions also did
not highlight that the annual reports required from CBJ were not being submitted. The requirement of
annual reports from PBs filled this gap, but this was introduced late in the implementation phase.
Supervision tracked subprojects, subborrowers, and PBs' performance, but did not track their performance
against the specific outputs and indicators agreed in the beginning of implementation. This partly reflected
the difficulty of tracking indicators which were not designed well at the time of either entry or
implementation. Finally, a supervision mission near the closing date would have been useful to properly
assess the experience with the project and, on that basis, to initiate the preparation of the ICR.
7.2.4 QAG had conducted two rapid reviews of project supervision covering 1997 and 1998. It had rated
supervision as satisfactory for 1997 and marginally satisfactory for 1998. According to QAG, the latter
rating was given because (a) the supervision team had not measured the development impact on promoting
exports and employment; (b) reporting by the borrower on the project's progress had been inadequate; and
(c) audits of SOEs had not been received. It appears that the observation at (a) did not fully take into
account the following factors: (i) the project did not have any direct instrument for export development (see
3.1 and 3.5 above) and, unlike the expected employment impact, did not give an estimate of expected
export impact; and (ii) the project was designed to provide term finance for longer gestation subprojects
and, therefore, its impact on exports and employment could have been meaningfully monitored only after a
sufficient number of subprojects were fully operational. During 1999 (a period not covered in the QAG
audit), a supervision mission pressed the points at (b) and (c), and CBJ agreed to pursue them. The
mission also designed a standard form for reporting the progress of subprojects. As a result, the Bank
received progress reports on all subprojects in late 1999, and again in October 2000 to help prepare the
ICR. It has, however, received an audit report on SOEs from only one PB, and CBJ is following up with
-9-



other PBs.
7.2.5 The present rating is based on the overall supervision performance, including the two years covered
by QAG, especially with respect to its impact on the project outcome.
7 3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory.
Borrower
7 4 Preparation
7.4.1 The project was prepared jointly with the borrower and fully reflected the latter's priorities and
assistance needs. It received strong support from the Ministry of Planning (MOP), CBJ, and several
potential participating commercial banks.
7 5 Government implementation performance:
7.5.1 On behalf of the government, CBJ acted as an apex agency for lending funds to PBs for onlending
purposes. It established a small project management unit (PMU). It participated in the Bank seminar on
project implementation and helped organize a seminar for entrepreneurs/exporters. CBJ pre-qualified PBs
for eligibility to participate in the project and took necessary actions on the recommendations of supervision
missions with regard to prudential standards of PBs.
7.5.2 There was good coordination between the MOP and CBJ during project implementation, especially
with regard to the amendment of the loan agreement (see 3.4 above).
7.6 Implementing Agency.
7.6.1 The PMU was responsible for the day-to-day management of the project. It liaised with PBs and the
Bank, tracked commitments and disbursements, maintained project accounts, arranged audits of the
accounts, supported Bank missions, and followed up on their recommendations. However, some of the
Bank's reporting requirements were not adequately met. This was largely due to the fact that, during
project preparation, CBJ had understood that its involvement with respect to the performance of PBs and
subprojects would be minimal.
7 7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1.1 A few lessons emerge from the experience with the project, some of which reaffirm Bank guidelines
for FILs. The main lessons are as follows:
8.1.2 The outcome of a project such as this is largely determined by the economic environment, that is, by
a combination of economic policies, economic growth, export demand, and the state and depth of the
financial sector. Nevertheless, despite limitations on this account, a line of credit operation can have a
significant impact on investment, employment, and foreign exchange earnings due to the leverage it may
exercise and institutional improvements it may induce.
- 10 -



8.1.3 The success of the project was due to several factors: the specific objectives and instruments of the
project were narrowly focused on term finance and the use of the line of credit; there was unmet demand
for term finance, as identified during preparation; smaller, but financially sound, banks participated in the
project, who could give adequate attention to subloans; and investors, at least initially, anticipated
considerable increase in demand, especially for tourist facilities, which was largely realized.
8.1.4 The stated objectives, the components of a project, and its performance indicators should be clearly
linked and fully consistent with each other at the time of entry. In the present case, although the specific
objectives and performance indicators directly related to the credit line were clear, the overarching export
development objective, in the absence of any targeting of subloans, had no essential link to the use of the
credit line. This led to some difficulty in this aspect of project supervision and the QAG review.
8.1.5 According to the participating banks and subborrowers in this project, the Bank's requirements,
especially frequent and detailed progress reports, are too cumbersome and involve additional costs to them.
The result is that all requirements are not met, or not met on time, as happened in this project. As such, the
Bank needs to consider adapting its requirements, within prudent limits, to the needs of the private sector
when the latter is mainly responsible for implementing a project.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency.
The Govemment of Jordan did not provide comments on a draft of the Bank's ICR. However, the
Govemments own assessment of the Project is provided as Annex 8.
(b) Cofinanciers
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
The CBJ interviewed participating banks as part of the completion reporting exercise and provided their
comments to the World Bank. In general, comments from participating banks were positive. Banks
reported that project implementation was manageable on their side, and that they had adequate staff and
staff skills to implement. Their experience with longer-term borrowers has been positive, with only one
loan needing to be rescheduled, and banks stated that they are in principle willing to lend for long-term
investments. In addition, they expressed a willingness to participate in a similar line of credit. However,
they noted that it was important that (i) the rate they are charged on the loan better reflect market interest
rates and (ii) eligible activities include all productive activities. It should be noted that both these concems
were addressed during project implementation.
10. Additional Information



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                i Pojected in last PSR                    ActuallLatest  Estimate
1.1 Increase in term lending by commercial  No quantitative projection in SARIPSRs  There was little change in the size or
banks.                                                                       proportion of term lending.
1.2 Increase in participating firms'  Same as above                          Actual: about 70%
production.                                                                  Final estimated: over 100%
1.3 Increase in value of exports by   Same as above                          Actual: over $20 million
participating firms.                                                         Final estimated: over $30 million
1.4 Creation of approximately 1000 new  2200 new jobs                        Actual: 2200 new jobs
jobs.                                                                        Final estimated: over 3000 new jobs
Deliverable indicators:
1.1 Financial rate of return of subprojects of Not spedfically projected in the PSR  Practically all subprojects that included the
at least 15% (ex-ante).                                                      relevant data in their loan applications met
this condition.
1.2 Disbursements under the loan (as per   $33.7 million                     $33.7 million
SAR)
Output Indicators:
IndicatorMatrix                     Projected In last PSR                 AdtuallLatest Estimate
End of project
- 12 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Compponent             US$ million    US$ million
Total cost of subprojects (Line of Credit component).  38.00          32.48          0.85
Technical Assistance, as per amended Loan Agreement.   2.00            1.20           0.6
Total Baseline Cost                                   40.00           33.68
Physical Contingencies                                0.00            0.00
Price Contingencies                                   0.00            0.00
Total Project Costs             40.00           33.68
Total Financing Required              40.00           33.68
Note: The figures on costs in this and the following tables give only the costs financed by the project. The
cost of subprojects financed by private funds was estimated to be $20 million at the time of appraisal and is
now estimated to be about $240 million. If the latter figure were included in the total cost of the project, it
would be $270 million. The substantial increase in the private sector's contribution over the appraisal
estimate is due to the large number of hotels included as subprojects, which had large investments but
relatively small subloans from the credit line.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Exenir  aProcurement Method
Expenditure Category      ICB                             2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                      0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                      0.00          0.00         38.00         0.00         38.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (38.00)      (0.00)       (38.00)
3. Services                   2.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         2.00
(2.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (2.00)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                      2.00          0.00         38.00          0.00        40.00
(2.00)        (0.00)       (38.00)       (0.00)      (40.00)
- 13-



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category         Ica                                2            RProcurement Mthod  h.F.  Total Cost
NCB          Otheir
1. Works                         0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                         0.00           0.00          32.48           0.00          32.48
(0.00)         (0.00)        (32.48)         (0.00)        (32.48)
3. Services                      1.20           0.00           0.00           0.00           1.20
(1.20)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (1.20)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                         1.20           0.00           32.48          0.00          33.68
(1.20)         (0.00)        (32.48)         (0.00)        (33.68)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
Baink     Govt.     CoF.       Bank      Govt.      CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
40.00  j                       33.68                         84.2
- 14 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
- 15-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)     Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count        Specialty                          Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
10/94                          1   Task Manager
1    Informatics Specialist
2    Economists
1   Operations Specialist
I   Financial Sector Specialist
1    Customs Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
Appraisal 6/95                 1   Task Manager
I    Financial Sector Specialist
I   Private Sector Development
Specialist
I   Operations Specialist
Negotiations 1/96              1   Task Manager
1    Lawyer
I   Financial Sector Specialist
Supervision
11/96                           2   Task Manager, Financial               S                  S
Sector Specialist
3/97                            1  Task Manager                            S                  S
7/97                            3   Task Manager, Financial Sector         S                  S
Specialists
9/98                            2   Task Manager, Financial Sector         S                  S
Specialist
6/99                            3   Task Manager, Financial Sector         S                  S
Specialist, Private Sector
Development Specialist
12/99 (partial SPN)             I  Task Manager                           S                  S
7/00 (partial SPN)              1  Task Manager                            S                  S
ICR
No mission
- 16 -



(b) Staff
I     Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation                 61.0                         233.8
Appraisal/Negotiation                      39.5                         131.1
Supervision                                66.1                         230.8
ICR                                        (8.0)                        (30.0)
Total                                     174.6                         625.7
- 17 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
LI Sector Policies                        O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Oi Physical                               OH  OSUOM  ON  * NA
L Financial                               OH OSUOM ON ONA
Li Institutional Development              0 H  O SU * M  0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
Oi Poverty Reduction               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
LGender                             OH OSUOM ON *NA
OOther (Please specify)            O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Employment generation
O Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Li Public sector management               0 H  O SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
L Other (Please specify)                  O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
-18 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
O Lending                                           OHS*S  OU  OHU
OI Supervision                                      O HS * s   OU  OHU
Oi Overall                                          OHS OS OU O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
gI Preparation                                      OHS OS  O  U  O HU
O Government implementation performance             O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                 O HS O s  0  U  0 HU
O Overall                                           OHS OS  0 U  0 HU
- 19-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Jordan Export Development Project Staff Appraisal Report, March, 1996
Jordan Export Development Project Loan Agreement, April, 1996
Project Supervision Reports (PSRs), Form 590s, Aide-Memoires, and Back-to-Office reports, 1997-2000
Quarterly Statistical Bulletins, Central Bank of Jordan, 1999- 2000
- 20 -



Annex 8. Borrower's Completion Report
Background
1. The Export Development Project (EDP) offered tangible opportunities to the exporting sector without
exposing local parties to exchange rate risks. In addition, the EDP activated banks' role in providing
long-term finance. It also complemented other already-in-place, broad-based economic schemes in
collaboration with international donors, including the World Bank.
Assessment of the Project
2. The EDP bolstered Jordan's strategic planning which identified export promotion as one of its
cornerstones to achieve broader macroeconomic objectives. In particular, the export development project
loan aimed to (i) enhance the productive capacity of Jordanian exporting firm; (ii) increase the international
competitiveness of Jordanian goods and services. Accordingly, Jordanian exporters have substantially
improved their chances to access non-regional markets having become better equipped to meet market
standards; and (iii) facilitate and promote domestic productive investments by making available long-term
financing from the Jordanian banking system. The project has proved especially crucial in light of the lack
of such financing in domestic capital markets.
3. The design of the EDP has paved the way for a smooth channeling and following-up of funds to the end
user, since credit monitoring by the Central Bank of Jordan (CBJ) was executed via the usual supervisory
means of the CBJ. We also believe the transparency of CBJ's actions has boosted communication with
World Bank officials and led, in many instances, to overcome bottlenecks or delays that stood in the way of
achieving the EDP's targets.
Evaluation of the Borrower's Performance
4. The project picked up from the beginning and demand remained high for term finance up to July 1997
when the macroeconomic stance was temporarily adverse. The Kingdom's economy slowed down during
the latter half of 1997 amid regional political uncertainty arising from the peace process and from the
illness and later the death of His Majesty Late King Hussein. We, thus, believe the project was
successfully implemented with the major objective of export promotion mostly achieved.
5. A positive impact was clearly felt on creating jobs, hence contributing to the reduction of unemployment
and poverty figures in Jordan. Twenty-six Jordanian firms coming from various sectors benefited from the
project, and were able to supply the market with 2,550 new jobs. Furthermore, these firms provided a
hefty foreign currency value of exported goods and services. A sizable portion of sub-loans granted was
oriented towards improving the touris sector. In addition to foreign currency earnings, other favorable
extemalities included, notably, the improvement of banking capacity-building due to the hiring of highly
specialized staff in evaluating sound, profitable, and productive projects to minimize risks associated with
this term lending. The CBJ has worked closely with the World Bank to educate participating banks on the
implementation plan, monitoring indicators and other procurement and accounting standards. A seminar
was organized in this regard, and proved extremely helpful in orienting the banking system and Jordanian
private investors on the importance of such instruments.
6. The Central Bank of Jordan publicized the EDP effectively. Advertisements were posted in major
newspapers disclosing needed information. A workshop was also held at the Jordan Export Development
and Commercial Centers Corporation under the sponsorship of the Central Bank, where private sector
- 21 -



investors were invited to participate. Evidently, such efforts encouraged banking institutions to get
involved in the EDP, and increased their awareness of the importance of long-term finance.
7. It is advised, though, that future IBRD loans should account for variations in sub-loan costs borne by
ultimate borrowers, on the one hand, and by the Government as the intermediate borrower, on the other. As
regards the EDP, as time passed, the interest cost of the loan moved upwards, while that on local currency
borrowings declined. An adjuster could be applied to counter for such variations.
Evaluation of the Bank's Performance
8. The World bank was instrumental in addressing emerging needs throughout the lifetime of the credit
line specifically by means of introducing proper adjustments to restore the pace of the loan and increase
commitment to credit finance to channel funds within the set time frame for the project. The maximum
sub-loan amount, in particular, was adjusted upwards to allow for a greater financing capacity on an
individual basis. The World Bank had also responded favorably to the Central Bank's request of changing
the on-lending interest rates on the local currency component from the previously-agreed CD rate plus
0.5%, which was used at the time as a monetary policy tool and didn't reflect market demand and supply.
As for rates on dollar-denominated loans, interest margins over LIBOR were lowered from 1.0% to 0.75%
to expedite wider utilization of the dollar component of the loan.
9. Additionally, the World Bank approved introducing a technical assistance component to the EDP,
namely, financing studies related to export development and promotion. To this end, the necessary
amendment to the loan documentation was effected. The feasibility study for the Aqaba Freeport Zone
benefited from such amendment with allocated funds amounting to USD 1.2 million.
Assessment of the Project's Development Impact
10. We believe that understanding the pivotal role of the EDP in supporting the Government's plans to
open up the economy and to enhance export competitiveness has been key in ensuring the Government
ownership in the project, and, hence, achieving its goals. The EDP has particularly pointed to the need for
long-term financing as an important vehicle in sustaining the economy's outward, as well as inward growth.
- 22 -



