Page  1
November 12, 1998
H.E. Dr. Nabil Ammari 
Minister of Planning 
Ministry of Planning 
Post Office Box 555 
Amman Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Subject: Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Export Development Project
Amendment to Loan Agreement No. 3993-JO
Excellency:
We refer to the Loan Agreement (the "Agreement”) dated April 12, 1996 entered 
into between the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the "Bank") 
and the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan ("Jordan").
We also refer to Your Excellency's letter to the Bank dated August 26, 1998 
(Ref. 5/9/l/4803) officially requesting, on behalf of Jordan, an amendment to the 
Agreement to provide for the financing of technical assistance activities and an 
increase in the principal amount of sub-loans.
Therefore, by the present, the Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
(i)
The table set forth in Paragraph I of Schedule I to the Agreement 
is modified 
to read as follows:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
     % of
(Expressed in
 Expenditures
   "Category
     Dollars)      
to be Financed
(1) Goods, works and
38,000,000
100% of foreign 
    consultants' services
expenditures under 
Part A of the Project
and 90% of local
expenditures for
goods and works, and
100% for consultants'
services.
(2) Studies and consultants'
 2,000,000
100% services under 
Part B of the Project
        TOTAL 40,000,000"
(ii)
Schedule 2 to the Agreement is revised to read as follows:
"The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in financing such 
investment 
projects and technical assistance services as will contribute to 
expansion of its productive 
activities for exports.  The Project consists of the 
following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the 
Bank may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective: Part A: 
Investment Projects: the financing of investment project to 
expand productive 
capacity for exports through provision of loans to private enterprises, 
other than 
those operating within the housing and real estate subsectors; and Part B: 
Technical Assistance: the carrying out of technical studies and provision of related 
technical assistance services for export development and promotion."
(iii)
The following additional Paragraph 4 is added to Schedule 4 to the 
Page  2
Agreement 
to read as follows:
“Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of consultants' 
services 
required for Part B of the Project, and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, 
shall be procured pursuant to arrangements agreed 
upon with the Bank in accordance with the 
provisions of the 'Guidelines: Selection 
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers' published by the Bank 
in January 1997, revised in September 1997."
(iv)
Sub-paragraph I (b) of the Attachment to the Annex to Schedule 4 
to the 
Agreement is changed to read as follows: "(b) not 
exceed the equivalent of 
$3,000,000."
* * * * * * 
Please confirm your official agreement to the foregoing, as Jordan's authorized 
representative under the Agreement, by duly signing and dating the corresponding form 
of confirmation below and returning this amendment letter to us at your earliest 
convenience.  A signed duplicate original of this amendment letter is enclosed 
herewith for Jordan's official records.  This amendment letter shall become effective 
as of the date it has been fully executed by the parties thereto.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMEENT
By /s/ Tufan Kolan
Acting Director
Middle East Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
AGREED AND CONFIRMED HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
By /s/ Nabil Ammari             
Authorized Representative
Date:  13/12/1998                 
