Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P'-4411-*IIA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 32.8 MILLION (US$ 40.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
FOR AN
ECONOMIC RECOVERY PROGRAM
FEBRUARY 9, 1987
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Courde (G)
G 1.00 - US$0.20
US$1.00 - C 5.00
The Gourde has been pegged to the U.S. Dollar since 1919 at this rate.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30
This report uses FY for fiscal year. Thus FY87 refers to the period from
October 1, 1986 to September 30, 1987.
ABBREVIATIONS
BC&      Bureau de Credit Agricole (Agricultural Credit Bureau)
BNDAI    Banque Nationale de Developpement Agricole et Industriel (National
Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank)
CNG      Conseil National de Gouvernement (National Government Council)
CPNAP    Commissariat a la Promotion Nationale et a l'Administration
Publique (planning agency)
ENAOL    Enterprise Nationale des Oleagineux (vegetable oil factory)
FDI      Fonds de Developpement Industriel (Industrial Development Fund)
IDB      Inter-American Development Bank
IMF      International Monetary Fund
SOE      Statement of Expenditure
UNDP     United Nations Development Programme
USN      Usine Sucriere du Nord (sugar mill)
USND     Usine Sucriere Nationale de Darbonne (sugar mill)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HAITI
ECONOMIC RECOVERY PROGRAP
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUIIARY    ..............i.............
1. The Economy .1...................,                        1
A. Main Features ..................                       I
B. Developments, FY80-85 .............................. 3
II. The Government's Economic Recovery Program, FY86-88 ..  4
A. Po'litical Background ............................... 4
B. Overall Strategy ..       .............................   5
C. Macroeconomic Stabilization ........................   6
D. Tax Reform                   ...             .. 8
E. Public Expenditure .................     ................ 9
F. Public Enterprises         ... .......... . .. 13
G. Competition and Industrial Incentives        . .    16
H. Agriculture ........................................ 19
I. Economic, Environmental and Social Impact    ..  21
III. The Proposed Operation .......    ........................ 25
A. History   .           ........... 25
B. Relationship to the Government's Program    ..   25
C. Associated Technical Assistance           .     .     28
D. Benefits and Risks ................................28
E. Credit Size and Tranching        ............. 29
F. Disbursement, Procurement, Accounts and Auditing... 29
G. Monitoring   .     ............................. 30
IV. Bank Group Operations and Strategy .............. ....... 31
V. Relations with the IMF and with Other Donors ......... 32
VI. Recoumendation ........................ 33
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
page NO.
Tmr TAXIES
Table   1:  Treasury Budgets, FY86 and FY87 ............. ..  11
Table   2:  Public Investment Program, FY86 and FY87....... 12
Table   3:  Summary Economic Projections With and Without
Recovery Program                                 22
AnUS
Annex   I:  Economic Indicators and Projections........   34
Annex  II:  The Status of Bank Group Operations in Haiti.. 37
Annex III:  Supplementary Credit Data Sheet .............. 39
Annex  IV:  Government's tetter of Recovery PolJcy......... 40
Annex   V:  The Government's Program and the Proposed
3Deration ....... * a * ~47
Annex  VI:  Public Investment Program, FY87... o........   52
MAP
Haiti (IBRD Map 17094R)



HAITI
EConaC nwmU PROGM
Credlt and Program Sunar
forrower:       Republic of Haiti.
Amount:         IDA credit of SDR 32.8 million (US$40 million equivalent).
Terms:          Standard IDA.
Description:    The proposed credit would finance general imports in support
of the Government's Economic Recovery Program, set out in
its Letter of Recovery Policy, designed to reform public
fiaances and economic policies, stimulate economic growth
and establish conditions from which retrogression to the
inappropriate policies of the past would be difficult.
Measures include macroeconomic stabilization and the
improvement of resource allocation through reform of taxes,
public expenditure, public enterprises, competition and
industrial incentives, and agricultural pricing and credit.
The program is also being supported by an arrangement under
the IMF's Structural Adjustment Facility, the policy
framework paper for which was jointly prepared by the
Government, the IMF and IDA.
Benefits:       Restored confidence, improved resource allocation,
and improved consumer welfare, particularly of the poorest
Haitians.
Risks:          Political instability and public sector wage demands could
weaken the Government's ability to maintain fiscal
discipline; influential protected manufacturers could resist
trade regime reforms; and the Government that will take
office in February 1988 could reverse the policy reforms.
These risks would be reduced through tranching, the
provision of technical assistance, and broad support and
close monitoring, not onl7 by IDA but also by the IMF and
the donor community.



- ii -
Hstimted                      FY87                   Fns
Disbursements:
(US$ million)                20.0                     20.0
Appraisal
Report:          None.
!!M:             IBRD 17094R



INTERNAlION&W DEmVLOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOSHENUATIOU OF THE PRESIDENT
TO TUE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO TUE REPUBLIC OF HAITI
FOR AN ECONOMIC RECOVERY PROCRAN
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Haiti for SDR 32.8 million (US$40.0
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms. The proposed credit would
support the Government's Economic Recovery Program.
PART I - THE ECONOKY
2.       The assessment of the Haitian economy in this report is based
largely on three documents already distributed to the Executive Directors
and on the work of the appraisal mission (September/October 1986) for the
proposed credit. Haiti: Policy Proposals for Growth (5601-HA) was
distributed on June 18, 1985 and Haiti: Public Expenditure Review (6113-HA)
on October 5, 1986. The joint Government/IDA/IMF Policy Framework Paper for
an IMF Structural Adjustment Facility arrangement was discussed by the
Committee of the Whole on November 18, 1986. All three were also made
available to the members of the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic
Development, whose Haiti Subgroup met in November 1986. Annex I presents
economic data.
A. Main Features
3.       Haiti is a small, densely populated, predominantly rural, and open
economy. Its 5.4 million people occupy 28,000 square kilometers, the
western end of the island of Hispaniola, and are among the poorest in the
world. Absolute poverty in Haiti is unmatched in the Western Hemisphere.
Life expectancy at birth is only 53 years, the infant mortality rate is
about 120 per 1,000 live births, over 25 percent of children suffer from
second or third degree malnutrition and 27 percent die before the age of
five; about 65 percent of adult Haitians are illiterate. Economic and
social conditions improved in the 1970s, but the economy stagnated during
the 1980s, unemployment increased, and real per capita income fell; in 1985,
it averaged US$350 (Atlas basis), and half the labor force is unemployed or
underemployed.
4.       Three quarters of the population live in the rural areas, and
ultimately depend on agriculture, historically the principal productive
sector. Since the early 19709, however, the volume and value of
agricultural output, including exports, have increased little. Physical
production per capita has fallen steadily as relentless population pressure



- 2 -
has forced peasants to cultivate ever more marginal hillside land.
Strenuous family planning efforts. largely by non-governmental
organizations, have yet to show results. Only about 20 percent of the
rugged, mountainous terrain is considered cultivable; nonetheless, about 30
percent is actually cultivated. The average farm size is below 1.1
hectares. This shortage of land, coupled with inisecurity of tenure and the
demand for wood and charcoal for energy, has generated a vicious circle of
deforestation and soil erosion that has further Intensified the shortage.
Declining rur4l incomes have led to substantial rural-urban and
international migration. The total population is growing at 1.8 percent per
annum, net of emigration of 0.5 percent, while the urban population is
expanding by four percent.
5.       Past public policies in agriculture exacerbated the scarcity of
land and the pressure of population. A million people on the hillsides
depend on coffee, the major cash crop, expansion of which has been
discouraged by an export tax. Reduced from 26 percent in the early 1980s,
this tax was still about 22 percent in FY86, representing half the price
received by the producers. Producer prices for foodgrains were increased to
well above world prices by import restrictions. This fostered the
cultivation of maize on the hillsides instead of coffee and worsened soil
erosion. Cotton production was also discouraged by a producer price below
the import parity price. Public agricultural investment and credit programs
were occasionally targeted more to social relief than to stimulatirg either
growth in productivity, output and employment or effective soil
conservation. On the plains, where agricultural potential is much greater
than on the hillsides, irrigation systems lack operating and maintenance
finance, and are silting up from the erosion on the hills; much State and
private land is unexploited; and peasants practice highly risk-averse
production patterns.
6.       These agricultural problems have resulted in Haiti's increasing
dependence on imported staples to satisfy basic food requirements. In FY85,
food imports accounted for about 24 percent of all official merchandise
imports, compared to 20 percent ten years earlier. Substantial and
increasing quantities of contraband food, particularly rice, maize and
sugar, are also entering the country.
7.       In recent decades, output and employment have shifted toward urban
activity, largely as a result of a scarcity of cultivable land and the
establishment in the 1970s of a labor-intensive, export assembly industry.
Agriculture now accounts for only one third of GDP compared with one half in
the early 1950s. Gross national savings are very low, averaging only about
five percent of GDP since FY80. This deficiency of savings, which is
particularly marked in agriculture, leaves the economy reliant on external
savings in the form of concessional aid to attain levels of investment
consistent with sustained growth. The economy has become much more open; by
1980, the total value of exports and imports of goods and services had risen
to about 50 percent of GDP.



- 3 -
8.       Despite the expansioni of manufacturing for export, the external
payments position is weak; the export base remains narrow, leaving Haiti
vulnerable to exogenous shocks. The nssembly industry produces a very
limited range of products--electronics, clothing, and sporting goods--yet
accounts for over 50 percent of all exports; external factors, euch as the
1980-83 world recession and the shakeout in the North American computer
industry have contributed to the recent slowdown in Lhis subsector. Coffee,
which accounts for about 25 percent of exports, is particularly vulnerable
to world price fluctuations and to hurricanes. rourism has virtually ceased
as a result of publicity concerning AIDS and the only bsauxite mine closed in
1982, when deposits were exhausted.
9.       In the second half of the 1970s, economic growth, averaging 4.5
percent per annum, allowed for some improvement in real per capita income.
A basic physical infrastructure was established and education and health
received attention, virtually for the first time since the 1930s. Prudent
financial policies were pursued and foreign development assistance was
substantial. The economy was virtually on a dollar standard, with the
Gourde remaining at a fixed parity of five to the U.S. dollar, and prices
were relatively srable. These conditions helped engender private sector
confidence and promoted the continued rapid expansion of the export assembly
industry, largely based on Haitan entrepreneurial talent. Although it has
enjoyed tax holidays and other investment incentives, this subsector's
primary advantage has been the freely determined structure of wages in
Haiti. Until recently it was the fastest growing assembly industry in the
Caribbean Basin; over 50,000 jobs were created by 1980. In contrast, the
private industrial subsector producing for the domescic market, which grew
quickly in the early 1970s behind high walls of protection, quickly
saturated this market and has stagnated for almost 10 years. There is
little scope for this domestic subsector to expand into export markets
without major restructuring.
B. Developments, FY80-85
10.      From FY80-85 the public sector expanded its influence in the
economy through higher rates of taxation, even higher levels of public
expenditure--the control and al]ocation of which was seriously
deficient--and an increase in the number of public enterprises. Waste and
inefficiency became endemic. Extrabudgetary expenditures rose disturbingly,
as did the level of corruption. New and inefficient public industrial
enterprises were formed, resulting in real resource losses equivalent to
almost four percent of GDP each year. Too much spending went to salaries
and non-development purposes, not enough to non-salary operating costs; too
little went for development, and the returns on public investment were very
low or even negative. Transfers from the Treasury to the investment budget
were partly diverted to meet salary payments in ministries without
development functions, reducing the availability of cournterpart funds for
aid-financed projects. Per capita public spending on health declined by 45



percent from FY80-86. The overall public sector deficit before grants
averaged over 10 percent a year (6.5 percent after grants). Public savings
dropped to less than one percent of CDP on average and recourse to
nonconcessional financing, mostly Central Bank credit, increased to more
than three percent of GDP on1 average.  Thin in tuirn exerted heavy pressure
on the balance of payments; official net reserves declined at an annual rate
of US$22 million and had fallen to minus US$93 million by the end of FY85.
Gross reserves had declined to less than three weeks' import coverage.
Payments arrears accumtulated and n parallel foreign exchange market
developed, with the Gourde selling at a discount which at times exceeded 20
percent.
11.      The confidence of the liaittan people, the private sector and the
international aid donor community was eroded and the economy declined by an
average of 0.6 percent per year from FY81-86, compared to the growth of the
late 1970s. Per capita incomes in FY86 were 15 percent below those in
FY80. There was increasing immiseration in the rural areas and
emigration--the "boat people"--increased. Starting in April 1984, there was
intermittent civil unrest. The assembly industry stagnated since 1983.
Employment in this subsector peaked at about 60,000 jobs but is estimated to
have declined by around 10 percent since, mainly in response to political
uncertainty and civil unrest. Donors expressed concern over inappropriate
public investments, the lack of overall public investment prioritlies, and
poor policies in agriculture and industry. In the absence of a major
overhaul of public investment, foreign aid declined from seven to five
percent of GDP from FY83-85 and several donors allocated their aid away from
the public sector toward non-governmental organizations.
12.      The Government's increased revenue demands on the domestic economy
in the 1980s were met through rent-seeking pricing policies by public
industrial enterprises that enjoyed trade monopolies. Together with the
intensification of import restrictions and of private production and
importing monopolies, this inflated prices for basic consumer goods to well
above world levels.   The annual increase in consumer prices averaged eight
percent in FY80-86, double that of Haiti's main trading partners. An
outright ban on the importation of specific consumption items was first
introduced in 1981 and then replaced by an administered system of import
licensing after 1982. Both trade restrictions and pricing policies created
price distortions with neigitboring countries, and encouraged contraband in
imported consumption goods.
PART II - THE GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC RECOVERY PROGRAM, FY86-88
A. Political Background
13.      Coming to power in 1957, President Francois Duvalier closed the
economy, conducted an effective reign of terror, and ended all hope of
progress until his death in 1971. His son and successor, Jean-Claude, began
a limited modernization process. The economy became more open, foreign aid



began to flow, and emigrants returned from the diasporn.  The initia]
responRe of the economy was posittve; by the late 1970s, as noted, it was
growing at about 4.5 percent per nnunim.
14.      The economic stagnation of the early 1980s, however, led to
increasing political discontent. By Into 1985, civIl unrest was widespread
and the economy was deteriorattng rapidly; by early 1986, the situatton was
unsustainable. The political system changed drnuatically on February 7 with
the sudden reparture from lHaiti of President Divalier.  A provisional
National Government Council (CNC) cnINe tn power, pledged to hold elections
and promote economic recovery. Civil cailm rws largely restored within a few
months, although occasionnl disturbancen continue. An electoral calendar
has been established and so fnr lollowed; presidential elections are
scheduled for November 1987, with a new Government taking office on February
7, 1988.
B. Overall Stratep
15.      The Government's intentions for the Haitian economy are set out in
its Letter of Recovery Policy (Annex IV): to reform public finances and
economic policies in order to hand over a viable, growing economy to its
elected successor and to establish conditions from which retrogression to
the inappropriate policies of the past would be difficult. The essence of
the program is to reduce the exploitation of the average Haitian, long
impoverished by high consumer prices set to expropriate economic rents te
benefit former regimes. An attempt is thus being made to end the past
system of privilege and monopoly. These actions are also intended to lead
to more sustained economic expansion; the overall target of the Economic
Recovery Program is GDP growth of at least 4.5 percent 8 year through
improved exports and agricultural performance. This target is to be
promoted both directly by the removal of impediments to efficient resource
allocation, and indirectly by the impetus to higher capital inflows that
these policies should generate. Central to this strategy is the nieed to
rebuild the confidence of Haitian workers, farmers and investors, on the one
hand, and foreign investors and aid donors, on the other.
16.      The policy measures to achieve the Government's objectives are,
first, macroeconomic stabilization and, second, the improvement of resource
allocation through reform of taxes, public expenditure, public enterprises,
competition and industrial incentives, and agricultural pricing and credit.
These are discussed in subsequent sections of Part II; reform of the trade
regime is a principal vehicle for many of them. The public sector's scope
is to be reduced, and it is to be made more efficient. In addition, the
Government is working to reduce external obstacles to Haitian exports. In
September 1986 it successfully negotiated a major increase in the Unuted
States' import quota for Haitian textiles. If the new U.S. import ceilings
are achieved, Haiti's export assembly industry could expand its output by
some 45 percent and create 10-12,000 new jobs.



I 7.     'I' prenent Gov.'runma,tIr4 'nK oiI rtrecovery IProgram wlII not , of
coursev, re-tio l. 11.11a It II   mnAly  v4'v-rt de veI opmnlt prnbiem.  11F1i  will takke
mustch more tinr thliou t hi shorr lilte ol trid a Gtverankrurt, usi it Well
refcoqgil.zsu.  fluttri 1 ttH prngram iti deigalgnec tn pave thr wtay tfr futLure
li' vi' I opurnlt .
18.      A I oigir tL.rm dIvdwlopinut ntrJitegy wlIl     1.tve tb)  bmhtoe(d Ioll lii tl 's
people' ; tl: i' coaitry lijst Iew twmitirtil rt iloircet'n.  I1 I t I ' coWmIpi rai ItIv'
adwVantJitg.' I i'Hi III tilh diye 1pVtoripmtvont of lrbit iidtia tLtril , i'Xlfl'rt-orieUt ted
prodikrulou   1 t S  I n i'-riit1t I i)ni I I y 'ifjI% { It I   Wye wgtle  t rui Lre has m.  Iri-tirly INol
I:o titi' [.Satlhl I shmle-alt t)l tlts h xlxpirt  ti-semhlily niuhaecLo r, t: he mtotit (Iyiullmic
- 1L.memit of tie tvoiil4iiy.  A  ltvvIopmiii t strimlt:gy hbamed ns blimainu  ret'ohireet!l
Impl II ta ms)o r I LIVstimS  i n  i n 1ii11nm:a (*11) piti 11, tLhromghimp I Nprove(i educantloa sumld
hesil IIh.  It als-) imnlipIn rasilnig ngreccltiaralI produictivi ty, prixiuLtioti anld
em;)ployntuvit., it; Liti' bul1k tnl trlhe 1i1ti:-l1 pOop1Ce will Cot11ItiUe to dtpenid on
igr'liiltlre ftr st 1OJIst lanotiher geis.ration.  T'hi a In tuirnL will. iyCCHH lttLe
allevialIaig th1I prssvsi%rv  t popl si ulion no the lnud tLbrough the isitroduet ion
of tffvctive Vtainily pl:alitiulg sund through ikigraktiomi from the hills1des to the
pl tIl [S astud  lLI i.  Iht. developmenti  of urbln Ia  ndiustry uisd of atgrictulture ont
the plains w111 reqtti'r major tmproveilnts In hltiti's physicanl
Ilitrastr.actutre--esprcinl.ly itts urbanl capita] stock, its export facilities
aild .services, and Its IrrigntioLn systirma--ad 1id  itta deteriorating natural
e'u-ii roament -
C. Macroeconomic Stabilization
19.      Performance in FY86. The public sector's financial position
-improved significantly iii FY86.  The year begaLn iti October 1985 with
approval of a budget that called for a reductionL in the overall public
sector deficit (after grants) from 4.0 percent of GDP in FY85 to 1.7
percent; Central Bank fitianciLig was to be limited to 0.4 perceLit of GDP,
compared with 2. 2 percenlt in FY85 aLnd 3.5 percent in FY84.  Wheni the presenlt
Government came to power iLn February 1986, the deficit and financinig plan
were broadly OLn track.  The compositioni of expenditure, however, was
nioticeably different from that budgeted as sounid budgetary procedures were
being ignored.
20.      The Government took drastic steps to redress the budgetary
situation.  [rom February on, both expeniditures anid taxes were cut and a
balanced budget was maintained, except for concessioual finanLcinLg.  ManLy
wasteful currenit expenditures anLd unjustified "development" projects,
equivalent to some three percent of GDP on an aLnual basis, were
elimiLnated. About half of the saviLngs were reallocated to priority sectors
(health, education, agriculture and internal security).  The rest enabled
excise taxes to be reduced on basic consumption items such as flour, sugar,
vegetable oil, axnd petroleum products, and certain taxes, previously
earmarked for special projects of the previous regime, to be eliminated. In
total, currenLt and development expenditure came to only 17 percent of GDP
compared to the 23 percent foreseen in the previous Government's budget.
21.      As a result, Haiti's financial situation improved substantially.
In FY86 the public sector was able to make net repayments on its external
commercial debt and to reduce the stock of debt to the domestic banking



system. The overall public sector deficit before grants was 5.2 percent of
GDP, compared to 7.5 percent in FY85; the deficit after grants was 1.0
percent of GDP. The reduction of the public sector deficit was accompanied
by a marked improvement in the balance of payments. The current account
deficit narrowed by two percent of GDP to 4.8 percent in FY86 and, after
six years of deficits, the overall balance of payments registered a surplus
of over US$20 million. The discount on the Gourde on the parallel foreign
exchange market fell back sharply after July 1986 to about 5-7 percent.
Inflationary pressures have also ended; the consumer price index fell by
four percent from February to September 1986.
22.      Objectives.  The Government recognizes that without continued
stabilization, the other elements of the recovery program will be
ineffectual. It aims to reduce further its outstanding stock of
nonconcessional debt, both external and to the domestic banking system; to
generate overall balance of payments surpluses equivalent to almost 1.5
percent of GDP in FY87 and close to one percent in each of the following two
years; and to keep inflation below about four percent, as in Haiti's main
trading partners. The centerpiece of this effort is fiscal policy. The
overall deficit (after grants) is expected to increase in FY87 to 1.8
percent of GDP from the low of 1.0 percent in FY86 and to remain close to
this level in the following two years as higher levels of concessional
financing are sustained. Assuming a favorable response of donors to its
Economic Recovery Program, the Government will limit the overall public
sector deficit, before grants, to about seven percent of GDP. The
anticipated level of grants and concessional aid will more than finance this
deficit, permitting the reduction of nonconcessional debt. Haiti's
nonconcc -tonal debt and liabilities to the IMF should decline sharply,
falling by US$27 million or 16 percent in FY87 and by similar percentages in
the following two years. The Government and the monetary authorities do not
intend to contract or guarantee any nonconcessional external credit within
the 1-12 year maturity range, other than the refinancing of arrears.
23.      This fiscal stance will set a sound basis for monetary and credit
policy by facilitating a reduction in the stock of Central Bank credit to
the public sector. This in turn should allow an expansion in credit to the
private sector without either jeopardizing the inflation objective or
placing pressure on the balance of payments.
24.      Program for FY87.  In line with these broad objectives, the
Government has established a continued stabilization program for FY87,
supported by an IMF Structural Adjustment Faclity arrangement which
includes quarterly benchmarks for Treasury receipts and outlays, net
financing of the public sector, and credit.
25.      This program projects Treasury revenue at 10.2 percent of GDP,
compared with actual collections of 11.5 percent in FY86.  A similarly
cautious approach has been followed in making budgetary provision for
outlays financed with external cash grants. Although expectations are that
thene may be as high as G 180 million, for programming purposes grant
disbursements have been set at G 140 million.  Te budget places a limit on
Treasury expenditures of 11 percent of GDP, permitting it to run a surplus
of G 40 million, which will be used to reduce Government eebt to the Central
Bank.  The public enterprises are expected to make net repayments to the
domestic banking system and reduce somewhat their indebtedness to external



- 8 -
commercial creditors, The overall public sector surplus (after grants) is
to rise to G 60 million, from G 48 million in FY86. Including public
investmenit, overall public expenditure should recover to about 20 percent of
GDP.
26.      The Central Bank and the state-owned National Credit Bank will
be subject to ceilings on their net domestic assets and on credit extended
to the private sector. As a result, the Central Bank's net credit to the
public sector will be reduced by two percent, while commercial bank credit
to the private sector is projected to increase by 14 percent. The program
also calls for an overall balance of payments surplus of US$32 million which
will allow some reconstitution of net international reserves. External
arrears, which stood at US$14 million at the beginning of the fiscal year,
will be rescheduled or settled with cash payments by its end. By December
31, 1986, all first quarter benchmarks had been achieved.
D. Tax Reform
27.      Despite measures to overcome their sluggishness, including a value
added tax introduced in FY83, tax revenues remained low, at around
[0 percent of GDP, through FY85. Besides Haiti's poverty, several factors
accounted for this. First, exemptions increased as part of industrial
investment and export promotion. This increased the difficulty of assessing
and collecting income taxes and customs duties. Second, the structure of
these taxes was too complex with unrealistically high marginal rates.
Third, taxes on agricultural exports, notably coffee, reduced farmers'
incentives to expand output. Fourth, too much reliance was placed on a vast
array of excises, fees and charges which depressed the buoyancy of the
system. Fifth, and above all, evasion and fraud were increasingly
widespread, largely reflecting the common perception that taxes were used to
finance inappropriate public expenditures.
28.      Starting in February 1986, the new Government embarked on a program
of far-reaching reforms aimed at improving the equity of the tax system and
increasing its responsiveness to economic growth.  The Government believes
that evasion can be reduced by broadening the tax base, lowering rates and
managing public finances in a transparent manner. The FY86 reform measures
were relatively modest while more important ones were being prepared. As
noted, excise taxes on consumption goods were reduced and certain taxes,
mainly ancillary taxes on wages, previously earmarked for special projects
of the previous regime, were eliminated. The revenue loss from these latter
sources, estimated tentatively at G 70 million, represented a benefit for
wage earners in Port-au-Prince and the other main towns. In addition, a
variable excise tax was imposed on petroleum products to capture the
difference between import costs and the domestic fixed prices. Finally, as
discussed in Part II.G, quotas on 76 imported goods were replaced with ad
valorem tariffs.
29.      More fundamental measures were adopted in early FY87.  The export
tax un coffee was reduced from 22 to 10 percent and other export taxes on
cocoa and sisal were eliminated. The Government intends to eliminate the
coffee export tax when overall revenue and expenditure performance has
improved sufficiently. Also effective in early FY87, the income tax system



- 9 -
was simplified, with fewer tax brackets, fewer exemptions, lower marginal
rates, a greater degree of consistency between the treatment of individuals
and corporations, and improved collection procedures, the latter including
the dismissal of non-performing staff from the internal revenue service.
Administrative procedures are also being improved, in particular by
systematic cross-checks between income, value-added and trade taxes. In the
longer run, the Government intends to replace most excise taxes by the value
added tax. Finally, the Government implemented in early FY87 a further
round of import quota and tariff changes, replacing quotas and specific
tariffs with ad valorem tariffs, and intends to improve customs valuation
and enforcement procedures.
E. Public Expenditure
30.      From a development perspective, there were two major resource
allocation and expenditure control problems of the central Government before
FY86. First, the four development-oriented ministries--agriculture, public
works, education and health--suffered from inadequate non-salary operating
funds. Agricultural extension workers could not get to the fields,
irrigation systems were not properly maintained, schools were without
furniture and books, and public health clinics without drugs. Since the
internal efficiency of these ministries was low, the returns to existing
private and public investments in their areas of responsibility were much
lower than expected. The four ministries at the same time spent too much on
salaries. They had recruited too many unskilled employees, largely for
social or political reasons, and found it difficult to attract the skilled
staff they needed because of relatively low salary scales compared to other
parts of the Government. Fraudulent wage payments were also a serious
problem, espccially in education and health.
31.      Second, the size and composition of the public investment program
has been determined more by the availability of externally packaged and
aided projects than by careful consideration by the Government of national
priorities and domestic resources likely to be available as counterpart
funds for these projects. The availability of foreign funds was
consistently overestimated. In addition, local resources earmarked for
investment inc'luded too many socially-oriented projects with low economic
returns in terms of their contribution to output and exports; many
represented disguised salary support. Shortages of local counterpart funds
were therefore common during project implementation. Overall implementation
of past programs never exceeded 70 percent of that forecast. During the
first half of the 1980s, the public investment program also included
inappropriate, resource-losing public industrial enterprises, as discussed
in the next section. Among justified projects, too many suffered from
insufficient technical design and poor implementation. In agriculture,
public investments were not accompanied by necessary pricing and structural
changes.
32.      Reflecting these two problems was a complex system of planning,
budgeting, monitoring and disbursing public investment, which provided
numerous opportunities to divert funds. The situation regarding current
expenditure was little better.



- 10 -
33.      The present Government has embarked on a widespread program of
reforms designed to begin to tackle these problems. Its aim is to manage
public finances transparently, to reallocate current expenditure toward
development-oriented ministries and the non-wage needs of development
projects, while concentrating public investment on the consolidation and
rehabilitation of existing and ongoing investments. These objectives are
modest but well chosen, given the limited life of this Government. By
February 1988, it should have achieved substantial results by comparison
with the past, but much will remain to be done, especially in the complex
and difficult areas of rationalizing public employment and establishing
efficient procedures for planning, budgeting, disbursing and monitoring
public expenditure.
34.      FY86 Reforms. After February 1986, Treasury expenditure, which is
mostly current, was cut from an average monthly level of G 111 million to
G 84 million. Expenditure for the political support of the former regime
was eliminated; audits of several ministries and agencies identified
wasteful expenditures. The public investment program was severely pruned;
preliminary estimates indicate that only about 60 percent of the G 1,113
million forecast in October 1985 was actually implemented. In August 1986,
the former Ministry of Planning was replaced with a more streamlined
National Promotion and Public Service Commission (CPNAP), charged with
improving the public investment program and, together with the Ministry of
Economy and Finance, with examining development projects' recurrent
financial needs. Finally, toward the end of the fiscal year, the salary
questioa was addressed. First, wage payments were controlled in the
education sector to eliminate fraud; the Government intends to extend this
review to health and other sectors once the necessary staff and procedures
can be put in place. Second, untaxed fringe benefits were eliminated.
35.      During the last four months of FY86, the Government allowed
Treasury expenditure to rise again to an average monthly rate of about G 100
million. The G 16 million increase on the average of the previous four
months was intended to be used both for sorely needed salary increases and
for operating supplies in the education and health sectors. This intention
was, however, defeated. After teachers' and health workers' salaries were
raised, Government employees elsewhere went on strike for commensurate
increases. The end result was that the G 16 million was-almost fully
allocated to raising salaries, not only in education and health, where the
functional need was greatest, but also in the armed forces and the
departments of customs, internal revenue, agriculture, interior and
justice. Very little was left for the purchase of operating supplies in
education and health. The effect on the Government's wage bill was
permanent. Resolving this problem is not feasible in the short term,
however. The Government is considering establishing a mechanism at the
highest political level to develop a policy to rationalize the public wage
bill and public employment.
36.      FY87 Treasury Budget. The Treasury budget for FY87 includes a
complete allocation of expenditures, abandoning the practice of reserving
large sums for unspecified programs; unallocated expenditures comprised
almost one fifth of the FY86 budget. There will be no extrabudgetary
Treasury spending and no transfers to public enterprises. The auditing
program is continuing, including audits of both the Ministry of the Economy
and Finance and of the Central Bank. Public sector accounting will be



- 11 -
improved by monthly reconciliations of the accounts of the Ministry of
Finance and the Central Bank. The current Treasury budget (i.e. excluding
debt service and traasfers to investment) more adequately reflects the
non-wage recurrent needs of development projects, particularly in education
and health. These two sectors' share of total current expenditure has
increased from 19 percent in FY86 to 32 percent. A lesser increase is
provided for agriculture because of administrative constraints. Table 1
compares the FY86 and FY87 current budgets.
Table 1: TREASURY BUDGETS, FY86 AND FY87
(G million at current prices)
Ministry or Agency        FY86 Budget       FY87 Budget       Percentage Change
Education                    98.3             161.6                    64
Health                       89.5             144.4                    61
Agriculture                  37.5              42.2                    13
Public Works                 77.3              78.0                     1
Armed Forces                 96.3              142.0                   48
Other                       589.6             385.1                   -35
Current expenditure         988.5             953.3                    -4
Debt service                324.4             236.7                   -27
Transfer to investment      136.0             100.0                   -27
Treasury expenditure      1,448.9           1,290.0                  -11
Source: Ministry of the Economy and Finance.
37.      The FY87 budget establishes a limit of G 676 million on wage
payments to civil servants, compared to last year's G 561 million.  This
increase not only reflects salary increases but also the reclassification of
remuneration previously included in other budget categories or paid outside
budgetary channels. The official figure for central Government employment
in early FY86 was 32,400; the actual figure may well have been over 50,000,
however. The Government intends to review the staffing levels of all
ministries and agencies; streamlining has already occurred at the Ministry
of Economy and Finance, the internal revenue service and at CPNAP.
38.     fY87 Public Investmt Program. The size and composition of the
FY87 public investment program were determined by the needs to meet the
local counterpart requirements of projects and to consolidate and
rehabilitate existing and ongoing investments. Unfortunately, the process
began late and was rather disorderly. The attempt to do better than in the
past was, however, genuine and by and large effective. The overall public
investment program is estimated at G 1,140 million, to be financed by public
savings (G 280 million) and concessional external aid (G 860 million).
Likely disbursements of project aid are still overestimated. However,
considering both the increased level of overall public savings because of
untied aid for budgetary support and improvements in project preparation and
administration, actual disbursements may well result in an overall
implementation rate of about 80 percent, or between G 900-950 million,
consistent with the Governmeat's macroeconomic stabilization target of a



- 12 -
public sector deficit before grants of about seven percent. Table 2
summarizes the sectoral composition and financing of the program and
compares it with that for FY86.
Table 2: PUBLIC INVESTHKR  PROGRAM, FY86 AND FY87
(percentage shares)
FY86 Program       FY87 Program
Total Program Cost (G million)                  1,113               1,140
Financing
Public savings                                   25.5                24.5
Concessional external aid                        74.5                75.5
Sectoral Composition
Agriculture                                       18.5               21.2
Industry, including mining                       11.9                 4.8
Electric power                                   15.0                12.7
Transportation a/                                10.5                12.2
Telecommunications                                5.6                11.2
Urban development                                 5.4                 6.5
Water supply                                      6.0                 4.8
Education                                         5.8                 7.1
Heaith                                           10.5                 9.6
Other sectors                                    10.8                 9.9
Implementation Rate (percent)                    60.3                 80.0
(est.)              (proj.)
Sources: CPNAP; Annex VI.
a/ Excludes proposed Cap Haitien airport project (para. 39)
39.      Details on the sectoral composition of the program and the largest
projects are given in Annex VI. In brief, agricultural projects concentrate
on irrigation rehabilitation (including where necessary protection of
associated watersheds), feeder roads and input delivery. Soil conservation
and reforestation are maintained at financially sustainable levels and
increasingly linked to treecrop rehabilitation or expansion. There are no
new irrigation projects in the program. Similarly, there are no investments
to expand the capacity of public industrial enterprises, although there are
some productivity enhancing investments at the public flour mill and cement
factory. Projects to benefit industry are those which improve the physical
infrastructure and public utilities serving the private sector. The
transport data exclude a proposal to construct an international airport at
Cap Haitien. This would represent at most two percent of public investment
in FY87. ND cost estimation or feasibility analysis has been carried out
for this project, which has not yet started.  The Government does not,
however, intend to use any funds for this project other than those available
to the National Airport Authority from one third of a G 75 user charge
levied on air passengers, about G 5 million per year; no external
concessional or commercial financing will be used. Development expenditure
.



- 13 -
in the social sectors is concentrated heavily on the completion of ongoing
projects in education, training and health, and on urban development and
water supply.
40.      On the financing side, Treasury development expenditures are almost
exclusively devoted to meeting the counterpart fund requirements of foreign
aided projects. All projects are financed exclusively with concessional
external aid. The program is by and large appropriate for Haiti's
development needs. In addition to this program, the Government has
presented to external donors a list of 26 new projects proposed for external
financing of C 217 million (US$43 million). These modest projects are
within Haiti's absorptive capacity and will be added to the program as
financing is secured.
41.      The Government intends also to continue to strengthen the planning,
budgeting and disbursing of public expenditure through improved procedures.
These will include the elimination of fraudulent wage payments at the
Ministry of Public Health and Population, the improvement of recurrent
budgeting at the Ministry of National Education, and the preparation of the
public investment program for FY88. This last will be based on a joint
review with IDA staff of actual progress made in the first nine months of
FY87 and of preliminary proposals for FY88, and will start much earlier than
has previously been the custom.
F. Public Enterprisles
42.      Policy toward public enterprises has undergone a radical change.
There were in early 1986 five major public industrial enterprises:
Entreprise Nationale des Oleagineux (ENAOL), a vegetable oil mill; two sugar
mills, Usine Sucriere Nationale de Darbonne (USND) and Usine Sucriere du
Nord (USN); Ciment d'Haiti, a cement plant; and La Minoterie, a flour mill.
All five used to enjoy trade privileges which, in each case, protected
grossly inefficient operations and enabled financial procedures inconsistent
with sound business practices. Annual real resource losses were equivalent
to almost four percent of GDP during FY82-85, a period in which the Haitian
economy never grew by more than one per cent per year. In addition, the two
sugar mills and the vegetable oil mill incurred heavy financial losses. To
stem and eventually reverse this economic and financial waste, the
Government has combined the closure and restructuring of enterprises with
market liberalization and the introduction of financial monitoring.
43.      EN&OL. This enterprise, which produced semi-refined vegetable oil
from oilseeds by crushing and solvent extraction, was never economic. Since
beginning operations in 1981, it had a negative balance of payments impact
of about US$16 million each year. The scale of the crushing and solvent
extraction was too small to be economic; the plant also carried out second
stage refining to fully refined oil, a process already amply catered for in
Haiti through the existence of six other private refiners.
44.      The mill was accordingly closed on July 31, 1986.  The
approximately 300 employees were offered either generous severance pay or
the option to form a private cooperative to run the factory; about 60



- 14 -
percent opted for the former, each receiving about nine months' salary. The
remainder, including most of ENAOL's previous managers, will lease the plant
from the Government for 25 years at a nominal rent. If the cooperative is
to survive, it will have to adapt to a highly competitive market
environment: the Government has pledged not to grant it any subsidies,
privileges or loan guarantees. Moreover, the market for vegetable oils has
been liberalized: ENAOL's import monopoly was dissolved with the company
itself; licencing requirements for importation have been eliminated, and a
tariff of 20 percent has been imposed on vegetable oil imports.
45.      USND and USK. Until mid-1986, Haiti had four operating sugar mills,
two private and two public. The two latter, USND and USN, operated at a
loss despite the high price of US$0.24 per lb paid for raw sugar at the
factory gate and the low price of US$13 per ton paid for cane. If prices
and costs are adjusted to reflect long term international values, then
neither mill is economically viable even under highly favorable assumptions
concerning raw material supply and efficiency. USND was built directly by
the state in 1982; the equipment was supplied on a turnkey basis at prices
well above those prevailing on world markets. Capacity utilization has been
low because of insufficient cane supply, while operating costs were inflated
by a labor force of about 700, some four times as many as required to run
the plant.
46.      The USND mill was therefore closed in July 1986.  The 700 factory
employees were, like those at ENAOL, offered the choice between
indemnization and the formation of a cooperative to run the mill; all opted
for the former, again receiving about nine months' salary. The plant would
in any case have required between G 10-20 million of expenditure on
rehabilitation and maintenance to reopen and could not have been operated
for the FY87 harvest. Farmers in the surrounding Leogane plain, who
previously supplied the mill, can either sell their cane to the small
artisanal  guildives", -hich use it to manufacture cane spirit, or to one of
the private mills which used to purchase cane from the area before USND's
establishment. This mill has both the necessary capacity and logistic
support to absorb the Leogane crop. The Government is actively encouraging
the planting of alternative crops, principally rice and vegetables, in the
Leogane plain to supply the nearby Port-au-Prince market.
47.      The case of USN is more complex, since the plant is located in the
north of the country, far from the main market and where technically and
economically viable alternatives to cane are difficult to identify. Several
thousand families depend for their livelihood on supplying or working for
the mill. The Government will undertake a study of alternatives to cane,
including improvements in watershed and erosion control which they might
imply. In the meantime, to identify ways in which mill operating expenses
might be reduced, the Government has ordered an independent audit of the
company.
48.      Cisent d'Haiti. This company, 90 percent Government-owned, supplies
most of Haiti's current consumption of cement, about 250,000 metric tons per
year. Until recently, a licence was required to import cement and a



- 15 -
specific tariff of G 300 per metric ton was levied, equivalent to over 100
percent ad valorem at current CIF prices. This gave the company a de facto
monopoly on the production and legal importation of clinker, cement and
by-products. The company was exceedingly inefficient: annual operating
expenditures, net of taxes, were about US$83 per metric ton, some 66 percent
higher than the estimated landed cost of imported bagged cement. There were
two main reasons for these high costs. First, personr.el costs, at some
US$17 per metric ton, were over twice industry standards. This was due both
to excessive enployment and high wages and salaries. The plant employed in
September 1986 about 380 persons on a regular basis, plus a similar number
of "temporary" workers, as against efficient industry standards of about
200. It paid unskilled workers more than twice what they would have earned
in the private sector, while some managerial staff earned extremely high
salaries. Second, energy consumption was high due mainly to the plant's
antiquated power generating equipment. New equtpment, which may take up to
a year to order and install, will still only reduce costs by about US$8 per
metric ton.
49.      Options under consideration for Ciment d'Haiti include partial
divestiture, and switching from the local production of clinker to its
importation. The Government has approached IFC about the former. The
latter would imply additional investments in storage and handling
facilities, and perhaps also in port works, which would have to be subjected
to detailed engineering studies. For any option for the plant's continued
existence to be economic, it is essential to reduce personnel and
administration costs, which amount to about 25 percent of total operating
expenditures, and to subject the factory to competition from imports. As a
first step, personnel were reduced by 120 by the end of January 1987, and a
detailed plan to reduce the company's wage bill has been prepared in
connection with an independent financial and management audit. Second, the
cement market has been liberalized. Import licencing requirements have been
lifted and a tariff of 33 percent placed on imports of bagged and bulk
cement.
50.      La Hinoterie, the Government-owned flour mill, has a monopoly over
both the importation of wheat and the legal sale of wheat flour, except for
specialized products directly imported by bakeries. Wheat cannot be grown
in Haiti's climate. The mill has an effective capacity of about 2.8 million
100-lb bags of flour a year. Production has remained near this figure in
recent years. La Minoterie has been financially profitable, but only
because of a controlled price for wheat flour more than twice border
parity. La Minoterie's declared operating costs appear to be about 52
percent above the border price for imported flour. However, while there are
undoubtedly major operating inefficiencies and considerable
overstaffing--employment of some 1,200 in September 1986 was over ten times
industry standards-the cost data on which this analysis was based is
unreliable. A recent audit was unable to verify the company's financial
statements, partly due to the non-observance of standard accounting
practices, but mainly due to significant abuses. Large sums, in some cases
totalling several million U.S. dollars, had been siphoned off from the
company; moreover, cash management and purchasing and sales procedures were
maintained in a deliberately disorganized fashion to facilitate the
misappropriation of funds. Despite this, there is no doubt the mill could
be run more efficiently and economically in either the public or the private
sector.



- 16 -
51.      Privatization is under consideration, among other options.  The
Government changed the management team in October 1986 and separated the
Board and the management. The new team, pledged to restructure the company,
has engaged consultants to implement the key recommendations of the audit,
including the preparation of a plan for wage bill reduction, the
consolidation and reorganization of cash and bank accounts, the
establishment of a cost accounting system, and the reform of purchase,
production and sales procedures. By the end of January 1987, the wage bill
at the mill had been reduced by some seven percent.
52.      In additiotn the Government has liberalized the wheat flour market
by revoking La Minoterie's monopoly on wheat imports. Import competition
will encourage efficiency and facilitate continued supply of the market when
demand increases above La Minoterie's current capacity.
53.      Fiuancial Monitoring. To improve its financial monitoring of all
public enterprises, the Government has established a unit in the Ministry of
Economy and Finance to review the enterprises' budgets, financial results
and the execution of their programmed investments. All public enterprises
will also be subject to regular, independent, external auditing. The
objective of this more systematic financial monitoring is not to increase
state interference in the day-to-day management of the enterprises, but
rather to enable the state, as the shareholder, to ensure that the
enterprises' operations are consistent with the wider aims of economic
policy.
C. Competition ad Industrial Incentives
54.      The dynamic export assembly subsector grew up without protection,
though with tax holidays and other incentives. There has, however, been
little linkage between it and the rest of the economy, except through wages,
partly because Haitian local industry has been so inefficient that its
products are not competitive as intermediate inputs to the assembly
subsector.
55.      Starting more than 15 years ago, however, import-substitution
policies followed by balance of payments constraints led to progressively
higher tariffs and barriers to trade as well as to discretionary fiscal
incentives for investment. The resulting trade regime created an incentive
structure for industry producing for the local market that deterred
competition, efficient production and exports. It also led to high domestic
prices for many basic consumption items. There were export taxes on
agricultural products, import quotas and licenses, high import tariffs, an
overly complex and inefficient Customs system and staff, and a complicated
administrative structure facing any investor, exporter or provider of
servlces to exporters. The arbitrary operation of the system provided
further major disincentives to the establishment of efficient exporting
industries. Industrial firms tended to rely on rents from the narrow,
protected domestic market rather than investing to correct inefficiencies



- 17 -
and compete in the International marketplace. As a result, local industrial
production is stagnant with excess capacity, obsolete equipment and low
quality products sold at high prices. Tariffs as high as 180 percent
combined with quantitative restrictions on imports resulted in effective
protection levels averaging about 100 percent, with more than 10 percent of
industrial production enjoying effective protection of over 300 percent.
56.      Until mid-1986, more than 100 goods, most produced locally, were
subject to import quotas and licencing.  In addition, 25 were subject to
price controls fixed by the Ministry of Commerce, mostly for monopolistic
markets such as milk, soap, matches and fish. Import prohibitions affected
several products, such as tomato paste, used cars and used newspapers. De
facto import monopolies were enjoyed by the public industrial enterprises
for vegetable oil, cement, sugar and flour. More than a dozen petty taxes
were also levied on imports by the Customs service, each yielding less than
G 500,000 per annum.
57.      The Investment Code, revised and simplified in 1985, guarantees
various domestic tax holidays and tariff exemptions on imported inputs or
equipment to encourage new investments. As with the trade regime, these
incentives did not stimulate the development of efficient industries but
rather increased the protection of existing firms at the expense of fiscal
revenues, consumer prices and the unemployed. While the assembly industry
created over 40,000 jobs since 1975, local industrial employment stagnated
at around 25,000.
58.      The wide range of customs regimes could not be controlled by a weak
Customs administration, already burdened with complex import documentation
and procedures and afflicted by widespread corruption. Actual collected
import duties bore only a coincidental resemblance to official rates. Total
collections in FY86 corresponded to 12.5 percent of dutiable imports. As
tariff rates rose, contraband increased; it is now virtually endemic.
59.      To lower prices, reverse past distortions and stimulate the
economy, the Government embarked in July 1986 on a thorough program to
liberalize trade, stimulate competition and revise the incentive structure.
Its objective is a stable, neutral incentive system to channel resources
toward competitive rather than rent-seeking activities. The narrow domestic
market means that industrial expansion has to be driven by exports. The
Government is thus progressively reducing the average level of effective
protection and harmonizing its distribution across sectors through various
reforms. Lower tariffs will also be easier to collect than the previous
complex system.
60.      Quantitative Restrictions. In July 1986, the Government reduced the
number of products subject to licensing, quotas or prohibitions from 111 to
35. In December 1986, it abrogated the import licensing and quota law. No
import monopoly remains in effect. Two products are restricted for sanitary
reasons: used newspapers and used clothes. A new import licensing law,
without formal ceilings, was introduced for seven agricultural products:
rice, maize, millet, beans, sugar, chicken parts and porkmeat parts.



- 18 -
61.      Tariffs.  The quantitative restrictions removed in July 1986 were
replaced by ad valorem tariffs averaging about 20 percent with a maximum of
40 percent. At the same time, specific tariffs were replaced with ad
valorem ones or ad valorem tariffs were lowered for approximately 300 of the
2,000 tariff positions. In February 1987, following the abrogation of the
remaining quantitative restrictions, the Government implemented a complete
revision of the entire tariff structure. All specific tariffs were replaced
with ad valorem ones. With five exceptions (rice, maize, millet, flour and
petroleum), rates range between 0 and 40 percent. Their application takes
into account the ending of quantitative restrictione. Exemptions allowed by
the Investment Code will be ended by December 1987. Medical supplies and
agricultural imports are exempted.
62.      The cascading of the rates followed a physical input/output rule
rather than the necessities of the existing industrial base to avoid as far
as possible ex ante negative protection or sectoral biases. Consumer and
final goods are subject to a maximum rate of 30 percent whereas equlpment,
raw materials and some inputs are subject to 10 percent. A 5 percent rate
was used to provide a little protection to locally produced essential
intermediate goods (such as packaging, cans, and metal working) without
overburdening downstream industries. The targeted average tariff rate is 20
percent.
63.      The level of effective protection for existing firms has been
drastically reduced by these measures from an average of over 100 percent to
below 40 percent; 95 percent of industrial firms now have less than 60
percent effective protection. The state of Haitian trade statistics and
customs data and the prevalence of contraband make it impossible to predict
accurately the likely impact of the trade regime changes on either the
balance of payments or fiscal revenues. Insofar as lower protection should
discourage contraband, however, both recorded imports and fiscal revenues
may well increase.
64.      In addition to these major changes, the Government is streamlining
the various Customs procedures and rationalizing petty taxes on trade.
Import notifications are now processed quickly and automatically at the
Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Customs clearance procedures are being
simplified. Further institutional strengthening of the Customs will,
however, be necessary. An administrative charge of one percent of CIF value
has been extended to all imports except pharmaceuticals and petroleum to
cover the costs of an independent, foreign firm that is responsible for
import verification. Petty taxes on imports and exports will be eliminated
by the end of FY87. The maximum tariff for imports from non-GATT countries
is being reviewed.
65.      Investment Code. The Government intends to revise the Investment
Code to harmonize with the above measures. In particular, general
exemptions of import duties will no longer be available and existing ones
will be progressively eliminated. Eligibility criteria will be neutral in
terms of sector, years in business, value added content and market share.



- 19 -
66.      Prlce Controls.  The Ministry of Commerce and Industry has
eliminated its price control office. Price controls remain in effect for
very few products, notably sugarcane, sugar and petroleum products.
67.      Export Promotion.  The Government is also reducing the bias against
exports. Taxes on agricultural exports are being progressively reduced
(Part I1.1). In addition to the revised Investment Code, the Government
intends to implement an endorsable drawback system by the end of 1987 to
reduce anti-export bias. Export promotion is being stepped up and, as
noted, a new textile agreement has been reached with the United States.
68.      Restructuring Asiastance.  The Government is making available both
technical and financial assistance to industrial firms that wish to
restructure to operate in the new incentive environment. The Industrial
Development Fund (FDI) has been charged with this responsibility; a program
of technical assistance has already begun, offering diagnostic surveys to
enterprises to advise on priority areas for restructuring and following this
up with detailed consulting services and credit to finance new investments.
R. Agriculture
69.      The stagnation of agriculture, its declining ability to satisfy
minimum nutrit4on requirements, and the loss of non-renewable natural
resources (Part I), are major preoccupations of the Government. Half the
mountain land, which accounts for 60 percent of Haiti's total area, has a
slope greater than 400 and is suitable ecologically only for forest
cover. Nevertheless, much of the forest has been removed for energy and to
permit cultivation. Farm technologies are rudimentary. The topography,
small size and scattered location of most farm plots offer little scope for
mechanization. Investments such as reforestation and terracing are
logistically difficult, because of the priority given by farmers to food
crops, the insecurity of tenure in many places, and the sheer immensity of
the erosion problem. The lowland plains represent about 15 percent of the
total land area; 90,000 ha are irrigated. Most systems are in disrepair,
however, as a result of inadequate operation and maintenance. Watershed
protection is virtually nonexistent, leading to the siltation of irrigation
channels after heavy rains.
70.      Overcoming Haiti's agricultural crisis will take much time and
investment. Reforms should aim at increasing productivity, production and
exports; improving nutrition; preserving non-renewable resources; increasing
fiscal revenues; and improving equity. The present Government has made a
determi,ed start in addressing problems of pricing, policy-induced rents and
deficient public services to agriculture. Much remains to be done, however,
for many years to come.
71.      Pricing.  Prices have been affected by four major Government
interventions: (a) prices and tax levels established at food processing
plants for wheat, sugar and vegetable oils (Part II.F); (b) export taxes;
(a) quantitative import restrictions and tariffs; sud (d) administered



- 20 -
farugate prices for sugarcane nnd cotton.  'rheir combined effects have been
to tax agricultural producers--mostly in coffee, sugarcane and cotton--and
consumers--mostly in sugar, wheat flour, rice and vegetable oils.
72.      Despite coffee's comparative advantage over maize and sorghum, it
has been subject to an export tax of around 25 percent of FOB prices.
Prices of maize, sorghum, rice  and wheat flour have hovered in recent years
at some 20-30 percent above import pricn beensbuse controls resulted in
negligible imports of the first three while Ln Minoterie requiired high flour
prices for financial viability and the extraction of rent". Hy Augusfft 1986,
farmgate prices for maize were around 100 percent higher than CTU  Import
prices, 30 percent for rice and 40 percent for wheat flour. These
policies--of  supporting" grain nnd flour prices ahove world levels and
suppressing coffee prices below world levels--have had negative reHults. In
the competition for scarce hillside land, many farmers have replaced their
coffee trees with maize and sorghum, exacerbnting soil erosion.
73.      The previous Government made a hesitant effort to deal. with the
coffee export tax, reducing it to about 22 percent by 1985. It also
eliminated the 5 percent export tax on essential. oilt in 1985. The present
Government has moved more forcefully, reducing the coffee expurt tax to 10
percent, and eliminating the export taxes on cocoa (6%) and sisal fibre
(C 1.25 per 100 kg). Provided overall revenue and expenditure performance
remain satisfactory, the Government intends to eliminate entirely the coffee
export tax by the end of FY87.
74.      The Government reduced the excise tax on wheat flour in February
1986, has permitted wheat flour imports, and has replaced import quotas with
import licensing restricted to seven products: rice, maize, millet, beans,
sugar, chicken parts and porkmeat parts. Even before this, domestic grain
prices fell substantially in the second half of 1986, following the
unprecedented decline in international p: ires (and pervasive contraband) and
possibly the strengthening of the Gourde on the parallel foreign exchange
market.  The Government also intends to free the producer price of cotton.
75.      Polic-induced rests.  Past Government policies for State lands
created rents for a privileged few, rather than capturing them for the
fisc. Substantial areas of public lands were leased at nominal rates to
influential individuals, who in turn subleased them to small farmers or sold
the lease rights, both at market rates. The law provides that annual rents
on State lands are to be assessed at six percent of the fair market land
value. Yet most primary leases have been assessed at G 15-60 per ha,
compared to fair market rental assessments of G 250-2,000. The Government
is thus foregoing some G 100-200 million per annum in revenues. The
Government intends during FY87 to introduce a scheme to raise rents on all
new and renewed leases according to the fair market value of the land.
76.      Credit.  Only 10-15 percent of the rural population has access to
institutional credit. Past primary sources have been the Agricultural
Credit Bureau (BCA), which lends mainly to suiallholders, and the Naticnal
Bank for Agricultural and Industrial Development (BNDAI), which has been



- 21 -
geared to medium and large farmers engaged in cep'ital-intensive production,
notably of irrigated rice.
77.      The loan portfolios of toth credit agepcies hat/e deteriorated.
According to a recent audit, BCA had 6,470 borrowers in August 1986, many
associations each averaging 1i4 farmerr, fnd a portfolio of G 52 million, 50
percent in arrears.  An audit Gf BNDAL is also unde.>ra); arrears on its
portfolio rose from around 45 percent in mid-19i5 to 70 percent a year
later. Most of BCA's and ENDAI's arrears ale considered uncollectable.
During FY87, the Government irnterds to close BNDAI and will, with assistance
from the Inter-American Development Bank, establish a new agricultural
credit bank, to include BNDAI's performing agricultural portfolio.
I. Economic, Environwetzal and Social Isaract
78.      ECOOomic Impact. The Government's Economic Recovery Program,
especially the elimination of financial imbalances and price distortions, is
having its intended effects. As discussed above, the public sector's
affairs are now more transparently managed, it has reduced its stock of
nonconcessional debt, the balance of payments is running ar overall surplus,
the discount on the rkurde on the parallel foreign exchange market has
declined significantly, and consumer prices have dropped. Assembly industry
exports, which fell in the second quarter of FY86, have picked up again.
Confidence is returning and should continue to increase, so loug as there is
reasonable political stability. The endorsement of the program by external
donors and the IMF has also provided a powerful boost to confidence,
stimulating private investment and aid flows.
79.      Resources have been freed by the reduced burden of public
enterprises and the more effective management of a leaner public sector. In
the medium term, the public investment program should yield higher returns,
though time and major reforms are still needed.  The elimination of the
coffee and other export taxes, the raising of rentals on State lands, and
the reorganiss.tion of credit should help to sustain agricultural growth.
Furthermore, as commerce becomes lens attractive relative to production--as
trade liberalization reduces opportunities for rent-seeking
activities--Haitian industrial entrepreneurs can be expected to produce more
efficiently for export or to supp;; the exporc assembly industries. Above
all, the consumer will benefit from the reduction of economic rents and the
fail in prices of basic consumption goods.
80.      Haiti's economic prospects, like those of most small countries,
also depend heavilv on two external factors: market access and international
prices for its exports, and the flow of concessional aid.   While the first
is largely beyond the Government's control, the second is directly liaked to
the policies it pursues, as the experience of the early 1980s demonstrated.
Table 3 sunarizes projections of economic indicators through FY90 for two
cases, with and without the Economic Recovery Program; uncertainty about
political developments after February 1988 necessarily makes them very
tentative after FY88.



Table 3: ECONOMIC PROJECTIONS WITH AND WITHOUT RECOVERY PROCPRM
(percent)
Average Annual Growth Rate                            Share of CDP at Market Prices
(z at constant prices)                                    (2 at current prices)
FY76-91   FY8I-86  FY86-9O  FY86-90                  FY76      FY81      FY86   FY90       nY90
WLth    WLthout                                   (est.)  Ulth    Without
Program  Pro;ram                                           Program  Progran
Gross DomestIc Product                        3.4       -0.6       4.6      -0.9              100.0    100.0 o     ooo.   100.0    100.0
AgrLiuLture                                Os        -1.6       5.5      -0.7               38.4      33.8      32.1      33.2      32.2
Industry                                    6.2        0.2      5.1      -1.9                19.4      22.2      23.0      23.4      22.8
Other                                       4.3       -0.2       3.7      -0.8               42.2      44.0      4 .9      43.4      45.0
Consumprtion                                  3.9       -1,2       4.4       0.6               93.1      98.3      93.9      93.7    100.1
Gross Domestic Investment                     6.3       -3.7      13.9      -3.1               13.8      26.9      12-1      17.0      11.0
Public                                      9.7       -9.B      15.4     -ILA                 9.5      11.9       6.2       9.i       6.0
Private                                     0.1       -4.8      12.4     -5.0                 6.3       5.0       5.9       7.9       5.0
Exports of GHFS                               3.2        0.1       4.4       0.9               16.5      16.8      13.8      13.7      lL.6
Coffee                                      4.9       -0.3       7.1      4.7                 5.0       2.2       2.6       2.1       2.3
Other Agricultural Goods                                         2.7      0.5                 2.5       2.0       1.5       1.4       1.6
Assembly Industry                                                6.2        -                 2.8       5.4       5. 8      5.6       5.3                 1.
Imports of GHFS                               k.B       -4.4       9.5       5.3              -25.7    -32.0    -20.3    -24n.        -25.7
Cross NatLonal SavIngs                      -32.2       -7.8      14.5    -69.2                 6.1       0.7       4.9       7.2      t).
Batance of Payments
Curren1t Account                                                                             -6.5    -110.    -4.8         -5.8      -6.6
PubLic Sector Deficit al                                                                        -7.6    -12.9      -5.2      -6.0    -10.0
Debt Service/GDP
Including IMF                                                                                 1.2       1.7       3.4       1.3       1.6
Excluding IMF                                                                                 1.2       1.4       2.3       1.0       1.Z
Debt ServicelExports of Goods & NFS
Including IMF                                                                                 6.9       9.9      24.4      11.0      12.5
Excluding IMF                                                                                 6.9       8.4      16.4       9.2       9.3
a/ Before grants.
12-Dec-86



- 23 -
81.      The With Program case assumes improved allocative efficiency and
the restoration of confidence among both the private sector and Haiti's
external aid donors; details of the projection are included in Annex I.
Macroeconomic stabilization would remain effective and GDP could grow at an
average annual rate of 4.6 percent in FY86-90. Lower input and consumer
prices resulting from the reform of the trade regime would stimulate the
economy while domestic industry would restructure in line with the new
incentives and would, by the end of the period, start to increase its
exports. Subsequent growth would be fueled by new investment, restoring
investment's share of GDP to the level of the early 1980s but with a much
greater proportion coming from the private sector. Public investment could
rise from about six to about nine percent of GDP, financed by increased aid
flows, and would become more efficient, being focused on the rehabilitation
and expansion of the existing capital stock; the neglect of maintenance
would slowly be overcome with the provision of more adequate recurrent
funding. By FY90, the public sector deficit before aid could be about six
percent of GDP, financed entirely with concessional aid.
82.      Export growth and foreign aid would finance the increased imports
resulting from increased investment and trade liberalization. The current
account deficit would widen slightly from the artificially low FY86 level
but could be easily financed by foreign aid. Reserves would begin to
increase and should turn positive during FY87 for the first time since
FY80. Assembly industry exports could expand by over six percent per annum
in FY86-90 due to restored confidence and the new textile agreement with the
United States. Coffee production would ride the peak of its agronomic cycle
in FY87 and FY88, benefiting also from relatively high world prices, and the
reduction and elimination of the coffee export tax would promote replanting
and sustained export growth averaging seven percent per annum.
83.      The Without Program case, by contrast, would be characterized after
FY87 by a return to the ineffective policies and zero growth of the early
1980s. This is not likely in FY87 because of the anticipated coffee crop
and the relatively high levels of aid promised at a November 1986 meeting of
the Haiti Subgroup of the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic
Development. Despite good coffee yields and prices in FY87, agricultural
production would well fall because price disincentives would remain and
rehabilitation of neglected irrigation systems would not occur. Local
industry would continue to stagnate in the small protected domestic market,
and assembly industry confidence would likely flag. Public investment and
non-wage recurrent spending could very well be crowded out by popular
pressure for public sector wage and employment increases. Increased public
sector employment would become an obstacle to more effective public
administration and would offset restructuring efforts at public enterprises,
which would again become a major drain on the economy.   The public sector
deficit would widen, perhaps to 10 percent of CDP, and external concessional
aid would be inadequate to finance it because policy-based external aid,
which accounts for some 30 percent of projected aid inflows in the With
Program case, would be lost and project aid disbursements would lag. The
deficit would be financed by Central Bank credit which would lead anew to
financial disequilibrium, inflation and a loss of confidence. Private
investment co-ld drop back to the very low level of FY81. While exports
would stagnate, imports would continue to increase, likely provoking



- 24 -
a balance of payments crisis and the continued loss of reserves. Such a
collapse of the Economic Recovery Program would not only leave the economy
in recession, it would undermine the basis for future growth.
84.      Neither case considers the exchange rate.  The Government considers
it of paramounc importance to maintain the fixed parity of five Gourdes to
the U.S. dollar. In the transition to new democratic institutions the
Government judges that the preservation of this rate provides a firm anchor
for fiscal and monetary policy in the immediate future. Moreover, in the
late 1970s this fixed exchange rate regime, together with the pursuit of
prudent fiscal and credit policies, created a climate of confidence which
led to the establishment of the assembly industry. For several years
beginning in 1979, the link with U.S. dollar led the Gourde to appreciate in
real effective terms against the currencies of Haiti's main trading
partners. This had little effect on Haiti's export performance because the
domestic wage structure remained largely market-determined and highly
competitive. Recently, as noted, real wages have increased as prices have
fallen, without affecting Haiti's international competitiveness. Indeed,
aside from protection, the principal obstacle to expanded exports has been
market access, a situation now improved with the new U.S. textile
agreement. Moreover, the recent depreciation of the dollar against other
major currencies has brought about a decline in the real effective value of
the Gourde of over 10 percent during the last 12 months, offsetting to an
important extent the earlier rise. However, the Government recognizes that
its commitment to trade liberalization while maintaining a stable exchange
rate implies the maintenance of demand management policies to avoid
excessive growth in imports.
85.      Environmaetal Impact.  The reduction and ultimate elimination of
the coffee export tax should increase the incentives for hill farmers to
maintain and replant soil-binding coffee trees and decrease those to grow
crops like maize that contribute to erosion. This shift in relative prices
will be complemented with several programs, financed with external aid, to
improve coffee yields and promote reforestation.
86.      Social Impact.  The immediate adverse social consequences from the
program affect the employees of public enterprises that are shut or
restructured, and for some employees of private industrial firms that may
not prove viable once protection is reduced. These direct consequences will
be more than offset by resulting benefits to Haitians as a whole, especially
the very poorest members of the society.
87.      Severance pay of about nine months salary has been provided to
employees of the ENAOL and USND factories. According to a recent study,
less thAn a dozen of the approximately 200 industrial firms producing for
the local market (averaging 90 employees each) may find it difficult to
survive the reforms of the trade regime. These are largely firms whose
products are not economic in the Haitian context, such as milk processing,
metal working and packaging. Technical and financial assistance would be
available to facilitate the restructuring of the vast majority of firms that
are not at present competitive internationally but have the potential to be
So.



- 25 -
88.      Against these negative social consequences, there are five major
social benefits from the Economic Recovery Program. First, real resources
equivalent to some two percent of GDP are being released by the reform of
public enterprises for investment in productive activities and the creation
of productive employment. Second, the reform of these enterprises, the
reduction of excise taxes, and the reform of the trade regime have already
lowered the cost of living for the Haitian consumer, particularly the
poorest, without hurting farmers, especially as prices of basic consumption
goods fell; the retail price of vegetable oil has dropped by 40 percent
since February 1986 and that of flour by 11 percent. Decreases may also be
anticipated in the price of cement and hence in the cost of construction.
Lower consumer prices not only improve welfare, especially of the very
poorest, they raise real wages and so reduce the pressure to increase wages
and help maintain Haiti's international competitiveness. Third, small scale
industrial enterprises now stand to benefit from the advantages, such as low
tariffs on inputs, that larger firms have enjoyed in the past; the trade
reform thus eliminates many monopolies and barriers to entry. Fourth, the
program should increase the income of over a million people who depend on
coffee as their principal cash crop and should result in the encouragement
of new directions for farmers locked into the vicious poverty circle of
sugarcane production. Fifth, equity will be improved by the reform of the
income tax, especially by stepped-up collection efforts and by the capturing
of former private rents through the trade regime reforms and the raising of
State land rents toward market levels.
PART III - THE PROPOSED OPERATION
A. History
89.      The proposed operation would support the Government's Economic
Recovery Program. It was prepared during an intensive dialogue with the
Government since May 1986, based on IDA's economic, public expenditure and
agricultural reports. Preparation of some public enterprise and
agricultural pricing components benefited greatly from earlier work during
1985 on a possible agricultural sector operation, much of the proposed
policy content of which is now included in the present operation. Appraisal
was completed in October 1986 and negotiations were concluded on January 28,
1987. The Haitian delegation was led by Mr. Leslie Delatour, Minister of
Economy and Finance. Annex III is a supplementary credit data sheet.
B. Relationship to the Governant's Program
90.      The proposed operation would support measures taken by the
Government during FY86 and early FY87 and to be implemented during FY87 and
early FY88. Actions taken so far reflect understandings reached with the
Government during IDA's continuing policy dialogue. Certain components of
the Government's program have our approval but are best directly supported



- 26 -
by others with more specialized monitoring capability, e.g. the IHF in the
case of tax reform. The specific actions supported by the proposed credit
were reviewed in detail during appraisal and are summarized in Annex V.
91.      Actions already taken include macroeconomic stabilization measures
and those listed below:
Public Expenditure
(a) Elimination of wasteful special projects to provide political
support to the previous regime, and the ending of reserved
budgetary sums for unidentified purposes;
(b) Increased recurrent spending on agriculture, education and
health;
(c) Improvements in the FY86 public investment program, including
the elimination of unproductive projects with little or no
investment content;
{d) Preparation of an improved public investment program for
FY87, including (i) a list of 26 projects submitted to donors
for possible financing, and (ii) agreement not to use any
resources for a possible Cap Haitien airport project other than
one third of those accruing to the National Airport Authority
from the departure tax.
Public Enterprises
Ce) Closure and formal dissolution of ENAOL and replacement of
its import monopoly and of the quota on vegetable oil with
a 20 percent tariff;
ff) Closure of USND;
(g) Policy not to extend any subsidies, privileges or loan
guarantees to any private cooperatives or companies that may
run the former plants of ENAOL and USND;
(h) Audits, management changes and commencement of programs to
reduce fixed costs and improve cost competitiveness at La
Hinoterie and Ciment d'Haiti;
(i) Removal of Ciment d'Haiti's import monopolies and of quota and
licence requirements to import cement and their replacement
with a 33 percent tariff;
(j) Removal of La Minoterie's wheat flour import monopoly and
replacement of flour import quota with a 50% tariff;
(k) Ending of subsidies to public enterprises;
(1) New organic law of the Ministry of Finance includes financial
monitoring of public enterprises.



- 27 -
Competition and Industrial Incentives
(m) Elimination of all import monopoly rights, all import quotas,
and most import licenses and regulations (except for sanitary
reasons on used clothes and newspapers and licensing of
rice, millet, maize, beans, chicken parts and pork meat parts);
(n) Law establishing new tariff structure, ending all specific
tariffs and introducing a structure with an average tariff of
about 20 percent and a maximum of 40 percent, with four
exceptions;
(o) Extension of one percent administrative charge to cover all
imports except pharmaceuticals and petroleum products.
Agriculture
(p) Reduction of export tax on coffee from 22 to 10 percent;
(q) Elimination of export taxes on sisal and cocoa; and
(r) Audit of BNDAI.       I
92.      In addition to maintaining the above actions in place, the
following measures which are expected to be taken during FY87 and early FY88
would, together with continued satisfactory macroeconomic stabilization, be
conditions of release of the second tranche of the proposed credit:
Public Expenditure
(a) Preparation of a satisfactory public investment program for
FY88.
(b) Improvements in recurrent budgeting for education;
(c) Completion of ongoing audits of the Ministry of Finance and the
Central Bank;
Public Enterprises
(d) Implementation of auditors' recommendations and further
improvements in cost competitiveness at Ciment d'Haiti and La
Minoterie;
Competition and Industrial Incentives
(e) Elimination of petty taxes on imports and exports;



- 28 -
Agriculture
(f) Elimination of coffee export tax;11
(g) Dissolution of BNUAI and legal establishment of a new
agricultural credit bank; and
(h) Preparation and implementation of a program to raise rentals on
State lands.
C. AssociAted Tecimucal Assdstamee
93.      A proposed Technical Assistance Project would complement the
proposed operation. Annex V also sets out its proposed relationship to the
Government's program. The major component would be the provision of
technical assistance through FDI to industrial firms that wish to
restructure to meet the new incentives that the reforms to the trade regime
will bring about (para. 68). This is already underway with financing from
the Project Preparation Facility, and will continue after the Technical
Assistance Project through a proposed Industrial Restructuring Project. In
addition, the proposed Technical Assistance Project would provide modest
technical assistance for macroeconomic management; the programming, control
and monitoring of public expenditure, including the wage bill and the public
investment program; the financial monitoring of the public enterprises; the
restructuring of Ciment d'Haiti; the design and implementation of a trade
drawback system; the design and implementation of a system to increase rents
on State lands; a stwdy of alternatives to sugarcane production in the area
around the USK sugar mill; and a review and development of preliminary
policy and investment proposals to arrest the alarming rate of degradation
of Haiti's natural environment. In addition to strengthening Haitian
institutions, the project's results would also help the Government meet the
second tranche conditions of the proposed operation and define programs
which could be supported by future IDA lending.
D. Bemefits _  Risks
94.      The main benefits of the proposed operation are the financing of
imports and the support of the Government's Economic Recovery Program
discussed in Part II: the improved allocation of resources, the resuamption
of sustained economic growth, the improved welfare of the mass of Haitians,
including farmers, through lower prices, and the restoration of confidence.
1/ IDA will assess the Government's fiscal situation prior to release of the
second tranche to ascertain that this reduction is feasible. If it is
not, this condition will be waived.



- 29 -
95.      There are three principal risks.  Chief among them is the
implication for fiscal discipline of the relatively fragile political
situation; some continued instability is almost inevitable. Popular
expectations were that the February 1986 change of regime would lead to a
very rapid improvement in living standards. While modest improvements are
occurring, there is a risk that unrealistic and hence unfulfilled
expectations could translate into unmanageable civil disorder, given the
lack of societal structures, particularly in the run-up to the November 1987
elections. This could weaken the fragile confidence that is now beginning
to return. Further, the Government might not, under such circumstances, be
able to contain expenditure, especially the public sector wage bill, and
reform public enterprises as it has until now.
96.      The secoad risk is that influential protected manufacturers might
successfully resist the full introduction of the trade regime reforms. This
is not very likely as the existence of contraband means that they already
face increased competition, and less than a dozen firms are likely to suffer
severely from the reforms. It should be directly mitigated also by the
technical and financial assistance that will be made available for
industrial restructuring, by tbe existence of a progressive element among
industrialists which is vocal in its support for reform, and by consumer
support for lower prices. The third risk is that the policy reforms might
be reversed by the new Government that should take office in February 1988.
97.      These risks should not be exaggerated, however.  The Government has
so far shown itself resolutely determined to reform economic policies, and
the Haitian people expect this. Noreover, the risks should be reduced
through tranching, through the proposed provision of technical assistance,
and through broad support and close monitoring of the Government's program
by the IMF and the donor commumity as well as by IDA.
E. Credit Size and TraEcing
98.      The proposed credit of SDR 32.8 million (US$40.0 million) would be
disbursed in two equal tranches, the first upon effectiveness in
April 1987. The specific conditions for release of the second tranche are
listed in paragraph 92. A second tranche review is forecast no later than
September 30, 1987 with tranche release no later than October 31, 1987.
Each tranche would cover about five percent of Haiti's merchandise imports
in the relevant fiscal year.
F. Diubursemeut, Procurement, Accounts and Auditing
99.      Disbursement. The proposed credit would finance goods imported by
the private and public sectors into Haiti from eligible countries and



- 30 -
territories. Excluded would be goods financed by other sources and a
specific list including military and para-military items, alcoholic
beverages, tobacco, precious stones and jewelry, gold and nuclear reactors
and parts. Proceeds of the credit would be disbursed based on satisfactory
evidence of (a) physical entry of the imports into the country; (b) actual
payment in foreign exchange for such imports; and (c) evidence that the
quantities imported match the invoiced amount. rhis evidence would be
compiled by an independent inspection company already in place in Haiti
(para. 64).
100.     Since retroactive financing to November 1, 1986 of SDR 16.4 million
(US$20.0 million) corresponding to the first tranche is proposed, a
revolving fund would not be necessary as claims would be made on a
reimbursement basis for payments already made. Only contracts with a
minimum value of US$10,000 equivalent would be eligible for financing.
Disbursements would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure
(SOEs), duly certified by a specialized inspection company satisfactory to
IDA, and authorized by the borrower, responsible for the submission of
withdrawal applications to IDA. A minimum value in US dollars equivalent
will be established for SOEs submitted. Detailed documentation evidencing
expenditures would be retained by the borrower and made readily available
for inspection by IDA staff and the required audit process.
101.     Procurement. Procurement of general imports by both the private and
the public sectors would use international competitive bidding in accordance
with IDA guidelines. Exceptions would be for contracts valued below US$3.0
million and for petroleum products. Procurement of imports by the private
sector in the case of contracts valued below US$3.0 million would be made
following regular commercial practices. Procurement of imports by the
public sector in the case of contracts valued below US$3.0 million would be
on the basis of comparisons of written quotations solic'ted from a list of
three suppliers eligible under IDA guidelines. Procurement of petroleum
products would be carried out either under bilateral arrangements based on
prevailing market prices, or on the spot market through direct negotiations
in accordance with local practices.
102.     Accounts and Audlting. The Ministry of the Economy and Finance
would maintain records of all transactions under the credit in accordance
with sound accounting practices. Not later than four months after the end
of each taitian fiscal year, all accounts would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA. Audit reports would include a separate opinion
with regard to the claims submitted to IDA on the basis of the SOEs and
state whether such claims have been effected in accordance with the credit
agreement.
G. Monitoring
103.     The progress of the Government's Economic Recovery Program, of the
measures supported by the proposed operatlion, and of the linked Technical
Assistance Project would be closely monitored through regular supervision,
including continued close cooperation with the IMF and with other aid
donors. Specific supervision would determine compliance with the conditions
for release of the second tranche.



- 31 -
PArr IV - RAW GROUP OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY
104.     Operations.  Since beginning operations in Haiti in 1956, the Bank
Group has extended one loan and 23 credits totalling US$ 279.0 million
equivalent and IFC has made one investment (US$1.5 million). As of
September 30, 1986, the total of credits outstanding was US$271.4 million
equivalent, of which US$62.0 million equivalent was undisbursed. Annex II
summarizes Bank Group operations in Haiti as of September 30, 1986. Since
then, a US$20.0 million equivalent credit for a transport project has also
been extended. The Bank Group has financed projects in transport (7), power
(4), education (4), rural development (2), agricultural rehabilitation (1),
industrial credit (1), ports (1), water supply (1) and urban development
(1). A pilot project in forestry is also underway. Some of these projects
have enjoyed cofinancing or parallel financing from the aid agencies of
Canada, France, Germany, and Switzerland. IFC's investment is for an
integrated poultry project.
105.     Overall, project implementation and disbursement performance are
satisfactory. However, a lack of counterpart funds has in the past delayed
IDA disbursements. The establishment of revolving fcnds in recent projects
has improved this. IDA is in addition carefully monitoring Haiti's
absorptive capacity for external assistance, with particular attention to
projects' local cost counterpart financing requirements.
106.     The Bank also chairs the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in
Economic Development, whose Haiti Subgroup provides a framework for
cooperation among donors.
107.     StraLm. Within the last two years, IDA has prepared an economic
memorandum, an agricultural sector study and a public expenditure review.
These documents identify the major obstacles to economic recovery and the
specific actions needed to achieve and sustain financial stabilization,
reduce resource losses, increase agricultural and industrial production and
exports, save foreign exchange, meet the infrastructure and training needs
of agriculture and industry, increase the efficiency of public institutions
and, for the longer term, improve basic education. A population, health and
nutrition sector report is currently under preparation.
108.     The present Government's Economic Recovery Program, described in
Part II, follows closely the principal recommendations of the three recent
reports, all of which were submitted to the new authorities. Consequently,
IDA's program, in close collaboration with the IMF and with other donors
through the CGCED, aims at supporting the Government's Economic Recovery
Program with both policy-based operations and investment project credits.
109.     Indeed, since May 1986, IDA has been involved in an intensive
policy dialogue with the Haitian authorities which has led to four
operations now underway or proposed to provide specific support for the
Economic Recovery Program:



- 32 -
(a) The Government prepared jointly with IMF and IDA staff a Policy
Framework Paper to underpin an IMF Structural Adjustment
Facility Arrangement that was approved by the Executive Board
of the Fund in December 1986. The paper was discussed by IDA's
Executive Directors meeting as the Committee of the Whole on
November 18, 1986.
(b) The proposed Economic Recovery Operation.
(c) The proposed Technical Assistance Project.
(d) A proposed Industrial Restructuring Project, scheduled for
Board presentation in IDA FY88, which would provide financial
and technical assistance to industrial firms which need to
restructure or invest to operate under the new set of
incentives that the reforms to the trade regime described in
Part II will establish.
110.     IDA would maintain an active policy dialogue with the Government
through monitoring the proposed Economic Recovery Operation and supervising
the proposed Technical Assistance Project. Further policy-based operations
are envisaged as long as an appropriate policy framework remains in place.
Future investment credits now under preparation include electric power and
water supply projects.
111.     IDA's share in Haiti's external debt disbursed and outstanding is
estimated at 38 percent as of September 30, 1986. This is high only because
grants constitute a very large share of the external assistance Haiti has
received. IDA's share of external public debt service was about five
percent in FY86.
PART V - RELATIONS WITH THE IHF AND WMTH OTEER DONORS
112.     IKE. Haiti has been a member of the IMF since September 1953 under
Article VIII status. Its current quota is SDR 44.1 million. In December
1986 the Executive Board of the Fund approved a three-year structural
adjustment arrangement, and the first annual arrangement thereunder, under
the Structural Adjustment Facility. The macroeconomic stabilization and
structural reform program that this supports was described in Part II; the
IMF will monitor particularly closely the implementation of the
stabilization program. IDA and IMF staff will continue their close
cooperation while monitoring the Government's Economic Recovery Program.
There are no ongoing Stand-by arrangements; the last was approved in
November 1982. Haiti made a purchase under the Compensatory Financing
Facility in 1981. As of December 31, 1986, total Fund credit outstanding
was SUR 54.7 million, or 124 percent of quota, and Trust Fund loan
disbursements totalled SDR 18.6 million, of which SDR 9.3 million is
outstanding. A resident representative has been stationed in Port-au-Prince
since 1972. The last Article IV consultations were held during September
1986 and were concluded in December 1986. An IMF expert on bank supervision



- 33 -
and credit control is presently on assignment at the Central Bank; a tax
administration adviser has been assigned since early 1937 to assist the
Government to implement the income tax and customs tariff reforms.
113.     Other Donors.  Many public and private aid agencies are active in
Haiti. With the proposed credit, IDA disbursements would amount to about 25
percent of total aid flows to Haiti in FY87. Among the most important
agencies are the Inter-American Development Bank, the United States (nbout
50 percent of disbursements), France, the Federal Republic of Germany,
Japan, Canada, and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). All are
members of the Haiti donors Subgroup of the Caribbean Group for Cooperation
in Economic Development. At its meeting in November 1986, donors announced
their support for the Government's Economic Recovery Program and also
substantial increases in their intended levels of financial support for
Haiti. In addition, the Government presented a list of 26 projects proposed
for external financing, drawn up with the assistance of UNOP and IDA staff.
This list also formed the basis of the UN Secretary-General's appeal for
Haiti in October 1986. Direct donor assistance for the Government's
Economic Recovery Program includes the United States' Economic Support Fund
grants, which are policy-based operations supporting many of the same
reforms as the IMF Structural Adjustment Facility Arrangement and the
proposed IDA Economic Recovery Operation. Other support is detailed in
Annex V.
PART VI -        DEDAIION
114.     I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the
Executive Directors approve it.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
February 9, 1987



ANNEX T
- 34   -                        ~~~Pagel1 of  3
31AITI' IMONMIC INDICATOUK1 AND rHOIKcTiOHS
(e1el .                                 iria1.l                                       er       a'.1. I
Ut-n.e Dinanet In Prnd-oat                 241.-I.                             *II.I      4I .6I 't. 0                   99.3      1011,11    ummumo
lmlalttea'i Temsa                          ON.t                             <1.0       i.e. r,4.1                       4.)       4,01       4.1I1
A;Lrlii'i.tti                           I1111.2               (((.lA      *1.6        %. %1I; 1'.4                   ii. a     12.1      iW.I
laaaiLamNI ry                              allt a1                 6. 2      11.2      4b.1                 19.4      7.1. 2     2 1. I    2V1.11
Umber1                                     OltIl                   4.1       0.1       .1.1                 1U.l2 113            40aJ       41,. 
Conauaaapmt luau                           202d.6                    *        1.2        J..4                '11.1      ItijI     91.9      'flu. 
Groom. DImemtI- lInveataeft                  241. 7                  b"I       .3.1      1-1.1                216.5      16.         21       1.
I:xparre of CUPS                            791.1                     9.?       0.1       4.4                 16.5       1n.;      11l1t      2:m.n
impLirte of CUPs                            4.35. 4                  i.3a     -4.4,       II.5               *%.?    <-2. 0        70.1I      VI).1'
Groem National. Savinigs                     1(11.'                 3?.2       -7.13     24.5                  8.1        0.2       Aq         1..,
External Trade
Merchandlee Exports                          222.3                     ..        .        5.9                 12.7       10.7        9.9       q.1
Coffee                                     54.9                     .          .        7.1                  5. 0       2.2       2., .      2.1
Other AgrlcuLturml Export.                 33.2                     .           .       2.1                  2.5        2.0       1.5        1.4
Amsembly Induetry                         124.2                     ..         .        6.2                  2.5        5.4       5.8        5.C.
MIneral.                                                                                                     2.4.       1.1 
Merchandise Imports                         243.1..                              .        9.r6               -18.7      -21.4     -11.4      -13.0
PrLees                                          FY51        FY52      FY83       FY84      ry91 FY85  18        FY37       PI%83      FY99      7790
(not.) -------(projected)------
CDP Deflator (1936-100)                         67.0        69.7      75.9       0&.3      88.8      100.0     104.0      105.2    :12.5       111.0
Conumxaer Price Index                           67.0        72.5      75.6       84.9      92.1      100.0
(1986-100)
Export Price Index (19156-100)                  84.2        80.8      81.0       91.1      92.9      100.0       98.6      99.2      101.3     103.4
Impart Price Index (1906-100)                   as.s        91.9      93.8      100.1     101.41    100.0       96.1       95.1       95.2      94.7
Term, of Trade Index (1986-100)                 96.9        87.9      92.8       91.0      91.6      100.0     102.6      104.3      106.4     109.2
---      F- ublLc Sector---                          ---Central Covernoannt----
----Am.XofGrDP---                                      ---A   I ofG        -
Public Finance                                  7186        FY80      FY86       FY90                 FY86      7780       FY86       1790
(eot.)                (cst.)  (proj.)                 (eat.)               Cest-)  (proj.)
Current Receipte at                           2909.1        14.9      18.5       14.8               1129.03       9.5      10.5       31.5
Current Expenditure                           1885.0        14.7      17.6       11.7               1237.0       10.1      11.5        9.4
Current Surplus                                104.1         0.2        1.0       3.1               -aOS.IJ      -0.6        '.        2.1
Capital Expenditure                            661.1         8.2       6.2        9.1                5 6.         6.5   ~ .9           8.1
Foreigni Financing b/                          594.2         5.0        5.5       6.0                528. 5       4.2       4.9        6.0
a/  Central Government Current Receipts includes transfers froam public enterprisea.
Nt  IN%cludes foreig  graknt..
09-Dec-86



HAITI: ECOSOMIC INDICATORS AND PROJECTIONS
(percent)
PopulatLon   5.4 mlIlIon  (1985)
GRP per Capita: US$350 (1985, Atlas methodolo;y)
FY0C       FY81      FY02     DY3       nYeJ      rY8s      FYa6      YY87      FY88     FY89      FY90
(est.)    ---        (projected) -
GDP Growth Rate                               7.6       -2.8      -3.4       0.8       0.3       1.1      -1.L       4.3      5.0 S.5             4.5
GDY Growth Rate                               7.9       -3.0      -5.4       2.0      -0.2       1.3       0.2       4.9      5.2       4 3.q
CDY per capita Growth Rate                    6.4       -4,4      -6.8       0.2      -1.9      -0.5      -1.6       3.0      3.4       7.9       3.0
Consumptlon per capita Growth Rate           10.9       -1.9    -11.1        0.4      -3.9       0.5      -0.2       3.1      2.3      1:        2.?
Consumer Price Growth                        18t0        8,2       8.2       8.4       8.0       8.4       S.5       4.0      4.0       S.C       4.0
Debt (including flU)
Debt Servtce (US$ miLlion)                 20.5       24.5      189.    18.1        24.4      3E.7     72.5      62.9      .2.7      43.5      39.9
Debt Service/Exports of 0G58S               6.5        9.9       6. h      6.6       7.7      '2.7     24.4      20.5    l.3        12.6      11.0
Debt ServLceIGDP                            1.4        1.7       1.3       1.1       1.3       2 .      3.4       2.7       2.1       1.6       1.3
DODIGDP                                    18.2       27.1      31.3      32.3      31.9      31.5     29.4      29.2      28.5      28.1      27.5
Debt (excluding IMP)
Debt Service (USS million)                 20.5       20.8      15.0      14.1      17.6      2012    .4.7       35.0      29.2      28.8      30 0
Debt Service/Exports of G7NFS               6.5        8.4       5.1       4.9       3.6       6.6      16.4     11.4       9.0       8.4       8.2            I
Debt Service/GDP                            1.4        1,4       1.0       0.9       1.0       1.0      2.3       1.5       1.1       1.0       1.0
Gross Domestic Investment/GDP                16.9       16.9      16.6      16.3      15.9      14.6      12.1      14.6      16.3     17.0      17.0
Gross Domestic Savings/GDP                    3.1         1.7      6.1       6.0       6.9       6.0       5.6       5.6       6.2       7.3      7.6
Gross NationaL Savtnas/CDP                    7.0        0.7       5.0       4.5       5.8       5.3       4.9       5.0       5.7       6.8      7.2
Public Investment/GDP                         8.2       11.9       9.8      10.4      12.2       8.5       6.2       8.0       9.1      9.1       9.1
Public Savings/GDP                            0.2       -0.9       0.6       1.2       0.6       1.0       1.0       1.2      1.9       2.3       3.1
Private InveatmentfGDP                        8.1        5.0       6.8       5.9       4.7       6.1       5.9       6.5       7.2      7.9       7.9
Private SvLngas/GDP                           6.8        1.7       4.4       3.4       5.2       4.2       4.0       3.8       3.8      4.5       6.1
Ratio of PubPde to Private Investment         0.9        2.4       1.5       1.8       2.4       1.4       1.0       1.2       1.3      1.2       1.2
Covernment Revenue/GODP                       9.5        8.9      10.1      10.4      10.1      11.6      10.5      10.2      10.9     11.5      11.5
Government Expenditure/GDP                   16.6       21.2      20.4      18.7      19.9      19.2      16.5      16.4      17.1     17.5      17.5
Public Sector Deficit/GDP a!                 -7.9      -12.9      -9.2      -9.2    -10.0       -7.5      -5.2      -6.8      -7.2     -6.8      -6.0
Exports GLCM  Growth Rate bi                 66.6      -42.1      22.7      -9.5       6.2      -6.0      -9.2       6.8       5.0      3.8       3.9
Exports of GlNFS/GDP                         21.6       16.8      19.7      17.5      17.5      15.7      13.8      13.9      13.9     13.8      13.7
Imports of 07NFS Growth Rate b/              60.0      -24.0    -11.4        0.5      -0.9      -4.0      -5.7      19.5     11.1       3.7       4.5           d
Imports of  lNFS1/CDP                        30.5       32.0      29.9      27.9      26.5      24.2      20.3      23.2     24.5      24.4      24.4    
Current Account (USS milLion)               -93.5    -174.7   -118.1   -151.6   -139.0   -130.7   -102.2   -;53.1   -179.3   -177.0   -175.8                    o   5
Current Account/GOP                          -6.4      -11.8      -8.0      -9.3      -7.7      -6.8      -4.8      -6.6     -7.0      -6.4      -5.8          CD
Term. of Trade Index (1986-100)              99.8       96.9      87.9      92.8      91.0      91.6    100.0    102.6    104.3    106.4    109.2               N
a/ Before grants.
b/ In voluma terms.
09-Dec-86



HAITI: BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTSRNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(US$ mlliLon at current prLces)
FY80       FY81      FY82      FY83      FY84      FY85      FY86       FY87      FY88      Ffl9      FY90
(est.)    ---------(projected)-----------
Current Account Balance                      -93.5    -174.7   -118.1   -151.6   -139.0   -133.7   -105.3             -154      -179      -177       -176
Exports of Goods, NFS                        316.1      248.6    293.0    283.3    317.3    302.4    294.0             303       320        340       360
of which: Coffee                            90.9       33.1      35.9       52.5      54.0      48.0      55.0        54        56        59        63
issambly Industry               77.2        79.6      98.9    100.4    124.7    126.6    121.0            130       141       153       165
Imports of Goods, IFS                       -445.7    -473.4   -444.0   -455.1   -481.5   -469,6   -435.4             -49A      -546      -567      -590
Facter Incas                                 -15.9      -14.7    -16.8    -24.5    -19.5    -14.6    -14.0              -14      -13        -13       -13
Het Private Transfers                         52.0       G44.       49.7      42.5      45.0      45.1      50.1         54        59        63        66
CapLtal Account Balance                       80.3      119.6    104.6    139.6    11836    119.5    128.4             276       258        254       247
Net Officlal Transfers (Grants)               33.4       66.1       69.Z      69.3      78.2      67.3    117.2         16'       1SS       153       153
OffLcial Capital MLT                          65.2      102.0       30.3      75.9      55.3      22.7      22.7       113       103       101         94           0
of which: Amortlzation                     -11.5      -10.7    -16.1    -13.6    -13.8          -5.7      -6.8        23        17        17        18
Other Official CapLtal                         3.2         1.7        -         -       -8.1      13.6    -10.0          -         -         -
Private CapLtal & Errors & Omissions   -21.5            -50.2        5.1      -5.6      -6.8      -4.1      -1.5         -         -         -         -
Overall balance                              -13.2      -55.1    -123.5    -12.0    -20.4    -14.2          23.1       122         79        77        71
Net n1  Purchses (decrease - ->                        17.5      12.1      22.3       21.8      -9.4    -18.8        -23       -20       -13         -9
Chnges in Arrears (decrease - -)              -        20.5       0.4    -12.2        -6.3       9.6       5.0       -15        -         -
Other Reserve Changes (increase- -)    13.2            17.1        1.0       1.9       4.9      14.1      -9.3       -38       -25       -31       -27
Official Reserve Level (net)                  32.5       -2.0    -20.8    -58.0    -74.0    -92.9    -75.9              60         8S       115       142
Off. Ries, as Months' Importz (gross)         -1.1        -0.5      -1.0      -0.7      -0.7      -0.5      -0.6       1.8        1.6       1.1       0.7
Exchage Rate (since 1919)    Public External Debt (USS m.)                   Public Debt ServLce Ratio (2)    IDA LeadUing  Sept. 30, 1986 (US$ m.)
US$ 1.00 - 0 5.00           9j30186:       631 (IncLudLng IMF)          FY86:      24.7 (Including IMF)   Oustandin  and Disbursed             209.3
G 1.00 - US$ 0.20                          555 (Excluding IMF)                     16.6 (Excluding IMF)   Undlsbursed                           62.0
Outstandig  mcl. UrLdis. b/   271.4
aI  Includlng IMF .'
bg  Total does not equal sum because of SDR exchange rate changes.
29-Oct-86



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS TN HAITI
A.   STENT OF BANK LOAS AND IDA CREDITS a/
(as of September 30, 1986)
Amount in US$ million
(Less cancellation)
Credit Fiscal
Number   Year          Borrower        Purpose        Bank      IDA  Undisbursed
One loan and 12 credits have been fully disbursed   2.6        124.2
1131-HA  L981  Republic of Haiti  Industrial Credit             7.0       0.4
1220-HA  1982  Republic of Haiti  Highways VI                  14.0       3.3
1257-HA  1982  Republic of Haiti  Forestry                      4.0       2.5
1281-ilA  1982  Republic of Haiti  Power III                   26.0       1.4
1305-HA  1983  Republic of Haiti  Education III                 9.0 b    1.4
1338-HA  1983  Republic of Haiti  Urban Development            21.0 _/  14.7
1410-HA  1984  Republic of Haiti  Rural
Development II           19.1      9.5
1527-HA  1985  Republic of Haiti  Fourth Power                 22.1      18.2
1592-HA  1985  Republic of Haiti  Fourth Education                            _
and Training             10.0     10.6
TOTAL                                         2.6   256.4
of which has been repaid                    2.6
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA                      271.4ff
Amount sold                     0.6
of which has been repaid      0.6
TOTAL undisburscd                                              62.0
a/ In addition, a credit of US$20.0 million for a Seventh Transport Project
was approved by the Board on February 3, 1987.
b/ ITcludes US$13.0 million Special Fund.
c/ Difference due to SDR exchange rate.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B.  STAIKNKT OF IYC INVKSXKNTS
(as of September 30, 1986)
Investment    Fiscal                        Type of
Number         Year        Obligor          Business    Loan   Equity   Total
----US$ Million--
620-HA         1982    Promoteurs et       Integrated   1.35    0.15       1.50
Investisseurs      Poultry
Associes, S. A.
Total Gross Commitments                                  1.35    0.15      1.50
Less cancellations, repayment, and sales                 0.06     -        0.06
Total commitments now held by IFC                        1.29    0.15      1.44
Total Undisbursed                                        0.75    0.04     0.79



- 39 -
ANNEX III
RAM
ECOSMIC RECOVERY OPERflfON
SUPPLDIENrAIRY CREDIT DMt SENET
1. TIEABILE OF KEY EVEINS
(a) Preparation:
Initial request for IDA credit:    May 1986
Identification mission;             July 1986
IMF-IDA Policy Framevork mission:  September 1986
(b) Appraisal mission:                   September/October 1986
(c) Negotiations:                       January 1987
(d) Planned effectiveness:               April 1987
II. SPECIAL ID    PLEEKAIION ACTION
None.
III, COMrMONS OF DISBURSEEDDYt OF THE SECORD TRANHE
Conditions of release of the second tranche of the proposed credit
would include the continued implementation of actions already taken
(para. 91), continued satisfactory macroeconomic stabilization, and the
actions discussed in para. 92.



-40 -                          ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 7
REPUBUGUE IYHAITI      GOVERNMENT'S LETTER OF RECOVERY POLICY
MINISTERE
IF LUECONOMIE ET DES FINANCES
No.SEC - 141                                             PORT-AU-PRINCE. LE.3. .1wie
Mr. Barber B. Conable
President
International Development Association
Washington, D.C.
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. CDnable:
The Government of Haiti requests an Economic Recovery Credit from the
International Development Association.to support its program of
development policy reforms detailed in this le-ter.
The provisional Government which came to power in February 1986 has
scheduled elections for November 1987, with the then elected Government
taking office in February 1988. The present Government is reforming
public finances and development policies to stimulate economic
recovery, to hand over a viable, growing economy to its successor. It
intends therefore to maintain in force all actions so far taken and to
be taken.
The Government's program seeks to promote economic expansion through
export-led growth and improved agricultural performance. These
objectives are being fostered both directly by the removal of
impediments to efficient resource allocation and indirectly by the
impetus to higher capital inflows that such policies should generate.
Central to our strategy is the need to rebuild the confidence of
Haitian workers, farmers and investors as well as the external aid
donors.
Macro-economic management and stabilization
Our medium-term macro-economic objectives are (a) to generate a real
GDP growth rate of at least 4.5% per year; (b) to reduce inflation to
the level of our main trading partners, currently estimated at some 4%
per year: and (c) to achieve an overall balance of payments surplus
equivalent to almost 1.5% of GDP in FY87 and close to 1% in each of
FY88 and FY89, so as to permit the strengthening of official net
international reserves and some replenishment of the Central Bank's
gross foreign assets.



ANNEX IV
- 41 -                     Page 2 of 7
After February 1986, the Government took drastic steps during the rest
of FY86 to redress the budgetary position. Wasteful current
expenditures and unjustified development projects, including special
projects of the former regime, were eliminated, and resources were
reallocated to agriculture, education, health and the armed forces.
The cut in current expenditure amounted to more than 3% of GDP on an
annual basis, of which about half was reallocated to priority sectors
in the form of wage increases and sorely needed non-wage expenditure.
The other half was used to reduce excise taxes on basic consumption
items such as petroleum products, sugar and flour. Severe pruning of
the FY86 development program resulted in a 60% implementation rate
compared to original expenditure forecasts. In total, current and
development expenditure came to only 17Z of GD? compared to the 23%
foreseen in the previous Government's budget estimates.
As a result, Haiti's financial position improved substantially. In
FY86, the public sector made net repayments to the domestic banking
system and reduced its foreign commercial debt. The balance of
payments recorded a substantial overall surplus of US$23 million
compared to a US$14 million deficit the previous year. Prices dropped
by 4% from February to September 1986, the end of the fiscal year. The
discount on the Gourde on the parallel market for foreign exchange
declined from over 20% to 5-7%. However, the economy remained in
recession.
The Government continues to exercise fiscal restraint in FY87. As in
FY86, its main objective is no Central Bank financing of the public
sector. Ia the FY87 budget, Treasury receipts and expenditures are
both set at G1290 million and the public investment program amounts to
G1140 million. Assuming an 80% implementation rate of this program,
which would be a significant improvement on the past, overall public
expenditure should recover to about 20% of GDP with corresponding
foreign exchange requirements covered by external aid. Estimated
Treasury receipts of G1290 million include agreed upon disbursements
from the IMF's Structural Adjustment Facility and USAID's Economic
Support Fund. Treasury Gourde expenditures include a GIOO million
transfer to the public investment program, which is financed in its
entirety by this transfer, the internal cash generation of public
enterprises and disbursements of concessional external aid. The
overall public sector deficit (before aid) will be held to about 7% of
GDP in FY87 and beyond, well below the average level of recent years.
This deficit will be more than offset by external aid, enabling the
non-financial public sector as a whole to reduce its indebtedness to
the domestic banking system and foreign commercial creditors. This in
turn will permit an expansion in credit to the private sector without
risking either our inflation or balance of payments objectives. Any
increase in expenditure above these levels will be met by a
corresponding and equal increase in public receipts from nonbank
sources; similarly, any shortfall in receipts will be offset by an
equal decrease in expenditure so that the level of nonconcessional debt
can still be reduced.



ANNEX IV
-42 -                          Page 3 of 7
Tax Reform
The Government is continuing in FY87 to implement the program of tax
reform begun in FY86, which aims at irreversibly improving the equity
of the tax system as well as at increasing its elasticity and
buoyancy. The Government believes that by broadening the tax base and
lowering rates the current high levels of evasion can be reduced. In
FY86 au-illary taxes on wages were eliminated and a variable excise tax
was imposed on petroleum imports. Effective in early FY87, the export
tax on coffee was reduced to 10% and other export taxes were
eliminated, a new corporate and personal income tax decree was enacted
simplifying the rate structure., clarifying the tax base and
strengthening collection procedures. Administrative procedures will be
improved in particular by facilitating cross-checks between income,
value added and trade taxes. Starting in FY87, the value added tax
will be more stringently enforced in order to reverse the recent
slowdown in collection. In the long run, this tax should replace most
excise taxes, already a number of excise taxes have been eliminated or
reduced. Steps are also being taken to improve both tax and customs
revenue collection.
Public Expenditure
The budgeting and control of current Treasury expenditure are being
reinforced progressively, as competent staff can be assigned to these
tasks. Significant diversions of public funds to fraudulent or
wasteful uses have been stopped, the effort in this direction will be
firmly maintained. At the same time the systematic reallocation of
resources to priority areas is being pursued. The recurrent needs of
past development projects are being more adequately met than in the
past. A start has been made to reduce the excessive share of wages in
current expenditure. Fraud in wage payments is being reduced with
significant savings for the Treasury. The Government will in FY87
limit staff levels and wage increases in ministries and other public
bodies. In addition, the Government-is carrying out an extensive
series of audits of ministries, public agencies and public enterprises,
including of the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank.
Following the establishment of the Commissariat a la Promotion
Nationale et a l'Administration Publique in August 1986, public
investment is being both improved and expanded. Our objective is to
ensure that priority ongoing projects are completed, that counterpart
fund requirements and the recurrent needs of development projects are
adequately provided for, and, more generally, to improve the quality of
public investments. Allocations to agricultural development projects
favor irrigation rehabilitation (including where necessary protection
of associated watersheds), feeder roads and input delivery. Soil
conservation and reforestation are maintained at financially
sustainable levels and increasingly linked to treecrop rehabilitation
or expansion. For industry, public investments are concentrated on
restructuring the public industrial enterprises which remain and,



ANNEX IV
- 43 -                         Page 4 of 7
especially, on improving the physical infrastructure and public
utilities serving private industries. Development expenditure in
social sectors is concentrated heavily on education, training, health
and urban development. Less useful social projects have been curtailed
drastically. On the financing side, Treasury transfers are almost
exclusively devoted to meeting the counterpart fund requirements of
foreign aided projects. Should the proposed Cap Haitien airport
project go ahead, we will finance it only out of the proceeds of
one-third of the passenger departure tax that accrues to the National
Airport Authoritv and will not apply any foreign grants or incur any
external indebtedness to its construction. All other new orojects are
being financed exclusively with concessional external aid. We intend
to maintain this pattern of public investment expenditure in the
future, in close consultation with IDA and the members of the Caribbean
Group for Cooperation in Economic Development.
The Government, with assistance from UNDP and IDA, prepared a list of
26 small new projects, the total cost estimated at US$43 million.
These projects, which concentrate on productive employment generation
in the short term, were submitted to aid donors at the November 1986
meeting of the Haiti Subgroup of the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in
Economic Development. They will be included in the public development
program as and when they receive firm financing commitments from
donors.
Public Enterprises
The Government is fully cognizant of the need to reverse previous
policies toward public enterprises which led to substantial losses, not
only in terms of fiscal revenue but also of real economic resources,
amounting to almost 4 percent of GDP each year from FY80-85. Yet the
economy declined over this period. No new public industrial
enterprises will be established and investments at existing ones will
be confined to those necessary for restructuring. The Government will
continue its policy of not subsidizing public enterprises.
To stem losses, the Government has adopted a policy of market
liberalization, closures and restructuring of the public industrial
enterprises and is taking measures to improve financial monitoring and
performance evaluation of all public enterprises. In accordance with
this new policy, all import monopolies and licensing requirements
affecting all products except sugar imported or manufactured by public
enterprises have been removed and import tariffs placed on the products
concerned. Most public enterprises are also being externally audited.
The vegetable oil mill, ENAOL, and one of the two publicly owned sugar
mills, USND, ceased operating in July 1986; neither will be operated as
a public enterprise. In both cases, the employees were given the
option of forming a private cooperative to operate the plants or to
accept an indemnity. At USND, all workers opted for an indemnity.
This plant will therefore be offered for sale or lease to the private
sector; it will not operite during FY87. Alternative arrangements have



ANNEX IV
- 44 -                          Page 5 of 7
been made for cane growers to supply one of the two private sector
mills. At the same time, alternatives to cane production in the
Leogane plain are being developed and encouraged. ENAOL has been
dissolved and a cooperative formed by about 30 percent of the previous
employees to run the plant. No subsidies, public credit, loans, loan
guarantees, protection or market privileges of any kind will be
extended to any cooperative or private enterprise which may run either
the former ENAOL or USND plants.
At Ciment d'Haiti, a cement factory, and La Minoterie, a flour mill,
major restructuring measures will be undertaken, in addition to the
market reforms, in order to make these two enterprises more efficient
and competitive. During FY87, these will include substantial
reductions in excess staff and wages, especially in the upper echelons,
regular external auditing and, In the case of La Minoterie,
improvements in accounting and management procedures following the key
recommendations of a recent external audit.
During FY87, the Government will in addition conduct external audits of
TELECO, the telecommunications company, and of USN, the second public
sugar mill. Alternatives to sugar cane production In the area
surrounding the latter will also be examined.
Trade Regime
Starting more than fifteen years ago, import substitution policies,
balance of payments constraints and fiscal revenue requirements
progressively led to high taxes and barriers to trade and to
discretionary fiscal incentives for investment. Protection for local
producers made exporting relatively less attractive; measures included
high import tariffs, quantitative restrictioas on imports, import
licensing, import monopolies and prohibicions and price controls. As
discussed below, taxes on agricultural exports further deterred
exporting. In addition to these consequences for production, domestic
prices were kept high, placing a heavy burden on the Haitian consumer.
The Government is reversing these trends. The narrowness of the local
market means that industrial expansion can only occur through exporting
and through increased demand as a result of lower domestic prices.
Both imply increased efficiency and competition. The Government has
therefore adopted a major program to reform the trade regime and
stimulate efficiency through a revised incentive structure. The
objective is to reduce the average level of effective protection below
40%, harmonize its distribution across sectors, and lead to a more
stable and neutral environment which will stimulate investment in
efficient production rather than rent-seeking activities. The local
cost of goods will be reduced in the process, as it will through a
thorough revision of tariffs on products not produced in Haiti.



ANNEX IV
- 45 -                         Page 6 of 7
To reach these objectives the Government is progressively eliminating
all export taxes, has ended all but one import monopoly (sugar), has
abrogated completely the law imposing import quotas and licensing
requirements for industrial products, has limited import prohibitions
to only two products for sanitary reasons, has eliminated quotas for
all products but retained import licensing for seven agricultural
products, and has started to implement a major tariff reform to replace
all specific tariffs with ad valorem olies and to reduce the levels of
nominal tariffs. Tariffs range between 0 and 40%, the majority between
10 and 30%. Medical supplies and agricultural imports are exempt. The
average level of effective protection has been drastically reduced from
over 100 to about 40%. The new tariff will be fully in effect by
December 1987.
In addition to these measures, the Government is reviewing the tariff
structure for imports from non-GATT countries and has extended the 1%
minimum administrative charge to all imports except pharmaceuticals and
petroleum. Durtng FY87, we shall also eliminate petty taxes on both
imports and exports and revise the Investment Code to harmonize it with
the above measures. We intend to introduce an endorsable drawback
system to place production for both the local and export markets on the
same footing. We further intend to improve the operation of the
Customs.
The Government intends to provide financial and technical assistance to
industrial enterprises restructuring in viable ways to operate in the
new business environment. Finally export promotion measures are being
stepped up. We have also recently negotiated a significant expansion
in Haiti's quotas for imports of textiles into the United States which
should greatly benefit our textile industry.
Agriculture
The agricultural sector, which contains the vast majority of our
people, is in a state of crisis. The volume of agricultural production
has increased little, if at all, in recent years, while the real value
of agricultural exports has declined sharply. Production per capita
has also fallen and the Government is increasingly concerned about
deteriorating levels of nutrition for some segments of the population.
At the same time, increasing population pressure on the land, insecure
land tenure and felling of forests for fuel and construction, have
resulted in soil erosion and environmental degradation of catastrophic
proportions.
The causes of these discouraging phenomena are rooted in history and
are socio-economically complex. They point to basic structural
distortions and to an absence of proper technical support. The
Government plans to refocus production toward those products and
technologies for which Haiti has a comparative advantage, thereby
increasing productivity, production and exports. Our strategy for this
is one of improved production incentives, investment programs and



- 46 -                         ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 7
technical support. The Government intends also to maintain efforts to
address the pervasive problems of deteriorating non-renewable resources
and nutrition levels.
Trade in agricultural products is being liberalized. First, we have
reduced the export tax on coffee to 10% and intend to eliminate it once
overall revenue or expenditure performance permits; all other export
taxes on agricultural products--on cocoa, essential oils and
sisal--have been abolished. Second, all imports of agricultural inputs
are to be admitted free of restrictions and duties. Third, it is also
our intention to free the producer price of cotton in order to revive
cotton production.
The Government intends as soon as possible to establish a new
agricultural development bank to replace BNDAI and BCA, the two
existing credit institutions. Following a recently completed audit,
BNDAI will be dissolved before the end of FY87. By that date, we will
also establish a system setting rents on State lands related to market
value.
Sincerely,
Leslie Delatour
Minister of the Economy and Finance



AliX V
Page 1 of S
THE GOVERNMENT ' S PROGRAM AND THE PROPOSED OPERATION
Sector and Policy Area               Issues and Objectives                     Measures Taken                         Future ActLons                   Related IDA, IMF ea
[A a Supported by the Proposed Operation 1                             Donor SupMort
MACROECONOMIC STABILIZATION
a. Overall performance           Need to maintaln satisfactory          FYe6 resulted in reduced               *contLnued satisfactory                IDA TA to provide inacro
MAcro framveork in vhLch to            inflation and overall bal&ace         performance                            casulting services
implement policy reforma,             of payments surplus
past policies led to economic                                                                                      IDF Structural Adjusteent
stasnation, inflation and             *gkreinent with VW and IDA an                                                 Facility approved Dea 16
balance of payments problems          poliey framevork for IMP
StructuraL Adjustment Facillty                                               Proposed US. Eccnric Support
has tergets of  .51 real                                                    Fund grant for FT87 to be
grovth, infLation at level of                                                coarnigent an aFpropriate
trading partners, end overall                                                Caero framework as agreed
balance of payments surplus of                                               vitE DO  and IDA
about 21 of GbP Ln FY87
b. Fiscal policy                 Inadequately controLled and            Public sector deficit                  Overall pubile sector deficit                                               .
extra-budgetary spending               reduced in FY86                       before srants to be held to
led to fiscal deficits                                                       about 7X of CDP La FlI7-89
e. Monetary policy               Past fiscal deficit financed           PubiLc sector's stock of               Further reduction ia public           Dr- TA bankLng adviser at
largely with Central Bank             nonconcesslonal debt reduced           sector a stock of nan-                 Central lank
crediti excess liquidity               In FY86                               conceslonal debt in FY37
spilled over into balance
of payments
TAX REFORM                       System lacked buoyancy and             Reduction of excLie taxes              Improved collection and                DMF -A tax ad!mLnstration
equLty vwth high excise taxes                                                systmatlc croas-checkir4               adviser et Kinistry of FLnabce
on basic consumption items and         Varlable axcLse tax placed            smot  lacom  and value added
extensLve Income tax evasion,          an petroleum products                 taxes
Objective Is to Lmprove
collectLens, buoyancy and              Elimination of taxes ear-
equity                                marked for special projects
Reform of incom tax



ANTE V
Page 2 of S
THU GOVERfiN2' S fROGRAM AND THE  ROPOSrD OFERATIOU
Sector and PolLcy Area              Issues and Objectives                   Xeasures Taken                        Future Actions                  RLIa:t  IDA, IF and
at a Supported by the Proposed Operation 3                            caor Support
PUBLIC EWENDIIURE
a. Recurrent                    Past spending doainated by            sEliisantLn of vasteful              Isprovements to wage pzsynt          IDA TA for progrmming,
wages, poorly controLled, and         special political projects           control in health and to              ccttrol and emaitori;. of
not oriented enough to                                                     *recurrent budgeting Ln               ubflic ezpC2diture  i-cluding
development and non-vase             'EndLng of reserved budgetary         edutcation                           wage bill
needs.  Much past expenditure        iums for unidentifled purposes
wasteful, InefficLent and for                                              Cc pletion of further a-.dits,        IDA Edc_a"tio  IV proje2t
special poLitical purposes.          Reduction of fraudulent wage          fincluding of the MLiistry of       Licl-udes TA to Lprr-
Objecttve Ls to control              payments, eapeclally in               Finance and of the Central            educattio  bkdgetL=g and
spending and reorient it to          educacLon                             Jath                                cgtrol
priorLty purposes
'Increased recurrent spending                                              CSATD fl-rs ad aditLs of
or, agriculture, education Sad                                             sevral mniistrias erA
health                                                                     Aencies
b. PubiLc Investment            Past program included                 QFYDe program L=proved, .L?.h         'Praparatlon Ot a satisfactory       I-DA TA for prcgramilng.
inappropriLvt  and unsconcaic        uliminatLon et unproductive           p:gcwA for FraN                       ct:ol a=d  n--ltorLzg of
entcrptt3s, and diffused over        projects wlth lit.tl  or no                                                 Fresi   .ad for project
tco  inny uncopleted and             Lveu-rrant roarer:                                                          zeaatilm
unproductive projects: project
selection poor and returns           *FY87 program Is reletirely                                                lIZ? asststed preparalion of
low. Quality ot program              *ound, Including Liz of 26                                                  list of 26 proje:ts
Is to be Lmproved br                  &mall nev projects for doacr
limiting number cf projects          Minacing and agreement not                                                  Void I--k c1aired NeS  86
and copleting pslority               to use resources other than                                                 Caribbean 5rr.p for
ongoing anus                          from  .irport tea for Cap                                                  Ccqperatioo  Lz IcoaLt
attles airport                                                            Deelopmen: mee:itrg of Eattl
Sb grouq



Pa;. 3 *f 5
rtE GooVRXEfevS PRwxCAx AYf TKT PROPOSED OPEP.OA71C
Sector and Policy Area              Ist.;es An. ObIeetivea                   Xeasure, Taken                        Future Act'o3s                  kelated IDA, Ify and
- Sup;nrted by the Proposed Operation                             *Cear Suzor:
PUBLIC ENTEvPR1$iS
a. Agro-industrial and          Inepprcpriate, inefficient            'Ending of subsi;ies to               &udlts of several publ:c              VLAD fi&.Ani:  se tvra  of the
industrial enterprises          and uneconomic enterprLses            pubLic enterprises                    enterprises                           audits
operating vLth privLleged sod
monopoly status led to real           'Closure and dissoLutlon of
resourea losses, fiscal losses        EAOL vegetable oil plAnt end
and high coneumer prices far          roplacmceot of its Lrq'C
basic items,  Objective 14 to         suVDpoly aid qota on 1Apcrts
St*& the3  losts  an  Inwer         vith 203 tariff
prices
*Clseure of USRD :uaer mill                                                IDA TA to fanseA srud7 of
alternativss to e;garc&re
Decl.slon net to extend any                                                in area surrounding the seemed
eubsioiee, prLvileges or loan                                              puhblic  *s-4a mill, UWO
guarantees to any private                                                                                       4s
cocaales cr cooperatives                                                                                        9D
that may rma the forzmr ENAOL
anA USUT plants
*Audits, managemnt changes           tIplemaeotetiou of auditors'          IDA TA for CL trnt 4'EairL
and coaeneetamt of progress           recommendations end further           paver and other sdiLce
to improve cost                       improvssents in cost
compititt7enss at La                  cocmettiveness at La                  CCCE considcring financig
Minotegle  aSU. CLMnt d84Latl        MnLotsrie arn Cmeint dgaLtL           new power generator for
*Replaceant of La MLrotsrLe's
moncpvly an flour iports
with tariff.
'Removal of Ciment d'Haiti's
import monopolies and of
quota and llcence requirements
ro import cement and their
replacement with 301 tariff
b. Financlil monitoring         Inadequate past nonitoring of          *Nev organlc law of the                                                      :A 7.Ato essmst Mi-Lstry of
puhlic enterprlses                    Ministry of Finance includes                                                .in:e reniterir4
financial monitoring -f pub'Lc
enterprLses



Pas&e . of 5
THE GOYVERNNT'S PROGM  AND TEE PROPOSED OPERATION
Sector and PolLcy Area              Issues and Objectives                    Heasures Taken                        Future Actions                   Related ThA, DO and
1* - Supported by the Proposed Operation                              Denor Sqpport
COMPETITION AND INDUSTRIAL
INCENTIYES
a. Trade regLme                  High protection of domestic           *ELiminatLon of all Laport                                                  IDA TA to support tech1cAtl
market led to uncoqaetittve           monopoly rights,                                                            assistance for firms
local productLon, hLh                 all iLaort quotas,                                                          restructuring
consumer prLes and anti-             and most import Licenses and
export bias.  Objective Is to         regulations (except for                                                     Proposed IDA IndustrLal
reduce nominal and effectLve          sanitary reasons on used                                                   RestructurLng credlt to
protection on local market to         clothes and newapapers and                                                  finc- e fir-a restructurLna
reduce consauer prLces and            licensing of rice, sorghu',
Lncrease reLative -                   maize, beans, chicken parts
profitabilLty of exports              sad pork meat parts)
*Nev tariff structure, endiA 
all speelfic tariffs,  nd 
LntroducLng A structure with
an average tarLff of about 201
and a maxlum of  0S, vwith a
fev exceptlonJs  and includins       Introduce dravback system
transLtLonal macures for
products made in Haiti through
December 1987
*Extension of 1I                      'EILmLnatlon of petty taxes on
adminLstrative charge to all          exports and Lports
iLports except pharmaceutieaLs
and pecraleut products
b. Fisecl incentLves            Past system of dLsecretonary                                                 Revlsions to the Investuent           IDA TA to assist Lntroductioa
tax exemptLons led to                                                       Code and its uniform                  of dravback scheme
privileged status for sorn                                                  application
firms. ObjectLve is to
harmonize treatment across
sectors and firms



AlQIEX V
Page 5 of 5
THE GOVERHENT' S PROGRAM AND THE PROPOSED OPERATWN"
Sector and Policy Area              Issues and Objectives                    Heasures Taken                       Future Acions                   Related IDA. 10 end
C' - Supported by the Proposed Operation I                           Donor Support
AGRICVLTURE
a. Prioing                      PrLces and taxmes at food             'Export tax en coffee                 *ElLLntion of coffee export          USAID sad Frechb aId support
precessing plants, export             reduced from 22 to 10I                tox if overalL revenue  and          coffee daevlo  nt projects
to,es, import quotas and                                                   expenditure performance permit
tariffs, and adlminLtered             *ELiminacton of export taxes
prLces have set incentives            sisal and cocoa
whLch diverge freo comparative
advantage, deearrLng output           'Replacement of Lmport monopoly
and export expansion, and             on flour with tariffs                                                      IDA TA to revlev eaviroaan tal
Inducing soil erosLon.                                                                                           degradation and develop polLey
ObjectLve is to reverse this                                                                                     and Lsveatmant proposals
by shifting relatlie producer
prices
b. Pcilcrlnduced rents          Production discoureged by low                                               ePreparatLon and implementation    IDA TA to assist design and           Ln
rents on State lands,                                                      of program to raise rents on          implentation of system to           '
permitting intercediaries to                                               State Lands                           raise rents
extract hlgh econ=mic rents
from subtenants. ObjectLve Ls
to raLse rents to market
levels
c. Credit                       Access to credit has been             'Audlt bNDAI                          'Dissolution of aSDAI and legal    IDS considaerlg supportLng
very ILmited and credit                                                    establishment of a new                mve credit baok
agencLes portfolLos are                                                    agricultural credit bank
heavLIy Ln arrears, largeLy
uncollectable loans.
Objective is to improve
ascess to and efficiency of
credit system



- 52 -
ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 7
PUBLIC IUS IN PIOGEMA. FY57
1.        The overall program is estimated by the Government at G 1,140
million. Historically, however, implementation has averaged about 70 percent;
in FY86 it was only 60 percent. For FY87, a rate of about 80 percent, or
G 900-950 million, would seem feasible, considering the increased
availability of untied ald to the current budget and improvements in program
preparation. This total excludes a list of 26 new projects, requiring
commitments of G 217 million (US$43 million) that was presented to external
donors for possible financing in late 1986. It also excludes the proposed
Cap Haitien international airport.
2.        The four tables in this annex present the program by sector and
source of financing; by sector and type of investment; by executing agency
and source of financing; and also the 34 largest projects which account for
71 percent of the total program in financial terms. Sectoral highlights are
presented below.
3.         Agriculture.  Expenditure reforms cannot produce results in
agriculture if they are not accompanied by pricing and structural changes.
Especially important are an increase in non-salary operating funds, now
partially built into the FY87 current Treasury Budget, and major improvements
in the management of staff resources at the Ministry of Agriculture as well
as in project preparation, selection and implementation. These measures,
while fully agreed by the Government, will take time to implement.
4.        The share of agriculture in the total public investment program is
thus increased moderately compared to FY86 because of management and other
constraints. The program, which amounts to C 241.9 million, focuses on
irrigation system rehabilitation, rainfed agriculture development, feeder
roads (which also appear under transportation) and input delivery to
farmers. There are no new irrigation projects. Soil conservation and
reforestation are kept at financially sustainable levels and increasingly
linked to treecrop rehabilitation and watershed protection. Pre-investment
studies amount to G 18.1 million and support activities (mostly salaries) are
kept at C 5.7 million.
5.        The FY87 agricultural program is satisfactory as a transitional,
consolidation effort out of past errors in agriculture. It cannot, however,
be considered satisfactory when viewed against the considerable potential for
growth and export of agriculture in Haiti, especially under irrigation. As
the Government's reforms of agricultural pricing, credit and management are
carried out, the sector should be able to absorb substantially higher levels
of public investment.
6.         Industry.  The 1Y87 industrial program is sharply reduced both in
absolute and relative terms compared to FY86. The Government has disengaged
itself from ill-advised public industrial enterprises. The FY87 program



- 53 -
ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 7
covers modernization and rebalancing investments at La Minoterie and Ciment
d'Haiti (C 7.5 and G 15.0 million, respectively), as well as the construction
of an industrial park aided by IDB (G 25 million).
7.         Electric Pouer.  With G 20 million for pre-investment studies and
G 6.0 million for managerial strengthening, the G 145.2 million electric
power program in FY87 is reasonable and well balanced. Electricite d'Haiti
(EdH), while competently run, needs to reduce the number of employees per
customer but achieving this agreed objective is slowed by social sensitivity
in a country where unemployment and underemployment are extremely acute
problems.
8.         Transportation.  The road transport program (G 91.0 million) is
mainly devoted to feeder road construction and to main road rehabilitation.
Improvements at the Port-au-Prince airport (G 28.0 million) are justified.
The National Port Authority (G 16.0 million) will improve security at the
Port-au-Prince harbor, complete minor works at Cap Raitien and construct two
cabotage ports. The total transportation program thus amounts to G 139.4
million and contains only well justified projects. The road to Jeremie is
still at the technical design stage.
9.         Teleco muncationu.  The bulk of the telecommunications program
(G 127.3 million) is to introduce digital exchanges to the Port-au-Prince
telephone network and improve the telex service. The cost of this equipment
is high by international standards because it is procured under tied aid.
TELECO, the public company, needs to improve the number of employees per
exchange line, like EdH.
10.        Urban Development and tusring.  Port-au-Prince urgently needs an
urban development plan. Its absence greatly duplicates the major urban
investment, a drainage program (G 29.5 million in FY87), as well as the
planning of water supply investments. More attention should also be paid to
urban transport, minor works and traffic management to relieve congestion
that impedes workers' access to industrial assembly plants and through
traffic to the southeastern part of the country. Sites and services projects
are also included in the program, some in Port-au-Prince and others in
provincial towns. The total program amounts to G 79.6 million.
11.        Water Supply.  The sector has three public executing agencies
(CAMEP, SNEP and POCHEP). Their FY87 programs (G 49.8 million in total) are
regionally balanced as between the capital, provincial towns and villages.
They are well justified but CAMEP, the Port-au-Prince utility, needs to
reduce excess staff and to accelerate its metering program so as to be able
to collect charges on actual rather than estimated water consumption.
12         Idncatlon. With the large increase of its current budget in FY87,
the Ministry of National Education could now begin to tackle the problems of
low teachers' salaries and insufficient school supplies which caused



- 54 -
ANNE! VI
Pale 3 Of 7
inefficiency in basic public education and public training; due to past
negligence and irresponsibility, success will not come easily. However, the
bulk of primary education is in the private sector and this will remain so.
The FY87 Investment program adds up to G 81.1 million compared to G 65.0
million in FY86. This program is on the whole well related to urgent needs
and not too costly.
13.        Health.  The health sector has also benefited in FY87 from a very
large increase in its current budget so that it should now be able to deliver
medical supplies and services more adequately than in the past and make more
effective use of its staff and physical facilities. The FY87 health
investment program is slightly smaller, as it should be, than the FY86
program which included expensive special projects of the past regime; it
amounts to G 110.0 million (G 116.5 million Lu FY86) with three large ongoing
projects to extend rural health services, control malaria and provide
-maternal and child care. The investment program includes, as one would
expect, a large share (84 percent) of support activities, representing wages
and medical supplies financed by foreign donors. Sizeable fraud in wage
payments will have to be eliminated from the ministry and its agencies since
it can only demoralize those willing to work for the pay they receive and
discourage continued external donor support.



Table 1:  FY87 PUILIC IMST!S)T PROGRAM1 Y SECTOR AJD  1Y SOURCE O  FIIKANCIMG
CO mLilion)
---Domstic Flnancing---          --------External Financing------       Overall  tar  of
Sector                                        No. of   Treasury  PubLic   Total           PL-480   Other   Project  Total         Total   Prori
Projects              tnts.                         Food Aid    Aid                          Coat (3)
01. Ag:lculture                                 40        16.9      0.0      16.9          37.3       4.3    183.5   225.1        241.9      21.2
02. MinLng                                       4         1.5      0.0       1.5           0.0      0.0       1.6 6     .6         8.1       0.7
03. Industry                                     5         0.0     21.7      21.7           0.0      0.0      25.2    25.2         40.9        4.1
04. lacrgy                                       7         0.0     68.6      68.6           0.0      0.5      76.2    76.6        145.2      12.7
05. Mater Supply                                10         6.4      0.0       6.4           0.5      0.0      47.9    48.7         55.1        E.S             I
07. Tranuportation                              20        14.9     12.0      20.6          22.5     30.0      60.1   112.6        139.4      12.2              Ln
08. Comicatlons                                  7         1.1     77.2      76.3           0.0      0.0      49.0    49.0        127.3      11.2              Li
09. Urban Development                           13        19.2      0.0      19.2           0.0      0.0      55.5    55.5         74.6        6.5             I
10. Educatlon                                   21         7.7      0.0       7.7           1.6      0.9      70.8    73.4         31.1        7.1
11. Populatlon, Health and MutritutLon          14         2.3      0.0       2.3          26.0      0.0      31.7   107.7        110.0        9.6
12. Social Affairs                               3         0.8      0.0       0.E           0.0      0.3       1.8      2.0         2.8       0.2
13. CoinaLty Development                        15         1.9      0.0       1.9          14.6      1i.      31.3    47.9         49.8        4.4
14. Youth nd Sports                              1         1.0      0.0       1.0           0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0         1.0        0.1
15. Statistics and Information                   3         1.6      0.0       1.6           1.6       0.0      0.7      2.3         3.9        0.3
16. Other Administrations                       17         8.2      0.0       8.2           2.0       0.0     17.8    19.8         28.0        2.5
17. Comerce                                      2         0. 0     0.0       0.0           0.0       0.0      0.2      0.2         0.2        0.0
18. Ralonal DeveLopmnt                           4        16.6      0.0      16.6           0.0       3.1      4.9      8.0        24.6        2.2
TOTAL                                          I66       ioa.0    179.5    279.5          106.5      40.9    713.2   160.6       1140.1      100.0
Share of Total ProsraM Cost (1)                            3.8     15.7      24.5           9.3       3.6     62.6    75.5        100.0
OC



Table 2: FY87 PUBLIC INVESTMENT PROGRAM BY SECTOR AND TYPE OF INVESThENT
(C million)
Sector                                    Pre-Investment    --Investment--    --- Suppor t---    -          Total-----
Number Amount    Number  Amount    Number Amount            Number   Amount
01. Agriculture                               12  18.1          26    218.2          2   5.7               40    241.9
02. Mining                                     3   3.6           0       0.0         1   4.5                4       8.1
03. Industry                                   0   0.0           3      46.7         2   0.2                 5     46.9
04. Energy                                     2  20.9           4    118.3          1   6.0                 7 . 145.2
05. Water Supply                               0   0.0          10      55.1         0   0.0               10      55.1
07. Transportation                             4   2.2          16    137.2          0   0.0               20    139.4
OP. Communlcations                             0   0.0           7    127.3          0   0.0                 7    127.3
09. Urban Development                          I   1.0          12      73.6         0   0.0               13      74.6
10. Education                                  0   0.0           7      57.4        14  23.7               21      81.1
11. Population, Health and Nutritution         2   1.9           5      15.6         7  92.4               14    110.0
12. Social Affairs                             0   0.0           3       2.8         0   0.0                3       2.8
13. ComrznLty Development                      0   0.0          12      13.9         3  35.9               15      49.8
14. Youth and Sports                           0   0.0           1       1.0         0   0.0                 1      1.0
15. Statlstics and Information                 3   3.9           0       0.0         0   0.0                 3      3.9
16. Other Administrations                      9   8.2           2       7.3         6  12.5                17     28.0
17. Commerce                                   0   0.0           0       0.0         2   0.2                 2      0.2
18. Regional Development                       1   0.6           3      24.0         0   0.0                4      24.6
TOTAL                                         37  60.5         111    898.5         38 181.1              186   1140.1
Share of Total Program Cost (1)             19.9   5.3        59.7      78.8     20.4  15.9             100.0    100.0
.   .                                                                     _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u



TabLe 3:  FY87 PUBLIC INVESTHENT PRtOGRAM BY EXECUTING ACENCY AND SOURCE OF PINAOCINO
(C mLILLon)
---Domsatic Financalr-           --    - External FinancL4 ---         Overal
Project        Project                                   Agency   No. of  TSeaaury  PubiLe   Total           PL-480   Other   Project   Total       Total
Code           TLtle                                    Acronym Projects              Ints.                          Food Aid  Aid
National Alrport Authority                                 AAR         2       0.0      8.1       8.1           0.0      0.0     19.7      19.7       27.8
NatioLaL Port Authority                                    APH         5       0.0      3.7       3.7          0.0       0.0     10.3      10.3       14.0
Fort-u-Prlrncu Netropolltan Water Authority               CAJEP        1       3.5      0.0       3.5          0.0       0.0     27.4      27.4       50.3
PlaiLng Comissariat                                       CPNAP       14      12.1       0.0     12.1           3.0      0.6     18.6      22.2       34.3
Center For Planning Technique And Applied Econoiles    CIPEA           1       2.2      0.0       2.2          0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0        2.2
Haitl slsccricity                                          Ed1         6       0.0     68.6      68.6          0.0       0.0     73.3      75.3      143.8
Public lousing Znterprise                                 UPPLS        7       6.6      0.0       6.6          0.0       0.0     28.6      28.6     .35.2
AgroQomy And Veterinary Faculty                            FItV        1       1.5      0.0       1.3          0.0       0.2       3.9      4.1        5.4
Haitian StatiatieaL Institute                              Iasi        3       1.6      0.0       1.6           1.6      0.0       0.7      2.3        5.9
Institute For Preservation Of the National Heritage    ISPAM          2        1.6      0.0       1.6          0.5       0.1      3.0       3.6       5.1           I
MLnistry of Agriculture                                   MARIDR      46      16.3       0.0     16.3         45.2       5.5    210.4    261.1       277.4         v
Ministry of  ocial Affaira                                 HAS         3       0.8       0.0      0.8          0.0       0.3       1.8      2.0        2.8
MLnistry of C_erce And Industry                            "CI         8       0.5      21.7     22.2           0.0      0.0      25.4     25.4       47.6
r         MinIstry of National Education                             MEN        20       7.2       0.0      7.2           1.1      0.9      67.1     69.3       77.0
Linsltry of Ecano.y And Finance                            1SF         2       0.0       0.0      0.0           0.0      0.0       1.5      1.5        1.5
Ministry of The InterLor And Rational Detfen               MIDN        1       7.5       0.0      7.5           0.0      2.5       0.0      2.5       10.0
Ministry of Justice                                         KJ         1       3.0       0.0      3.0           0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0        3.0
Minastry of Health and Population                          KSPP       17       1.9       0.0      1.9          26.0      0.0      92.8    118.8      120.7
No Ezecuting Agency                                        IIONI       6       0.0       0.0      0.0           5.2      0.5       0.8      6.4        6.4
Nationl Civil Avlation Office                             OPFAC        I       0.0       0.0      0.0           0.0      0.0       1.8      1.8        1.8
Popular Education Office                                   OPEP        1       1.2       0.0      1.2           0.0      0.0       0.5      0.5        1.7
National Water Service                                     SNEP        7       1.8       0.0      1.8           0.8      0.0      11.3     12.0       13.8
Haiti Telecomwuications Comany                            TELECO       5       0.0      77.2     77.2           0.0      0.0      49.0     49.0      126.2
NatLaml Television Of OlatL                                TEH         1       0.7       0.0      0.7           0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0        0.7
MinLstry of Public Workb, Transport ad  CoLanicestLons  TTC           24      28.9       0.2     29.1          23.2     30.5      62.6    116.2      145.3
State UntwLzsLty of Haiti                                  UE1         1       1.5       0.0      1.5           0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0        1.5
TOTAL                                                                186     100.0    179.5    279.3          106.5     40.9    713.2    660.6    1140.1
O 
o 1
-J



Table 4:  1Y87 PUBLIC INVESTfEIT PROGRAM BY SIE 015   PROJECT AND SOURCE Ol FIKANCING
(G million)
---Domestic Frncing--          -       Eternal LawtLag -------   Overall
Project        Project                                  Exec.  Donor    Treasury  PubiLc  Total          PL-480   Other    Dlrect  Docor        Total
Code           Title                                 Agency at                      Eats.                       Food A1d    Aid   Ad
06 V 06 "WJRN. & INSTALL. CENTRAUX TELEPHOIIQUES    UILICO    CCCE           0.0      0.0      0.0          0.0       0.0     43.0     49.0      49.0
01 V 07 AISNAGCNT 8ASSINS VERSANTS                       MA     us,mVP       0.0      0.0      0.0          3.0      0.0      45.0     46.0      45.0
04 V 03 PRO1R0M  DE DISTRIBUTION (P-AU-PIPROVINCES)    1dB       CCCE        0.0     13.4     13.4          0.0      0.0      27.0     27.0      40.4
01 V 09 ORO&ISATION DE DEVELOPPEKENT DU NORD             MA   IDA.GER,FR    2.0       0.0      2.0          0.0       0.0     36.2     36.2      38.2
11 A 10 EXT.PROO.PROT.HATERN.INFANT.-PLAN.FAMIL.        MSPP  US,WHO.UN     0.0       0.0      0.0          5.0      0.0      32.5     37.5      37.5
07 V 73 PROGRAMM  TRANSPORT VII                         TPTC      IDA        4.0      0.2      4.2          0.0      30.0      0.0     30.0      34.2
13 A 09 GESTION AIDE ALIMENTAIRE PAM                     MA     WFPPUS       0.7      0.0      0.7          3.3       0.0     30.0     33.3      34.0
04 V 05 IrESTISSED4NT DE ROUTINE                        EdE       -          0.0     33.1     33.1          0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      33.1
04 V 01 PROGRAMSE DE PRODUCTION                         LdU      IDA         0.0      4.5      4.5          0.0       0.0     28.5    Z8.5       33.0
05 V 18 DESSERTE EAU POTABLE ZONE H5TROPOLITAINE       CAUSP     CCCE        3.5      0.0      3.5          0.0       0.0     27.4    27.1       30.9
07 V 21 DEV1LOPPEHENT ROUTES SECONDAIRES                TPTC      US         0.0      0.0      0.0         20.5       0.0      6.5     27.3      217.3
10 V 10 EPANSION SYSTEM ECOLES FRIMAIRES & NORKALES   ME         IDS         3.5      0.0      3.5          0.0       0.0     23.2     23.2      26.7
08 V 88 COWUtATION ET TRANSHISSION                     TELECO     -          0.0     26.6    26.6           0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      26.6
03 V 35 EXCIESION DU PARC INDUSTRIEL                    MCI      IDO         0.0      0.0      0.0          0.0       0.0     25.0    25.0       21.0
10 V 40 EDUCATION 9 IV ST FIN EDU1C. III                 ME      IDA         1.4      0.0      1.4          0.0      0.0      23.0     23.0      24.4
07 V 62 AMELIORATION HAVIGATION AEIIIENNE               AAP       FR         0.0      4.3      4.3          0.0      0.0      19.7     19.7      24.0
11 A 08 QUTRJDLE DE LA MALARIA                          NSPP    US,JAP       0.0      0.0      0.0          5.0      0.0      18.2     23.2      23.2
08 V 89 EATIHEETS DE LA TELECO                         TELECO     -         0.0      22.7     22.7          0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      22.7           1
08 V 37 RESEAUX EXTERIEURS                             TELECO     -          0.0     21.7     21.7          0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      21.7
04 P 04 PRORAMME D'ETUDES                               Eda                  0.0      5.2      5.2          0.0       0.0     14.4     14.4      19.6           c
11 A 02 EXTENSICO  SERVICES SANTE RURALE                hSPP      US        0.0       0.0      0.0         10.0      0.0       9.2     19.2      19.1
09 V 28 DRAINAGE DE POT-AU-PRINCE II                    TPTC     IDE         3.5      0.0      3.5          0.0       0.0     14.6     14.6      18.1
03 V 32 IMSTISSEDENT CIHENT DBAITI                      MCI       -         0.0      14.7     14.7          0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      14.7
01 V 08 RNEPORCEHNT DU CREDIt RURAL                      MA     US,GER       0.0      0.0      0.0          7.5       0.0      7.0     14.5      14.5
10 A 51 FOWUTIOU A L'INACIEI                             HE      Cml         0.0      0.0      0.0          0.0       0.0     14.0     14.0      14.0
01 V 32 O.D. VALLEE DE L'ARTIBONITE (RICE)               MA  IDB,TaLwan    1.5        0.0      1.5          0.0       0.0     11.3     11.8      13.3
07 V 37 RIEMAILITATION ROUTE NAT. I                     TPTC     IDA         4.0      0.0      4.0          0.0       0.0      9.0      9.0      13.0
01 V 33 O.D. PLAINS DES GOIAIVES                         MA    OER,IFP       1.5      0.0      1.5          0.0       0.0     11.2     11.2      12.7
01 V 83 AIITAtION PRODUCTION ACRICOLE                    MA      JAP         0.0      0.0      0.0          0.0       0.0     12.5     12.5      12.5
04 V 02 RJK75 SPECIPIQUES PAPIPROVINCES                 EdE                  0.0     11.2     11.2          0.0       0.0      0.7      0.7      11.8
01 V 12 DRI-RIVIEU  BLANChh CCUL DE SAC)                 MA      IDB         1.0      0.0      1.0          0.0       0.0     10.0     10.0       11.0
09 V 16 LIUTEAU I PHASE II                             EppLS   CER(KfW)      1.0      0.0      1.0          0.0       0.0      9.1      9.1      10.1
01 P 05 ADS-Ilt SUPPOT AU DEV.AGRICOLI                   "A       US         0.0      0.0      0.0          3.5       0.0      6.5     10.0      10.0
18 V 03 EQUIPENun DES COWEUNS                           HIDN    TaLvan       7.5      0.0      7.5          0.0       2.5      0.0      2.5      10.0
TOTAL Or LARGE PROJECTS                                    34               35.1    157.6   192.7          57.8      32.5    521.7    612.0     804.6
TOTAL Of ALL PROJECTS                                     186              100.0   179.5   279.5          106.5      40.9    713.2   660.6    1140.1
LAME PROJECTS AS PERCENTACE Of ALL PROJECTS              13.3               35.1     87.8    b8.9          54.3      79.4     73.1     71.1       70.6
a*  Rotor to Tablo 3 for full rae of executing agencies.
O4



CUBA
CUBfA                          DOMINICAN.
DMIAI        N                                                      Mole St. Nicolas
JAMAICA                                    luERTO                                                        )                   f.1",    t.
RICO
74.
HAITI
Main Highways
Secondary Roads
Tertiary Roads
Rivers
-.  -    International Boundaries
Elevation in Meters
t-       f 1600
F_ <I 800
-19,
'. l200
0       10      20       30       40       50
KILOMETERS '
MILES               lb            20            so
gJr-_d]l                                         CA YEAMfIT I
Dom iMu20i3
) 'S                    Rojeaux                O
Dame Marie    r ,/hbron                                                                       P i Td p
Anse D Hainouli
.~~~~~~~~~~~               J;6 WY    eo  
IFnrr Cwvwflcu. The de,xnwbon. 'as aid   iatnesenna ho s                           niceieA,S
.n. mu in er? n, fl  rl Btka Hu *V',kna_lFau Ccw'ako. uqr reiwi
- B. degas uterws lt anr irp UF ffI~ e urf a? ado , sn  h ux
19



IEBRD 17094R
PortI de Po ix
|   l t  "~  c%;  4   9   ~ ib  ''I | ' 1':      " t   :          ^     Cap Hrailion:U
;ISal~<~                              ; -- @e 1 -  Gra  ; Mlordt '
An& Rau                                                                                                      ; __ -J -1%jer
GNoBes)i-,,> ,ahlNaX>-vtir iu"s
. 2   -.    de 42oloYt;;    ~~   Pignon b- t 5u:onno  
S        t      -    Xe~~~~~~S M,dLic lbh. t   S                    T      N>                     t 
l   s   a                                  \   ; 8 - > -P *n   S  -,i        MOirb a. . H osCncbe    S
Grer_. hirs
_~~~~~~~~~~Mi.                                                  C                E           1 8 
7 3                                                                      7 2 @~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rpl)Q;
Amohuit- ~ ~ ~     ~       ~       ~       ~      ~ ~ OTOE  18



