OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
CREDIT NUMBER/740LHA
Development Credit Agreement
(Economic Recovery Program Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated           W          7     , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER /744HA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       24ooAg     2L7         , 1987, between
REPUBLIC OF HAITI (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated
January 30, 1987 from the Borrower describing a program of
actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve a recovery
of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the Program),
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in the
financing of urgently needed imports required during such
execution;
(B) on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Asso-
ciation has decided in support of the Program to provide such
assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in two tranches
as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a) Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that
may be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant
to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement.";
(b) Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date
or such later date as m8y be agreed for this purpose between
the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request,
on the execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble


﻿-2-
to the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Credit."; and
(c) the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and, in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "SITC" means the United Nations Standard International
Trade Classification, 1974 Revision (SITC, Rev. 2), published in
Commodity Indexes for the Standard International Trade Classifi-
cation, Revised, Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 38/Rev.2
(1981);
(b) "Gourde" or "G" means the currency of the Borrower;
(c) "Tariff Law" means the Decree setting forth the applic-
able import tariffs published in Le Moniteur on February 12,
1987; and
(d) "Fiscal   Year"   means  the   Borrower's  fiscal   year
commencing on October 1 and ending on September 30.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to thirty-two million eight hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 32,800,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1988 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.


﻿-3-
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall  reasonably  request;  (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service,charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 15
and October 15 commencing April 15, 1997, and ending October 15,
2036. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on October 15, 2006, shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall
be one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall, at
the request of either party, and in any event no later than
September 30, 1987, exchange views on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 3
to this Agreement.


﻿-4-
(b) Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association for its review and comment a
report on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, in the Ever.t that it
undertakes to carry out any improvements in its Jap Haitien
Airport (other than those included in the 1987-91 Investment
Program as defined in the Development Credit Agreement between
the Borrower and the Association for Credit Number 1756-HA
(Seventh Transport Project) dated February 12, 1987: (i" restrict
such improvements, in each Fiscal Year, to those that can be
financed exclusively out of one-third of the amounts collected by
the Borrower in previous Fiscal Years (commencing with Fiscal
Year 1985) from its air passenger departure tax; and (ii) not
apply the proceeds of any indebtedness in foreign currency to the
financing of such improvements. The provisions of this Section
supersede those of Section 3.06 of the Development Credit
Agreement for Credit Number 1756-HA mentioned in the first
paragraph of this Section.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance   with   consistently   maintained  sound   accounting
practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and


﻿-5-
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until    at   least  one  year   after  the
Association has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account was made, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the  Association's   representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audits referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
dures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event 1s specified, namely,
that an event has occurred which shall make it improbable that
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The date    e..o 3,0 1117 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The' Minister of Economy and Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere de l'Economie et des Finances
Palais des Ministeres
Port-au-Prince
Haiti
Cable address:                    Telex:
Ministere de l'Economie           3090347
et des Finances
Port-au-Prince
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
'able address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
By /5
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
&*41 Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
S.hedule, the proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods required during the execution of the Program and to be
financed out of such proceeds.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups:
Group     Sub-group           Description of Items
112         -                Alcoholic beverages
121         -                Tobacco, unmanufactured
tobacco refuse
122         -               Tobacco, manufactured
667         -                Pearls, precious and semi-
precious stones, unworked or
worked
688         -                Uranium depleted in U235 and
thorium, and their alloys,
unwrought or wrought, and
articles therefor, n.e.s.;
waste and scrap of uranium
depleted in U235 and of thorium
718      718.7               Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof, n.e.s.


﻿- 10 -
Group     Sub-group         Description of Items
897      897.3              Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)
-        971.0              Gold, non-monetary  (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
(b) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 16,400,000 may be made on
account of payments made for such expenditures before that date
but after November 1, 1986;
(d) expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $10,000 equivalent;
(e) expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Association shall have financed or agreed to
finance; and
(f) expenditures for goods intended for a military or
para-military purpose or for luxury consumption.
3.   No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be
entered into to pay amounts to the Borrower or others in respect
of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from
the Credit Account and the total amount of such commitments shall
have reached the equivalent of SDR 16,400,000, unless the
Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement: (a) with the
progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Program, and (b) that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement have been taken.


﻿- 11 -
4.   In the event that the actions specified in Schedule 3 of
this agreement have not been taken by December 31, 1987, any
amount of the Credit which shall remain undisbursed as of such
date shall, unless otherwise agreed by the Association, be
cancelled.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
1.   Except as provided in paragraph 3 below, contracts for   the
procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$3,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through international
competitive bidding in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the following
modifications:
(a) Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done
by advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a
bidder's invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or
to bid; such advertisements should be placed in at least one
newspaper of general circulation in the Borrower's country
and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i) a notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international circula-
tion; or
(iii) a notice to local representatives of countries and
territories referred to in the Guidelines, that
are potential suppliers of the goods required."
(b) The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
"As  a  further  alternative, bidding    documents may
require the bidder to state the bid price in a single
currency widely used in international trade and specified in
the bidding documents."


﻿- 13 -
(c) Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.   Goods or groups of goods estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $3,000,000 per contract may be procured under
contracts awarded: (i) in the case of imports by the public
sector, on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited
from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association; and (ii) in the case of imports by the private
sector, on the basis of the normal procurement procedures of the
purchaser of such goods.
3.   Contracts for petroleum and petroleum products shall be
awarded either through bilateral arrangements based on prevailing
market prices of such commodity or products, or on the spot
market, through direct negotiations in accordance with normal
practices.
4.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
prior to the submission to the Association of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for
award, a description of the advertising and tendering procedures
followed and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request.
5.   With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 2 and
3 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association, prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect thereof, such documentation and information as the
Association  may   reasonably  request  to   support  withdrawal
applications in respect of such contract.
6.   The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 4 and 5 shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (b)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
(a) The Borrower and the Association shall have agreed
upon: (i) a satisfactory development budget and investment
program of the Borrower for Fiscal Year 1988; and (ii) a
satisfactory budget for the Borrower's Ministry of Education for
Fiscal Year 1988.
(b) The Borrower shall have furnished to the Association:
(i) an audit of the expenditures actually made by its Ministry of
Economy and Finance in Fiscal Year 1986 in respect of the
expenditures budgeted for such Fiscal Year; and (ii) an audit of
the financial position of its Banque de la Republique d'Haiti;
such audits to be undertaken by auditors satisfactory to the
Association.
(c) The Borrower shall have reduced, in a manner and to an
extent satisfactory to the Association, the operating costs of
its enterprises Ciment d'Haiti and La Minoterie.
(d) The Borrower shall have abrogated all taxes on imports
and exports (other than the import tariffs included in the Tariff
Law) for which collections in Fiscal Year 1986 did not exceed
G 500,000 each.
(e) The Borrower shall have eliminated the tax imposed on
coffee exports.
(f)  The   Borrower  shall   have:     (i)   established  an
agricultural credit bank satisfactory to the Association; and
(ii) dissolved its Banque Nationale de Developpement Agricole et
Industriel.
(g)  (i) The Borrower and the Association shall have agreed
upon a satisfactory program designed to raise the Borrower's
fiscal revenues by raising the current rents charged for the
lease of state-owned lands; and (ii) the Borrower shall have made
progress, satisfactory to the Association, in the implementation
of such program.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


