Document of
THE WORLD BANK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19998
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Cr. 2431-UNI)
January 5,2000
Macroeconomic 4 Division (AFTM4)
Nigeria Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Free Market Exchange Rate System Effective January 1, 1999)
Current Unit    Naira
Naira           US$0. 105
US$1            95 Naira (as of March 12, 1999)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASCON    Administrative Staff College of Nigeria
BPE        Bureau for Public Enterprises of the Presidency
CBN        Central Bank of Nigeria
CPI        Consumer Price Index
DCA        Development Credit Agreement
DMD        Debt Management Departnent of the CBN
DRS        Debtor Reporting System of the World Bank
EFD        External Finance Department of the FMF
EMTAP    Economic Management Technical Assistance Project
FCSC      Federal Civil Service Commission
FGN        Federal Government of Nigeria
FIRS      Federal Inland Revenue Services of the FMF
FMF       Federal Ministry of Finance
FMI        Federal Ministry of Industries
FOS        Federal Office of Statistics
IDA        International Development Association
MOWA    Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development
MOFI'    Ministry of Finance Incorporated
MULT       Multilateral Institutions Department of the FMF
MSLGA    Ministry for State and Local Govemrnment Affairs
NCC        Nigerian Communications Commission
NCEMA   Nigerian Centre for Economic Management and Administration
NEXIM    Nigerian Export-Import Bank
NPC        National Planning Commission
NRMAFC  National Revenue Mobilization, Allocation and Fiscal Commission
OAGF      Office of the Accountant General of the Federation
OAuGF    Office of the Auditor General of the Federation
OE&MS   Office of Establishment and Management Services
OOB        Office of Budget of the FMF
PBPD       Plans, Budget and Projects Departnent of NPC
PEAs       Project Executing Agencies
PER        Public Expenditure Review
PRS        Planning, Research and Statistics Department of the Federal Ministry of
Finance
UCC        Utility Charges Commission
UNDP       United Nations Development Program
Vice President:             I           Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:                       Yaw Ansu
Sector Manager:             :           Charles Humphreys
Task Team Leader            :           Jose B. Sokol
Task Manager                :           Greg Nzekwu



FOR OFFICL USE ONLY
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT TECHNCAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2431-UNI)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE.1
EVALUATION SUMMARY .......................................................................I
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SUMMARY ....................................................................1
PART II: PROJECT OBJECTIVES ....................               ...................................................3
A. ORIGINAL PROJECT OBJECTIVES .......................................................................3
B. RE-EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ......................................................................3
C. REVISED PROJECT DESCRIPTIONAND COMPONENTS .......................... ..........................4
D. CREDITCOVENANTSANDSPECIALAGREEMENTS ................................................,.                S
E RISKS.                                                                                                 5
F. EVALUATIONOFPROJECTOBJECTE  ................................................6
PART III: IMPLdEMENTATION EXPERIENCE .................................................6
A. ASSESSMENsTOFPROJECTSUCCESS ................................................6
B. PROJECT SUSTAINABILfTY ...............................................                                7
C. SUMMARYOFPROJECTCOSTS .................................................7
D. SUARY OFFINANCINGARRANGEENTS ................................................7
E. IMPLEMENTATIONSCHEDULE ................................................8
F. KEYFACTORSAFFECTINGPROJECTIMPLEMENTATION ...............................................8
G. ASSESSMENTOFTHERBANK'SANDBORROWER'SPERFORMANCE .............................  10
H. PRODUCTSOFTHEPROJECT ...............................................................                10
PART IV. SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS, AND KEY LESSONS .............. 11
A. FINDINGS.                                                                                            11
B. FUTURE OPERATIONS ................................................................                   11
C. KEYLESSONS ................................................................                         12
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Statistical Annexes
Table 1:  Summary ofAssessments
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation Following the End-1997
Restructuring
Table: 6   Key Implementation Indicators in SAR/President 's Report
Table 7:  Studies/Framework Documents Included in/Undertaken by the Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
Table 12: Status of Legal Covenants



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT TECHINCAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2431-UNI)
PREFACE
1. This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Economic Management
Technical Assistance Project (EMTAP) in Nigeria, for which Credit 243 1-UNI was
approved on November 5, 1992 in the amount of SDR 14.7 million (US$20.0 million
equivalent) and which was made effective on March 5, 1993. The Credit closed on
March 31, 1999. The Credit was granted a two-year extension from the original closing
date of March 31, 1997 and was fully disbursed. The last disbursement took place on
May 30, 1999. The Project did not receive the co-financing from UNDP envisaged at
appraisal. Task managing the Project was shared between headquarters and the field
office.
2.  The ICR was prepared by Greg Nzekwu, Macroeconomist, (AFMNG), assisted by
Felicia Ogidan (AFMNG) and Nani Makonnen (AFTM4). It was reviewed by Akin
Arikawe/Haruna Mohammed (FMF), James Sackey (AFTM1), and Thomas Hutcheson
(AFTM4). Quality assurance was provided by Jose Sokol (Lead Specialist, AFTM4).
Comments provided by the Borrower are included as an Appendix to the ICR.
3. This ICR relies heavily on the products and outcomes of the evaluation process
carried out during supervision missions, as well as on the evaluation reports from the
Borrower's consultants conducted during various studies, including one on the impact of
Bank-assisted projects in Nigeria. Two major project reviews were carried out, the first
one in March 1995, which was the Project's mid-term review; the second one in
December 1997, with a view to undertake a major restructuring of the Project.
4. The Borrower was informed, in July 1998 of the need for an ICR at the closing of
the Project. Preparation of this ICR was begun in May 1999, drawing fom information
obtained during project supervision missions, project files, and discussions with the
Borrower's project executing agencies (PEAs) and stakeholders. The findings and
conclusions of the draft ICR were discussed with the Borrower and implementing
agencies in July and August 1999. The Borrower generally agreed with the Bank's
findings and conclusions. The Borrower agreed with the Bank's assessment of the
incomplete appraisal of the Project following its identification as well as the fluid entry of
PEAs into the Project. These were factors that gave the Project an unsatisfactory rating
in its initial years when it was under the responsibility of the Policy, Research and
Statistics Department of the Federal Ministry of Finance (PRS). The Project was then
moved to the Multilateral Institutions Department of the Federal Ministry of Finance
(MULT). As a result of re-focusing the Project with established indicators at the time of
its restructuring in 1997, performance improved and it was evaluated in the final
evaluation as satisfactory. The Borrower's ICR is attached as Appendix A.






i
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2431-UNI)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.   The Bank's Role in the Country. The Project under review was the first IDA-
funded technical assistance project to Nigeria aimed at improving economic management
and strengthening capacity building in support of the Federal Government of Nigeria's
(FGN's) Structural Adjustment Program  (SAP).   EMTAP included a substantial
institution and capacity building thrust through the provision of equipment, training,
consultant services; support for the implementation of the on-going commercialization
and privatization program; and the analysis of poverty and gender-related issues. At the
Project's design stage, the participation of other donors was envisaged, particularly
UNDP. However, such participation did not materialize in light of the deteriorating
political environment.
2.   Objectives of EMTAP.  The goals of the Project were to: (i) support the
Borrower's program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve structural
reforms in the Borrower's economy (the Program); (ii) assist the Borrower and its
agencies to (a) improve its public finance functions; (b) strengthen its revenue collection
and expenditure control; (c) strengthen its privatization and commercialization efforts;
and (d) effectively oversee the operations of its public sector enterprises; and (iii) assist
and strengthen the agencies of the Borrower involved in carrying out the Program.
3.   Evaluation of Project Objectives. The Project was declared unsatisfactory at its
early stages because the FGN reneged on its commitment to undertake additional reforms
under the SAP in 1994.   During project appraisal, very little work was done in
identifying training needs as the Project simply required the PEAs to provide annual
training plans. In the absence of a well defined training needs assessment in the context
of the staffing resources and work plans of the various PEAs, the annual training plans
were generally unsatisfactory. The mid-term review in 1995 reviewed progress on the
Project by each PEA, discussed problems encountered and identified possible solutions.
Prior to end-1997, the Project had not established clear development outcomes nor agreed
monitorable development indicators. There was no clearly defined annual work plan,
training program, nor a well-targeted procurement plan. Development of the financial
management system was also timid. Following the end-1997 review, agreement was
reached on expected project development outcomes and indicators, and resources were
reallocated from non-performing PEAs to performing ones.
4.   Assessment of the Project's Success and Sustainability. Project sustainability
has been strong. As part of its redefined objectives, the Project converted the FGN's
manual systems of fiscal and financial management into computerized systems, and
increased the competence of officials in the use of computer techniques for economic
management. The PEAs went beyond the scope of IDA funding in order to finance



ii
massive computerization of their offices as well as to maintain the equipment procured
under the Project. There were however some obvious cases of failure, i.e., the Office of
the Accountant General of the Federation (OAGF) component, where ownership and
commitment to capacity building were totally absent. Following the Project's review
and restructuring in end-1997, the FGN reviewed OAGF's participation in EMTAP and
the Accountant General of the Federation retired from office. The Project had a
beneficial impact on the participating agencies, especially in building capacity and in
improving the methods for analyzing and interpreting statistical information necessary for
decision making. Also, major statistical indicators such as the consumer price index that
in the past had been produced with a 4-6 months lag now experience only 3-5 weeks
delay. A four-year backlog of external trade data was analyzed and, published. Its timely
processing has continued.
5.  A summary of the Project's achievements is included in paragraph 16 of the text.
In particular, the Project contributed to the analysis of backlog of household surveys
which had not been analyzed by FOS since 1980, and to the construction of a
comprehensive poverty and welfare analysis.  The latter provided the basis for
conducting poverty assessments.  The Project also contributed to the build-up of
analytical capacity in the poverty area by providing equipment and training. FOS
analyzed and published the "Poverty Profile in Nigeria, 1980-96" report with EMTAP
resources. The PEAs demonstrated commitment to the objectives of the Project by
assigning the responsibility for their components to senior-level officers who became
fully knowledgeable of Bank operations and of the Bank's Guidelines. A major effort
was made in maintaining a participatory approach, particularly following the mid-term
review and the restructuring of the Project. The Project sensitized officials on the
usefulness of data for policy making and economic management.
6.   Summary of Project Costs and Financing Arrangements. Bank financing
amounted to US$20.77 million compared with an appraisal estimate of US$20.0 million.
The Borrower's local counterpart contribution amounted to US$4.85 million. Total
project cost amounted to US$25.82 million.
7.  Analysis of Key Factors Affecting Project Implementation. The Project was
designed, identified, and appraised within a very short time frame: three months.
EMTAP had no clearly defined focus at the appraisal. Consequently, it covered a wide
range of discrete activities under training, studies and computerization, which in
themselves were useful but did not provide a central development focus. Most of the
activities were open-ended. In general, the Project was poorly designed. At its early
stages the Project merely financed computers and training overseas, without a clear
expectation of outcomes. The Project lacked ownership on the part of the FGN. The PRS
was supposed to be the clearance institution for procurement and other administrative
issues, the other agencies were supposed to be independent in identifying key activities to
be financed, while the MULT maintained the knowledge and leadership in the dialogue
with the Bank on policy reform. This created a nightmare in project implementation as
the Project became excessively contentious because of an uncoordinated institutional
framework. There was also lack of adequate commitment from key government officials
regarding the development impact of the Project. At the project launch, over 50 percent
of the PEAs that were identified beneficiaries did not turn up because of the confusion



iii
about who was in charge. In many cases, PEAs were allocated resources for activities that
were not well defined nor envisaged at the time of appraisal. Many PEAs were unable to
clearly define training objectives and set out the benefits to be expected from the
proposed programs. These were the main reasons for the restructuring at end-1997.
8.  Project implementation at the mid-term was slow because of: (a) the failure of the
Project's management to decentralize authority; (b) weak understanding of the Bank's
guidelines, which led to delays in the preparation of programs and (c) and
misunderstandings among some of the PEAs on the objectives of EMTAP. Also, project
management coordination was constrained because PRS had little or no knowledge of
procedures regarding Bank-assisted projects, which led to delays and confusion. The
appointment of PEA officers was also delayed, which further slowed down the Project.
Other factors affecting project implementation during EMTrAP's initial two years were
related to delays in preparing project documentation, and drafting letters of invitation and
terms of reference. Following observed lapses in priorities, efforts at reallocation and re-
determination of priorities with defined monitorable objectives made project
implementation very difficult.
9.   The coming in of a new political leadership in late 1993 created some delays in
implementation. These delays also brought about some changes in focus which led to a
restructuring of the Project and to the admission of new PEAs. By the time of the 1997
review, the number of participating PEAs had risen from 15, when the Project
commenced, to 27, when the Project came to a close. As a result, resources available to
the PEAs were sharply reduced from initially envisaged levels.
10. Assessment of the Bank's and Borrower's Performance. At the preparation and
appraisal stage, the Project's overall performance was unsatisfactory. At the time of
negotiations it had been agreed that MULT would manage the Project. However,
following project effectiveness, and based on a government directive, the mandate to
manage the Project changed to PRS. This created significant confusion as to which
officers were responsible for project implementation. The project start-up was
unsatisfactory because of poor design and government officials had a different
understanding of the project concept. Many thought that it provided grant resources.
There was also the misconception that the Project provided an avenue for an external
subsistence allowance for government officials traveling abroad on official assignment.
Some of the initial problems in implementation included defusing these misconceptions.
The authorities were also slow in launching the studies included in all components
because of delays in developing terms of reference and hiring consultants. In order to
address the serious problem of coordination, project management was relocated from
PRS to MULT, where its staff was familiar with Bank guidelines. The performance of the
Borrower improved in the later stages of the project period as the interaction of the
Borrower and the Bank became more intensive. Overall, project supervision by the Bank
was infrequent and there was inadequate attention given to the composition of
supervision teams which failed to include training and financial management specialists
in the critical early stages of the Project.
11. Other areas where performance was unsatisfactory include: (i) the untimely
compliance with the audit covenant during the first two years of project implementation:



iv
(ii) failure of the PEAs in submitting annual reports and training plans on a timely basis
as required by the Development Credit Agreement (DCA); and (iii) insufficient and
untimely financial information provided on amounts committed and spent. The Project
accountant, who was not employed full time, spent more than half of his time in other
civil service-related tasks. His inability to focus on the Project's finances led to cost
overruns even though the Project Unit had been informed that new commitments should
not be authorized.
12. Key Lessons Learned. During project implementation Nigeria faced many
difficulties, especially the withdrawal of donor assistance, a deteriorating political
climate, and significant inconsistencies in macroeconomic policies. Board presentation,
as agreed during negotiations, was delayed by four months. The Project also experienced
delays because disbursements for each PEA required submission of a work program
which the Project was not able to accomplish during its inception. Despite these
impediments, the Project made a significant impact once project management was
transferred to MULT. The Project succeeded due to the critical role played by the Project
Unit in MULT in coordinating, facilitating, monitoring and evaluating the performance of
the other PEAs; articulating problem issues early on and providing timely solutions; and
evaluating and building capacity in the PEAs. The PEAs were given full responsibility
for developing task proposals, drafting terms of reference and for carrying out most
procurement activities. This speeded-up program implementation.
13.  The Project facilitated the dialogue on poverty will all stakeholders and
mainstreamed poverty issues. EMTAP also contributed to the development of a cadre of
trained Nigerian officials on Bank procurement practices. Encouraging the PEAs to
develop their programs has proven to be key in developing stakeholder ownership and
interest in technical assistance efforts.  EMTAP also shows that it is of critical
importance to have in place an enabling institutional environment of borrower
commitment. This entails consensus among Ministers and heads of agencies to ensure
successful project implementation. Finally, a strong Project Unit is critical, in addition to
active and intensive Bank supervision. Lessons learned during project implementation
point-to the need for: (i) more intensive project supervision in the early stages of the
Project and continuity of the project team; and (ii) inclusion of specialists in critical areas
such as financial analysis and staff training on supervision missions.
14. Additional lessons include: (i) a medium- to long-term strategic approach to
capacity building and technical assistance is needed in order to address underlying
systemic constraints and introduce necessary institutional changes to improve fiscal,
economic and public sector management; (ii) a strong discipline in the implementation
process is required so as to ensure progress towards long-terni objectives and a periodic
reassessment of all significant project elements. The focus should be on a strong
planning and preparation process, forward preparation of work programs and terms of
reference, the setting out of monitorable targets for performance, and a good evaluation
and monitoring process; (iii) the nature of disbursement requires that reporting on project
finances be up-to-date so as to ensure that the implementation process is on track. This
means that the auditor of the project accounts should certify the effective and efficient
utilization of resources; and (iv) a training advisor is needed to help focus on necessary
courses and identify appropriate local institutions that can provide vital training.



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 2431-UNi)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SUMMARY
1.  Background. When oil prices collapsed in 1986, the FGN was forced to adopt a
comprehensive package of economic reforms to pull the economy out of a deep-seated
crisis. In July 1986, the FGN embarked on a bold and comprehensive SAP. The SAP
was designed to redress the economic imbalances and structural distortions in the
economy with a view to propelling the country towards self-sustained growth. Under the
SAP, a broad range of structural and financial reforms were implemented with
considerable success.  Most price controls were eliminated and import licensing
abolished; marketing arrangements for agricultural products were improved through the
abolition of the marketing boards; the exchange and trade system was liberalized; and
most interest rates were deregulated. Moreover, privatization and commercialization of
government-owned companies and public enterprises was encouraged, and further steps
were taken to step-up private domestic and foreign investment. These reforms enhanced
the incentive framework and strengthened the country's external competitiveness.
2.  However, against a backdrop of a sharp decline in world oil prices in 1991 and the
political requirements associated with the transition to civilian rule, economic and
financial performance weakened. There was a slowdown in real GDP growth, owing in
part to a prolonged drought and to a sharp downturn in the services sector; and the overall
deficit of the FGN almost trebled, with huge surge in extra-budgetary outlays. By 1992,
three important policy developments had taken place. First, a debt reduction operation
with commercial banks was completed. Second, the Central Bank of Nigeria abolished
the cap on bank lending rates. Third, the foreign exchange auction system was replaced
by an inter-bank foreign exchange system, and the official exchange rate was brought in
line with the rates prevailing in the foreign exchange bureaus. The policy initiatives were
to be supported by a tightening of fiscal and monetary policies. However, fiscal
developments became rather expansionary, with a concomitant rise in the fiscal deficit.
3.  The SAP did not envisage a quick turnaround to higher growth rates and pre-oil
boom per-capita consumption levels. Rather, the program was introduced for damage
control purposes in the short run and for necessary restructuring for sustainable growth in
the medium to long run. The SAP combined exchange rate and trade policy reforms
aimed at revitalizing the non-oil economy with stabilization policies designed to restore
equilibrium in the balance of payments and rationalize prices. The application of the
reforms was not only incomplete, but haphazard as stop-go fiscal policies undermined the
SAP's stabilization objectives and generated uncertainty regarding policy sustainability.
The large scale reduction in unproductive public investment envisaged did not take place,
and spending levels for the social sectors were not protected. The initial success in
undertaking adjustment reforms in 1986 and the abandonment of the reform efforts in
1992 led to years of slow and stagnating growth, rising inflation and increased poverty.



2
These developments left the economy extremely weak and highly vulnerable to the
precipitous decline in oil prices in later years.
4.   The privatization and commercialization programs begun in 1988 were partially
successful, but the major public enterprises remained under government control and
ownership. Indeed, more was invested in these enterprises while the privatization process
was ongoing than was being divested under the program. The privatization program ran
out of steam after .1993 and was temporarily halted by 1995. With the gradual loss of
macroeconomic control after 1990, many of the positive changes that had taken place in
the preceding years impacted negatively on the economy. Between 1991 and 1995, real
GDP per capita fell by 4 percent and private consumption per capita by 12 percent.
Overall economic growth slowed down reflecting the general worsening of
macroeconomic policies, affecting every sector except agriculture. By 1993-1994, the
pressure on Nigeria's external balances was exacerbated by the downturn in world oil
prices. Nigeria's non-oil exports also lost competitiveness in the Francophone countries
of West Africa following the devaluation of the CFA.
5.   The worsening economic conditions in 1994 led to significant policy corrections in
the 1995 budget of "guided deregulation." The FGN introduced a tight fiscal and
monetary stance; a free market for foreign exchange for all except some government
transactions; and new legislation aimed at liberalizing the environment for foreign direct
and portfolio investors. The FGN's strategy of guided deregulation to address the
pressing domestic and external imbalances led to initial success in the stabilization of the
economy and to the achievement of single-digit inflation. As inflation slowed down in
1996, the market exchange rate attained stability. The dual exchange rate system
introduced in early 1994 was removed in January 1999. Significant changes were also
made in the credit market as caps on interest rates were removed, and the practices of
setting sectoral targets for the allocation of credit abandoned. These steps helped to
restore positive real interest rates for savers and enhance the flow of resources to
productive sectors in the economy. Also, modest progress was achieved on improving
transparency, and accountability as the FGN introduced stricter cash-flow controls, direct
payment to the federal government of all oil receipts, and eliminated the dedicated
accounts.
6.   Key areas of concern during the identification of EMTAP included the lack of
fiscal stability, ineffective public sector management, poor and unreliable statistical
information and neglect in the adequate delivery of social services. Others included
progress in operations supportive of reforms in financial management and as revenue
collection, expenditure controls, budget processes and better review and monitoring of
capital expenditures. Apart from these, the management and implementation of monetary
policy included open market operations, closure or restructuring of problem banks and
privatization and commercialization of public enterprises.
7.   The Bank's Role in the Country. The Project under review was the first IDA-
funded technical assistance project aimed at improving economic management and
capacity building. There were earlier projects that provided technical assistance in these
areas. The Technical Assistance Project (TAP) (LN 2480-UNI), approved in 1984 for an
amount of US$13.5 million, was designed to help improve the Borrower's policy



3
analysis capacity for decision-making by improving the quality of its economic statistics,
and the planning and budgeting mechanisms; establish facilities for training planners; and
create effective capacity for monitoring external debt. A technical assistance component
amounting to US$2.0 million was embedded into the 1987 Trade Policy and Export
Development Loan (TEPD- LN2758) of US$452.0 million. Other forms of specialized
technical assistance that the Borrower financed from the Bank included a Gas Technical
Assistance (LN. 2390-UNI) of US$13.1 million, and an Industry Technical Assistance
Loan (LN.2618-UNI) of US$5.0 million, to strengthen the Borrower's capacity to
analyze questions of industrial policy. EMCAP was (as a follow-up to the TAP) to
support capacity building for the implementation of the FGN's reform program under the
SAL. EMTAP used three critical instruments in attaining its goals: training, studies and
computerization. At the Project's design stage, the participation of other donors was
envisaged, particularly that of the UNDP. However, this participation did not materialize
in light of the deteriorating political environment.
PART II: PROJECT OBJECTIVES
A. ORIGINAL PROJECT OBJECTIVES
8,  EMTAP aimed at providing support to the key agencies involved in the
implementing the SAP as well as to assist in creating a sound environment for effective
and efficient management of the economy. It particularly focused on improving the
ability of the FGN to carry out its public finance functions, especially that of better
revenue collection and control. In addition, it was to provide support to the FGN's
efforts at initiating reforms in the financial sector as well as in the public enterprises.
Specific measures under the fiscal management component included: (a) assistance for
departments within the Federal Ministry of Finance (FMF) to improve the budgetary
process, collection of revenues and expenditure controls, national accounting operations,
and tax policies; and (b) training in financial management and information systems at the
state and local government level. The privatization and commercialization component
would help implement public enterprise reforms through assistance to agencies involved
in the commercialization and privatization of parastatals. The institutional support and
studies component was to provide funding to agencies to develop their reform programs
within the SAP, particularly specifically in the areas of public expenditure control,
financial sector management, civil service reform, poverty alleviation, and gender issues.
B. RE-EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
9.   The project start-up was unsatisfactory because of poor design. EMTAP's
objectives were too large and unfocused; the capacity building components were too
broadly defined without clear linkages to specific outputs. Subsequently, an intensive
dialogue was begun between the Bank and the authorities which led to better
understanding of the Project's focus. Based on this shared vision, the Project was
restructured and key performance indicators were introduced at end-1997 and a close
relationship between the Borrower and the Bank was maintained. Resources were
reallocated away from those PEAs that were not performing to perforning ones.



4
C. REVISED PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND COMPONENTS
10. The Project was to: (a) support the Borrower's program of actions, objectives and
policies designed to achieve structural reforms; (b) assist the Borrower and its agencies to
improve its financial management functions and strengthen their revenue collection and
expenditure control mechanisms; (c) strengthen its privatization and commercialization
efforts; and (d) effectively oversee the operations of its public sector enterprises. In
addition, the Project was to assist and strengthen the agencies involved in carrying out the
program.
11. The Project consisted of the following parts:
Fiscal Management:
(i) Federal Ministry of Finance: (a) provide assistance to the various departments in
revenue collection and expenditure control, national accounting operations and tax
policies; (b) undertake a study by the Office of Budget to review the Borrower's present
tariff structure and options; (c) train key staff in modem budgeting, resources and
financial management and debt monitoring techniques, and the law officers in legal
aspects of financial and debt management; (d) employ project support staff and auditors
to assist in the carrying out of the Project and in the auditing of the project accounts of
the PEAs; (e) install a computerized revenue collection system at the Federal Inland
Revenue Services and train the personnel in the operation of the system; (t) expand the
mini-computer system in the OAGF, for revenue collection, expenditure accounting and
payroll controls; and (g) carry out a needs assessment for the entire FMF and to a limited
degree provide computer hardware and software.
(ii) National Revenue Mobilization Commission: (a) train top level management staff
in public policy and finance, fiscal policy and management services as well as data
processing and application techniques; (b) provide computer equipment for forecasting
and analyzing trends in revenue collection and establish linkages to the information in the
FMF; and (c) carry out policy studies in the design of tax systems and revenue collection
techniques; and
(iii) National Planning Commission: (a) carry out a study for the computerization of
the budgeting and monitoring system of the capital expenditure budget; (b) carry out
other project related studies including studies of econometric modeling, new approaches
to economic policy and development planning, and an assessment of current practices of
project appraisal; (c) train staff in the operation of the computerized budgeting and
monitoring system; and (d) use the Administrative Staff College of Nigeria (ASCON) in
training state and local government personnel in fiscal management.
Privatization and Commercialization:
(i) assist the Ministry of Finance Incorporated (MOFI) in the management of the
portfolio of the public enterprises including the provision of office equipment, vehicles
and supplies needed to modernize the operations;



5
(ii) develop a work program, methodologies and procedures at the Utilities Charges
Commission (UCC), provide it with computer hardware and software, and assist the UCC
to carry out a study of electricity tariff; and
(iii) assist public enterprises in carrying out their commercialization programs including
restructuring and strengthening of their technical, financial, operational and human
resource development programs.
Institutional Support:
To reform and strengthen the Borrower's agencies participating in the program, the
program was to focus on areas of public expenditure control, market-based methods of
monetary control, financial management, civil service reform, poverty alleviation and
gender issues.
D. CREDIT COVENANTS AND SPECIAL AGREEMENTS
12. During the early stages of the Project, credit covenants were not met due to undue
delays, and there was a lag of four months in declaring the effectiveness of the Credit.
These covenants included: (i) the appointment of a project officer to serve as liaison
between the PEAs and the Association with respect to project procurement and
accounting procedures; (ii) the appointment of a computer/procurement specialist to
assist the PEAs in the carrying out of procurement under the Project in accordance with
project guidelines and procedures; and preparing tender documents and contracts; (iii) the
appointment of a project accountant; and (iv) a senior systems analyst was also appointed
and assisted the PEAs in the establishment of information systems under the
computerization components.
13.  The Borrower adhered to the financial covenants specified in the DCA pertaining to
the maintenance of records and accounts adequately to reflect its accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project.
There were some observed lapses on the part of the project accountant, especially with
regards to effective record keeping and updates. There were lags in the record updates
and these led to delayed processing of withdrawal applications, and piling of claims to be
settled. There were also some flaws with the collection of bank statements on the Special
Accounts and non-maintenance of cash book and ledgers. Delays were also found with
the regular audits of the Project. The performance of the audit firm and competence also
had shortcomings. Audit reports were found to be professionally inadequate and had to
be returned for improvement. This caused further delays in the actual audit delivery
period in line with the established covenant in the Project. These issues were addressed
midstream with the termination of the contract of the first audit firm and the appointment
of another -one, which improved on the situation.
E. RISKS
14. The risks envisaged were high. Sources of these risks included the political will to
carry on the structural reforms as agreed to during the negotiation of the Project; and
misunderstandings of senior government officials about the Project's objectives as well
as utilization of technical assistance resources. Another source of risk was the unstable



6
political climate impacting on the performance of the Project. It was also evident that
stakeholders and public sector agencies may not have been fully responsive to the
program nor had the minimum capacity to implement all of the Project's components.
Another risk was the high turnover of key personnel, especially in the Project Unit, which
could harm and substantially delay the implementation process. The Project in its design
attempted to reduce these risks by providing for decentralized management.
F. EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
15.  The Project was declared unsatisfactory at its early stages because the FGN reneged
on its commitment to undertake additional reforms under the SAP in 1994. During
project appraisal, very little work was done in identifying training needs as the Project
simply required the PEAs to provide annual training plans. In the absence of a well
defined training needs assessment in the context of the staffing resources and work plans
of the various PEAs, the annual training plans were generally unsatisfactory. The mid-
term review in 1995 reviewed progress on the Project, discussed problems encountered,
and identified possible solutions. Prior to end-1997, the Project had not established clear
development outcomes nor agreed monitorable development indicators. Following the
end-1997 review, agreement was reached on expected project development outcomes and
indicators, and resources reallocated away from non-performing PEAs to performing
ones. The Project, though it faltered at its early stages due to changes in the political
leadership of the country at end-1993, realized most of the objectives and overall the
achievement of the project objectives is rated as "satisfactory." While significant efforts
were made to strengthen the capacity of the agency of government responsible for public
enterprise reform, only one of the objectives, privatization and commercialization, was
not achieved. However, because of EMTAP's capacity building efforts, that agency is
now capable of effectively carrying-out the privatization program that the current
government is now undertaking.
PART Im: IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
A. ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT SUCCESS
16.  The Project's accomplishments in the context of the restructured Project included:
(i) the computerization of the Federal Office of Statistics, the preparation of
comprehensive poverty and welfare analysis and publication of the Poverty Profile in
Nigeria which contributed to the current Government's formulation of plans for poverty
alleviation; (ii) the speeding-up of the release of price statistics which allowed the
Government to take timely corrective measures to tighten its fiscal stance and control
inflation; (iii) strengthening of banking supervision which forestalled serious banking
distress; (iv) the strengthening of revenues through computerization of revenue collection
and preparation of tariff reform studies being implemented for the 2000 budget; (v)
analyzing and publishing a four year backlog of external trade data; and (vi)
strengthening of government auditing capacity. While noting that some of the goals such
as privatization and commercialization were not met by the Project, the overall
performance of the Project was satisfactory. The Project had a beneficial impact on the
FGN's fiscal management, particularly in improving the budgetary process, providing a
wider coverage and collection of revenue, and improving the delivery of statistical



7
information by the national statistical authority. In addition, it enhanced the policy
capabilities of the FGN on more comprehensive and timely analysis of policy issues,
especially in the area of fiscal policy, revenue mobilization, expenditure control, and
tariff regime processes. It provided, through the studies on poverty alleviation and
gender-related issues, an information base to assist in addressing social issues in policy
formulation.
B. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
17. Project sustainability was strong. The Project was to convert the FGN's manual
systems of fiscal and financial management to computerized ones. Once done, the
likelihood that the new systems would revert to manual operations would be remote.
This has been largely the case as all the PEAs that came under the Project went beyond
the scope of resources from the Project to finance massive computerization of their
offices. These PEAs also employed the services of local computer firms to train higher
and middle level staff in the use of computer techniques for analysis. Some of them
sourced own funds to train staff in the use of equipment procured under the Project;
others used the umbrella of the Project to conduct studies in other information areas.
Adequate funding for the maintenance of equipment procured under the Project had been
provided by the PEAs. To a large extent, participating PEAs have articulated training
programs with training institutions such as the Nigeria Centre of Economic Management
and Administration (NCEMA) and ASCON for training in budget and planning, project
economic analysis, computer techniques as well as in financial management. The PEAs
showed commitment to the objectives of the Project by assigning the responsibility for
their component to senior-level officers who became fully knowledgeable of the Bank
operations and of the Bank Guidelines. Throughout the Project, a major effort was made
at maintaining a participatory approach that would go beyond the implementation of the
Project. - At institutional levels, there are now mechanisms for internal feedback and
opportunities for process innovation and motivation back-and-forth between the lower
level officers and the management. Budgetary provisions were also made to enable items
procured under the Project to be maintained and enhanced.
C. SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
18. The total cost of the Project was estimated at US$20.0 million equivalent at
appraisal, with a foreign exchange component of US$18.20 million. The Borrower's
local counterpart contribution amounted to US$4.85 million. Actual project cost was
US$25.82 million, of which US$20.77 million was in foreign exchange.
D. SUMMARY OF FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS
19. The Credit amount was SDR 14.7 million (US$20.0 million equivalent). However,
an additional US$1.0 million was expected from co-financing institutions, while US$6.0
million was to come in form of domestic contribution. The co-financing from other
donors never materialized. The final disbursement took place on May 11, 1999.



8
E. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
20. Project preparation took three months. The identification and appraisal mission
took place in February 1992, with Board presentation and approval in November 1992.
The signing of the DCA took place in December 1992, while the project became effective
on March 5, 1993. The Project received a two-year extension and was closed on March
31, 1999. A mid-term review was held in March 1995 and, following an extension,
another comprehensive review was held in 1997. Credit disbursements were based on
withdrawal applications that conformed to Bank standards.
F. KEY FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
21. Project Design. EMTAP was a poorly designed project with no clearly defined
focus at appraisal. It covered a wide range of discrete activities under training, studies
and computerization, which in themselves were useful but did not provide a central
development focus. Most of the activities were open-ended. There were 15 PEAs when
the Project took off, however, the number of participating PEAs expanded to 27 prior to
the closing of the Project.
22.  FGN Programs. The Project was primarily spurred by the introduction of the SAP
in 1986. At the inception of SAP, Nigeria undertook challenging and important reforms.
Following a change in leadership in late 1993, the FGN repudiated all of the key SAP
policies, determined the exchange rate by fiat, and pegged interest rates at far below
market-clearing levels. These, coupled with macroeconomic instability, undermined the
gains of the SAP. Apart from these, there was also the movement of key staff involved in
the management of the Project and changes in the administrative process, all impacting
on the overall implementation of the Project.
23. Unstable Leadership: Project implementation was effected by a Cabinet change.
This change, three years into the life of the Project, resulted in a hold on project
execution. This caused some 9-months delay in implementation, especially on some of
the procurement processes initiated earlier. At the 1996 CPPR, at which time the Project
had only 6 months left before the closing date, the FGN and the Bank reviewed the merits
of the Project and agreed to resume operations with a redefined objective. Many of the
processes that had been stalled due to government indecision had to be revisited. To gain
the lost time; the closing date for the Project was extended from March 31, 1997 to
March 31, 1999.
24. Implementing Agency ControL The Project, at the design stage, assigned the
implementation to PRS, which lacked experience on Bank projects. This caused a four
months' delay in effectiveness. In the first two years of the Project, very marginal
progress was recorded due to delays in the processing of documents by project staff
located in PRS. Claims for procurement, consultancy and training awaited processing for
no less than 6 months. Project implementation gained momentum when the Cabinet
transferred the implementing role away from the PRS to MULT.
25. Implementation Delays.  Apart from the delays that arose from  the non-
performance of the agency responsible for the Project, i.e., the FMF, there were also



9
delays by some of the PEAs in preparing their annual work programs and procurement
documents. Project management at the coordinating level was constrained by the failure
to.resolve the issue of PRS' authority to influence the content of programs for the PEAs.
At the time of Credit negotiations, it was agreed that the MULT would manage the
Project. However, following project effectiveness, and in accordance to the FGN's
decree governing the roles of various department in the civil service, PRS had the
rnandate to manage technical assistance type projects. Unfortunately, the FGN did not
formally inform the Bank of this change nor of the appointment of replacement officers
of the project implementation team. This impasse resulted in confusion regarding which
officers are responsible for implementing the Project. There were also delays by the
project accountant in the preparation of relevant withdrawal replenishment documents,
leading to inadequate funding in the Project Special Account to meet local payments and
subsistence for staff on training. The procurement process of the FGN requiring that
certain procurement pass through the Tenders' Board also caused some delays, especially
when the Board failed to meet for long periods. Further delays were caused by the entry
process, some of it at the instruction of the supervising Minister that a agency of
government should be admitted into the Project with or without relevance to its major
objectives.
26. Au4dit Delays. In the first two years of implementation of the Project, there were
delays in the submission of the project audit by the Borrower. These delays were, among
other things, due to the non-reconciliation of accounts held in the Special Account of a
commercial bank because of local industrial action, as well as the incomplete
documentation of activities for which disbursements had been made by the project
accountant. Another cause of delay was the limited knowledge of the auditing firm on
the audit requirements on Bank/IDA projects. These developments accounted for the
delays in the acceptance of the audits deemed acceptable by the Bank. These problems
were solved by repeating the tasks, causing a 3-5 months delay in the final audit reaching
the Bank. The Borrower terminated the contract with the auditing firm and obtained the
Bank's no objection to contract another auditing firm.
27. Replenishment of Account.  The Project experienced problems with the
replenishment of the Special Account as and when due. This caused delays in sending
out PEAs staff to training courses. In some cases, there were backlogs in the payment of
fees to training institutions.



10
G. ASSESSMENT OF THE BANK'S AND BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
28. At the preparation and appraisal stage, the Bank's overall performance was unrated,
but should have been judged low. This was because there were design flaws that made
project implementation problematic.  The failure of the Project to appropriate
responsibility and authority to a specific department at an early stage led to the absence
of ownership.  The performance of the Borrower during the early stages of
implementation was judged unsatisfactory. At the first mid-term review in 1995, the
non-performing management team was overhauled. The Project Unit was then relocated
to the MULT and by mid-stream  a significant turn-around was made.  Project
implementation responsibilities, as they affected procurement, definition of terms of
reference and development of annual work programs required by the Project were well
defined and efficiently handled. The degree of disagreement between the Borrower or
any of its agencies and the Bank was minimal during the life of the Project. The
performance of the Borrower improved in the later stages of the project period as the
interaction of the Borrower and the Bank became more intensive. Overall, project
supervision by the Bank was infrequent and there was inadequate attention given to the
composition of supervision teams which failed to include training and financial
management specialists in the critical early stages of the Project.
H. PRODUCTS OF THE PROJECT
29. Various studies on fiscal management, software development and workshops were
undertaken by the Borrower under the Project using both local and foreign consultants.
The findings and recommendations of these studies have in many cases been
implemented by the relevant agencies. The studies have been grouped into the following:
Fiscal Management: (i) tariff study to analyze the impact of the tariff structure on
imports, exports and the economy in general; (ii) study of systems of taxation and
software development with implications on revenue collection and an optimal tax system;
(iii) study of electricity and other utility tariffs; (iv) development of computer-based
project and applications software; (v) macroeconomic modeling and applications
software; (vi) development of a medium-term economic strategy for Nigeria; (vii) Public
Enterprise Performance Information System (PEPIS).
Other Studies: (i) Study of the Impact of World Bank-Assisted Projects in Nigeria,
1958-96; (ii) Study of Poverty Issues in Nigeria which finally produced a report "Poverty
Profile for Nigeria, 1980-1996"; (iii) Two studies by the NRMAFC - "Study on the
Evaluation of the Revenue Powers aild Responsibilities of the Three Tiers of Government
in Nigeria" and "Study on Revenue Generation Through User Charges"; (iv) Six studies
by NCC - (a) Telecommunication Regulation in Nigeria; (b) Computerization (Network)
of NCC Operation; (c) Fixed Satellite Service 9VSAT) Network Operation in Nigeria; (d)
Interconnectivity Requirement and Specifications; (e) Measurement of Consumer
Perception of Telecommunication Services in Nigeria; and (f) License Fee Determination
and Tariff Structure; (v) NDIC study on Liquidation and development of "Financial
Institutions Management System" software; (vi) ."Study of the Auditing Standards in
Nigeria for the Office of the Auditor General of the Federation"; Development of a
Customized Database for the Office of the Auditor General of the Federation with a



11
User's Manual;" (vii) Needs Assessment Studies for State and Local Government
Financial Personnel; and
Workshops: (i) National Workshop on Solid Mineral Prospects in Nigeria; (ii) National
Workshop on Prospects for Development in Nigeria; (iii) National Workshop on the
Privatization of the Power Sector in Nigeria; and (iv) Training workshops for analysts of
poverty data.
PART IV. SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS, AND KEY
LESSONS
A. FiNDINGS
30. During project implementation, Nigeria faced many difficulties, especially with the
withdrawal of donor assistance, deteriorating political climate and significant
inconsistencies in macroeconomic policies. Despite these impediments, the Project
helped strengthen economic management. The Project succeeded due to the initiative
displayed by the Project Unit in MULT in coordinating, facilitating, monitoring and
evaluating the performance of the other PEAs articulating problem issues early on and
providing timely solutions; and in evaluating and building capacity in the PEAs. The
PEAs were given the full responsibility for developing task proposals, drafting terms of
reference and carrying out most procurement activities. EMTAP contributed to the
development of a cadre of trained Nigerian officials on the Bank's procurement practices.
Encouraging the PEAs to shape their programs directly has proven to be important to
developing stakeholder interest in technical assistance efforts.
31. There were other key findings arising from the implementation of EMTAP
including: (a) the development of a medium- to long-term strategic approach to
capacity building and technical assistance is needed to address underlying systemic
constraints and necessary institutional changes to improved fiscal, economic and public
sector management; (b) strong discipline in the implementation process is required to
ensure progress towards long-term  objectives and a periodic reassessment of all
significant project elements. The focus should be on a strong planning and preparation
process, forward preparation of work programs and terms of reference, and the setting out
of monitorable targets; (c) the nature of disbursement requires that reporting on project
finances be up-to-date to ensure that the implementation process is on track. This means
that the internal audit of the project accounts should be frequent, as this will help certify
the effective and efficient utilization of resources; and; (d) a training advisor is needed to
help focus on necessary training courses and identify appropriate local institutions that
can provide vital training.
B. FUTURE OPERATIONS
32. There are many lessons from this Project. While the FGN has achieved initial
success in stabilizing the economy, economic activity is still undermined by weak
capacity for managing the economy. Budget priorities are misplaced and public utilities
are still deficient.  Given the improved political developments and democratic
environment, it becomes critical to pursue improved economic governance. This should



12
form the bedrock for appropriate economic policies, lay the groundwork for key
structural reforms, and the strengthening of capacities and institutions. Future technical
assistance operations to strengthen economic governance should aim at ensuring greater
transparency and accountability in fiscal operations; build on the achievements in the area
of data for economic and social analysis, further strengthen the systems and institutions
designed to improve the efficiency of resource use; and enhance capacity to implement,
coordinate and monitor macroeconomic and structural policies.
C. KEY LESSONS
33. Many successful technical assistance projects focus on only one or two
weaknesses. EMTAP followed a broad strategy to address the lack of qualified staff in
critical areas of economic and policy analysis, as well as financial and management
information systems in the public sector, that posed as weaknesses and systemic
problems in planning, budgeting and monitoring. The experience provided by EMTAP
shows that, in future technical assistance projects, procurement clinics need to be
organized ahead of effectiveness for participating agencies. A project launch workshop,
to which all stakeholders and staff of the participating agencies should attend, is also
necessary. Provision should be made for an annual review process. The Project
facilitated the dialogue on poverty will all stakeholders and mainstreamed poverty issues.
Other lessons from EMTAP highlight the need to include: (a) staff requirements and
internal controls; (b) accounting systems and procedures; (c) financial reporting
mechanism and programs; (d) financial management action plan; and (e) audit and
accounting arrangements, at the appraisal stage of the Project. It is also of critical
importance to have in place an enabling institutional environment of borrower
commitment.. This would entail consensus among Ministers and heads of agencies to
ensure successful project implementation. The emergence of a strong Project Unit is
critical in addition to active and intensive Bank supervision. Lessons learned during
project implementation point to the need for: (i) more intensive project supervision in the
early stages of the Project and continuity of the project team; and (ii) inclusion of
specialists in critical areas such as financial analysis and staff training on supervision
missions.



Statistical Tables
Table 1:  Summary ofAssessments
Table 2:   RelatedBankLoans/Credits
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:  KeyIndicatorsfor ProjectImplementationFollowing the End-1997
Restructuring
Table 6:  Key Implementation Indicators in SAR/President 's Report
Table 7A: Studies/Framework Documents Included in/lUndertaken by the Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B  Project Financing
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
Table 12: Status of Legal Covenants






TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of objectives     Substantial    Partial     Negligible    Not applicable
Macro policies                                 X
Sector policies                                             X
Financial objectives             X
Institutional development                      X
Physical objectives                                         X
Poverty reduction                X
Gender issues     .              X
Other social objectives                        X
Environmental objectives                                                    X
Public sector management                       X
Private sector development                                  X
Other (specify)
B. Project sustainability           Likely           Unlikely             Uncertain
X
C. Bank performance               IHfihly          Satisfactory           Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification                                                            X
Preparation assistance                                                    X
Appraisal                                                                 X
Supervision                                                               X
Highly
D. Borrower performance           Satisfactory      Satisfactory          Deficient
Preparation                                                               X
Implementation                                      X
Covenant compliance                                 X
Operation (if applicable)
E. Assessment of outcome            Higbly          Satisfactory           Highly
Satisfacto                           Unsatisfacto
X



TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITSl
Loan/credit title              Purpose                    Approval       Status
Preceding
qp era tion s    .._ __._ __.__...._ _ __....._          __ _..._  .  _ _......_
I.Loan 2480 -  (a) To strengthen revenue and expenditure
echnical     control functions, the debt management
ssistance    systems associated with the adjustment       1984         Closed
roject        rogram, and the statistical services.
The project objective was to support the
Govemment's efforts to reform trade and
.Trade Policy  export policies. This quick disbursing loan
nd Export     ad a $2 million technical assistance
evelopment  component to, among others, find (a) a sub-
oan - (TPED) sector study of the Nigerian steel industry; (b)  1986    Closed
oan 2758-    needs assessment and feasibility report on the
oNI: US$452  computerization of the management
US$452  lnformation system of the Nigerian Deposit
nsurance Corporation; and (c) training of staff
f the Central Bank of Nigeria, and Export
Promotion Council.
.Trade and
nvestment
olicy Loan    TIPL supported the consolidation of the
TIPL); Loan.   xchange rate and trade policy initiatives that  1988     Closed
001-UNI):      ere pursued under TPED.
US$500
million.



TABLE 3: PRoJECT TIMETABLE
Date actual!
Steps in project cycle                               Date planned2   latest estimate
dentification (Executive Project Summan)                 2/92
Preparation                                               2/92      __ 
ppraisal                                                 2/92
Negotiations                                              4/92
Letter of development policy (if applicable)   j...        ___,.. 
Board presentation                                        6/92            11/92
Si_nmg _ ,                                                8/92            12/92
Efectiveness                                            12/93            2/94
Midterm review (if applicable)                            6/95         3/95;12/97
Second (and third) tranche-release (if aplicable)
Project cormletion                                        3/97            3/99
Loanclosing                                            7/97             5/99
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMuLATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ Millions)
Fiscal Year                 93   FY94    FY95   FY96   FY97  FY98  FY99    FY
Appraisal estimate         0.5      3.5     9.5   16.5   20.0
Actual                      0.5     2.0     4.2   9.43   14.22  20.05  20.77
Actual as % of estimate     .      57.1    44.2   57.2   71.1
-~~~~~~~J -                     05-11a99
Date of final disbursement                                             05/11/9
... e                       - ,        ,a              -          -;"..,''' ''i : i'____  . 



TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECr LMPLEMENTATION FOLLOWING THE END- 1997 RESTRUCTURING
S/N  OBJECTIVE                                     INDICATORS                         ACCOMPLISHMENTS
1 Improve Quality and Timeliness of Statistics   Redesign of CPI input data forms;  *  Production of CPI within 3 - 5 weeks as against
Completion of training of staff of    8-12 weeks;
Statistics Office at Bank headquarters   .  Regular production of poverty Indicators;
on links between agriculture and  *  Timely production of trade statistics
poverty indicators
2 Improve tax and Revenue Collection             Completion of training;            *  Production of master list of taxpayer
Development of tax software, and  *  Reduction in time to go from tax return to tax
supply of equipment                   assessment from 3 days to hours;
e  Link of assessment-payments collection for all
taxpayers nationally;
Reduction in revenue losses from fraud and
underassessment
3 Train higher level public servants in economics and  Completion of book of readings on  Training of approximately 1000 senior government
management                                         poverty alleviation (text for course); officials and trainees form the pTivate sector;
procurement of additional training  New  courses developed to expand curriculum;
equipment                         policy research
4  Inprove quality and timeliness of audits of public  Comrnission of customized software    Software developed; staff trained on application of
accounts to improve transparency                   for the Auditor-General's Office to  software; in-house capacity developed to handle
improve on loss reports, payroll;  basic hardware diagnosis and maintenance
statistical digest
5  Assist State and Local Governments to mobilize  Studies commissioned for these   Studies completed and workshop held to make
revenues and allocate funds effectively             aspects of governance             recommendations



6 Improve budgeting                              Tariff study commissioned          Maintenance  of  improvement  in  budgeting;
demonstration of high tariff ERP dispersion useful
in promotion of tariff reform. Studies completed and
recommendations applied to tariff policy in budget
7 Promote foreign and domestic investment in mining    Database on mineral deposits and  Studies completed and information on solid mineral
associated development costs      deposits in the country published. "Inventory of
Solid Mineral Potentials in Nigeria"
8 hIprove supervision of financial institutions;  Completion of Rural Finance Study;    Published "Prospects for Development" case Study
promotion of economic reforms                       completion of Long Term Perspectives  for reform based on high growth, poverty reduction
Study                             scenario; Rural Finance Study supports policies to
promote integration of rural finance into national
system.
9 Inproved Financial Management by State and Local Training of LGA/State finance    Sustain performance by LGA officials for sound
Government Officials                                officials including LGA chairmen  financial management at LGA levels
10 Improve the quality of economic legislation through  Completion of training/equipment  Legal staff remain current on economic issues to
familiarization of lawyers in FMF with debt restructuring  installed                  facilitate drafting/review
and international legal agreements
11  Facilitate relations between FMF and multilateral Complete studies on Impact of World  MULT staff provide data and analysis to support
institutions; monitor economic reforn efforts; track global Bank Projects in Nigeria/Training  case for economic reform; Better understanding of
economic trends; administer Bank-assisted projects                                    strengths and weaknesses of World Bank projects;
Better design of future Bank projects
12 Train lower level staff of LGAs               Needs assessment carried out and Enhanced capacity of institution to train public
appropriate curriculum designed   officials; improved performance of public officials
trained; satisfactory assessment of training by
trainees; development of a Documentation Center.
13 Develop capacity to deal with distress in financial Hardware installed; software  Distressed banks can be closed expeditiously and
sector                                              developed and commissioned        with less trauma.



TABLE 6: KEY IMPLEMENTATION INDICATORS IN SAR/PREsIDENT's REPORT
No indicators were included in the SAR



TABLE 7: STUDIES/FRAMEWORK DOCUMENTS INCLUDED IN/UNDERTAKEN BY THE PROJECT
Status        pact of Study
I Designi of a modified VAT      ompleted    [mprovement in VAT collection procedure and distribution of VAT ofrices
and preparation of it installation
2.Tariff Study (Budget Office)  Completed    Provided Budget Office with analytic procedure and techniques for handling taff measures i
3Developent of Twaxtion          Complted      provement in revenue generation and collection due to better monitoring of corporate tax payers
Software (FIRS                              nationwide.
Computerization of Goverment's
Fiscal AccountsI (O F                       _
5.Expanding the Computer
Training Center of OAGF                                                                                              ............
Study of Debt Restructuring    Stalled for No
Options ( )                    Action Plan
Study on Revenue Generation
Through User Charges
(National Revenue Coimission)                            of the fiscal functions of the Revenue Mobilisation Commission on fiscal matters
7b: Study on the Evaluation                      policy guide to the Govenment
of Revenue Powers and         Completvm
Responsibilities on the Tree     Completed
of  G overn ment                  _ _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _  _
.Computer Needs Assessment
(National Planning Conmission)    Completed    Improvement of capacity building
.Study - Current Practices in Project out due to
ppraisa- (NPC)                  esource
j~~~~~~~adel!
1O.Study- Macro-economic Modeling Completed    Model for macro-economic analysis developed and applied to budget and national economic
(N W)                                        _................
I1 .Study- Income Levels and     Part of
economic activities (NPC)     3es
12ASCON Documentation Center



13. Utihties Tariff Suy (C l                 Studies Of User=Cags on Ele                   ie
14. Training Program for Local Govt. Completed   Improved fiancial management capacity at the local govenment level
Officials in Fiscal Management   Compete    Impove__anc _lmangemntcapciy a te lcalgoernen leel
Provided Government an assessment of the World Bank projects already implemented in the
1 5.hmpact of World Bank-Assisted    Completed   country and the weaknesses associated with these, especially reasons for implementation delay
Projects on the Nigerian Economy             df cner
16.Public ~ ~ ~ ~ .........         andrrie  hanerformancedreouce
16.Public Entemrises Performance    Completed   mproved capacity for momtoring performance of public enterprises under reform
Informatio Syses_____________________________________
.                      ..Study- Poverty in NigeriaCompleted   mproved understanding of the degree of poverty in Nigerian and identfication of measures fo
1 7.Study Poverty   Nigea       Completed    andlin  over
18.fStudy- Medium-Tern Economic   Completed    Report not followed up by Government due to shift in econonic policy and agenda
.Studey f Nigeria PfMf)   fo_
9.Study - Niger: Prospects     Completed    Major report published and applied to Nigeria's development prospects
0.Study - Nigeria's Solid Mine   Completed    Provided information on the status of non-oil (solid mineral) development in Nigeria
ub-sector
Workshops
1. Privatization of the Power Sector Co ted    Public appraised of the need for major reforms in the power sector in order to address the
n Nigeria                       Completd    robles of epileptic power supply
* National Workshop on Poverty   Completed    Significant impact on the economic and policy formulation
igepea ___________  __________________________*                    _m___________________________________________........



TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
Presentation of appraisal estimates follows the format shown in the SAR or President's
Report (for adjustment loans), and actual results are given for each item to facilitate
compa son.
,.raisal estimate _5$g             cta/aet siae5
Item          Local   Foreign    Total    Local      Foreign    Total
________________ Costs    Costs              costs      costs
l.GoodsQg_pment),  3.96        5.86      9.82      1.02       6.77      7.99
2.Consultant/Studies    2.18    8.00     10.18     2.63       7.52      10.15
3.Technical Asst.     0.41      1.19     1.60      0.00      0.07.      0.07
4. Training, Etc.     1.40      1.58     2.98      1.20       6.41      7.61
5. Unallocated        0.85      1.57     2.42     N/A.       N/A.       N/A.
TOTAL              8.80     1820    27.00     485        20.77      25.82
TABLE SB: PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal estimate (US$M)       Actual/latest estimate(US$M)
Source            Local costs Foreign costs  Total   Local  Foreign costs    Total
costs
3RDA/IDA             2.60       17.40      20.00    N/A.       20.77       20.77
o-financing         0.20       0.80       1.00     N/A.       N/A.        N/A.
nstitutions
Other external                                 N/A        N/A.        N/A.
sources            __   __
ontribution          6.00        0.00      6.00     4. 85      N/A.         4.85
TOTAL             8.80       18.20      27.00    4.85       20.77       25.82



TABLE 9: EcONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFffS
This table is not applicable to the Project.
TABLE 10: BANK REsouRcEs: STAFF INPUTS
Planned           Revised               Actual
Saeof project_cycle    Weeks   US$    Weeks        US$      Weeks       US$
Preparation to appraisal  40.0          40.0                 35.0
pprAiDal             25.0     =        25.0        =        20.0
Negotiations  througb   5 0             5.0                  5.0
oard approval-                                                      __ __
Supervision      -    720               72.0        7 2.0 _    84.0 
ompletion            15.0              15.0                 20.0
TOTAL              15700               157..0._ 164.0



TABLE 11: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Stage of   Month/ Number        Specialized   Performance
S.tage                of    Days    staff skills         ti2          Types of problemsll
project cycle   year  persons mfield r_presenta_t0   1S        DO
ies ns fed representedlo   is       DO       _________
Through       02/92       6       50   Ab,c,d,e,f
ppri                     -                              -.-
Appraisal
through Board 12/92       1       2           A
aDDroval-...............
Absence  of  authority  i
Supervision 1  10/93      5       20   A, b, c, d, h     3       3      U/delays in preparation o
roject document
Supervision 2  9/94       5       14   Ac, d, ' h        3       2
clays in audit and submissio
Supervision 3  3/95       6       10   A, d, f, g, i, j    2     2           risk  of  incomplet
...........- -        ---------c-........          ..............txecution   of  project.
-allocation of resources an
Supervision 4  12/97      4       20   A, d, k           2       2     greement  on  monitorabi
.....                      _ . ..                                       . .... . .dicators.
Superision 5   698       4       14      d, g ,k        S       S
Supervision 6 10/98       2       7    Ad                S       S
ompletion    /99        2        S          D          2        S
Note: Bank supervision and completion missions were joined by staff of the FMF.
(a) = Operations Officer (TTL)          (i) Senior Information Specialist
(b) = Procurement Specialist            (j) Senior Economist
C = Operations Assistant                (k) Cluster Leader
(S) = Satisfactory
(IS) = Implementation Status
(DO) = Development Objectives
(d) = Economist
(e) = IDA staff
(f)  Consultant
(g) = Computer Specialist
(h) Financial Analyst
1. Includes projects in the same sector/subsector as this project and adjustment operations
with related objectives. A limit of 10 years is observed when listing preceding operations.
2. As provided, for example, in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR).
3. OD 10.70, Project Monitoring and Evaluation, requires that plans for monitoring and
evaluation be included in all Bank-funded projects. OD 13.05, Project Supervision,
requires that quantitative measures of project performance in critical areas be included as
an annex to project supervision reports. Key performance indicators in various sectors are



currently being developed as part of follow-up actions to the Board paper Effective
Implementation: Key to Development Impact (R92195), November 3, 1992. Guidelines
on the use of these indicators are forthcoming.
4. OD 10.70, Project Monitoring and Evaluation, requires that plans for monitoring and
evaluation be included in all Bank-funded projects. OD 13.05, Project Supervision,
requires that quantitative measures of project performance in critical areas be included as
an annex to project supervision reports. Key performance indicators in various sectors are
currently being developed as part of follow-up actions to the Board paper Effective
Implementation: Key to DevelopmentImpact (R92-195), November 3, 1992. Guidelines
on the use of these indicators are forthcoming.
5. For single currency loans, the exchange rate between the currency and the U.S. dollar
is provided.
6. This table is based on Annex D5 of OD 13.05, Project Supervision.
7. If the covenant is complied with only partially or not at all, the reason is provided.
8. Also includes Bank-financed and trust fund consultants.
9. Key to status as shown in Supervision Form 590 (in revision).
10. Key to specialized staff skills.
11. Key to problems as shown in Supervision Form 590 (in revision).



TABLE 12: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
SECTION NO.           DESCRIPTION OF THE COVENANT                 COVENANT  STATUS    ORIGINAL                       REVISED                      COMMENTS
OF CREDIT                                                          TYPE *!                     FUFILMENT         FULFILLMENT
AGREEMENT                                                                                          DATE                DATE           -
ARTICLE II:                        THE CREDrr
lhe Borrower shalt open and naintain a special
2.02(b)            deposit account in a commeracil bank on terms and     I             C            9/22/93               NA            Special Account of S500,000 last
conditions satisfactory tot he Association Deposits                                                                 replenished in December 1994
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be in accordance with the provisions of Schedube 4
ofthe DCA.
2.030              The Closing Date shall be March 31,1997.              5            NYD             N.A             Closing date      Project now closed after full disbursemeni
extended to March
_____________________________________   ___________31,1999
2.04(a)            The Borrower shall pay to the Association a           I             C              NA                  N.A
comnmitnent charge from time to time at a rate to be
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year,
but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
2.05               The Borrower shall pay to the Association aservice    I              C             N/A                 N.A
charge at the rate ofthree.fourths of one percent
(3/4 of I %) per annum on the principal amount of
the Credit withdawn and ounding from time to
time.
2.06               Conmitment charges and service charges shall be       I              C             N.A                 N.A
payable semiannually on March I and September I
each  year                                                                                                          __ ___________________________
2.07(a)            Subject to paragraphs 2.07(b) and 2.07(c), the        I            NYD           3/1/2003              N.A
Botrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Credit in semiannual instllments payable on eacb
March I and Septenber I comnencing March 1,
2003, and ending Septenber 1, 2027.
ARTICLE III:              EXECUTION OF THE PROJECT                            _         C             NA                  NA
3.0 I(a)           The Borrower declares its commmnent tot he
objectives ofthe Projed as set foeth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and,to this end, shall carry out the
Project through the PEAs with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with approptiate
administrative, fincial and economic policies and
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources                                .    _



requited by the Project.
3.01(b)            The Borrower shall provide in its budget amounts      4                                                              It is not clear howto monitor compliance
adequate to meet the Borrower's counterpart                                                                         in view of the current budgetary system
contributions to the costa of the Project, said                                                                     and the large number of independent
contributions being presestly estimated by the                                                                      agencies involved
Borrower and the Association to amount over the
Project period to S6_000,000 equivalent.
3.010              The Borrower shall appoint and assign to FMF the
following staff with functions and qualifications
satisfadory to the Asaociation:
(i) a Project Officer to serve as the liaison between  5            C                                  .            Projed Officer, Procurement Specialist
the PEAs and the Association with respect to                                                                    and Projed Accountant apointed by
Project procurement and accounting                                                                              FMF/PRS. the Procurement Officer has
procedures;                                                                                                     not been useful to the projet because he
cannot service the large number of PEAs
(ii) a Procurement Specialist who shall througih      5            CP          Sept. 1993                           and still undertake his nomal civil service
procurernent seminars (if necessary), assist the                                                                duties.
PEAs in: (A) the carrying out of procurement
under the Project in accordance with Project
guidelines and procedures, and (B) preparing
tender documents and contracts;
(iii) a Project Accountant who shall assist the       5             C         January 1993
Project Officer in (A) obtaining Project
accounts from the PEAs, (B) arranging for the
carrying out of Project audits, and (C) the
administration of proceeds of the Credit to be
used for the employment, as necessary, of
qualified auditors to assist the PEAs in the
preparation of their accounts; and
(iv) a Senior Systems Analyst who shall assist the    5             C         January 1993                          g Senior Systens Analyst employed for
PEAs in the establishment of information                                                                        1993-1995 supported by short4erm
systems under the computerization components                                                                    External Computer consultant External
of the Project                                                                                                  Computer consultant contract extended
___________________________________________________________________________ .___.___.___.___.   until March 1997.



SECrION NO.          DESCRIPTION OF THE COVENANT                COVENANT   STATUS "i    ORIGINAL                 REVISED                      COMMENTS
OF CREDIT                                                        TYPE /                     FUFILMENT        FULFILLMENT
AGREEMENT                                                                                       DATE               DATE
ARTICLE ILI:
3.01(d)
EXECUTION OF THE PROJECT
3            C
The Borrower shall nake available to the PEAs, as
grants, the proceeds ofthe Credit allocated to the
PEAs in Schedule I to tWs Agreement
3.01(e)            TheBorrower shall until completion ofthe Project,   9            CD          December            January        Annual Reviews will take place in
canry ouijointly with the Association an annual                                                                 December of each year to correspond to
review ofthe Project in October of each year with a                                                             the Government's fiscal year. 1994
view to assemsing:                                                                                               Annual Review meding was delayed till
January 1995 because of preoccupation
with 1995 Budget.
(i)  progress made by the PEAs in carrying out      9            CP          December            January        The following PEAs have submitted
their comnponerns duringthe year preceding the                                                              Annual Repoits by January 30, 1995:
review including progress in (A) carrying out                                                               FMAFIPRS, FIRS, UCC, NPC.
(I) the training conlponents against the targets
set out in the training plans satisfactoryto the
Association, and (2) the studies included in the
Project, and (B) implementing the results and
recommendations arising out of such studies;
(ii) the work program and budgetary                                                                          During the mid-term review (March 1995)
allocations proposed for each of the PEAs for                                                                it was agreed that a proposal from the
the year inmmediately following:                 5            C           December            January        govermnent on the mode of reallocation
and selection of new beneficiaries would
be submitted to the World Bank by end-
(iii) what changes, if any, need to be made in the                                                            July 1995.
scope and                                      3             CP         March 1995        End-July 1995
Comptiance was delayed a few months.
(iv) the reallocation of proceeds ofthe Credit
taking into account progress made by the PEAs  3             CP         March 1995        End-July 1995     Compliance was delayed a few months.
in carrying out the ProjecL



SECrION NO.            DESCRIPTION OF THE COVENANT                  COVENANT  STATUSw1  ORIGINAL                         REVISED                       COMMENTS
OFCREDIT                                                              TYPE /                     FUFILLMENT   FULFILLMENT
AGREEMENT                                                                                              DATE                DATE
ARTICLE IV:
4.01(a)                      FINANCIAL COVENANTS                           9              C
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect
in accordance with sound accounting prctices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of
the Project ofthe deprtments or agencies ofthe
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof                                                                           ._
4.02(b)             The Borrower shall:
(i)  have the records and accounts refering to in      9              CD         June 30, 1995                           Audit Reports covering the period 1993-
paragrph (a) ofthis Section including those                                                                         1998 were preparcud though with some
for the Special Account for each fiscal year                                                                        delays.
audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as           9             CD          June 30, 1995
available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy ofthe report of such audit by
said suditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
SOON
(iii)  furnish to the Association such other
infonnation concerning said records,              9                        June 30, 1995
accounts and the audi thereof as the
Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.



SECTION NO.           DESCRIPTION OF THE COVENANT                 COVENANT  STATUSh   ORIGINAL                       REVISED                      COMMENTS
OF CREDIT                                                          TYPE I/                    FUFILMENT          FULFILLMENT
AGREEMENT                                                                                          DATE                DATE
SCHEDULES:
1.(a)                 ACTIONS REFERRED TO IN SECTION
3.01(F) OF THE DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
AGREEMENT                             5             C         Annually (each
December)
Each PEA shall fumish the Association with a work
program satisfactory to the Association setting out
specific target dates for carrying out is components
________ __    ofthe project.
I .(d)             Each PEA shall designate, And firnish to the
Association and FMF the names ofthe officials of
the PEA responsible for carrying out the PEAs
components ofthe Project including the names of
(i) the officer with overall responsibility for the
carrying out ofthe said components (PEA Officer);     5             C
and
(ii) the officials with the technical expertise
required for the PEAs components of the Project       5             C
including of consultants.                                 -                                                   ____-___.
l.(e)              Each PEA Officer shall ensure in each year ofthe      3                                                              Tbis covenant is difficult to monitor; refer
Project that sufficient budgetary provision is made                                                                 to 3.01(b)
to cover in Mtl the estimated costs of the PEAs
componetgs of the Project for the next fisca vea
2.                 Each PEA Officer shall prepare:
(i)  terms of reference satisfactory to the           9             C
Association for the consultants to be employed
under the PEAs components ofthe Project; and
(ii)  a short list of such consultants showing their  9            .
skills and quaifications.         -                            __           _ .                                     __.
4.                 Before undertaking training in subsequent years the   9             CD
Project, each PEA shall first furnish to the
Association a statement, satisfactory to the
Association, showing in such detail made by the
I PEA in earTying outtrining underthe Projed inthe                                                  .-



year inedisty pieceding; ad the PEA $hall-nOt
undertake the baining in subsequently yea if the
Associtioe's opinionuntisfactory progress as
been made in canying out training in the preceding
1:    Accounts/audit
3:    Fow and utilization of project funds
4:    Countapart funding
5:    Management aspects of the project or executing agency
9:    Monitoring, review, and reporfing
aStatuws:"
C = Covenant complied with
CD - Complied with after delay
SOON = Compliance expected in reasonably short time
CP = Complied with partially
NYD = Not yet due
Tnpe:8/
1:    Accounts/audit
3:    Flow and utilization of project funds
4:    Countepwt funding
5:    Management aspects of the project or executing agency
9:    Monitonng, review, and reporting
Status:"'
C = Covenant complied with
CD - Complied with after delay
SOON = Compliance expected in reasonably short time
CP = Complied with partially
NYD = Not yet due
I:    Accounts/audit
3:    Flow and utilization of project funds
4:    Counterpart funding



5: Management aspects of the project or executing agency
9:   Monitoring, review, and reporting
Status:W
C = Covenant complied with
CD - Complied with after delay
SOON = Compliance expected in remasonably short time
CP = Complied with partially
NYD - Not yet due
1:   Accounts/audit
3:   Flow and utilization of projet funds
4:   Counterpart funding
5:   Management aspects of the project or executing agency
9:   Monitoring, review, and reportng
Status:.
C = Covenant complied with
CD = CompLied with after delay
SOON = Compliance expected in reasonably short time
CP = Complied with patially
NYD - Not yet due



