Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2431 UNI
                   Development Credit Agreement
        (Economic Management Technical Assistance Project)
                              between
                    FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated December 14, 1992
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2431 UNI
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
ff
      AGREEMENT, dated December 14, 1992, between the FEDERAL
REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association);
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Project will be carried out by the Borrower through
the Project Executing Agencies (the PEAs);
      (C)   the Borrower intends to obtain from the United Nations
Development Program (UNDP) a grant (the UNDP Grant) in an amount
equivalent to about $1,000,000 to assist in financing the Project on
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be entered
into between the UNDP and the Borrower; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
      (a)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (b)   "Project Executing Agencies" means FMF, OAGF, FBIR, NPC,
NRMC, MOFI and UCC and such other agencies as the Borrower and the
Association shall specify;
      (c)   "FMF" means the Federal Ministry of Finance;
      (d)   "OAGF" means the Office of the Accountant General of the
Federation;
      (e)   "FBIR" means the Federal Board of Inland Revenue;
      (f)   "NPC" means the National Planning Commission;
      (g)   "NRMC" means the National Revenue Mobilization
Commission;
      (h)   "MOFI" means the Ministry of Finance Incorporated; and
      (i)   "UCC" means the Utilities Charges Commission.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fourteen million seven hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 14,700,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain a special deposit account in a commercial bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1997 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
Page  3
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each March 1 and September 1
commencing March 1, 2003, and ending September 1, 2027. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on September 1,
2012 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due con-
sideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
      Section 2.09. Each of the PEAs is hereby designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section
Page  4
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through the
PEAs with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and economic policies and
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall provide in its budget amounts
adequate to meet the Borrower's counterpart contributions to the
costs of the Project, said contributions being presently estimated
by the Borrower and the Association to amount over the Project
period to $6,000,000 equivalent.
      (c)   The Borrower shall appoint and assign to FMF the
following staff with functions and qualifications satisfactory to
the Association:
            (i)   a Project Officer to serve as the liaison between
                  the PEAs and the Association with respect to
                  Project procurement and accounting procedures;
           (ii)   a Procurement Specialist who shall, through
                  procurement seminars (if necessary), assist the
                  PEAs in: (A) the carrying out of procurement
                  under the Project in accordance with Project
                  guidelines and procedures; and (B) preparing
                  tender documents and contracts;
          (iii)   a Project Accountant who shall assist the Project
                  Officer in (A) obtaining Project accounts from
                  the PEAs, (B) arranging for the carrying out of
                  Project audits, and (C) the administration of
                  proceeds of the Credit to be used for the
                  employment, as necessary, of qualified auditors
                  to assist the PEAs in the preparation of their
                  accounts; and
           (iv)   a Senior Systems Analyst who shall assist the
                  PEAs in the establishment of information systems
                  under the computerization components of the
                  Project.
      (d)   The Borrower shall make available to the PEAs, as
grants, the proceeds of the Credit allocated to the PEAs in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      (e)   The Borrower shall, until completion of the Project,
carry out jointly with the Association an annual review of the
Project in October of each year with a view to assessing:
            (i)   progress made by the PEAs in carrying out their
                  components of the Project during the year
                  immediately preceding the review including
                  progress made in (A) carrying out (1) the
                  training components of the Project against the
                  targets set out in training plans satisfactory to
                  the Association, and (2) the studies included in
                  the Project; and (B) implementing the results and
                  recommendations arising out of such studies;
           (ii)   the work program and budgetary allocations
                  proposed for each of the PEAs for the year
                  immediately following;
          (iii)   what changes, if any, need to be made in the
Page  5
                  scope and contents of the Project; and
           (iv)   the reallocation of proceeds of the Credit taking
                  into account progress made by the PEAs in
                  carrying out the Project.
      (f)   The Borrower shall cause each PEA to carry out the
actions described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement to the
satisfaction of the Association.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than six months after
                  the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                  the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                  Association has received the audit for the fiscal
                  year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
Page  6
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. (a) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that subject to paragraph (b) of this Section:
            (i)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                  proceeds of any loan, credit or grant made to the
                  Borrower for the financing of the Project
                  (including the UNDP Grant) shall have been
                  suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
                  part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement
                  providing therefor, or
           (ii)   any such loan shall have become due and payable
                  prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
      (b)   Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur subject to the proviso of paragraph (b)
thereof.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the appointment of the Project Officer, the Procurement
Specialist, the Project Accountant and the Senior Systems Analyst in
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01 (c) of this
Agreement; and
      (b)   the preparation by FMF, and distribution to the PEAs, of
a circular satisfactory to the Association setting out the opera-
tional procedures for the carrying out of the components of the
Project.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
Page  7
            The Honourable Minister
            Federal Ministry of Finance
            P.M.B. 12591
            Ikoyi, Lagos
            Nigeria
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  FEDMINFIN                 21248 (ITT)
                  Lagos
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT)
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
                  By /s/ Zubari M. Kazame
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Equipment                                  100% of foreign
     and vehicles:                              expenditures
                                                and 85% of local
                                                expenditures
     (a) FMF:
         (i) Part C              660,000
             of the
             Project
Page  8
        (ii) Other             1,230,000
             Parts
             of the
             Project
     (b) FBIR                  1,240,000
     (c) OAGF                    730,000
     (d) NRMC                    290,000
     (e) MOFI                    220,000
     (f) UCC                      80,000
     (g) NPC                     250,000
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(2)  Consultants'
     services:
     (a) Studies                                100%
         under Parts
         A, B and C
         of the Project
         (i) FMF:
            (A) Parts A        1,580,000
                and B of
                the Project
            (B) Part C         2,120,000
                of the
                Project
        (ii) NRMC                290,000
       (iii) UCC                 520,000
        (iv) MOFI              1,100,000
         (v) NPC                 590,000
     (b) Other                                  100%
         items:
         (i) FMF                 290,000
        (ii) FBIR                660,000
       (iii) OAGF                220,000
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(3)  Training:                                  100%
     (a) FMF:
        (i) Part C               410,000
            of the
            Project
       (ii) Other                500,000
Page  9
            Parts
            the
            Project
     (b) NRMC                    120,000
     (c) NPC                     120,000
     (d) OAGF                     50,000
     (e) UCC                     120,000
(4)  Unallocated               1,310,000
                              __________
     TOTAL                    14,700,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $1,000,000, may be made in respect of
Categories (1), (2) and (3) on account of payments made before that
date but after May 1, 1992; and
      (b)   expenditures made by a PEA unless: (i) the PEA has
furnished to the Association the work program required under
paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and (ii) the
Association is satisfied on the basis of the results of the annual
review required under Section 3.01 (e) of this Agreement that the
PEA is carrying out its components of the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and
financial practices.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (i) support the
Borrower's program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
achieve structural reforms in the Borrower's economy (the Program);
(ii) assist the Borrower and its agencies to (A) improve its public
finance functions; (B) strengthen its revenue collections and
expenditure control; (C) strengthen its privatization and com-
mercialization efforts; and (D) effectively oversee the operations
of its public sector enterprises (PSEs); and (ii) assist and
strengthen the agencies of the Borrower involved in carrying out the
Program.
      The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Fiscal Management
(1)   Federal Ministry of Finance (FMF)
      (a)   Assistance to Departments of FMF in revenue collection
and expenditure controls, national accounting operations and tax
Page  10
policies.
      (b)   A study by FMF's Office of the Budget to review the
Borrower's present tariff structure and options.
      (c)   Training of: (i) key staff of FMF in modern budget,
resources and financial management as well as debt monitoring
techniques; and (ii) law officers in FMF's Legal Unit in legal
aspects of financial and debt management.
      (d)   Employment of Project support staff and auditors
satisfactory to the Association to assist in the carrying out of the
Project and in the auditing of the Project accounts of the PEAs.
      (e)   Federal Board of Inland Revenue (FBIR)
      Installation of a computerized revenue collection system for
FBIR, and training of personnel of FBIR in the operation of the said
system.
      (f)   Office of the Accountant General of the Federation
            (OAGF)
      Expansion of the mini-computer system for revenue collection,
expenditure accounting and payroll controls of OAGF.
      (g)   FMF's Planning, Research and Statistics Department
      Installation of computer equipment for the Abuja Computer
Center of FMF's Department of Research, Planning and Statistics; and
expansion, and specialized training for staff, of the Abuja Computer
Training Center.
      (h)   FMF's Multilateral Institutions Department
      Training of the staff of FMF's Multilateral Institutions
Department in computer use and software programs; and provision of
office equipment to the said Department.
      (i)   FMF's External Finance Department
      Training of personnel of FMF's External Finance Department in
debt management techniques; and a study by the said Department of
debt repayment options, and provision to the Department of equipment
for facilitating its debt management program.
      (j)   FMF's Legal Unit
      Training of the staff of FMF's Legal Unit in computer use and
software programs and provision of office equipment and a vehicle to
the said Unit.
(2)   National Revenue Mobilization Commission (NRMC)
      (a)   Training of top level management staff of the NRMC in
public policy and finance, fiscal policy and management service and
data processing applications and techniques.
      (b)   Provision of: (i) computer equipment for forecasting and
analyzing trends in revenue collection and establishing linkages to
the information systems of FMF; and (ii) transport equipment to link
NRMC's zonal offices to its central headquarters;
      (c)   Assisting NRMC to carry out policy studies in the design
of tax systems and revenue collection techniques.
(3)   National Planning Commission (NPC)
      (a)   Assisting NPC to carry out: (i) a study of the com-
puterization of NPC's budgeting and monitoring system for the
management of the capital expenditure budget; and (ii) other Project
related studies including studies of econometric modelling, new
Page  11
approaches to economic policy and development planning and an
assessment of current practices of project appraisal.
      (b) Training of NPC's staff in the operation of NPC's
computerised budgeting and monitoring system.
(4)   Administrative Staff College of Nigeria (ASCON)
      Training by ASCON of State and local government personnel in
fiscal management including the design of an appropriate training
program and, as necessary, the training of trainers abroad in
specialized areas of expertise; and support to ASCON's Documentation
Center.
Part B:     Privatization and Commercialization
(1)   Ministry of Finance Incorporated (MOFI)
      Assisting MOFI in the management of the portfolio of the PSEs
including the provision to MOFI of office equipment, vehicles and
supplies needed to modernize the operations of PSEs and of
consultants' services;
(2)   Utilities Charges Commission (UCC)
      Development of UCC's work program, methodologies and pro-
cedures including: (i) the provision to UCC of computer hardware and
software; and (ii) the carrying out by UCC of an electricity tariff
study.
(3)   PSEs
      Assisting PSEs to carry out their commercialization programs
including the restructuring and strengthening of their technical,
financial, operational and human resource development programs.
Part C:     Institutional Support
      Institutional support to, and reform and strengthening of,
the Borrower's agencies participating in the Program including
assistance to such agencies to develop programs in the areas of
public expenditure control, market-based methods of monetary
control, financial management, civil service reform, poverty
alleviation and gender issues.
                 *      *    *      *
      The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1996.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    Items to be procured shall be bulked, where possible, to
permit the optimum use of competitive bidding.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Nigeria may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
Page  12
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
      Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per
contract (up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,300,000
equivalent) may be procured by local or international shopping under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association; provided that in the case of international shopping the
three suppliers shall be from at least two countries eligible under
the Guidelines.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of a Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to paragraph 2 (d) of the said Appendix shall
be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of a Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to paragraph 3 of said
Appendix shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
3.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
       SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Page  13
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                 Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                 for deposits into the Special Account at such
                 intervals as the Association shall specify.
           (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                 Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                 documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                 paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                 payments in respect of which replenishment is
                 requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                 Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                 withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                 the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                 shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                 by said documents and other evidence to have been
                 paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                 expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Page  14
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account, as the case may be, for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this
Agreement, including the General Conditions applicable thereto.
                            SCHEDULE 5
              Actions referred to in Section 3.01 (f)
                         of this Agreement
1.    (a)   Each PEA shall: (i) furnish the Association with a work
program satisfactory to the Association setting out specific target
dates for carrying out its components of the Project; and (ii)
promptly carry out said components with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative and financial
practices.
      (b)   Each PEA shall copy to the Project Officer in FMF all
relevant correspondence (including correspondence with the
Association) relating to the Project.
      (c)   Each PEA shall comply with all the provisions of the
Development Credit Agreement applicable to the PEA (including those
relating to procurement of goods and services under the Project and
the operation of the Special Account).
      (d)   Each PEA shall designate, and furnish to the Association
and FMF the names of the officials of the PEA responsible for
carrying out the PEA's components of the Project including the names
of: (i) the officer with overall responsibility for the carrying out
of the said components (the PEA Officer); and (ii) the officials
with the technical expertise required for the PEA's components of
the Project including the supervision of consultants.
      (e)   Each PEA Officer shall ensure in each year of the
Project that sufficient budgetary provision is made to cover in full
Page  15
the estimated costs of the PEA's components of the Project for the
next fiscal year.
2.    Each PEA Officer shall prepare: (i) terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association for the consultants to be employed
under the PEA's components of the Project; and (ii) a short list of
such consultants showing their skills and qualifications.
3.    (a)   Each PEA shall be responsible for making all important
decisions relating to its components of the Project. The role of
technical staff of FMF with respect to the PEAs shall be limited to
supporting the PEAs in carrying out their respective components of
the Project.
      (b)   Each PEA shall prepare and furnish to the Project
Officer in FMF and the Association quarterly reports satisfactory to
the Association on the progress of their components of the Project
in order to ensure that: (i) funds made available to the PEAs for
purposes of the Project are promptly used by the PEAs in accordance
with the schedules set out in their respective work programs; and
(ii) the benefits of the Project are properly and adequately
secured.
4.    Before undertaking training in subsequent years under the
Project, each PEA shall first furnish to the Association a
statement, satisfactory to the Association, showing in such detail
as the Association shall reasonably require, the extent of progress
made by the PEA in carrying out training under the Project in the
year immediately preceding; and the PEA shall not undertake the
training in subsequent years if in the Association's opinion
unsatisfactory progress has been made in carrying out training in
the preceding year.
