Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 18004
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
FIRST WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND SANITATION
SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 3242-PH)
June 15, 1998
Rural Development and Natural Resources Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Peso per US$)
Year                                                      Exchange Rate
1990 (Appraisal fear)                                               P 22.50
1997 (Completio l Year)                                             P 40.12 (12/29/97)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I liter (I)                               =           1.1 quarts (qt) or 0.26 gallons (gal
1 liter per capita per day (Ipcd)         =           0.2642 gal per capita per day
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB           Asian Development Bank
BWSA          Barangay Waterworks and Sanitation Association
COA           Commission on Audit
DBM           Department of Budget and Management
DECS          Department of Education, Culture and Sports
DEO           District Engineering Office
DILG          Department of Interior and Local Government
DOH           Department of Health
L)PWH         Department of Public Works and Highways
EACPF         East Asia Country Philippines Field Office
EAP           East Asia and Pacific
EASRD         East Asia Sector Rural Development
FW4SP         First Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Sector Project
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
JICA          Japan International Cooperation Agency
LCB           Local Competitive Bidding
LGU           Local Government Unit
LWUA          Local Water Utilities Administration
NEDA          National Economic and Development Authority
NGA           National Government Agencies
NGO           Non-governmental Organizations
OECF          Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
O&M           Operation and Maiptenance
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
UNDP/WB       United Nations Development Program/World Bank
Managers and Staff Responsible
Vice Presldent               Mr. Jean-Michel Severino
Director                     Mr. Vinay K. Bhargava
Sector Manager               Geoffrey B. Fox
Task Manager                 Mr. Wael Zakout



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Objectives ....................................................                                          i
Implementation Experience and Results ..........................................                 ...........     i
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned .......................... ii
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.  Project Objectives .....................................................1
B.  Achievement of Objectives .....................................................2
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Project .....................................................5
D.  Project Sustainability .....................................................7
E.  Bank Performance ....................................................7
F.  Borrower Performance .....................................................8
G.  Assessment of Outcome .....................................................9
H.  Future Operation .....................................................9
I.   Key Lessons Learned ....................................................                                  10
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessment .13
Table 2: Related Bank Loans .14
Table 3: Project Timetable .15
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .15
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation .16
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation .23
Table 7:  Studies Included in the Project .26
Table 8A: Project Costs.                              ............................................ 27
Table 8B:   Project Financing ............................................                                    28
Table 9:        Economic Costs and Benefits ................                     ............................ 28
Table 10:   Status of Legal Covenants ............................................ 30
Table 11:   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ............................ ..... 32
Table 12:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ............................................                         32
Table 13:   Bank Resources: Missions ............................................                             33
APPENDICES
A: Mission's Aide-Memoire
B: Borrower Contribution to the ICR
C: Consultant Contribution to the ICR
D: Map of the Philippines
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



PHILIPPINES
FIRST WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 3242-PH)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the First Water Supply, Sewerage
and Sanitation Sector Project (FW4SP) in the Philippines, for which the Loan 3242-PH in an amount
equivalent to US$85 million was approved on July 9, 1990 and made effective on January 15, 1991.
A restructuring of the loan resulting in a decrease in the amount of the loan to the equivalent of
US$58 million was requested by the Government of the Philippines on June 17, 1993 and agreed by
the Bank on November 12, 1993. Another US$10.07 million was canceled in FY96 bringing the final
amount of the loan to US$47.93 million. The loan was closed on December 31, 1997, twenty four
months after the original closing date of December 31, 1995. Final disbursement took place on May
18, 1998 at which time a balance of US$3.23 million was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Mary Judd of the Social Development Unit in the East Asia and the
Pacific Region with the help of Steven Matsler, Water Supply Consultant. Contributions came from
Cecilia Vales of the Resident Mission in the Philippines, Nancy Barrett of the Rural Development
and Natural Resources Sector in EAP, and Loreta Rufo, Financial Analyst Consultant. It was
reviewed by Vinay Bhargava (Country Director, EACPF), Geoffrey Fox (Manager, EASRD), Jeffrey
Gutman (EASTR), Wael Zakout (EASRD) and Erdogan Pancaroglu (former Task Manager). The
Government and Project Consultant provided their reports and comments that are included as
appendices to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision and completion
missions from September 29-October 6 and October 6-22, 1997 respectively. The report is based on
material in the project file which includes the Staff Appraisal Report (No. 8143-PH) dated May 31,
1990; the Loan Agreement dated July 9, 1990; Bank supervision reports; and project implementation
progress reports. It is also based on discussions with implementing and relevant agencies, donor
organizations, non-governmental organizations and participating private sector companies as well as
field visits to project sites and a series of consultative meetings in regions, provinces, municipalities
and barangays.
A major part of the report is based on information gathered in a participatory manner and the
findings and recommendations are as much contribution from the Bank as from the major
stakeholders including the beneficiaries and local government units. The Bank thanks the
Government, the project implementation team of DILG, DPWH and DOH and the project consultants
for their valuable assistance in preparing this ICR.



EVALUATION SUMMARY
FIRST WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 3242-PH)
PHILIPPINES
Introduction
1.    In 1987, about 37% (21.2 million) of the Philippines' population had no access to safe water
and the 1980 census indicated that 44% of the population had no satisfactory sanitation facilities. In
1987, the Government of the Philippines prepared the Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Master
Plan of the Philippines 1988-2000 (Master Plan), which placed particular emphasis on accelerated
development of the sector in the rural areas. The First Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Sector
Project (FW4SP), the subject of this report, was designed to support the Master Plan by providing
basic water supply facilities in 37 provinces within 7 regions on the island of Luzon, and sanitation
facilities in 75 provinces within 14 regions nationwide.
Project Objectives
2     The principal objective of the FW4SP was to assist the Government to meet the basic needs
of the rural population through the provision of safe, adequate and easily accessible water supplies, as
well as proper sanitation. Secondary objectives included decentralization of Government activities,
training of manpower, and a range of social, environmental, and private sector development
objectives (e.g., poverty alleviation, women's participation, improved environmental sanitation, and
promotion of local manufacture).
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    Rural water activities under FW4SP were administered by the Department of Public Works
and Highways (DPWH), rural sanitation activities were administered by the Department of Health
(DOH), and complementary training activities in community development were administered by the
Department of Interior and Local Government (DILG). Although the Loan Agreement was signed in
July of 1990 and the project formally started in late 1991, a substantial level of physical project
activity was not achieved prior to 1992. Because of this long delay, in 1993 the project was
restructured and the loan reduced from the equivalent of $85 million to the equivalent of $58 million;
in the restructuring, the total number of project targets was reduced by roughly 40%. Later, another
US$10.07 million was cancelled bringing the final amount of the loan to US$47.93 million. The
original Loan Closing Date of December 31, 1995 was also eventually extended (to December 31,
1997), to enhance achievement of project objectives.
4.    By the extended Loan Closing Date, the project achieved most of its revised physical targets.
For water supply, 100% of the revised targets were met. For sanitation, 100% of the production
targets were met prior to the extended Loan Closing Date; 70% of the toilet bowls were installed and
the remainder to be installed under the Government's sanitation program for 1998. Related



ii
community development activities (i.e., formation of Barangay Waterworks and Sanitation
Associations, or BWSAs) were also 100% completed. Given the long initial delays in
commencement of meaningful project implementation, the performance of the three implementing
agencies is considered satisfactory.
5.    Project planning and coordination were affected by several factors. The "top down"
approach taken (i.e., utilizing preparation of Provincial Master Plans) to identifying project locations,
and slow obtainment of grant funding for this activity, appears to have limited Plan usefulness in
assisting the three involved Government agencies to develop their detailed implementation programs.
Poor coordination between the three implementing agencies also caused difficulties, especially in
early part of the project phase, in particular between the DILG and the DPWH, resulting both in
mismatches between targets for community development activities versus construction of water
supply facilities, and in the out-of-sequence occurrence of these activities.
6.    Some problems were observed with procurement of materials, quality control of facility
construction, and long-term maintenance of a substantial proportion of the project facilities. The
project's household latrine subcomponent was long-delayed in awarding contracts for the
manufacture of plastic toilet bowls, and then further delayed by quality-control problems with the
initial batches produced. Project wells, which were originally intended to be mainly constructed
under contract by professional well drillers, instead were usually constructed by small, poorly
equipped and trained "backyard well drillers", which is felt to have had a particularly adverse effect
on the quality of project deep wells. A substantial number of the BWSAs formed under the project
were not active and the affected facilities were then maintained by either the barangay council or
private individuals.
7.    Achievement of the project's secondary objectives was affected by Government attitudes
towards both decentralization and private sector development. The enactment of the Local
Government Code of the Philippines in 1992 served to substantially promote project-related
responsibilities at the Local Government level, particularly with respect to the sanitation component.
On the other hand, lack of Government willingness or ability to provide financial support for training
of private sector participants (particularly well drillers) resulted in lower quality of facilities
constructed, although private sector manufacturing capabilities (particularly with respect to deep well
handpumps) appear to have been very well promoted.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
8.    The concept of the project was sound, and the project outcome (as stated in the 1990 SAR)
was considered satisfactory, as substantial physical accomplishment of the restructured water supply
and sanitation targets was achieved. The sustainability of the full range of constructed and
functioning physical infrastructure will be achieved only if the users and their organizations
(BWSAs, Barangay Councils, Municipal Government, schools, and private sector groups) are active
in operation and maintenance. The findings and the observations of the ICR mission in its limited
sampling found that more than half of these groups were not active. The project's Capacity
Enhancement Program managed by DILG and implemented by an NGO was a relatively successful
attempt to provide the necessary support to enhance sustainability of facilities and organizations.
However, due to time constraint this program was focused on only one out of three batches of
communities. The operations phase plan for the FW4SP, presented in Part II (Table 6B), emphasizes
activities which are intended to provide support to more communities served under the project.



9.    The principal lessons learned are summarized as follows:
Principles/Design
a) Multi-agency type of projects should be avoided; where National Government Agencies are
involved, it is recommended that a single agency serve as the executing agency;
b) Projects should support decentralization where projects are planned and implemented by the
Local Government Units (LGU), National Govermment Agencies (NGA) can provide the
executing agency role, Provincial Government can assist with technical assistance, supervision
and monitoring, and the Municipality and Barangay should be the focus of implementation;
c) Cost recovery principles should be promoted and implementing agencies, i.e., LGUs, should
borrow funds for investments and be fully accountable for them;
d) Small civil works contracts, such as those under this Project, should be undertaken by LGUs;
procurement of all goods can also be handled by LGUs; certain items (e.g., deep well handpumps
and plastic toilet bowls) can be procured at the central level to achieve economies of scale and to
maintain quality;
Preparation
e) All Government agencies with both direct and peripheral responsibility to the project should be
involved from the earliest stages of project preparation;
f) At the beginning of project preparation an institutional assessment should be conducted for the
capability and experience of the LGUs. Appropriate and more intensive technical assistance
should be provided to the weaker LGUs;
g) Planning, designing and implementation of sub-projects by LGUs should be based on need and
demand and in close consultation and participation with the community;
Implementation
h) A supporting environment which will enable LGUs to succeed should be promoted, e.g., simplify
procedures, establish mechanisms which will speed implementation, allow procurement by
LGUs, develop a proper system of accounting and financial reporting;
i) The first year of project implementation should include the preparation of a comprehensive
project implementation plan with sub-project proposals from the community, prior to the start of
construction;
j) Continue to support local private sector manufacturing capability and promote private sector
participation in O&M;
k) Where appropriate and where skills are available, LGUs should work with NGOs for community
organizing as well as contractors in the small physical works; the cooperation between
intermediary and local government would require clear definition of roles and responsibilities in
all phases of the project and after;



iv
1) Utilization of pre-existing community organizations for the operation and maintenance of Level I
(point source) water supply facilities should be considered in future project designs; more formal
associations such as BWSAs should be promoted only for higher level (Levels II and III)
facilities;
Supervision
m) Full supervision missions should visit the project at frequent intervals in the initial stages of the
project, and at other critical periods, with particular emphasis on adherence to financial and
procurement policy;
n) Strong and appropriate action, such as suspension of disbursements, should be taken in light of
delayed audits; and
o) The World Bank supervision mission should include a procurement staff from the Resident
Mission to undertake field reviews of accounting procedures and physical facilities, at least
annually.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
FIRST WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 3242-PH)
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Sectoral Background
1.    By 1987, about 63% of the Philippines' population had access to safe water. The population
unserved by water supply systems, comprising approximately 21.2 million people (primarily rural ) at
the end of 1987, depended on water of often doubtful quality from wells, springs, rainwater, lakes,
streams and vendors. Likewise, the 1980 census of the Philippines indicated that only about 56% of
the population had access to satisfactory sanitation facilities. Of the 17.3 million people still
underserved or unserved countrywide, 12.6 million were in the rural areas.
2.    In 1987, the Government prepared the Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Master Plan
of the Philippines 1988-2000 (Master Plan), which placed particular emphasis on accelerated
development of the sector in the rural areas. The First Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Sector
Project (FW4SP), the subject of this report, was designed to support the Master Plan by providing
basic water supply facilities in 37 provinces within 7 regions on the island of Luzon, and sanitation
facilities in 75 provinces within 14 regions nationwide. It succeeded another Bank-financed rural
water supply and sanitation project in the Philippines which was underway at the time of preparation
of the Master Plan (Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project, Loan 2206-PH), and was
implemented concurrently with other projects which include similar components, including the Rural
Water Supply IV Project (OECF), and the UNDP/WB-PHI Project. Similar projects which have
recently started or are expected to commence soon include the Rural Environmental Sanitation
Project (JICA) and Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Project (ADB).
3.    Rural water activities under FW4SP were administered by the Department of Public Works
and Highways (DPWH), rural sanitation activities were administered by the Department of Health
(DOH), and complementary training activities in community development were administered by the
Department of the Interior and Local Government (DILG).
Project Objectives
4.    Principal Objective. The principal objective of the FW4SP was to assist the Government to
meet the basic needs of the rural population through the provision of safe, adequate and easily
accessible water supplies, as well as proper sanitation. Specifically, the project aimed at: (a)
providing Level I (point source) rural water supply facilities, including shallow and deep wells,
spring developments, rainwater collectors, rehabilitation of existing wells, and water treatment units;
and (b) providing rural sanitation facilities including household latrines, school and public toilets,



2
sullage removal units, and pilot wastewater disposal facilities. Physical project targets are presented
in Table 5A.
5.    Other Objectives. Institutionally, the FW4SP aimed to promote: (a) effective community
participation for sustainable sector development; (b) development of organizational arrangements for
improved operations and maintenance of water supply facilities; (c) decentralization of Government
activities by providing Local Government Units (LGUs) with a greater role in planning,
implementation and mofiitoring of sector activities; and (d) training manpower in the planning and
implementation of water supply and sanitation systems.
6.    The FW4SP was also intended to promote achievement of Social, Environmental, and Private
Sector Development objectives, particularly the following: (a) poverty alleviation; (b) improved
participation of women; (c) reduced pollution; (d) improved health and hygiene; (e) local
manufacture of handpumps; and (f) private sector participation in well construction, operations and
maintenance.
7.    Assessment of Objectives. The objectives were well chosen. They were consistent with the
priorities of the Master Plan, and they addressed underlying key issues with respect to institutional
strengthening for project sustainability, and broader areas of accomplishment as outlined in the
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for the Philippines.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
8.    The FW4SP substantially achieved its major objective of providing safe, adequate and easily
accessible water supply, and proper sanitation. It also made a substantial contribution to the
Philippines' rural water supply and sanitation sector program as embodied in the Master Plan.
Safe and Adequate and Easily Accessible Water Supply and Proper Sanitation
9.     Water Supply. The FW4SP originally envisaged the implementation of a total of 25,000
water supply facilities. During the early stages of the project, field investigations revealed that a
minimum of 3 to 4 wells would be required in each barangay as opposed to one well per barangay
stipulated in the Accelerated Program. Along with long delays in the implementation of the facilities,
the Government decided to restructure the project, thus reducing the number of barangays planned to
be served from the original project design (from 18,000 to 8,000). Original, restructured, and revised
targets are presented in Table 5A.
10.   Sanitation. The project restructuring also affected the targeted number of sanitation facilities,
primarily through reductions in the number of planned household latrines (from 1,000,000 to
650,000). By the loan closing date, 65% of these targets were met, with virtually all of the remainder
being completed by the end of the first quarter of 1998. Most other major project sanitation facilities
were substantially achieved prior to the extended loan closing date, including school toilets, public
toilets, sullage removal units, and well disinfections. Targets are presented in Table SA.
Institutional Aspects
11.   Participatory Objectives. Participatory objectives of the project were intended to be
accomplished through the formation of Barangay Waterworks and Sanitation Associations (BWSAs).



3
Formation targets were met, although not all of the BWSAs were sustained due to the
inappropriateness of the organization for simple Level I facilities (see paragraph 26). A substantial
percentage of project water supply facilities are reliably maintained by persons originally trained
under the project to assume a BWSA-related function, but now acting as members of a different
entity, such as a Barangay Council or Farmer's Cooperative.
12.   Decentralization of Government Activities. The project's decentralization objective was
substantially affected and speeded up by implementation of the Local Government Code, which went
into effect in 1992 and called for the devolution of specific responsibilities to LGUs, including water
supply and sanitation. Specific LGU roles with respect to water supply and sanitation programs and
projects were further defined by NEDA Board Resolution No. 4, Series of 1994. The mid-project
legislation had a substantial effect on sanitation-related activities under the project, which
subsequently devolved from the DOH to the respective LGUs at the provincial and municipal levels;
however, water supply facilities continued to be constructed under the administration of the DPWH.
13.    Training of Manpower. The project was partially successful in achieving its training
objectives, with at least 75% of targeted participants receiving training in several areas including well
site selection and well construction, design of water supply facilities, operation and maintenance of
water supply facilities, and sanitation training. Efforts were less successful in extending the training
activities to private sector participants, particularly small ("backyard") well drillers, for which the
Government was generally reluctant to extend funds. This is a particular source of concern, as
backyard well drillers performed over 60% of the well constructions under the project (Table 5D).
The Project, however, appointed an internationally experienced well driller to improve the quality of
well drilling by providing on-the-job training to DPWVH District Engineering Offices. This resulted in
significant improvements in well drilling.
Social and Environmental Aspects
14.    Gender Issues. In response to the Government's pledge to provide equal access to women
under the project, BWSA pre- and post- formation training was provided to large numbers of women
participants, which also resulted in a substantial percentages of women BWSA members (estimated at
about 40%). Many occupational roles in the Philippines, particularly in the health and sanitation
fields, are already dominated by women.
15.   Improved Health and Hygiene. Improved hygiene behavior was observed in barangays
where household latrines were constructed using plastic, water seal, pour-flush typw toilet bowls.
Educational materials were also distributed to support the sanitary and hygienic use of these facilities.
Many of these materials, although fully distributed to the Regional Departments of Education,
Culture and Sports (DECS) by DOH, were often subject to long delays in redistribution to the
intended end users (primary schools), which would have diminished somewhat the benefits of the
facilities, and in particular could have had some effect on the number of observed toilets which failed
due to improper sanitation practices.
16.    Other Issues. Although difficult to quantify such benefits, the project is considered
successful with respect to poverty alleviation and improvement of environmental conditions. It
would have indirectly assisted in poverty alleviation by generally improving health conditions, and by
reducing the amount of time spent fetching water, thereby making more time available for income-
generating activities. Similarly, the project would have accomplished its stated environmental
objectives (cleaner homes and community environments; reduced stream pollution; and more rational



4
and prudent water use) to the extent to which original project water supply and sanitation facility
targets were met.
Private Sector Development
17.   The FW4SP was highly successful in fostering the development of private sector
manufacturing capability, and considerably less so at promoting private sector construction,
operations and maintenance of water supply facilities.
18.   Manufacture. Prior to FW4SP, only the shallow well handpumps were produced in the
Philippines whereas the deep well handpumps and the plastic toilet bowls were imported. The project
promoted and assisted in local manufacturing capability of these items including external quality
control mechanisms. Specifications were developed with assistance by the UNDP/World Bank
Water Supply and Sanitation Program conforming to international standards. Quality of the locally
produced handpumps and plastic toilet bowls were tested and verified by external quality consultants.
A total of 1,900 deep well handpumps or 71% of the total project requirements and 100% of plastic
toilet bowls (650,000) were locally produced for FW4SP. All project shallow well handpumps with
improved specifications were also locally manufactured.
19.   Availability of spare parts for newly introduced, locally produced products was seen as a
possible impediment to project sustainability. The most commonly used spare parts for the deep well
handpumps (cups) are obtainable in the market, although generally of low quality. Many of the
project beneficiaries appeared not to be informed that a wide variety of high quality deep well
handpump spare parts are still available at relatively low cost from the manufacturer; this was
verified by the ICR mission.
20.   Construction. Project school toilets and public toilets were constructed by private
contractors who bid for the works in accordance with the Bank's Local Competitive Bidding (LCB)
procedures, as stipulated in the project design. The project design had also intended for private sector
involvement in well construction through LCB packaging of contracts for professional well drillers,
with a minimum of approximately 100 wells per contract. Such large contracts proved impractical,
and were therefore never implemented. The DPWH either constructed project wells using its own
District Engineering Office (DEO) well drilling personnel, or resorted to much smaller labor-only
contracts (10-20 wells apiece) for implementation by "backyard" well drillers who were furnished
well construction materials by the DPWIH. These small well drillers were often poorly equipped and
trained, and therefore unable to properly construct the wells according to project specifications.
21.   Maintenance. Private sector maintenance of handpumps was observed in some areas of the
project, where locally run shops were reported to be performing handpump repairs. However, the
intended nature of private sector involvement was not clearly defined at project appraisal, and there
was no systematic program developed under the FW4SP to foster such widespread participation.
DILG's Capacity Enhancement Program, implemented in the latter part of 1997, utilized NGOs to
foster private sector handpump repair. Additional monitoring conducted during the operations phase
of the project should serve to assess the longer term success of this activity.



5
Economic Analysis
22.   At project appraisal, the economic rate of return on the project's water supply component
was estimated at 8% (weighted average) based on a comparison of the then-estimated production cost
of water and, as a proxy for the water's value, the average unit -cost of water developed under the
Government's Accelerated Water Supply Program. At project closing, updated water production cost
figures were provided by DPWH (capital costs) and DILG (operation and maintenance costs), and the
water's value was re-estimated based on a current range of unit prices established under the
UNDP/WB-PHI Project, resulting in a recalculated weighted average economic rate of return of 5%,
or lower than at appraisal. However, a sensitivity analysis indicates that the weighted average might
reasonably be expected to vary from as low as 1% to as high as 14%. The estimated financial rate of
return has not been calculated in view of the project's perceived failure to levy charges adequate to
cover operation and maintenance costs and debt service, and its unquantifiable social benefits.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Project Planning and Administration
23.   Provincial Planning Activities. Project design considered that implementation of major
activities would be undertaken by the three Government agencies (DPWH, DOH, and DILG) in a
synchronized manner, in accordance with the Provincial Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation
Sector Plans. Effective usage of the Plans and synchronization of Plan-related activities both proved
to be problematic. Adoption of the Plans (in the first 8 provinces covered under the project) was a
condition of loan effectivity, and the Government took considerable time in locating grant funding for
plan preparation. The tight time frame under which the Plans were therefore produced appears to
have resulted in a lack of verification of data sources. Technical expertise in plan preparation was
focused on demand allocation rather than source identification, and plan accuracy did not extend
below the municipal level. The result of these factors appears to have been that, although Plans were
prepared in close consultation with DILG and with Local Government Personnel, the Plans
themselves did little to directly assist these personnel in effectively determining specific project
targets.
24.   Interagency Coordination. Poor coordination between the national implementing agencies
and the field implementors caused difficulties in the early part of the project phase. In particular,
miscoordination between the DILG (community development) component and the DPWH
(construction of water supply facilities) component resulted both in mismatches between targets for
BWSA formation versus construction of water supply facilities, and in the out-of-sequence
occurrence of project related activities (e.g. water supply facility construction proceeding ahead of
BWSA formation in many instances). Lack of synchronization of agency budget releases was often
blamed for this, with requests and releases of individual project-related budgets for each agency
being separately processed through the Department of Budget and Management (DBM).
25.   Local Government Code. With the enactment of the Local Government Code, DOH lost
direct control over implementation of many field activities at the municipal level, such as those of the
Rural Sanitary Inspectors who facilitated construction of the household latrine units. In isolated
instances, this appears to have resulted in the priorities or activities of such personnel being diverted
from their assigned duties, and in cases of misuse of equipment procured under the project. DILG's
role was expanded in respect of its mandate to strengthen local government capability, and their



6
central office was subsequently restructured. Provincial Action Officers responsible for coordination
of DILG's project-related local government strengthening role remained based at the central office,
and appear to have been hampered somewhat in their efforts to coordinate field activities due to
constrained schedules and travel budgets. Despite the observed problems with coordination and
utilization of services and equipment at the local level associated with the mid-project shift in
administrative responsibilities, the LGUs themselves generally appear to be very satisfied with the
increased level of autonomy, which has brought more efficient delivery of services and has allowed
project implementation to be more appropriately tailored to suit local conditions.
26.    User Acceptance. At the local level, sustainability of water supply and sanitation
improvements is dependent upon acceptance of responsibility; such degree of acceptance varied
widely from one BWSA to another. Data collected in the field for some areas of the project by DILG
(Table 6) would indicate that, on average, about 70% of the BWSAs formed under the project
continued to function as intended at the close of the project. The wide variation in reported results
from province to province questions the accuracy of the data; ignoring the results of the two regions
reporting the highest rates of success (e.g., two provinces report a failure rate of 0%) results in a
calculated rate of success of about 50%, which may be more realistic and is in any case still a
considerable improvement over the estimated success rate (25%) of the previous Bank-funded sector
project.
27.    Sustainability of school and public toilets was also adversely affected in many instances by
lack of a proper organization to operate and maintain the facilities, or low degree of commitment by
the responsible entity. Not surprisingly, the most successful public toilet facilities appeared to be
located in areas which were served by a private entity such as a church or a market association. Such
facilities were able to collect fees for use, which were then used to purchase water and maintenance
of the units, in some instances even resulting in substantial profits which could be used to enhance the
facilities or area served by the toilet. In many other cases, LGUs which were given toilets did not
honor contracts or pledges to provide water and otherwise maintain the toilets, and the facilities soon
fell into disuse. Degree of usage of school toilets was also highly variable, with many facilities well
maintained and used, others seldom used or unused and some facilities not functioning because of
blocked septic lines.
Financial Reporting
28.   Financial reporting by some of the implementing agencies, particularly on operations and
expenditures relative to the project, was inadequate. Some audit reports were late by more than one
year. It was reported that some project staff appeared not to know what was expected by the Bank, or
even by their own auditors. Lack of staff dedicated specifically to FW4SP financial aspects appears
to have partly caused the problem; another factor may have been the result of staff changes. The
lessons given from the previous Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project in this respect appear not
to have been taken into account.
Procurement and Quality Control
29.   Implementation of Household Latrines. The project subcomponent initially suffered several
long delays relating to procurement and quality control, and therefore did not achieve substantial
results prior to mid-1995. The initial intended procurement of 450,000 toilet bowls was conducted by
the Department of Budget and Management Procurement Service (DBM-PS) rather than by the DOH.



7
DBM-PS deferred award of contract after bids were submitted by four prospective manufacturers,
which ultimately resulted in a court case filed by one of the four bidders, and a subsequent further
delay of approximately one year. The end result was the entire procurement was rebid in two
batches. Once the procurement was rebid and finally awarded, there were further delays associated
with initial quality control problems, including problems with tolerances in the P-trap. However, the
plastic bowls produced were of high quality and conforming to standards and specifications
developed by the UNDP/ World Bank Water and Sanitation Program as part of the appropriate
sanitation technology for rural applications. Finally, in many instances the latrines themselves were
not installed according to project specifications, the most frequently reported problem being the lack
of a vent pipe (about 40%).
30.   Quality of Well Construction. The failure to get well equipped and qualified professional
drilling contractors involved in the project is believed to have adversely affected the finished quality
of many of the project wells, particularly the harder-to-construct deep wells. For most of the wells
there was also little monitoring of important topographical, geological or hydraulic/ hydrologic data.
Estimates of the failure rate of project wells range from below 10% (shallow wells, reported by
DPWH) to over 30% (deep wells, reported by DILG). The relative proportion of reported failures of
deep wells versus shallow wells (about 2:1 for both agency-specific sets of data) is probably a more
reliable indicator than the gross figures, as both sets of data are incomplete, and random checking
revealed numerous inconsistencies between the two sets. The approximate gross failure rate is fairly
consistent with the BWSA sustainability figures, if it is considered that a certain number of facilities
are maintained by entities other than BWSAs.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
31.   Achievement of sustainment of project benefits at the community level will require
maintaining functional BWSAs or practical alternatives to the BWSA structure, which will promote
regular maintenance of the facilities. The results of the rapid assessments conducted during Bank
supervision provide indications of the effectiveness of using an intermediary such as an NGO to
assist LGUs in developing viable BWSAs who would be responsible for the sustainable operation and
maintenance of water facilities provided under FW4SP.
32.   Sustainability of project benefits will also require local government to maintain facilities built
in public places (schools, markets, health laboratories). The findings and the observations of the ICR
mission in its limited sampling found that more than half of these facilities were not well maintained.
The project's Capacity Enhancement Program managed by DILG and implemented by an NGO was a
relatively successful attempt to provide the necessary support to enhance sustainability of facilities
and organizations. However, due to time constraints this program was focused on only one out of
three batches of communities Application of an effective, long-term operations phase plan (Section
H), to be conducted with the assistance of the three implementing agencies, will be required.
Periodic support by the Bank will also be required, to advise and assist with each specific action area.
In the future, Bank-financed sector projects in the Philippines may wish to incorporate aspects of
operational assistance to previous projects into the project designs.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
33.   Identiflcation and Preparation. The Bank's performance during identification and
preparation of the project was satisfactory, with substantial and adequate inputs having been provided



8
by Bank Staff during these phases. The multi-implementing-agency approach adopted, which had
been used with moderate success in the Philippines in an earlier Bank-financed project (Rural Water
Supply and Sanitation Project, Loan 2206-PH), did not turn out to be the appropriate arrangement
under FW4SP. Problems which later occurred in respect of project coordination might have been
partially averted by more closely involving Government agencies with peripheral project-related
responsibilities, in addition to the primary implementing agencies, from the earliest stages of
preparation.
34.   Appraisal. Performance during Project Appraisal was considered adequate, although the
Bank failed to foresee a number of issues which later became problematic in the implementation of
the FW4SP: (a) reluctance of the Government to commit GOP or loan funds for planning-related
activities or private sector training activities; (b) relatively low level of commitment of BWSAs to
operate and maintain Level I water supply facilities; and (c) lack of Government support for private
sector contracting of project water supply facilities. Item (b) is particularly significant in view of
similar observed failures under the earlier Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project.
35.   Supervision. Supervision performance was generally considered satisfactory. The records
indicate that the Bank was fairly prompt in responding to most project developments and to the needs
of the implementing agencies and in responding to problems relating to financial reporting and
procurement. In the last 18 months of the project, there was greater focus on field supervision which
brought the project to a more successful completion.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
36.   The three implementing agencies (DPWH, DOH, DILG) performed reasonably well,
considering the extensive staffing changes which occurred during the project, and the mid-project
change in organization and responsibilities brought about by the Local Government Code. Problems
observed due to lack of coordination and synchronization between the agencies could have been
partly averted by better planning and more effective use of the Project Coordinating Committee.
However, many such problems would almost appear to be inherent in the three-agency design of the
FW4SP. Observed deficiencies in financial reporting are somewhat harder to defend.
37.   On account of delayed submission of Audit Reports by DPWH from years 1992 up to 1994,
the Bank effective October 15, 1995 suspended disbursements for eligible expenditures under
Categories 1, 2a, 2b, 2c and 2e of Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement which are all parts of the Water
Supply component of DPWH. The disbursements for the rest of the components implemented by
DOH and DILG were not suspended. The Commission on Audit (COA) Audit Reports for years
1992 and 1993, which were finally submitted to the Bank in November,. 1995, revealed serious
discrepancies in the accounts of DPWH in connection with undelivered supplies and materials for
which payments were made by the Bank since 1992 totalling to about $2 Million. The audit reports
traced the causes of the findings largely to poor inventory and financial controls.
38.   Because of the seriousness of the audit findings, the Bank requested DPWIH to take action on
the findings and recommendations of the audit reports and required the government to refund the
payment for undelivered materials before considering the lifting of suspension and further extension
of the loan. The said amount was subsequently refunded to the Bank while extension of the closing
date was not made applicable to the affected DPWH rural water supply component which was
terminated on February 16, 1996.



9
39.   Although support for achievement of the main project objectives was good, less attention was
given to achievement of the FW4SP's institutional and private sector development objectives. In
particular, the failure to train or certify private sector well drillers, or to pursue construction of project
wells utilizing professional well drilling contractors, were seen as major shortcomings. The Local
Government Code gave strong support to the project's decentralization objective, but also served to
highlight many instances of the LGUs' inability or unwillingness to implement the project according
to its design, and of the National Agencies' failure to provide strong technical support when needed.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
40.   The project outcome is considered satisfactory, as substantial accomplishment of the
restructured water supply and sanitation physical targets was achieved. The best physical
accomplishments in gross percentages were in development and rehabilitation of water sources, with
100% completion of the restructured targets having been achieved. The least successful physical
result was in the completion of the wastewater treatment units, where only 44% (representing 44
units) of the target were able to be constructed prior to the final loan closing date, although there is
still a commitment by local government to install the remaining 56 units in certain parts of Metro
Manila, beyond the close of the project. The wastewater treatment activities is an on-going pilot
study of DOH. Progress in the household latrine subcomponent, which suffered greatly in the early
stages of the project, was excellent in the later stages of the project, with the entire manufacture and
delivery of plastic toilet bowls being completed prior to the loan closing date. Seventy percent of the
toilet bowls were installed at the end of December 1997 and the remainder will be installed under the
Government's sanitation program for 1998.
41.   The lessons learned from the foreign-funded projects, particularly FW4SP, have led to
significant policy changes and improved practices for both the Government and the Bank, such as:
a) NEDA Board Resolution No. 4, 1994 amends NEDA Board Resolution No. 5, 1989 and allows
LGUs to implement all levels of water supply projects;
b) in 1995 DBM instituted the General Allotment Release Order (GARO) and the Special Allotment
Release Order (SARO) to overcome late releases of funds;
c) Central COA undertook a study on "Transparency and Internal Controls" in 1996/1997 using
FW4SP as one of its case studies and has recommended significant changes and improvements.
Improved and systematic accounting and auditing practices have been put in place for this and
other projects; and
d) the Philippines Resident Mission has started a series of regular disbursement and procurement
seminars for staff in project management offices.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
42.   Theoretically, the BWSA concept should have provided for the long-term operations and
maintenance of the water supply and sanitation facilities constructed. Therefore, no element of
continued external support was considered in the project design. However, given the scope of the
project, the ultimate responsibility for operating and maintaining the completed water supply and
sanitation facilities must still rest with the LGUs and Barangay recipients, and ongoing technical
support from the national implementing agencies will be required to achieve this. The operations
phase plan for the FW4SP, presented as Table 6B, emphasizes activities which are intended to
strengthen local government capabilities generally, and specifically to enhance BWSA sustainment.



10
The funding to sustain the operations phase effort will have to come from other sources, e.g., ADB
newly funded water and sanitation project as well as the Government funded poverty alleviation
project where most staff at the national agencies continue to be those from FW4SP.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
43.   The concept of the project was sound, and in accordance with the sectoral goals of the
Philippine Government. Most problems which occurred in the implementation and operation of the
FW4SP could be avoided in the future through careful project design, appropriate institutional
arrangements, better tailored training activities, close Bank supervision of implementation, and
prompt action in response to deficiencies noted.
44.   The principal lessons learned are summarized as follows:
Principles/Design
a) Multi-agency type of projects should be avoided; where National Government Agencies are
involved, it is recommended that a single agency serve as the executing agency;
b) Projects should support decentralization where projects are planned and implemented by the
Local Government Units (LGU), National Government Agencies (NGA) can provide the
executing agency role, Provincial Government can assist with technical assistance, supervision
and monitoring, and the Municipality and Barangay should be the focus of implementation;
c) Cost recovery principles should be promoted and implementing agencies, i.e., LGUs, should
borrow funds for investments and be fully accountable for them;
d) Small civil works contracts, such as those under this Project, should be undertaken by LGUs;
procurement of all goods can also be handled by LGUs; certain items (e.g., deep well handpumps
and plastic toilet bowls) can be procured at the central level to achieve economies of scale and to
maintain quality;
Preparation
e) All Government agencies with both direct and peripheral responsibility to the project should be
involved from the earliest stages of project preparation;
f) At the beginning of project preparation an institutional assessment should be conducted for the
capability and experience of the LGUs. Appropriate and more intensive technical assistance
should be provided to the weaker LGUs;
g) Planning, designing and implementation of sub-projects by LGUs should be based on need and
demand and in close consultation and participation with the community;
Implementation
h) A supporting environment which will enable LGUs to succeed should be promoted, e.g., simplify
procedures, establish mechanisms which will speed implementation, allow procurement by
LGUs, develop a proper system of accounting and financial reporting;



11
i) The first year of project implementation should include the preparation of a comprehensive
project implementation plan with sub-project proposals from the community, prior to the start of
construction;
j) Continue to support local private sector manufacturing capability and promote private sector
participation in O&M;
k) Where appropriate and where skills are available, LGUs should work with NGOs for community
organizing as well as contractors in the small physical works; the cooperation between
intermediary and local government would require clear definition of roles and responsibilities in
all phases of the project and after;
1) Utilization of pre-existing community organizations for the operation and maintenance of Level I
(point source) water supply facilities should be considered in future project designs; more formal
associations such as BWSAs should be promoted only for higher level (Levels II and III)
facilities;
Supervision
m) Full supervision missions should visit the project at frequent intervals in the initial stages of the
project, and at other critical periods, with particular emphasis on adherence to financial and
procurement policy;
n) Strong and appropriate action, such as suspended disbursements, should be taken in light of
delayed audits; and
o) The World Bank supervision mission should include a procurement staff from the Resident
Mission to undertake field reviews of accounting procedures and physical facilities, at least
annually.



12
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
FIRST WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 3242-PH)
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessment
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table SA: Physical Accomplishment
Table 5B: Social Aspects
Table 5C: Local Manufacture
Table 5D: Private Sector Well Construction
Table 5E: Technical and Institutional Training
Table 5F: Private Sector Capacity Enhancement
Table 5G: Quality and Adequacy of Water Supply Facilities
Table 5H: Quality and Adequacy of Sanitation Facilities (School and Public Toilets)
Table 51: Quality and Adequacy of Sanitation Facilities (Household Latrines)*
Table 6A: BWSA Activity Level
Table 6B: Operations Phase Plan
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 9A: Economic Rate of Retum
Table 9B: Sensitivity Analysis
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions



13
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
FIRST WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 3242-PH)
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A.   Achievement of Objectives       Substantial     Partial    Negligible      Not
applicable
(Vt)           (Vt)       (Vt)            (Vt)
Macro Policies                    O               O          O        
Sector Policies                   El              /          O               O
Financial Objectives              El              V          O               Cl
Institutional Development         O                          0       
Physical Development              V/              O          O     .  
Poverty Reduction                 Vt/             O          O               O
Gender Issues                     E                          E O      
Other Social Objectives           O               O          O               V
Enviromnental Objectives          VI              O          O 
Public Sector Management                          E Ol                       O
Private Sector Development                        E O        1O
Other (specify)                   O               O                          V/
B.  Project Sustainability           Likely            Unlikely                Uncertain
(V)                (V)                     (V)
Highly     
C.  Bank Performance                satisfactory       Satisfactory           Deficient
(V)               (V)                     (V)
Identification                    O                  V/                      E
Preparation Assistance            E                  V/                      E
Appraisal                                            VI                      El
Supervision                       O                  V                       El
Highly
D.  Borrower Performance            satisfactory       Satisfactory            Deficient
(V)               (V)                    (V)
Preparation                       El                 V                       O
Implementation                    E                  V                       O
Covenant Compliance               O                  V                       O
Operation (if applicable)         O                  V                       O
Highly                                    Hhy
E.  Assessment of Outcome           Satisfactory   Satisfactory  UnsatisfactoryUnsatisfactory
(V)            (/)        (V)              (t)
Ol             V/         E                a



14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                 Purpose                 Year of      Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. Manila Sewerage        Improve sanitation in the poor and     1980     Completed
densely populated areas of Metro
Manila and develop the institutional
capacity to implement similar projects
in future.
2. Rural Water Supply      Development and mobilization of       1983     Completed
resources for the water supply and
sanitation sector, and the organization
and strengthening of the
implementation capabilities of
institutions responsible for the sector.
The project also supports the objectives
of the Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation Master Plan which focuses
on specific policies, targets and
programs for the provision of water
supply and sanitation in the rural areas.
Following operations
1. Manila Second Sewerage  Enable MWSS to radically expand its   1996     Active
septage management program and
establish the conditions needed for
medium-term low-cost improvement of
sewerage services in Metro Manila.
2. Water District          Promoting private sector participation  1998   Preparation
Development            in water districts' building capacity for
economic regulation, training, and
sewerage investments.
3. LGU Urban & Water       To support investment and institutional  1999  Preparation
Sanitation             strengthening of urban LGU water and
sanitation utilities.



15
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle            Date Planned          Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                    11/20/89 (final)
Preparation                                                  6/26 - 7/15/89
Appraisal                                  10/89             9/25 - 10/13/89
Negotiations                               2/28/90            5/10/90
Board Presentation                         4/30/90           6/28/90
Signing                                                      7/9/90
Effectiveness                                                 1/15/91
Midterm review (if applicable)             n/a               n/a
Project Completion                         6/30/95            12/31/97
Loan Closing                               12/31/95           12/31/97
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ Millions)
FY91   FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95   FY96   FY97
Appraisal Estimate                 10.70   31.00  49.60  67.50   81.80   85.00
Restructured Estimate               3.71   11.26  18.95  37.29   58.00
Revised Estimate                                                        45.29   47.93
Actual                              4.99   12.79  15.35  22.09   29.72   37.21   44.70
Actual as % of Restructured/Revised  135%    114%   81%   59%    51%    82%    93%
Estimate
Date of Final Disbursement        May 18, 1998



16
Table 5A: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Physical Accomplishment
Item                    Original  Restructured   Revised    Actual
Target      Target      Target   Completed
Planning
Preparation of Provincial Water Supply,        37           28          28         37
Sewerage and Sanitation Sector Plans
Water Supply                                                         .
Shallow Wells                               11,000       6,950       6,717       6,717
Deep Wells                                   7,000       2,550       2,664       2,664
Spring Developments                          1,000         650        660         660
Well Rehabilitation                          5,000       3,200       3,171       3,171
Rain Water Collection Installation            200          200         188         188
Pilot Water Treatment Units                  1,000         500         436        397
Workshop Construction                          25           25         25          25
Sanitation
Household Latrines                       1,000,000     650,000     650,000     457,792
School Toilets                               1,000       1,000       1,000        999
Pilot Communal/ Public Toilets                 100         100         100         99
Pilot Wastewater Treatment Units              100          100         100         44
Sullage Removal Units                        1,000       1,000       1,000       1,000
Well Disinfections                       1,000,000    1,000,000   1,000,000   1,000,000
Sanitary Well Protection Units                  0        1,000       1,000        942
Water Laboratory Equipment Sets
Regional Laboratories                         13          13          14          14
Provincial Laboratories                       75          75          76          60
Community Development
BWSAs Formed                                18,000       7,845       7,756       7,756



17
Table 5B: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Social Aspect (Women's Participation Level)'
Project Province         BWSA Members        Women Members    % Women Members
Cordillera Admin.Region (CAR)
Ifugao                                1,953                489                 25%
Mountain Province                     1,883                564                 30%
Kalinga                               1,946                333                 17%
Benguet                               1,672                502                 30%
Region I
La Union                              8,424               2,527                30%
Pangasinan                           19,424               5,827                30%
Region II            -
Quirino                               1,612                484                 30%
Isabela                               9,632               2,341                24%
Region III
Bulacan                               4,967               1,582                32%
Pampanga                              6,793               2,903                43%
Region IV-A
Aurora                                1,366                488                 36%
Batangas                             13,900               9,137                66%
Quezon                                4,577               4,142                90%
Region IV-B
Marinduque                            2,758                994                 36%
Palawan                               3,908                609                 16%
Romblon                               2,406                267                 11%
Region V                                           _
Camarines Norte                       5,479               1,852                34%
Camarines Sur                         978                  382                 39%
Catanduanes                           783                  181                 23%
Sorsogon                             14,058               2,453                17%
Total                    101,065             38,059                38%
*    Data reflects information provided to DILG-WSSPMO by government field personnel (Provincial
Action Officers) in late 1997. Not included in the table are project provinces for which data was not submitted.
Table SC: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Private Sector Development Aspects - Local Manufacture
Item                     Total No.      Total No. Locally     % Locally
Produced        Manufactured      Manufactured
Shallow Well Handpumps                          7,150              7,150             100%
Deep Well Handpumps                             2,664               1,900              71%
Plastic Toilet Bowls                          650,000            650,000              100%



18
Table 5D: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Private Sector Development Aspects - Well Construction
Total Wells per    Wells Constructed    Wells Constructed
Project Province/Region             Province in      by Backyard Well   by DEO Personnel
Survey             Drillers
No.       % of        No.      % of
Total                Total
Cordillera Administrative Region (CAR)
Ifugao               18          8       44%          10      56%
Mountain Province               30         30       100%          0       0%
Region I
La Union               180        95        53%         85      47%
Pangasinan              519        344        66%        175      34%
Region II
Quirino               43         43      100%           0       0%
Cagayan               150         74       49%         76       51%
Isabela              99         99       100%          0       0%
Region I1
Bulacan              642        640       100%          2       0%
Nueva Ecija              373       279        75%         94        2%
Pampanga               824        824       100%          0       0%
Region IV-A                                                                            .
Batangas              390         31         8%        359      92%
Cavite              100         48       48%         52       52%
Quezon               111        111      100%           0       0%
Region IV-B
Marinduque                70          0        0%         70      100%
Palawan               159        87        55%         72      45%
Romblon                82         33        40%         49      60%
Region V       .
Albay              728        146        20%        582      80%
Camarines Norte              344        141       41%        203       59%
Catanduanes               79         57        72%         22      28%
Masbate               118         0         0%        118     100%
Sorsogon              714        499        70%        215      30%
Total                              5,773      3,589       62%       2,184      38%
* Data reflects information provided to DPWH-PMORWS by specific DEOs during 1997. Not included in the
table are provinces for which DEOs did not submit data.



19
Table 5E: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Technical and Institutional Training Activities
Institutional Component
Item                          Number of             Number of
Participants         Participants
Targeted              Trained
BWSA Pre-formation Training                               310,120               232,180
BWSA Post-formation Training                              108,584                79,087
Sanitation Component
Activity                        Number of            Number of
Participants Targeted   Participants Trained
National Sanitation Training Program                     120 RSIs              114 RSIs
Regional Sanitation Training Program (Ph-I)            1,300 RSIs            1,807 RSIs
Regional Sanitation Training Program (Ph-II)            2,800 SEs             2,262 SEs
Skills Training for Sanitary Engineers                   200 SEs                139 SEs
Skills Training  for Supervising  and District            400 SIs               346 SIs
Sanitary Inspectors
Water Quality Management Training
- Bacteriological Analysis                         120 Mec. Tech.        182 Med. Tech.
- Chemical Analysis                                   60 Chemists           29 Chemists
Health and Hygiene Education Material Distribution
Items                           Target              Distributed
Posters                                               466,000 pcs.        1,439,000 pcs.
Comics                                              3,000,000 pcs.        6,000,000 pcs.
Handbills                                           3,000,000 pcs.        3,000,000 pcs.
TV Promotions                                               6 hrs.                6 hrs.
Radio Promotion                                            I0 hrs.               I0 hrs.



20
Water Supply Facility Design and Construction Training
Number of           Number of Participants
Activity                Participants Targeted            Trained
Seminar/Workshop in the            18    Water Supply Engrs  18    Water Supply Engrs
Determination of Water Well Location      & Well Drillers           & Well Drillers
Training on Quality Control for    122    Water Supply Engrs  122   Water Supply Engrs
Construction and Development of Wells     & Well Drillers           & Well Drillers
Training of Trainors Program in Water  58  Water Supply Engrs  58    Water Supply Engrs
Supply Implementation                     and Provincial Engrs.     and Provincial
Engrs.
Skills Training on Operation and   521    Municipal Engrs.    521   Municipal Engrs.,
Maintenance of Level I Water Supply       6,916 BWSA                6,961 BWSA
Facilities                                Officers/ Caretakers      Officers/ Caretakers
Training on Low Cost Water Treatment  37  Water Supply Engrs  37    Water Supply Engrs
Facilities                                & Well Drillers           & Well Drillers
Implementation Planning Workshop                             35    35 PMO Staff
Orientation on the Preparation of                            130   COA Auditors,
Statement of Expenditures                                           Accountants, Book-
keepper and Water
Supply Engineers
Orientation on the International Bidding                     22    Procurement and
Guidelines and Procedure                                            Staff Engineers
Table 5F: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Private Sector Capacity Enhancement Activities
Program                No. of Project    Total No. of    Percentage of Total
Provinces     BWSAs within    BWSAs Covered
Covered       the Covered    within the Covered
Provinces         Provinces
ITN/ NGO Involvement Pilot Project        1              21                4%
UNDP-PEH (93/10), Organization and
Training of Beneficiaries of Water and   2
Sanitation Projects
Capacity Enhancement Program (NGO)       28             3,700              50%



21
Table 5G: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Quality and Adequacy of Water Supply Facilities*
Project Province        Number of Operational Facilities        Number of Non-Operational
._____________________               Surveyed                         Facilities Surveyed
DW   SW   SD   RC  TOT  DW   SW   SD   RC  TOT
Cordillera Admin. Region       40      15    113      12    180      10       0     11       0    21
(CAR)                                                              ____                            _
Region I                      230    439      31       2    702      14       1      0        0     15
Region II                     171    242       18      4    435       5       2      0        0      7
Region III                    566   1703      31       0   2300      54    126        1       0    181
Region IV                     551    780    129    107   1567    102         27      7        0    136
Region V                      425    726      98      14   1263    280    197        5        3   485
Total (Number)               1983   3905    420    139   6447    465    353         24        3   845
Total (%)                     81%    92%    95%    98%    88%    19%        8%      5%      2%    12%
* Data reflects informnation provided to DPWH-PMORWS by specific DEOs during 1997. Areas for which
DEOs did not provide such information are not reflected in the table.
"Operational" is defined as functioning at the time of the field survey.
DW = Deep Well
SW = Shallow Well
SD   = Spring Development
RC   = Rainwater Collector



22
Table 5H: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Quality and Adequacy of Sanitation Facilities (School and Public Toilets)*
Region               Number and Percentage of         Number and Percentage of
Surveyed Sanitation Facilities   Surveyed Sanitation Facilities
Being Utilized                 Not Being Utilized
School Toilets   Public Toilets   School Toilets   Public Toilets
No.      %      No.      %       No.      %       No.      %
Cordillera Admin. Region      36    51%         3    75%        34    49%         1      25
(CAR)
Region I                        0                                0
Region If                     38    52%                         35    48%
Region III                     38    60%        12    48%       25    40%        13   52%
Region IV                     48    72%        22    69%        19    28%        10   31%
Region V                       38    57%                        29    43%
Region VI                      1 1    85%                        2    15%
Region VII                    41    68%        10    77%        19    32%         3   23%
Region. VIII                   34    52%                        31    48%
Region IX                      36    78% |        l             10    22%
RegionX                        12    46%                        14    54%
Region XI                      34    64%       13    87%        19    36%         2    13%
Region XII                    30    75% r           l           10    25%
ARMM                            11    58%  _      _              8    42%
CARAGA                         12    48%                        13    52%
NCR                           40    73%         2    29%        15    27%         5   71%
Total                        459    62%        62    65%       283    38%        34   35%
* Data reflects field surveys conducted in late 1997 by the DOH-EHS, covering approximately 75% of the
constructed facilities.
Table 51: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Quality and Adequacy of Sanitation Facilities (Household Latrines)*
Observed Problem                  No. of Occurrences        Frequency of
Surveyed              Occurrence
Bowl not properly set                                             67                    6%
P-trap not properly attached                                       8                    1%
No P trap installed                                               20                    2%
No vent pipe installed                                           440                   40%
Superstructure of substandard quality                           356                    32%
* Data reflects random field surveys conducted in late 1997 by the DOH-EHS, and includes a total of 1113
units surveyed.



23
Table 6A: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Institutional Development Indicator (BWSA Activity Level)*
Project Province              Number of         Number and          Number and
BWSAs          Percentage of        Percentage of
Surveyed       Active BWSAs        Inactive BWSAs
Cordillera Administrative Region (CAR)
Benguet                                             8         5       62%          3      38%
Region I
Pangasinan                                         70        70      100%          0       0%
Region II
Cagayan                                           44         26       59%         18      41%
Region III
Bataan                                             11        10       91%           1      9%
Bulacan                                           150       119       90%         13      10%
Pampanga                                          196       165       84%         31      16%
Region IV-A
Batangas                                           19         1        5%         18      95%
Laguna                                            38         18       47%         20      53%
Region IV-B
Marinduque                                         14        14      100%          0       0%
Region V
Albay                                             71         41       58%         30      42%
Camarines Norte                                   21         17       81%          4      19%
Camarines Sur                                     32         13       41%         19      59%
Catanduanes                                       34          3        9%         31      91%
Masbate                                             3         1       33%          2      67%
Total                                            693        503       73%        190      27%
* Tabulated data was provided to DILG-WSSPMO by Provincial Action Officers while validating areas for
participation in DILG's Capacity Enhancement Program in 1997. "Active" BWSAs are defined as those which
conduct regularly scheduled meetings, collect fees for facility maintenance, and implement repairs of facilities.



Table 6B: Operations Phase Plan
Agency       Full Development                         Specific Actions Required                      Inputs/ Time    Region or   Funding Sources
Responsibility/     Objective                                                                              Frame         Province
Subject                                                                                                               Covered
DPWH, DILG,  * Safe, adequate, and * Maintain regular dialogue between PMOs, EHS, Regional Offices, REOS,   Ongoing     CAR          Rural Water Supply
DOH/             easily accessible    RHOs, DEOs, and LGUs, and coordinate activities                                   Romblon      and Sanitation
Rural Water      water supply      * Perform monitoring of facilities (LGUs)                             Quarterly      Aurora       Sector Project
Supply                             * Validate requests for facility repair (LGUs)                        As needed      Masbate    (ADB) (national
Provide technical assistance and advice to LGUs when requested (PMO,    As needed               level)
DEOs)
* Loan equipment and provide spare parts to LGUs when requested (DEOs)   As needed               Provincial and
* Perform monitoring of water quality of completed water supply facilities    Biannually         Municipal
(PHOs, LGUs)                                                                                   Governments (local
level)
DOH/           * Proper Sanitation   * Maintain regular dialogue between EHS and RHOs, and coordinate activities Ongoing  29 FW4SP   Poverty Alleviation
Rural Sanitation                   * Maintain regular dialogue between RHOs and LGUs, and coordinate     Ongoing        Provinces    Fund II (national
activities                                                                                     level)
* Perform monitoring of school toilets and public toilets (RHOs, LGUs)  Quarterly                                     w
* Perform regular monitoring of constructed household latrines (RHOs,  Ongoing                   Provincial and
LGUs)                                                                                          Municipal
* Liaise with school, government and barangay officials to ensure full usage   Ongoing           Governments (local
of facilities (RHOs, LGUs)                                                                     level)
* Conduct follow-up visits to assess effectiveness of health and hygiene  Biannually
education program, and redistribute materials as appropriate (RHOs, LGUs)
DILG, LGUs/   * Promotion of       * Maintain regular dialogue between WSSPMO and LGUs/ MWTFs, and       Ongoing        Region V     WATSAN Project
Institutional    effective           coordinate activities                                                              Region XII  (UNICEF)
Arrangements     community         * Provide review of MWTF activities (PMO, LGUs)                       Biannually                  (national level)
for Project      participation     * Provide update of BWSA assessment database                         Biannually
Sustainability   * Organizational  * Finalize and implement guidelines on BWSA registration and accreditation  By mid- 1998          Provincial and
arrangements for    (PMO, LGUs)                                                                                    Municipal
improved operation * Prepare implementation and investment plan (LGUs)                 Annually                    Governments (local
and maintenance of * Provide technical assistance to LGUs as requested (PMO)           As needed                   level)
water supply      * Provide review of BWSA functional levels (PMO, LGUs)               Annually
facilities        * Perform and coordinate technical assistance to BWSAs in areas of identified As needed
Supporting           need (PMO, LGUs, NGOs)
government
decentralization
Training manpower
in planning and
implementation of
water supply and
sanitation systems  I



Agency       Full Development                        Specific Actions Required                     Inputs/ Time _  Region or   Funding Sources
Responsibility/    Objective                                                                              Frame        Province
Subject                                                                                                             Covered
DPWH, DOH/  * Promoting local    * Provide detailed performance assessment of locally manufactured     Annually       Benguet      Rural Water Supply
Private Sector   manufacture of      handpumps (PMO, DEOs)                                                            Apayao       and Sanitation
Development      quality shallow well * Review of commercial availability and Government distribution of spare    Annually  Kalinga  Sector Project
handpumps           parts for handpumps (PMO, DEOs)                                                  Ifugao      (ADB)
* Promoting local    * Review commercial availability and Government Distribution Policy of    Annually  Mt. Province
manufacture of      PTBs (EHS, RHOs)                                                                 Aurora      Provincial and
quality deep well                                                                                    Romblon    Municipal
handpumps                                                                                            Masbate     Governments (local
* Promoting local                                                                                                  level)
manufacture of
quality toilet bowls
DILG/          * Increased         * Monitor participation of women in water and sanitation activities at the LGU Annually
Social and       participation of    level and the Barangay level (PMO, LGUs)
Environmental    women in the
Improvement      planning, operation
and maintenance of
water supply and
sanitation facilities
* Poverty alleviation
* Reduction of
diseases related to
poor sanitation



26
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined at
Study                appraisal               Status           Impact of study
or study inception*
Low Cost Water   Develop appropriate technology  Study completed  Recommended design for
Treatment Unit   for the removal of excessive iron  in June 1995.    treatment units developed,
Pilot Study     and manganese, to improve rural              tested, and later implemented
Project (DPWH).  groundwater supplies.                       in the field on widespread
basis.
Local           Provide assistance in improving  Program     Local companies developed
Manufacture of   local handpump manufacturing   completed in    capability to manufacture
Handpumps       capabilities, and in establishing   1993. Four  quality handpumps. One of
(DPWH).         local quality assurance and  local           the four participating local
control capabilities.        manufacturers   companies was subsequently
produced trial   awarded contract for
batches of 25  manufacture of 1900 project
units each.    deep well handpumps.
Tara Handpump   To evaluate the performance of   Study completed  Possible widespread use of
Evaluation      the Tara Handpumps under rural  in June 1995.   the Tara Handpumps in future
Project (DPWH).  conditions in the Philippines,              rural water supply projects.
including maintainability,
reliability, and acceptance by
end users.
ITN-NGO         To enhance the sustainability of  Program    Provided insight into the
Demonstration    BWSAs in the demonstration  completed in    effectiveness of the use of
Program (DILG).  area, ITN-NGO would guide and  1994.        NGOs to enhance rural
coordinate activities during                community development
critical stages of BWSA                     activities.
formation.
Pilot Wastewater  To test the efficiency of the units Program  Following completion of
Treatment Units  in removing high BOD content   ongoing - 44  installation of the units,
(DOH).          in septic wastes.            units installed    sampling will be performed
out of 100     to test the efficiency of the
targeted.      units for possible future
widespread use.
Capacity        To implement sustainability   Program        Total of 200 BWSAs directly
Enhancement      strategies for project facilities    completed  reactivated and 200 water
Program (DILG).  through revitalization of BWSAs December 1997. supply facilities repaired.
and minor repair activities.
Master Plan for   Perform feasibility studies and   Plan completed   Some recommended
National Urban   formulate investment projects   in October 1993. investment projects are now
Sewerage and    for sustainable interventions in             proceeding, including the
Sanitation Sector  sewerage, sanitation and solid            World Bank funded Water
(LWUA).         waste.                                       District Development Project
(LWUA).
* For studies not defined at appraisal.



27
Table 8A: Project Costs
(As of December 1997)
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)  Restructured Estimate (US$M)   Revised Estimate (US$M)  Actual/Latest Estimate (US$M
Item
IBRD     GOP    Total   IBRD        GOP      Total   IBRD       GOP     Total   IBRD       GOP    Total
Rural Water Supply -DPWH       37.42    49.73    87.15    29.81     10.42    39.52    24.46    10.17    34.63    25.31    11.54    36.85
Equipment and Materials        25.88     7.67    33.55    15.68      2.07    17.75    11.78     2.07    13.85    12.82     1.83    14.66
Civil Works                     3.36    28.49    31.85     8.40      6.42    14.82     7.41     6.42    13.83     7.36     8.07    15.43
Training                        0.04   0.47       0.51               0.16     0.16              0.16     0.16              0.20     0.20
Consultancy Services             1.84    0.68     2.52     4.95      0.52     5.47     5.27     0.27     5.54     5.07     0.12     5.20
Quality Control                 0.15              0.15     0.07               0.07                                0.05              0.05
Administrative Costs                     0.47     0.47               1.25     1.25              1.25     1.25              1.30     1.30
Contingencies                   6.15    11.95    18.10     0.71
Rural Sanitation - DOH          14.51    17.92    32.43    20.85    24.69    45.54    18.21    24.69    42.90    13.22    22.59    35.81
Equipment and Vehicles          10.19    2.01    12.20     7.44      0.73     8.17     5.99     0.73     6.72     4.60     0.80     5.40
Civil Works                     0.79     4.48     5.27    12.86     11.73    24.59    12.22    11.73    23.95     8.62    19.73    28.35
EC/Training/Water Quality       0.37     4.88     5.25                                                                     2.06     2.06
Consultancy Services            0.74     0.36     1.10               6.95     6.95              6.95     6.95
Administrative Cost                      3.10     3.10     0.55      5.28     5.83              5.28     5.28
Contingencies                   2.42     3.09     5.51
Institutional Development -      1.58     3.29    4.87     7.34     10.60    17.94     5.24     3.42     8.66     3.88     4.23     8.11
DILG                                                                                                                            I
Vehicles and Equipment          0.61              0.61     1.58      1.16     2.74     0.76     0.74     1.50     0.60     0.74     1.34
Community Development           0.16     2.44     2.60     5.45      5.84    11.29     3.28              3.28     3.28     0.08     3.36
Provincial Master Plan          0.61     0.41     1.02               2.78     2.78
Capacity Enhancement Program                                         0.82     0.82     1.20              1.20              0.82     0.82
Administrative Cost                                                                             2.67     2.67              2.59     2.59
Contingencies                   0.20     0.44     0.64     0.31               0.31
Special Account                                                                                                   0.13              0.13
Technical Assistance - LWUA     0.57     7.81     8.38
TOTAL                          54.08    78.75   132.83    58.00     45.71   103.00    47.93    38.28    86.21    42.55    38.37    80.92



28
Table 8B: Project Financing
(as of May 1998)
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)         Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)
Source            Local       Foreign      Total      Local       Foreign      Total
Costs       Costs                   Costs       Costs
IBRD                         30.9         54.1       85.0        16.8        27.9        44.7
Domestic                     47.8          0.0       47.8        38.1                    38.1
Contribution
TOTAL                  78.7         54.1      132.8        54.9        27.9        82.8
Table 9A: Economic Rate of Return*
Facility Type              Economic Rate of Return          Economic Rate of Return
Estimated at Appraisal        Re-estimated at Completion
Shallow Well                                  29%                              17%
Deep Well                                      5%                              2%
Spring Development                             8%                              5%
Weighted Average                               8%                               5%
* The net economic benefits estimated here are limited to the value of water only. It is worth mentioning
that economic benefits from a water supply project also include avoidance of waterbome diseases,
increased productivity due to savings in time used for fetching water, and increased household productivity
because of the availability of water as an input in household activities. The economic value of these
benefits, although not quantified for this project, if included would further increase computed rates of
return.
Cost data derived from facility construction cost figures provided by DPWH, and facility maintenance
figures operation and maintenance figures provided by DILG. Benefit data derived from water unit pricing
developed under the UTNDP-PHI project.



29
Table 9B: Sensitivity Analysis*
Price of Water                Type of Facility           Economic Rate of Return
P3/m3             Shallow Well                                 17%
P3/m3             Deep Well                                    -2%
P3/m3             Spring Development                           -3%
P3/m3             Weighted Average                              1%
P4/m3             Shallow Well                                 29%
P4/m3             Deep Well                                     2%
P4/m3             Spring Development                            0%
P4/m3             Weighted Average                              6%
P6/m3             Shallow Well                                 54%
P6/m3             Deep Well                                     8%
P6/m3             Spring Development                            5%
P6/m3             Weighted Average                             14%
* The range of water prices considered applies to similar facilities constructed under the UNDP-PHI Project.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section   Covenant  Present   Original    Revised           Description of Covenant                 Comments
Type     Status   Fulfillment Fulfillment
Date       Date
2.02       01         C                             Withdrawals to be made, amongst   Agreement was reached in respect of
others, in unit rates as may be   the adjustment of the unit rates.
determined by Borrower and the Bank.
2.02 b      01        C                             Borrower shall open and maintain in   Special account balance was
dollars a special deposit account in the  maintained at $5 million.
Central Bank.
3.01 b      02        C                             Borrower shall carry out project in
accordance with the Implementation
Program in Schedule 5.
Sch. 5.1    05         C                             Borrower will establish and maintain a  The Project Coordinating Committee
Project Coordinating Committee.   met regularly throughout the course
of the project.
Sch. 5.2    05        CD                             Borrower shall cause the provincial    Locating appropriate sources of grant
govemments to prepare, adopt, and put funding caused some delay in plan
into effect Provincial Water Supply,    preparation.
Sewerage and Sanitation Sector Plans.
Sch 5.3     05         C                             Borrower shall designate one DILG  DILG's Provincial Action Officers
staff member to act as community  (PAOs) were based at the central
organizer in each province.       office and had limited travel budgets
and schedules.
Sch. 5.4    05        CP                             Borrower shall implement the training  Very little training was extended to
and community development program. the private sector.
Sch 5.5     05        NC                             DPWH shall provide one year       Even without a one year warranty,
warranties to BWSA against defective  DPWH is still liable in replacing
materials and faulty workmanship on   defective materials and provide
completed wells and handpumps.    assistance to BWSAs.
Sch. 5.6    05         C                             Borrower shall ensure quality control   Quality control was maintaine using
and obtain quality assurance on goods. both an Extemal Quality Assurance
Consultant, and later a Govemment
Quality Control Committee.
Sch. 5.7    05         C                             Borrower shall organize and conduct a  In the future, it might be beneficial to
Project Launching Workshop.       consider conducting refresher
workshops or relaunchings after a
major restructuring of a project.



Agreement   Section   Covenant   Present    Original              Revised            Description of Covenant                         Comments
Type       Status    Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date          Date
Sch. 5.8       01         NC                                   Borrower shall undertake biennial        DPWH does not presently have a
reviews of its water pricing policy and   formnal pricing policy for rural water
cost recovery principles, discuss with   services. A study is presently being
the Bank and implement it.               undertaken by the Sectoral Task
Group on Water Resources Mgt.,
Population Policy Operations Project
executed by the Commission on
Population.
Sch. 5.9       05          CP                                  Borrower shall provide the Bank with   Although women's participation in all
such information about the involvement phases of the project was evident,
of women in the project and ensure       such participation was not well
equal access to membership and           documented.
management roles in BWSA.
4.01 a        01           C                                  DPWH, DOH and DILG shall maintain  Local Consultant assisted in this task.
project accounts.                        DPWWH was not eligible for Bank
financing as of January 1, 1996.
4.01 b        01           C                                  Borrower shall have Special Deposit    DPWH had been in default of project
and Project Accounts audited and         audits and became no longer eligible
furnished to the Bank nine months after for Bank financing as of January 1,
the end of each calendar year.           1996.
4.01 c        01           C                                  SOE records shall be maintained,          COA audit reports cover SOE
retained, access given to, and covered   records.
by separate opinion.
Covenant Status                                                               Covenant Class
C - Complied with                                                             I - Accounts/ audits
CD - Complied with after delay                                                2 - Financial performance/ revenue generation from beneficiaries
CP - Complied with partially*                                                 3 - Flow and utilization of project funds
NC - Not complied with*                                                       4 - Counterpart funding
S - Management aspects of the project or executing agency
6 - Environmental covenants
7 - Involuntary resettlement
8 - Indigenous people
9 . Monitoring, review and reporting
I - Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
11 - Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12 - Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/ regulatory/ institutional action
13 - Other
* If the covenant is complied with only partially or not at all, the reason is provided.



32
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title              Describe and Comment on Lack of
Compliance
NIL
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of             Planned               Revised               Actual
Project Cycle
Weeks      US$       Weeks      US$       Weeks       US$
Through Appraisal                                                    58.1    117,700
Appraisal-Board                                                      38.3     88,400
Board-Effectiveness
Supervision                39.0    95,500      40.5    88,400       190.8   458,400
Completion                  9.0    18,800        9.0    18,800        4.1     10,100
TOTAL               48.0   114,300       49.5   107,200      291.3    674,600
[NOTE:   Completion time and dollars to be updated when final figures known.
Task budgeting began in FY96.
Does not include travel and other costs - only staff time.]



33
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number                Specialized    Implemen    Develop-
Stage of      Month/       of      Days in     Staff Skills  -tation      ment     Types of
Project Cycle    Year      Persons    Field     Represented     Status    Objectives   Problems
Through             2/89        5         18     FA, SE, PS, CS
Appraisal           6/89       14         19     FA, SE, ME,
PE, IE, SO,
TR, NGO
Appraisal through   9/89        5         18     FA, SE, ME,
Board Approval                                   PE, CS
6/90       3         12      SE, PE, TR
Board Approval     12/90        1         18     FA                  -          -
through
Effectiveness
Supervision        10/90       2                 FA, SE             2           1
12/90       1                FA                  1          I
06/91       2                FA, consultant      1          I
10/91      2                 FA, SE             2           I
03/92       2                FA, SE              2          1
04/93       2                FA, ME              2          1
08/93       2                FA, SE              3          2
05/94       2                FA, SE              S          S
11/94       2                FA, SE              S          S
07/95       1                SE                  S          S
02/96       2                SE, AN              S          S
01/97       2         7      AN, CE              S          S
07/97       1         5      AN                  S          S
09/97       2         8      AN, CE              S          S
Completion          10/97       1         14     AN                                 _
FA   = Financial Analyst                     PE   = Project Engineer (water)
SE   = Sanitary Engineer                     CS   = Computer Specialist
ME  = Municipal Engineer                     TR   = Training Consultant
AN   = Anthropologist                       IE   = Institutional Expert
CE   = Civil Engineer                        SO   = Sociologist
PS   = Procurement Specialist               NGO = Non-Governmental Organization



34                            Appendix A
ICR Aide Memoire
PHILIPPINES
FIRST WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 3242-PH)
WORLD BANK IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION
OCTOBER 6 - 22, 1997
Aide Memoire
1.    A World Bank mission led by Ms. Mary Judd (Anthropologist, EASSD) visited
the Republic of Philippines from October 6 - 22, 1997 to undertake the Implementation
Completion Mission for the First Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Sector Project
(FW4SP). Mr. Steven Matsler (Water Supply Consultant) joined the mission in the
Philippines. The ICR Mission immediately followed the final supervision mission led by
Mr. Wael Zakout of the World Bank from September 29 to October 6, 1997. The mission
met with the Project Coordination Committee (PCC), and had separate meetings with
relevant agencies (DILG, DPWH, DOH, LWUA, NEDA, DBM and COA), donors
(UNDP and UNICEF) and participating private sector companies (Malanday and
Atlanta). The mission visited project sites in Laguna, Benguet and Davao del Sur
provinces and held a series of consultative meetings in two regions: Cordillera
Administrative Regions (CAR) in northern Philippines and Region XI in the south. The
mission would like to thank the following for all the cooperation, assistance and
hospitality extended to the mission: PCC; staff of DOH, DILG and DPWH; beneficiaries;
officials of barangays, municipalities, provinces, and regions. This Aide Memoire
summarizes the mission's findings and recommendations which were presented at a
wrap-up meeting on October 22, 1997. It is subject to confirmation by the management
of the World Bank.
2.    The ICR mission was conducted in a participatory manner and the findings and
recommendations were a joint product of the mission and the members of the project
implementation offices (PMOs) of the three agencies. Visits to project sites were
undertaken jointly. Consultative meetings in the regions for the various administrative
levels were facilitated by the PMOs. The information collected from these meetings were
discussed at a one day workshop in Manila on October 20 and attended by staff of the
three implementing agencies and Philippines' resident mission staff; it was included as
input into the draft findings and recommendations in the sections below. Refer to
Attachment 1 for the mission agenda, list of people met and the consultative meetings.



35                             Appendix A
ICR Aide Memoire
Project Completion
3.    The mission confirmed with the Government on the project implementation
completion date of December 31, 1997. All activities after that date will not be eligible
for funding under the Bank loan. The Government will have four months until April 30,
1998 to clear all outstanding payments from the loan.
4.    The following are outstanding activities yet to be completed as of October 22,
1997:
Items                    Targets     Completed   Outstanding
DPWH
Water treatment facilities                     500          370          130
Repair and rehabilitation of facilities                              on-going
Skills Training II                            7,845        6,609        1,236
DOH
Household latrines                          650,000      378,083      271,917
Wastewater treatment units                     100           44           56
Water testing laboratories                      90           63           27
Well disinfections (to be completed by Nov 30)  542,000  260,000      282,000
Follow-up on hygiene education material       1,000               follow up with
distribution and use in 1,000 elem. schools                             DECS
DILG                                   _ _ _ _ _     _ _ _
CEP refresher/on-the-job training courses       16           16            0
CEP minor repairs                             1,200           0         1,200
CEP operation and maintenance manual             1            0             1
BWSA data                                     1,800        _  0         1,800
Disbursement and Audit Reports
5.    The disbursement as of September 1997 was about US$45.06 or 94% of the final
loan amount of US$47.93 million. The remainder, which is mainly for DILG's Capacity
Enhancement Project, is expected to be fully drawn by the project closing date of
December 31, 1997. The last audit report for the project submitted to the Bank was for
fiscal year 1996. The audit report for 1997 will be submitted by September 1998.
Implementation Completion Report
6.    The mission discussed the draft Operational Plan and the Government's
contribution to the ICR prepared by the implementing agencies. The updated version of
the Operational Plan is found in Attachment 2; a final version will be submitted by the
end of November 1997. The Bank's ICR will be drafted by the mission members, Mary



36                             Appendix A
ICR Aide Memoire
Judd and Steven Matsler, together with the assistance of Cecilia Vales from the Resident
Mission in the Philippines and Nancy Barrett from World Bank HQ. Ms. Loreta Rufo, a
financial analyst consultant from Manila, will re-estimate the economic rate of return for
the project.
ICR Mission Findings
7.    Overall, the primary project objective of assisting the "Government to meet the
basic needs of the rural population through the provision of safe, adequate and easily
accessible water supplies as well as proper sanitation" is appropriate and appears to have
been achieved in its physical targets. Project implementation was adversely affected by
late Congressional budget approval in 1991 and the initial confusion of roles and
responsibilities related to the devolution of responsibilities to LGU in 1992. The loan
was restructured in 1993 and physical targets were revised. The summary of findings are
presented below.
a) Physical targets for water supply and sanitation facilities have been substantially
achieved. The degree of use, operation and maintenance of the facilities have been
difficult to establish due to lack of valid and complete data at this stage. The physical
targets were driving the project more than community demand.
b) Institutionally, the project has been partially successful: i) coordination at the national
level was difficult at the beginning but improved significantly towards the end of the
project and continued to be chaired by DPWH even though disbursements for it had
stopped in 1996; ii) coordination at the LGU level has been problematic due to the
initial uncertainties and confusion of responsibilities caused by devolution; iii)
location of project action officers at the national level was less effective than planned
but lack of allocation at the LGU level prevented the hiring of community organizers
at that level; iii) training was satisfactory for project and government staff and
BWSAs but unsatisfactory for private sector, particularly the backyard well drillers;
and iv) formation of new BWSAs for Level I facilities appeared to be inappropriate.
c) Sector development objective was partially achieved: i) the preparation of provincial
sector master plans were satisfactory but their use in the planning and site selection
for the project was limited although some of these sector plans are now being used by
provinces for development planning; and ii) a national strategy and action plan for
urban sewerage and sanitation was developed under LWUA and an investment
project--Sewerage and Sanitation for Local Government Unit--generated and funded
by a Bank loan.
d) Social and environmental improvements were partially successful: i) women and
children gained substantially from the provision of water supply and sanitation
facilities; ii) although no specific targets were set, about 50% of women were office
holders in BWSAs; iii) women usually made up more than 50% of participants at
barangay training sessions; iv) the impact on health is difficult to determine as this



37                           Appendix A
ICR Aide Memoire
will require a long term assessment; v) hygiene education materials have been
developed for 1,000 elementary schools but the distribution to those schools have
been very slow and impact assessment on improved hygiene practices has yet to be
undertaken; vi) the project's positive impact on poverty alleviation can only be
assumed as no measuring indicators were developed at the time of project appraisal;
and vii) similarly, the enviromnental impact was assumed to be positive in cases
where potable water supply and sanitary excreta disposal facilities were provided and
used accordingly.
e) Private sector development in improving local manufacturing capability was highly
successful: i) the Afridev deepwell handpump was modified and 1,200 units were
locally produced for the project; and ii) 650,000 pieces of plastic (polyvinylchloride)
pour-flush toilet bowls were also locally produced. Quality of the above units was
verified by an independent External Quality Assurance Consultant and, later, by a
joint inspection committee composed of DILG, DBM-PS, and DOH.
f) Financial procedures and practices needed improvement: i) project account reporting
was late leading to late audits and late submission to the Bank; ii) lax internal
financial control for budgeting, accounting, deliveries and inventories led to
unaccounted for supplies and material; iii) delay in procurement of plastic toilet
bowls caused a significant delay in the sanitation program; and iv) lack of pre and
post qualification of bidders resulted in some contracts being awarded to unqualified
contractors. A good practice by DILG was noted in its development of local
guidelines (based on Bank guidelines) for provincial procurement in the Capacity
Enhancement Program under the project.
8.    The lessons learned from the foreign-funded projects, particularly FW4SP, have
led to significant policy changes and improved practices for both the Government and the
Bank, such as:
a) NEDA Board Resolution No. 4, 1994 amends NEDA Board Resolution No. 5, 1989
and allows LGUs to implement all levels of water supply projects.
b) In 1995 DBM instituted the General Allotment Release Order (GARO) and the
Special Allotment Release Order (SARO) to overcome late releases of funds.
c) Central COA undertook a study on "Transparency and Internal Controls" in
1996/1997 using FW4SP as one of its case studies and has recommended significant
changes and improvements. Improved and systematic accounting and auditing
practices have been put in place for this and other projects.
d) The Philippines Resident Mission has started a series of regular disbursement and
procurement seminars for staff in project management offices.



38                           Appendix A
ICR Aide Memoire
ICR Mission Recommendations
9.    The main recommendations for future water supply and sanitation projects are
presented in the light of devolution of basic services, such as water supply and sanitation,
to LGUs:
a) Projects should be planned and implemented by the Local Government Units (LGU)
with the National Government Agencies (NGA) providing technical assistance,
supervision and monitoring, and executing agency role.
b) Provincial Sector Master Plans should be updated and promoted for use in LGU
projects. These Plans should be related to the National Master Plan to ensure that a
sound and common strategy is followed.
c) A careful assessment should be undertaken regarding the concept of a Barangay
Waterworks and Sanitation Association (BWSA) for Level I facilities. Are the
responsibilities currently envisaged for the BWSA inappropriate for the type of
system mandated by the project (i.e., Level I) and is this type of a formalized
association more appropriate for a higher level facility?
d) At the beginning of project preparation an institutional assessment should be
conducted for the capability and experience of the LGUs. Appropriate and more
intensive technical assistance should be provided to the weaker LGUs.
e) A qualified community organizer should be hired at the municipal level and paid by
the LGU. If funds are a constraint, then the project can agree to pay for the first year
and the LGU pays for the subsequent years. Training and regular refresher training
should be provided by the project as needed.
f) Planning, designing and implementation of sub-projects by LGUs should be based on
need and demand and in close consultation and participation with the community.
g) A supporting environment which will enable LGUs to succeed should be promoted,
e.g., simplify procedures, establish mechanisms which will speed implementation,
allow procurement by LGUs, develop a proper system of accounting and financial
reporting.
h) Community-based projects should not include construction for the first year of the
project. Instead, they should focus on orientation and training of staff, setting up
proper management systems and working with the community to plan and design
their sub-projects.
i) Continue to support local private sector manufacturing capability and promote private
sector participation in O&M.



39                           Appendix A
ICR Aide Memoire
j) Hygiene education material can be more effectively produced and promoted at the
LGU level (using the local dialect) with technical assistance from NGA.
k) It is important to promote and monitor the effective use of installed facilities.
Reliable data should be collected during the monitoring. Follow-up should be
provided as needed.
1) The World Bank supervision mission should include a procurement staff from the
Resident Mission to undertake field reviews of accounting procedures and physical
facilities, at least annually.



40                               Appendix B
Borrower
FIRST WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
GOVERNMENT'S REVIEW AND ASSESSMENT OF THE PROJECT
ViTRODUCTION
Project Scope
1.    The First Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Sector Project (FW4SP), which is an
outgrowth of the Government's Accelerated Water Supply Program, is a World-Bank funded project
which was developed to address the identified need for improving the living conditions of its rural
population through the provision of safe and adequate water supply and sanitation.
2.    Area of coverage of the water supply component was in Luzon, where training, community
organization and physical facility construction activities were carried out in 29 provinces.
Approximately 14,000 Level I (point source) water supply facilities were constructed, including
6,717 shallow wells, 2,664 deep wells, 660 spring developments, 370 pilot water treatment units, 188
rainwater collectors, and 3,171 well rehabilitations.
3.    The rural sanitation component of the project was nationwide and was therefore intended to
complement parallel water supply projects being implemented using other funding sources, as well as
providing sanitation coverage in those areas provided with water supply facilities under the FW4SP.
Major project components included implementation of 378,083 household latrines, 999 school toilets,
99 public toilets, 44 pilot wastewater treatment units, 1,000 sullage removal units, 260,000 well
disinfections, 915 sanitary well protection units, and 63 water quality laboratory upgrades.
Implementation Arrangements
4.    The three Philippine Government agencies with primary responsibility for implementing the
project were the Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH), the Department of Health
(DOH), and the Department of the Interior and Local Government (DILG).
5.    Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH). Under the Project, the DPWH
Project Management Office for Rural Water Supply (PMO-RWS), apart from being the lead agency,
was responsible for the implementation of the water supply component. The PMO-RWS was assisted
in the field by its respective Regional Engineering Offices (REOs) and District Engineering Offices
(DEOs).
6.    Department of Health (DOH). DOH was responsible for implementing FW4SP's sanitation
component. To carry out such responsibility, a Project Management Office was created, which is
attached to the Office of the Environmental Health Service of the Office of Public Health Services.
The PMO is responsible for overall planning and management, and was assisted by Regional Offices
in providing monitoring operations, including training and guidance on technical matters.



41                               Appendix B
Borrower
7.    Department of the Interior and Local Government (DILG). The role of DILG in the Project
was to implement the community development component, primarily the formation and training of
Barangay Waterworks and Sanitation Association (BWSA), central responsbility for which was
carried out by DILG's Water Supply and Sanitation Program Management Office (WSS-PMO), with
assistance from DILG Provincial and Municipal field offices. Provincial Action Officers based at the
WSS-PMO were responsible for coordination and implementation of field activities in their
respective provinces. DILG also led and coordinated the preparation of provincial water supply,
sewerage and sanitation sector plans for 29 provinces in Luzon.
8.    Local Water UtilitiesAdministration (LWUA). The FW4SP loan included funding to
support LWUA in the preparation of National Urban Sewerage and Sanitation Strategy Plan.
Subsequent feasibility studies for selected localities were funded by Japanese PHRD grant facility,
but administered by the World Bank under the FW4SP.
9.    National Economic DevelopmentAuthority (NEDA). NEDA played a vital coordinative
and monitoring role in FW4SP, in respect of its Government mandate to ensure that priority needs
were incorporated accordingly, and that development plans and investment programs were
formulated with the maximum participation of concerned groups.
Objectives
10.   Basic Objectives. The main objective of the project is to support the government's policy of
providing safe, adequate and easily accessible water supply facilities, and proper sanitation facilities,
to the majority of the households in the rural areas.
I1.   Institutional Objectives!Sustainabiity. (a) To promote effective community participation to
achieve sustainable sector development. The Project acknowledged that sustainability of sector
development is largely dependent on the extent to which communities become involved in the
development process. (b) To develop organizational arrangements for improved operation and
maintenance of water supplyfacilities. Critical to the effective management of water supply is the
physical condition of the facilities. (c) To support government decentralization by providing local
government units with a greater role in planning, implementation and monitoring of sector activities.
While the Project was implemented by national government agencies, the intention was for LGUs to
assume full responsibility for managing the project at their level, including the operation and
maintenance tasks after completion of project assistance. (d) To train manpower in the planning and
implementation of water supply and sanitation systems. Training was seen as a means of developing
the skills needed to effectively achieve the project's main objective.
12.   Social, Environmental, and Project Development Objectives. (a) Women in Development.
The Government agreed to allow equal access to woman participants, by allowing them to play
important and strategic roles in BWSA operation and participate in trainings for skills and knowledge
enhancement. (b) Poverty Alleviation. A primary advantage would be the time saved on fetching
water, thus having more time for productive activities. (c) Environmental Factors. Provision of
water supply and sanitation facilities would provide the basic needs of the communities, which would
reduce the rate of incidence of water-borne and water related diseases which predominantly affects
rural population.
13.   Private Sector Development. The production of plastic toilet bowls by a local plastic
products manufacturer was seen as a way to benefit the private sector by reducing dependence on



42                                Appendix B
Borrower
imported products by the government and transferring technology to the private sector by improving
the manufacturer's capabilities. Assistance was also to be provided in improving local handpump
manufacturing capabilities. It was envisaged that the majority of the project wells would be
constructed by professional well drilling contractors, using an appropriate contract packaging
arrangement.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
Project Assessment
14.   Objectives. The main project objective of providing safe, adequate and accessible water
supply as well as proper sanitation, is considered highly appropriate in view of the Philippines
Government's emphasis on rural water supply and sanitation as contained in both the Water Supply,
Sewerage and Sanitation Master Plan of the Philippines, and the Accelerated Water Supply Program.
Secondary objectives (institutional, social, environmental, and private sector development) are also
considered appropriate.
15.   Design. Various water supply designs were used for the program and adoption of a
particular design was dependent on the actual conditions in the community. The project design was
comprehensive and ambitious in a way that it covered the development of water sector from the
national level down to barangay level. Project design was considered appropriate in that it promoted
participation by the private sector, in both manufacturing (of toilet bowls and handpumps) and
construction (of wells through contract packaging, and of school and public toilets), equal
opportunity for women in development, and sustainability through the provision of quality assurance
and control. The implementing agencies at the national level were able to develop general
specifications for water supply and sanitation systems, and establish a viable quality assurance and
control system.
16.   Implementors at the provincial level including backyard well drillers and NGOs were to be
given assistance through the provision of appropriate training in the planning, design, drilling,
construction, operation and maintenance procedures.
17.   Implementation. Success of project implementation is measured primarily by achievement
of objectives. The main project objective of supporting government policy in providing safe,
adequate and accessible water supply and proper sanitation to rural communities was primarily
affected by a substantial reduction in the total number of facility targets which was made in 1993
because of initial delays in project implementation. $27 million of the original project loan amount of
$85 million (which represented roughly 75% of the project cost) was cancelled in the restructuring.
Later, in 1995, an additional amount of $10.07 million was cancelled from the Loan.
18.   It is felt that the main objective was satisfactorily achieved despite the reduction in coverage
after the restructuring. Virtually 100 percent of the restructured water supply target and community
development target, and 58 percent of the restructured sanitation target, were achieved.
19.   Institutional objectives were set in respect of: (a) promoting effective community
participation to achieve sustainable sector development; (b) developing organizational arrangements
for improved operation and maintenance of water supply facilities;(c) supporting government



43                                Appendix B
Borrower
decentralization by providing local government units with a greater role in planning, implementation
and monitoring of sector activities; and (d) training manpower in the planning and implementation of
water supply and sanitation systems.
20.   Accomplishment of items (a) and (b) above were generally felt not to be satisfactory. The
BWSA structure often proved not to be sustainable, and the effectiveness of forming what are
essentially micro water utilities to provide Level I service is questionable. The project served to
adequately support government decentralization (item (c)), which accomplishment was also given a
significant boost with the enactment of the Local Government Code in 1991. Item (d) was
considered partially satisfactory, as the project provided much useful training in the public sector but
failed to train substantial numbers of key private sector participants such as the backyard well drillers
who participated in the project.
21.    Social and environmental objectives were considered in the project, including: (a) women in
development; (b) poverty alleviation; and (c) general environmental improvement. Although it is
difficult to quantify accomplishment of such objectives, achievement can be measured against a
surrogate indicator (e.g. physical project accomplishment), and on this basis project performance is
considered satisfactory.
22.   Private sector development objectives considered the promotion of private sector activity in
manufacture, construction, and operations and maintenance. Performance in terms of manufacture
was considered highly satisfactory, as the project succeeded in promoting high quality manufacture
of both deep well handpumps and plastic toilet bowls. Performance in private sector construction
was considered unsatisfactory. The well contract packaging scheme included in the original project
design was never implemented, as it was considered inappropriate to field conditions, and there were
perceived cost constraints associated with the use of professional well drilling contractors. Private
sector operations and maintenance also appears to have had very limited success under the project,
although some lessons in this respect are yet to be learned from the ongoing Capacity Enhancement
Program being implemented by DILG.
23.   Operation/Sustainability. Sustainability is addressed at different levels. At the LGU level,
sustainability of water supply and sanitation program/project implementation can only be achieved if
there is acceptance of responsibility and adequate budgeting. This is an area where the Project was
quite unsuccessful. LGUs saw FW4SP as another grant-in-aid project for which funding was
expected to be the sole responsibility of the national government. There was low level of acceptance
of the concept of cost-sharing, as generally the LGUs do not have provisions in their own regular
budget.
24.   At the BWSA level, sustainability was limited by the extent to which BWSAs felt that they
were not treated as project partners but mere recipients of assistance. Top-down aspects of the
project design also sometimes resulted in a low sense of project ownership, with some facilities being
inappropriate to the actual needs of the community, and some beneficiaries refusing to organize
themselves. On the other hand, there were also many successes, including BWSAs whose operations
have been doing fine and whose officers have remained attuned to their responsibilities, with
significant involvement of women in many areas. Some BWSAs have managed to upgrade their
facilities from Level I to Level II or even Level III on their own initiative, or through resource
mobilization using LGU funds or Country Development Funds (CDF).



44                                Appendix B
Borrower
Constraints Encountered
25.   National Budget Releases. There were long initial delays in the implementation of the
project which were associated with the delayed release of project funds, and later problems between
the agencies associated with lack of synchronization of funding releases. Although the former
problem may have had something to do with the depressed state of the economy in the early stages of
the project, the latter might have been averted through better coordination of budget requests and
more prudent use of special funds available to facilitate startup of multi-year projects (GARO and-
SARO).
26.   Project Coordination. Aside from the problems associated with budget releases, there were
constraints at both the national and the local level, and between the implementing agencies as well as
between implementing agencies and other performing supporting roles. Because of each agency's
mandate to "spend or lose" its annual budget allocation, implementation of the various major
components (water supply, sanitation, community development) was sometimes more like a race than
a highly coordinated effort. Lack of funding at the community level resulted in inadequate
community organization to achieve full and effective use of local personnel trained. Problems in
coordination between the DOH and the Department of Education, Culture and Sports (DECS)
resulted in long delays in redistribution of project-related health and hygiene educational materials
intended for schooolchildren.
27.   Effects of the Devolution. The Local Government Code (implemented in 1992) had a
particularly strong effect on the DOH, as provincial and municipal functions which had previously
been under its control "devolved" to their respective provinces and municipalities. The resulting lack
of centralized control over key personnel such as Rural Sanitary Inspectors resulted in some reported
instances of misuse of procured goods, and in other instances the duties of the RSIs were diverted to
other functions by local politicians. The increased responsibility brought on to DILG by the
devolution required its newly designated (Manila-based) Provincial Action Officers to assume a host
of responsibilities for which they were generally inadequately prepared or funded to perform.
28.   Private Sector Participation. Private sector participation in well construction was limited
under the project to backyard well drillers who were often poorly equipped and trained to properly
construct project wells, which probably will affect the longevity of the facilities. Few such small
private well drillers received training under the project, as the Government was reluctant to extend
project funds for the training of private indviduals. With respect to well construction contract
packaging, although interest was strong on the part of the professional well drilling contractors
intended to perform this work, ultimately no wells were tendered for such construction, at least in part
due to the (unproven) perception that the wells thus constructed would be at much higher cost and
would perform no better than those constructed directly by DPWH administration.
29.   Financial Procedures. The Covenenants of the Project Bank Loan were not strictly followed
with respect to timely submittal of Audit Reports, which on the part of at least one agency (DPWH)
was partially the result of accounting staff being diverted to reconstruct the financial records of
another project. Other problems seemed to be the result of inadequate training or monitoring, such as
inadequate perpetual inventory systems, long initial delays in procurement of toilet bowls, and failure
to properly follow Bank procurement guidelines (e.g. failure to properly postqualify a supplier of
water supply materials).



45                               Appendix B
Borrower
30.   Use of Government Funds for Planning Purposes. Aside from the aforementioned training
of private individuals, the Government was unwilling to use loan funds for planning activities, such
as the required preparation of Provincial Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Sector Plans.
Instead, grant funding was required to be sourced out for this purpose, which resulted in considerable
delay in project implementation and probably also lessened the plans' intended use as a tool in setting
FW4SP project targets.
Borrower's Performance
31.   The respective Project Management Offices of the three implementing agencies were
mandated to implement the water supply and sanitation improvements. Activities were to be jointly
administered through a Project Coordinating Committee, although many of the senior members of the
Committee did not remain in place for the duration of the project and there were substantial problems
associated with the level of coordination required, in particular lack of synchronization in the
schedules for implementation of community development activities and water supply facility
construction, and mismatches between BWSA formation targets and corresponding water supply
facility construction targets. Considering the degree of coordination required, implementation was
generally considered satisfactory. The agencies completed the majority of the facilities targeted, and
were very successful in promoting the private sector manufacture of water supply- and sanitation-
related goods.
Bank Performance
32.   Bank performance suffered slightly from a lack of continuity of task management over the
course of the project, but is generally considered satisfactory. In the future, it would be helpful to
provide more intensive assistance in the area of procurement, as Bank staff have strong expertise in
this area and such intervention might have helped to correct four major problems in the
implementation of the project which were noted earlier (late submission of audit reports, delayed
procurement of toilet bowls, failure to properly postqualify a supplier, and failure to implement
contract packaging of wells constructed).
Summary of Lessons Learned and Recommendations for Future Projects
33.   Interagency Coordination. Strengthening of coordination among implementation agencies
from the central down to the local level is key to ensuring efficient delivery of support to LGUs. The
following specific activities are recommended:
a) Promote early identification of agencies responsible for meeting the preconditionalities of the
loan, to achieve the proper level of coordination and ensure timely compliance to the
preconditions.
b) Solicit direct assistance of senior government officials as required in coordinating construction,
certification, operation and maintenance of facilities.
c) Synchronize releases of funds to each implementing agency. For future projects of the same
aspect, it is suggested that the Department of Budget Management (DBM) should be on board as
early as the planning stage, and the Project Coordinating Committee should include the DBM as
one of its regularly attending members.



46                                Appendix B
Borrower
d) Maintain close liaison with the Bank staff for effective and efficient implementation.
e) Install a data bank for computer inputs at the LGU and provincial levels which is jointly
accessible to the national government agencies.
34.   Effective Community Participation. Community and LGU participation in project planning
and implementation is crucial to project success. Planning should be a two-way process - bottom-up,
then top to bottom. The following aspects require careful attention:
a) Funding for community organization at the municipal level should be shared by the Project (1 st
year) and the LGUs (subsequent years).
b) Intensified social preparation and sustained public dissemination from the project design stage is
very important to attain cooperation, commitment and acceptance by the community. Emphasis
on intensified health education regarding proper personal hygiene and appropriate sanitary
practices should be provided.
c) Training/Orientation of the LGUs on the Sanitation Component should be emphasized, to
improve their awareness and ability to provide assistance to RSIs. Assistance from local NGOs,
Barangay Health Workers and other civic organizations must be effectively solicited in the
delivery of the basic services.
d) Intensive involvement of women in water supply and sanitation management for improved
utilization and sustainability of physical facilities should be promoted to enhance 0 & M, and
improve family hygiene practices.
e) Technologies to be used shall fit the local needs, resources and demand by the rural communities.
f) Training should only be provided to those who meet, specific, clearly predefined requirements
for participation.
g) Other mechanisms besides BWSAs (such as pre-existing community organizations) may be more
appropriate for providing Level I water supply services.
h) Educational materials should be produced at the LGU level and in the local dialect.
i) Regular monitoring on the functionality, use, potability, and 0 & M of completed water supply
and sanitation facilities should be undertaken by the LGUs.
35.   Adequate Advance Preparation and Proper Timing. Community consultation shall be
undertaken from project identification. Social preparation of the communities and planning activities
shall precede any project implementation activities to be carried out. In particular, the following are
important:
a) Orientation on the proposed sector project to be given to the local officials, in order to inform
them of the project components and benefits, and to get their commitment and acceptance.
b) Site selection and spot mapping with the community.



47                                Appendix B
Borrower
c) Preparation of a comprehensive project implementation plan, together with the community,
during the initial year to facilitate proper monitoring and reporting, prior to the start of
construction.
d) Organization of BWSAs, activation of existing ones prior to project implementation, and tapping
of existing organizations.
e) Performing project launching workshops so as to get all of the beneficiaries involved, and to be
reperformed in instances when there is a substantial mid-project deviation in scope or design.
36.   Financial Matters. The government should live up to its commitment to provide budget
funds and GOP counterpart funds. The GARO and SARO (one time allotment for one year
expenditure) has been provided for this purpose. Agency financial procedures should be
strengthened, including the following:
a) Promotion of cost recovery schemes at the outset of the planning stage to ensure sustainability.
b) Strengthening of the internal control system, particularly on matters pertaining to procurement.
Additional training should be provided, especially at the lower levels.
c) Defining the tasks of Accountants to update, maintain and accomplish properly the books of
accounts and financial reports, to ensure reliability and accuracy of financial information.
d) Accounting staff should concentrate on the annual financial reporting of the project at hand;
projects should acquire dedicated accounting staff.
e) An assessment of the financial management capability of the Project Office should be done at the
preparation stage of the project.
f) A computerized financial management system should be established.
g) Lending institution staff should perform a review of statements of expenditure at least annually
for timely discovery of discrepancies.
37.   Private Sector Development. Continue promoting the use of modified Afridev handpumps
for deeper well settings:
a) Continue promoting the use of plastic toilet bowls.
b) Promote contract packaging of wells for LGUs where feasible.
c) Promote private sector participation as an 0 & M strategy.
38.   Facility Design Aspects:
a) Promote child-friendly facility designs.
b) Provide more emphasis on drainage of water supply facilities.
c) Provide appropriate sanitary pit designs to suit varied conditions, e.g. sandy soils.



48                                Appendix B
Borrower
Summary Assessment of Project
39.   The lessons derived from this Project served as valuable input to the recent reforms in the
sector. Coordination can only be effectively achieved if effective community participation is
engendered. This does not mean of course that there is no more room for national government
agencies (NGAs) to take part in the entire development process; there are capacity constraints and
limitations where NGAs' interventions are crucial, and the level of preparedness of LGUs to assume
an increased role in the Sector varies substantially from one to another. The task of helping the less
prepared is still part of NGA responsibility.
40.   Given the policy environment within which the Project was conceived and developed, the
objectives set were reasonable and were consistent with the design of the project, and the
achievement of these objectives is considered satisfactory.



49                               Appendix C
Consultant
FIRST WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
FINAL REPORT SUMMARY BY CONSULTANT
General Scope of Services
1.    Under the Project, Engineering-Science, Inc. (ES), in association with Nippon Jogesuido
Sekkei Co. Ltd. (NJS) and Basic Technology and Management Corporation (BASICTEAM) provided
Project Implementation Consultancy (PIC) services. The main objective of the consultancy services
was to contribute to the successful implementation of the project, including the following broad areas
of assistance: administrative and technical assistance; planning; monitoring; reporting; and training.
Performance in Specific Areas
2.    Administration and TechnicalAssistance. Such assistance was provided through
preparation and attendance of all meetings of the Project Coordinating Committee (PCC), and by
continuously posting key personnel in the central offices of the three project implementing agencies.
Administratively, the consultants' presence and impartiality generally served to facilitate interagency
coordination and cooperation, despite such difficulties as might be expected given the (three-agency)
nature of the project design. Technically, the approach taken served to enhance agency achievement
and technology transfer in project implementation planning for each individual agency, in
development and modification of detailed designs and specifications (water supply and sanitation
facilities), and in prequalification and tendering assistance (materials, equipment, civil works, other
consultants). Specific problems which occurred and would probably have benefited from closer
attention of the consultants included delays in successful implementation of contracts for manufacture
of plastic toilet bowls, at least one observed breach of Bank procurement policy, and slow agency
compliance with Bank financial reporting and audit requirements.
3.    Planning. General planning assistance provided included review of the initial provincial
master plans prepared and incorporation of the pertinent information from them (e.g., rural water and
sanitation facility requirements, unserved population) into detailed investment programs (covering
contracting arrangements, training and community development activities, implementation schedules,
and monitoring indicators). However, delays in locating sources of grant funding for subsequent
batches of Master Plan preparation eventually resulted in the FW4SP investment programming
activity overtaking the broader master planning activity.
4.    An updated Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Sector Master Plan will be prepared
under ADB grant funding starting in 1998, with the National Economic Development Authority
(NEDA) as the Executing Agency. The role of the consultants under FW4SP was to provide inputs
for such a plan, which was accomplished in a series of meetings between NEDA and the consultants,
and by closely involving NEDA in the activities of the PCC in the early and middle stages of the
project, where they were kept informed of the FW4SP's successes and travails. Such experience
undoubtedly helped to shape NEDA's philosophy for implementation of future sector projects, which
now appears to be more closely focused on community-based approaches to rural water supply and
sanitation.



50                                Appendix C
Consultant
5.    Monitoring and Evaluation. Consultant field teams were frequently employed to conduct
independent checks of implementation progress, and to monitor and evaluate construction,
installation, operation and maintenance, with aspects of particular relevance from such activities
being recorded in the respective quarterly reports. Monitoring indicators on physical project
accomplishment were also maintained by the consultants and input into a computer data base (and
reported in the consultants' quarterly reports) for the duration of the project. A broader range of
indicators intended to quantify correlations between physical project accomplishment and less
obvious aspects of project accomplishment were also developed early in the project, but less
effectively maintained throughout, as the personnel responsible for their development left the project
in the early stages and were apparently succeeded by less skilled or experienced personnel. In the
latter stages of the project, the consultant assisted the three implementing agencies to organize
additional surveys and conduct data analysis, which helped to mitigate information gaps which might
otherwise have occurred.
6.    A baseline survey suitable for conducting an environmental health impact assessment was
also conducted by the consultants at about the time that the project's household latrine subcomponent
was just starting to show meaningful progress, but to date follow-up assessments have been limited to
presumed correlations between such impacts and measured physical accomplishment. A detailed
follow-up survey conducted during the project's operations phase (preferably some months after
completion of installation of the household latrines) might provide a more accurate correlation.
7.    Reporting. Compliance with reporting requirements is considered generally successful.
Monthly and quarterly reports were diligently prepared by the consultants, incorporating the results
of the ongoing monitoring efforts in relation to the planned program of work, with data obtained from
each of the implementing agencies and from consultant field teams. Typically, these routine reports
addressed summaries of progress and project achievements, planning and scheduling of activities,
particular difficulties encountered and plans for resolving them, field activities undertaken, and
accomplishment of monitoring indicators. A variety of other reports were also prepared in
accordance with both explicit requirements of the Terms of Reference, and with respect to a variety
of both routine and special activities conducted by the consultants (e.g., project data base,
prequalification and tender evaluation, environmental health impact baseline survey, evaluation of
special items of materials and equipment).
8.    Training and Technical Assistance. The consultants participated extensively in training
activities throughout the project implementation period. Training manuals and courses developed
and conducted directly by the consultants covered all aspects of water supply and sanitation facility
design and construction; much training assistance was also given during Government-sponsored
training events in community development. The consultants also assisted in the development of
health and hygiene educational materials, and in conducting skills training in the operation and
maintenance of Level I water supply facilities. Some training activities in the foregoing topics were
also conducted for private sector participants, but were severely limited by availability of funding and
are not considered particularly successful.
Summary Assessment
9.    The consultant's main objective of contributing to the successful implementation of the
Project was achieved. Contributions made in the planning, implementation and administration of
project activities assisted to improve both the timeliness and quality of project implementation.
Capabilities of the implementing agencies were enhanced in several areas as a direct result of the



51                                Appendix C
Consultant
consultant's activities, particularly in the design and construction of water supply facilities. Health
and hygiene educational materials prepared with consultant assistance are finding use throughout the
project area. Attempts to broaden private sector and local government capabilities have also been at
least partly successful. The professional observations of the consultant gained over the entire project
implementation period have helped both the implementing agencies and World Bank to perform a
more comprehensive and impartial evaluation of the project, and to develop meaningful
recommendations for improving the performance of future sector projects.
10.   The approach taken by the consultants was not without a few problems worth noting: (a)
Inputs of some of the expatriate technical experts employed, particularly with respect to computer
applications and financial systems, were expended early in the project, on the (overly optimistic)
assumption that the necessary technology transfer would have been completed by then. It would
have been better to have provided for intermittent inputs from such personnel through a considerably
longer period. (b) Three team leaders were employed over the duration of the project, which likely
adversely affected continuity of liaison with the Government, and continuity of the consultants'
technical activities generally. (c) Team composition strongly emphasized expatriate personnel with
strong technical skills (as opposed to community development expertise), and local personnel with
extensive previous government agency service (as opposed to international consulting experience),
which may have lessened the level of community development assistance, and some other aspects of
technology transfer.



IBRD 27553
116~~~~~~~~~~  120                                             524                                                   1200~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
~~  1  laces Norle  38 ALlan                                                                                                                        200~~~~~~~~~~~~0  100 :10 ~ 20
2  laces 5cr  39  Capia ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ UA4E
36L   no                       0Aniu                                           AAE
4   a3   snn                  1bbNTONLCPTl
CORDILLERA ADMINISTRATIVE   42  Ne~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ras Occidental~~~~~12
REGION (CAR)  43 Gaimaras~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~6
S Abra   VII  CENTRAL VISAYAS                                                         PROVINCE BOUNDARIES~~~~~~6
6HINAInaAaa                    44Cb
7 Mountain Pranisce  45  Negras Oriental                                      - -    REGION BOUNDARIES~~~
8 lbjgaa  46 Babel~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IW99 mI  [5F 



