Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
/;2A/1        32         / Q                t>' t         Report No. 8143-PH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PHILIPPINES
FIRST WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND SANITATION
SECTOR PROJECT
MAY 31, 1990
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
This document has a resuicted distribution and may be used by   ouly In the perome  of
their official duties. Its contents may not othenrise be dis wosedt    Wodd BD& autwhoa |on.



CURRENCY EMUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Pesos (P)
UIS$1                     P 22.50 (as of March 1990)
US$4.44                  "rI oo
US$1 million       .      P 22.5 million
US$44,444          -      P I million
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m)                            .      3.2808 feet (ft)
I kilometer (km)                       -      0.62 mile (mi)
I square kilometer (sq km)             -      0.3861 square miles (sq mi)
I liter (1)                                   1.1 quarts (qt) or 0.26 gallons (gal)
I liter per capita per day (lcpd)             0.2642 gal per capita per day
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB          -     Asian Development Bank
AWSP         -     Accelerated Water Supply Program
BWSA         -     Burangay Waterworks and Sanitation Association
DANIDA       -     Danish International Development Agency
DBM          -     Department of Budget and Management
DEO          -     District Engineer's Office
DGIS         -     Netherlands' Directoraat Generaal Internationale Samenwerking
DLG          -      Department of Local Government
DOF          -     Department of Finance
DOH          -     Department of Health
DPWH         -     Department of Public Works and Highways
GTZ          -      Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit (German
Agency for Technical Cooperation)
ICB          -     International Competitive Bidding
LCB          -     Local Competitive Bidding
LGU          -     Local Government Unit
LWUA         -      Local Water Utilities Administration
MWSS         -     Metropolitan Waterworks and Sewerage System
NEDA         -     National Economic and Development Authority
NGO          -     Non-government Organization
NWRC         -     National Water Resources Council
OECF         -      Overseas Economic Couperation Fund (of Japan)
PCC          -     Project Coordination Committee
PCR          -      Project Completion Repo. t
PMO-RWS   -        Project Management Office for Rural Water Supply
PPDO         -      Provincial Planning and Development Office
RDO          -      Regional Engineer's Office
RWDC         -     Rural Waterworks Development Corporation
SOE          -     Statement of Expenditures
UNDP         -     United Nations Development Programme
UNICEF       -      United Nations Children's Fund
USAID        -     United States Agency for International Development
WD           -     Water District
WHO          -     World Health Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PHILPPINES
FIRST WATER SUPPLY. SEWERAGE AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJIECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower            Republic of the Philippines
Amount              US$85 milliora equivalent
Terms:              20 years. including five years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
Proiect Descriotion:  The proposed project would help finance rural water supply and sanitation
investments included in the Government's Water Supply, Sewerage and
Sanitation Master Plan 1988-2000. The project's rural focus is intended to
redress the existing imbalance in sector service to the urban and rural
populations and to better reach the poor, the majority of whom live in the
rural areas. Institutionally, the project would assist the Government in
achieving its policy objective of decentralizing investment planning and
implementation. Local government staff would therefore be trained to
prepare and carry out Provincial Sector Development Plans; local community
support would be mobilized and training provided for improved operation
and maintenance of the facilities constructed.
Funds would be provided under the project for. (a) water supply
development for some 18,000 rural communities, primarily in Luzon, to be
carried out by the Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH); (b)
rural sanitation development throughout the country, including the provision
of sanitary excreta disposal facilities for some one million households, to be
carried out by the Department of Health (DOH); and (c) technical assistance
for (i) project implementation, (ii) the preparation of Provincial Sector Plans
for 37 provinces in Luzon, (iii) training and communiity development by
DPWH, DOH, and the Department of Local Government (DLG) for the local
staff and communities involved in operating and maintaining facilities to be
provided under the project, (iv) quality assurance and control, (v)
preparation of future water supply and sewerage projects by the Local Water
Utilities Administration (LWUA) and (vi) updating of the Master Plan.
Benefits and Risks:  Overall, about 3 million people would benefit from project-supported water
supply facilities, about 6 million would benefit from the rural sanitation
component, and 37 of tne country's 75 provinces would benefit from the
project's local government development activities.  In addition, the
integrated implementation and operational procedures, practices and
standards established under the project would facilitate the participation of
other lenders in the sector.
The project's success will depend on the coordintted delivery of water
supply and sanitation improvements and community development and
training. To minimize the risk of poor coordination, a Project Coordination
Committee was established to oversee the various project participants, and
procedures to be followed by the Committee and comprehensive
performance monitoring requirements were developed. There is also the risk
that the decentralization of responsibilities expected under the project may
not proceed at the pace anticipated. The Bank is concurrently providing
assistance to the Government in carrying out a Decentralization and Local
Government Development Study, which is expected to lead to
recommendations on a sound fiscal framework that would facilitate
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
government decentralization plans. Ultimately, however, the sustainability
of the project will depend on the ability and willingness of the local
communities to maintain the facilities provided. The project therefore
includes a large training and community development program.
Proiect Costs:                     LFal,      Eoreisfn      Il1
- - - - - (USS million) - - - - - -
Rural water supply           36.2         29.3         65.5
Rural sanitation              6.5         11.0         17.5
Technical assistance         DA            .482        Z1_Z
Base cost                    62^S         AI          107.7
Physical contingencies        6.7          2.9          9.6
Price contingencies           9.5          6.0         15.5
Total oroiect cost /_        78.          li12
Financing Plan:
Government                   47.8            -         47.8
Bank                         30.9
-Dod                         79.7Il                  13.
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY         1991      1992        3      1994      1         1996
- - - - - - - - - - - (US$ million) - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Annual          10.7      20.3      18.6      17.9      14.4       3.1
Cumulative      10.7      31.0      49.6      67.5      81.9      85.0
Economic Rite of Return:   The water supply component would give a financial return of about
8%; the benefits of the remaining components cannot be quantified.
Man: IBRD No. 22431
/a Including estimated taxes ana duties of US$10.6 million equivalent.



PHILIPPINES
FIRST WATER SUPPLY. SEWERAGE AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary   .......................................                                              i
1. THE WATER SUPPI.Y, SEWERAGE AND SANITATION SECTOR .......                                                    I
A. Sector Background .........................................                                              I
B. Sector Organization  ........................................                                            2
C. Sector Financing and Investment  ..............................                                          3
D. Sector Issues and Constraints  ...                                                                       6
E. The Bank's Strategy and Lending in the Sector  ....................7
2. THE PROJECT                  ....................................                                            9
A. Project Origin and Formulation  ...............................                                          9
B. Project Objectives .........................................                                            10
C. Rationale for Bank Involvement ...............................                                          10
D. Project Description  ........................................                                           10
E. Cost Estimates ............................................                                             13
F. Financing Plan  ...........................................                                             14
G. Procurement .............................................                                               16
H. Disbursements ............................................                                              17
I.  Environmental Aspects  .....................................                                           18
J.  Women in Development .....................................                                             19
K. Poverty Alleviation  ......                                     .........                               20
L. Assistance to Private Enterprise  ...............................                                       20
3. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                           ..                                         21
A. Implementation Responsibilities  ...............................                                        21
B. Implementing Agencies  .....................................                                            23
C. Operation and Maintenance  .............   .                  ......................                    25
D. Monitoring, Progress Reporting and Supervision  ...................                                     25
E. Accounts and Audit ........................................                                             26
4.  JUSTIFICATION   ............................................                                               26
A. Project Benefits ...........................................                                            26
B. Risks .           ..................................................                                    28
5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ..............                                                        28
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission comprising Messrs. Anthony Van Vugt
(Financial Analyst/Economist), Task Manager, Erdogan Pancaroglu (Sanitary Engineer), Finn
Nielsen (Municipal Engineer), Gerhard Tschannerl (Project Engineer, UNDP/World Bank Water
and Sanitation Team), and William Barker (Training Consultant) which visited the Philippines in
September/October 1989. Mrs. Nancy Barrett helped prepare the report, and Ms. Patricia
Brereton-Miller edited the report.



- iv -
ANNEXES
Annex 1: Organization C:hma
Department of Public Works and Highways
DPWH Project Management Office for Rural Water Supply
Department of Health
Office of Environmental Health Services
Department of Local Government
DLG Project Management Office for Rural Water Supply
Local Water Utilities Administration
Annex 2: Implementation Arraniements
Part A. Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Master Plan 1988-2000
Part B. Implementation Arrangements
Part C. Monitoring Indicators
Part D. Project Area
Annex 3: Develooment of Soecifications
Annex 4: Proiect Costs and Disbursements
Part A. Summary of Project Costs
Part B.  Details of Project Costs
Part C.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Part D. Sample Statements of Expenditure
Annex 5: Training and Community Develolment Program
Annex 6: Economic Evaluation of the Proiect
Annex 7: Outline Terms of Reference
Part A. Preparation of Provincial Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Sector Plans
Part B.  Studies for Urban Environmental Improvements
Part C.  Financial Restructuring Study of LWUA
Part D. Consulting Services for Project Implementation
Part E. Quality Assurance and Control: Consulting Services
Part F.  Quality Assurance and Control: UNDP/World Bank Water Supply and Sanitation
Program
Annex 8: Selected Documents and Data Available in the Proiect File
MAP IBRD 22431



1. THE WATER SUPPLY. SEWERAGE AND SANITATION SECTOR
A. Sctor Back&Vound
GeosraDhv and Population
1.1         The principal source of domestic water supply in the Philippines, particularly in the
rural areas, is groundwater which is generally of acceptable quality and available throughout the
country in sufficient quantities. In cities with large concentrations of population, surface water is
often utilized. There are four major groundwater reservoirs with areas ranging, from 6,000 sq km
to 12,000 sq km which, when combined with other smaller reservoirs, aggregate to about 50,000 sq
km. There are over 400 principal rivers, with catchment areas ranging from 40 sq km to 25,000 sq
km and some 60 natural lakes as well as numerous small streams. Average annual rainfall is about
300 cm. The rainfall is unevenly distributed, with certain populated areas in the northwest having
dry seasons of about three to seven months. The Philippines has a total land area of 300,000 sq km
spread over some 7,100 islands of volcanic origin. About 95% of the land is contained in 11 of the
largest islands, with two islands, Luzon and Mindanao, accounting for some two thirds of the total
area (see Map IBRD 22431). Nearly 65% of the country is either mountainous or upland, with
mountain ranges dividing the islands into small watersheds.
1.2         In 1987, the Philippines had a total population of some 57.4 million, about 14% of
whom lived in Metropolitan Manila, 27% resided in other urban areas, and 59% or 33.8 million
people lived in rural areas. Overall, the annual population growth rate for the last decade has been
estimated at about 2.5%. More thap half of the population is considered poor, with incomes
inadequate to meet their basic needs, and about 70% of all poor families live in rural areas. The
absolute level of rural income, averaging P 6,204, is less than half the average urban income of
P 13,081.
Service Levels
1.3         The provision of water supply and sanitation services in the Philippines has
improved considerably over the past two decades. Nevertheless, significant investment in the sector
is still needed in view of the rapid population growth which requires major system expansion to
maintain and improve current service levels, still low levels of coverage in rural areas where most
of the population lives, the poor quality of existing service in many locations, and the need to
prepare for future growth and economic expansion.
1.4         Water SUDDIV. Between 1972, when a major sector review was completed, and 1980,
water supply services were extended to an additional 3 million people, bringing the total population
with access to safe water to around 22 million or about 45% of the population. By end-1987, about
63% of the population had access to safe water, including 86% of the population in Metropolitan
Manila and its adjoining areas, 55% in other urban areas, and 62% in rural areas. Overall, some
31% of the population was served by piped systems. Despite the improvement in overall service
levels, the quality of service in the areas covered was often poor, with low water pressures
throughout and rationed service in some areas. The population still unserved by water supply
systems, comprising some 21.2 million people at end-1987, depended on water of often doubtful
quality from open dug wells, rainwater cisterns, lakes and streams.
1.5         Three levels of service are provided, depending on the population density in the
area served. Level I (point source) service, consisting of a protected well or developed spring with
an outlet but without a distribution system, is provided in rural areas with thinly scattered
1 The poverty line is estimated at P 5,010 per capita per annum in urban areas and P 3,759
per capita per annum in rural areas, in 1980 prices (The Philippines: The Challenge of Poverty,
Bank Report No. 7144-PH, October 17, 1988).



- 2 -
populations. A Level I facility normally qerves about 15 to 30 households, typically supplying 30 to
,50 liters per capita per day (Icpd); its outreach is optimally not more than 250 meters. A Level II
system (communal faucet system or standposts) comprises a source, a reservoir, a piped distribution
network and communal faucets, optimally located not more than 25 meters from the farthest house.
The system is designed to deliver about 40-80 lcpd to an average of 50 households, with one faucet
for every four to six households. Level II systems are generally used in rural and urban fringe
areas where houses are clustered densely to justify a simple piped system. A Level III system
(waterworks system with individual house connections) has a source, a reservoir, a piped
distribution network and household taps, and is generally used in densely populated urban areas.
1.6          Sewerage and Sanitation. The 1980 census estimated that only about 56% of the
population had access to satisfactory sanitation facilities in the form of septic tanks/pits or water-
borne sewerage (i.e., sanitary sewers or combined sewer/storm drains) for excreta disposal. By
end-1986, about 69% of all households had safe excreta disposal facilities, about 15% had unsafe
facilities and about 16% had no facilities at all. In terms of population served, about 62% of the
rural and 80% of the urban populations had access to sanitary facilities, with Metropolitan Manila
having the highest service level at 93%. Of the 17.3 million people still underserved or unserved
countrywide, only 0.5 million were in Metropolitan Manila, 4.2 million were in other urban areas,
and the majority, i.e., 12.6 million, were in rural areas.
1.7          Pit or pour-flush latrines predominate throughout the country. In Metropolitan
Manila, the dominant disposal facilities are septic tanks, many of which are not well maintained
and are inefficient in treating the wastes which they discharge to surface-water drainage systems.
The only urban areas with water-borne sewerage systems are Metropolitan Manila, where about
750,000 people are served, and three other cities where service is provided exclusively to the
central areas. Because of the limited public sewerage systems and inefficient private sanitary waste
disposal facilities, untreated or poorly treated domestic sewage is a major source of urban and river
pollution.
Sectoral Imnact on Health
1.8          National statistics on mortality and morbidity indicate a critical need to improve
both the coverage and standards of service in the water and sanitation sector. While the crude death
rate declined overall from 11.8 deaths per 1,000 population in 1970 to 7.9 deaths in 1985, there
were significant regional differences in mortality, with higher rates in the less-developed regions.
The factors contributing to the higher mortality rates included crowded living conditions, poor
nutrition, ignorance of proper health practices, and poor sanitation. Morbidity rates, which have
been steadily rising, indicate the nationwide prevalence of diseases either carried by water or
related to improper sanitation. Diarrheal diseases, which are strongly associated with unsafe water
and poor hygiene and sanitation, are ranked second among the ten leading causes of morbidity,
with an incidence rate of about 990 per 100,000 population in 1986. According to national
statistics, the total number of cases of diarrheal diseases increased by 3.2% a year during 1981-85.'
Substantial improvement of the country's water supply and sanitation facilities, particularly in the
rural areas, therefore has high priority in the Government's investment plans.
B. Sector Orianization
1.9          The National Water Resources Council (NWRC), which includes representatives of
the various sector institutions, is responsible for the management, coordination and integration of
all activities related to development of water resources. The Metropolitan Waterworks and
Sewerage System (MWSS), established in 1972, is responsible for the development, operation and
maintenance of water supply and sewerage systems in and around Metropolitan Manila. The Local
2 Philinnine Health Statistics. 1986. Health Intelligence Service, Department of Health.



- 3-
Water Utilities Administration (LWUA), established in 1973, is responsible for providing technical
and financial assistance for water supply and sewerage development for Water Districts (WDs)
potentially covering about 800 provincial municipalities with populations above 20,000. Since 1987,
when LWUA took over the former Rural Waterworks Development Corporation (RWDC), it has
also been responsible for the provision of Level n water supply systems to larger rural
communities. The Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) is responsible for providing
very basic water supply facilities (Level I systems) to thinly scattered rural communities. Both
MWSS and LWUA are semi-autonomous corporations, administratively under DPWH. The
Department of Health (DOH) implements the rural sanitation program and monitors drinking water
quality.
1.10        The operation and maintenance of urban water supply systems in the provincei. is
the responsibility of local government, often acting through WDs, which are semi-autonomous
public utilities, serving one or more municipalities. WDs are formed at the initiative of a city or
one or more municipalities and depend on LWUA for financial and technical assistance in system
upgrading and development. WDs are administratively and financially independent of local
government although the mayor nominates the WD's first Board of Directors. Barangay Waterworks
and Sanitation Associations (BWSAs), which are non-governmental organizations (NGOs), are
responsible for rural water supply systems. BWSAs are formed when rural communities request
provision of public wells or spring development, and accept the related responsibility for operation
and maintenance. By mid-1989, about 500 WDs and about 20,000 BWSAs had been established.
1.11        In addition, the Lepartment of Local Government (DLG). while not a regular sector
agency, has a mandate to promote local autonomy by strengthening local government capabilities in
the delivery of basic services, including water supply and sanitation. DLG therefore helps to train
local government staff in the management and implementation of projects, assists local governments
in organizing BWSAs, and supervises Municipal and City Councils in registering BWSAs.
C. Sector Financint and Investment
Financina
1.12        Sector development in Metropolitan Manila is financed by MWSS through self-
generated funds, government equity contributions, and foreign Or local loans. LWUA is responsible
for water supply development in the urban areas outside Metropolitan Manila. In addition to
providing technical assistance, it functions as a financial intermediary in that it borrows from the
Government and on-lends to WDs. The municipalities served by the WDs normally make some
equity contribution, p.rimarily through the hand-over of existing water supply assets, to contribute
toward part of the cost of development, while the financially weaker WDs may be eligible to
receive some government grants. The BWSAs also receive government equity contributions and
benefit from grants provided through bilateral assistance.
1.13        The Government's general policy is to develop systems on the basis of a
community's financial ability and willingness to pay. Accordingly, Level III service is usually
provided in the larger metropolitan and provincial urban areas, Level II service in small rural
settlements, and Level I service in the more dispersed rural areas. Tariffs in Metropolitan Manila
are set by MWSS to earn a financi rate of return of about 8% on its revalued net fixed assets in
operation. For WDs, tariffs are set to generate adequate l1 ols of revenue to meet operation and
maintenance costs and cover debt servicing costs or depreciution, whichever is greater. However,
because of extensive poverty in the rural areas and the poiiticaliy-inspired reluctance by some WDs
to increase tariffs, water tariffs and collections in the WDs are often inadequate, resulting in
3 A barangay is the smallest political division in the Philippines, usually consisting of one or
more villages, with an average population of about 5,000 persons.



- 4 -
financial deficits and delayed payments to LWUA. The WDs with excessive debt burdens have
benefited from some debt rescheduling, but further financial restructuring may be needed to
strengthen their finances and provide a reasonable debt-to-equity ratio. In rural areas, tariffs are
expected to meet operation and maintenance costs and the debt servicing costs of any distribution
works related to the standpipe distribution network and connections.
Past Investment Levels
1.14         During 1981-85, investment in water and sanitation services increased in current
peso terms but declined in real terms due to the depressed economic conditions and political
changes that occurred in the mid-1980s. Investment increased in 1987, however, with the new
Government's commitment to meeting the basic needs of the rural population. The following table
shows actual expenditures for the water supply and sanitation sector for 1981-87.
Iable 1.1: WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATIOIJ INVESTMENTS, 1981-87
(Pesos million)
Year          NSS           DPVH         LWJA         RWDC           DON            TOTAL
1981         627.5         280.6        188.0          2.0           4.6          1,102.7
1982         842.6         415.8        153.0          1.5           5.3          1,418.2
1983         960.2         354.3        208.0          3.2          17.5          1,543.2
1984       1,276.9         284.6        110.0          1.7          28.4          1,701.6
1985       1,345.2         186.2         169.0         3.4          33.4          1,737.2
1986         793.2         187.1        140.0          6.1          47.2          1,173.6
1987         774.9         467.3        184.0          2.5          58.6          1,487.3
Tot al     6,620.5        2.175.9      1Z1f2.0        20.4          1950         101638
Source: Water Supply Sewerage and Saniration Master Plan of the Philippines 1988-2000.
In addition, during 1981-87, MWSS spent P 897.3 million for sewerage development and DLG
invested P 569.1 million for the Barangay Water Program, with assistance from the United States
Agency for International Development (USAID). Total sector investment was therefore about
P 11,630 million during the period.
1.15         Allocation of investmaent by subsector and area was highly skewed. Two thirds, or
P 7.8 billion, of total investment in the sector dur;ng 1981-87 went to development of water supply
in large urban areas; about P 2.8 billion (24%) went to rural water supply; P 0.8 billion (8%) went to
sewerage development and only P 195 million (2%) to rural sanitation. Thus, rural areas, where
almost 60% of the population lives, received only about 25% of total sector investment.
Sector Master Plan
1.16         The Government has recognized the need for a more equitable provision of services
and for a resumption of earlier levels of sector investment. It therefore prepared a Water Supply,
Sewerage and Sanitation Master Plan of the Philippines 1988-2000 (the Master Plan), which
provides a well-integrated, ambitious package of policies, programs and projects to be implemented
in two stages, ie.i from !988 to 1992 and from 1993 to the year 2000. The Master Plan is aimed at
accelerated development of the sector, especially in depressed areas, through an equitable
mobilization of resources and institutional reforms. It was formulated in the context of the updated
Medium-term Philippine Development Plan for 1988 to 1992 and provides a comprehensive
framework by which sector agencies are guided in preparing their long-term plans, using a sectoral
approach.



1.17        The physical targets, investment requirements and service coverage being sought
under the Ma3ter Plan are shown in Annex 2A. The targets of the Plan during its first phase
(1988-92) are to increase water service coverage in Metro Manila in line with population growth
but keeping the service level at about 87%, increase coverage in other urban areas to 77%, and
increase coverage in rural areas to 92%. Targets for sewerage and sanitation coverage are,
respectively, 14% in Metro Manila and 77% in rural areas. The quality of service would also be
improved. While service targets and the time-frame of the Plan are overly optimistic, the Plan is
valuable by providing direction to the various sector agencies and well-articulated project proposals
for external lenders. The Plan also serves as the coordinating mechanism for all lenders and donors
to the sector. Although the Bank was not directly involved in the preparation of the Master Plan,
it had previously encouraged the Government to undertake integrated, long-range planning for the
sector.
1.18        The greatest expansion of service under the Plan is envisioned in the rural areas. To
ensure a major effort in rural water supply, the Government approved an Accelerated Water Supply
Program (AWSP) (Republic Act 6716 of March 1989), which is to provide 100,000 wells and
handpumps to all barangays in the country during a two-and-a-half-year period beginning in April
1989. This would be backed up by the formation and training of BWSAs and the provision of
follow-up services to ensure that the systems are properly operated and maintained. The Program
is likely to require a much longer implementation period than anticipated in the Act.
1.19        Investment requirements for the first stage of the Master Plan's implementation
were estimated to total about P 25,022 million for water supply, P 2,857 million for sewerage and
P 473 million for sanitation (in constant 1988 prices). To facilitate the identification and
coordination of external financial assistance for Master Plan investments, the Plan was first
presented at the Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Decade Consultative Meeting, held in
Manila in May 1988, at which all major multi- and bi-lateral funding and aid agencies were
represented. The Consultative Meeting was sponsored by the World Health Organization (WHO)
and the German Agency for Technical Cooperation (Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische
Zusammenarbeit, GTZ). The Government subsequently sought World Bank financial assistance for
the proposed project, which is to address the more urgent sectoral priorities, namely rural water
supply and sanitation.
1.20        The Government, with the Bank's assistance, has maintained a close dialogue with
other external donor agencies to ensure the availability of adequate funding for the Master Plan's
large rural sector program. The Government of Japan, through its Overseas Economic Cooperation
Fund (OECF), wiUl complement the Bank's proposed water supply investments in Luzon by helping
to finance rural water supply investments in several provinces of the Visayas and Mindanao. The
Asian Development Bank (ADB) is implementing an Island Provinces Water Supply Project, while
the Governments of Belgium, Denmark and France are supporting various other ongoing projects.
The Australian Government, through the Australian International Development Assistance Bureau
(AIDAB), has formulated a project for about three provinces in the Visayas.  The U.S.
Government, through USAID, is assisting DLCG with training of trainers to assist BWSAs. The
Government of the Netherlands, through its Directoraat Generaal Internationale Samenwerking
(DWIS), recently approved a grant for the International Training Network, which will support
training activities in the sector. Indications of interest to provide additional assistance have come
from the Governments of Canada, Denmark, Italy, the Netherlands, the Federal Republic of
Germany and Singapore. Altogether, the proposed and ongoing projects cover some 45 to 50 of the
75 provinces in the Philippines.
1.21        In view of the willingness of so many lenders to support investments included in the
Master Plan, the Government intends to organize a follow-up donors' coordination meeting in 1990
to facilitate orderly devetopment in the sector.



-6-
D. Sector Issues and Constraints
1.22        Activities under the Master Plan, and under the proposed project, will address the
following major problems and issues now constraining sector development and performance in the
rural areas.
1.23        Lack of Sustainability. The most significant sector constraint in the rural areas i
the lack of sustainability in the operation and maintenance of the simple systems provided under
rural water supply projects. A high proportion of wells and handpumps now fail within a few
years of their completion. The reasons for this are many and vsried and include the following
(a)   Poor manufacture gf hand2ilmo. Handpumps should be relatively maintenance free
during the first two years and should perform adequately for at least ten years with
regular preventive maintenance. This has not been the case in the Philippines. and
handpumps have been wearing out faster than normally expected due to low
manufacturing standards and a tendency to procure the cheapest rather than the
most economic units.  Assistance is therefore needed in revising standards,
improving manufacturing processes, and providing quality assurance and control.
(b)   Poor installation, Wells and handpumps shouild be developed and installed with a
high standard of workmanship and at well chosen locations. Currently, locations are
often inappropriate, e.g., because of poor hydrogeological investigations, and
construction standards are also often inadequate. This could be corrected by more
intensive use and training of hydrogeologists, better training of well drillers, and
stricter inspection during drilling and after completion of works.
(c)   Poor ooeations and maintenance. Handpumps need to be regularly serviced and
defective parts replaced as and when needed. While community development and
training are generally provided to prepare the DWSAs to carry out these activities, in
many cases maintenance of the systems deteriorates rather quickly. The more active
BWSA members are also those who are more likely to leave for the cities or to
immigrate; cash collections for maintenance are often diverted to provide financial
assistance to needy families in the barangays; and tools for the maintenance of
pumps are usually not available.
(d)   Lnadcauate loal government involvement and support. Rural water supply and
sanitation projects have been centrally planned and implemented. Any local
government involvement appears to have been at the political level only - when
bidding for the allocatioa of resources. Local governments have not played a major
role in the identification of needs and priorities, in community development or in
the provision of operation and maintenance support. Probably as a result, there
appears to be no sense of responsibility at the local government level to sustain the
centrally planned and implemented development efforts. There is thus a need to
seek greater local government and community involvement in the design and
implementation of projects.
1.24        Plannina and Coordination. At the central political and departmental level, there
have not always been the commitment and coordination necessary to guide investments in an
optimal and equitable manner. Concerns at this level include:
(a)   Over-ootimistic planaina. Development plans are generally over-optimistic and not
deliverable at the scale and in the time-frames promised. This leads to a lack of
public confidence in public programs and possibly a feeling of failure at the
departmental level when targets set are not achieved.



(b)   Lack of coordination between implementing agencies. The realization of maximum
benefits requires complementarity in water supply development, sanitation
improvements, and training and community development. In the past, such
complementarity has not been fully achieved because project implementation and
review mechanisms established for this purpose have not functioned as intended,
and implementing agencies have pulled in different directions. This is not expected
to be a major problem in the future since the Master Plan functions as a vehicle for
investment coordination.
(c)   Inadeauate donor coordination. Efficient and equitable delivery of a sustainable
development program requires a great deal of coordination between the Government
and donors/aid agencies. Several multi- and bi-lateral aid agencies are now active
in the sector, often with widely differing approaches, standards and procedures, and
financing arrangements. These agencies also often overlap their assistance,
concentrating on identical geographical areas while other areas may receive little or
no support.
E. The Bank's Strategv and Lendins in the Sector
Previous ADproach and Involvement
1.25        The Bank's past involvement in the sector was aimed at supporting high-priority
investments included in successive government development plans, with particular emphasis on
providing service to the low-income population, helping the Government to develop a well-
conceived institutional framework for the sector as well as appropriate sectoral policies, and
addressing the various problems constraining efficient sector operations and development. Bank-
assisted projects have been important institutionally, by helping to establish satisfactory
organizational structures and bylaws, formulate training programs, improve the technology 'sed,
establish accounting and billing systems, and provide the capacity to implement a continuing
program of water supply, sewerage and sanitation investments. This assistance, complemented and
reinforced by the support of multilateral and bilateral aid agencies and lenders, has enabled the
Government to put in place the institutional structure needed for the nationwide expansion of
sector services now envisioned under the Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Mtster Plan 1988-
2000, which sets the overall program for sector assistance through the coming decade
1.26        With the exception of a loan in 1964 for development of the Metropolitan Manila
water supply system, the Bank's involvement in the sector began in 1977 with the Provincial Cities
Water Supply Project (Loan 1415-PH, US$23 million) to improve water supply in five provincial
towns in Luzon. A Project Performance Audit Report (No. 6422, September 29, 1986) found that
physical works and studies included in the project were carried out satisfactorily; however, training
of government staff working in small cc-munities was poorly planned and had no effect. Project
objectives for institutional development and financial pertormance would have been better pursued
through projects focused on these not easily attained goals.
1.27        Six other loans were subsequently made: (a) four for expansion of water supply and
sewerage in Metropolitan Manila, i.e., Loan 1615-PH for US$35.5 million in 1978, Loan 1814-PH
for US$63.0 million in 1980, Loan 2676-PH for US$69.09 million in 1986, and Lcan 3124-PH for
US$40.0 million in 1989; (b) water supply in provincial towns (Loan 1710/Credit 920-PH for
US$38.0 million) in 1979; and (c) a national program of rural water supply and sanitation (Loan
2206-PH, for US$35.5 million) in 1982.
1.28        The Project Completion Report (No. 7153, March 16, 1988) for the Second Manila
Water Supply Project (Ln. 1615-PH) found that, d,spite a four-year project delay due to
underestimated technical complexities and the economic-financial crisis of 1983-86, the project



achieved its objective of improving the piped water service to Manila, thus benefiting the health of
the local population. It also contributed to the institutional development of MWSS. The other
Bank-supported projects have also substantially met or are expected to meet their physical and
institutional objectives, although they have suffered construction delays, largely due to contractors'
financial problems associated with the economic crisis, and have fallen short of their financial
goals.  Some institutional achievements were also diminished, due to discontinuity in top
management positions and uneven professional interest. Despite a Special Action Program to
increase disbursement under loans affected by the economic crisis, the scope of some projects had
to be reduced and about US$60 million equivalent (about 20% of the Bank loans outstanding) could
not be utilized and had to be cancelled.                                                      r
1.29        The ongoing Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project (Loan 2206-PH), which laid
the groundwork for the rural emphasis of the proposed sector project, includes the provision of
about 10,000 protected wells with pumps and 400 communal faucet systems, construction of about
750,000 toilet units and 12 waste stabilization ponds, and technical assistance and training in health
education and the implementation and operation of rural water supply and sanitation services.
DPWH and the former RWDC were responsible for construction of the Level I and II systems
provided under the water supply component and DOH for the sanitation and health education
components. The performance of DPWH in implementing physical works has generally been good,
but RWDC was less successful in meeting targets for operation and maintenance, training and
community development. DOH met its physical targets and was particularly successful in carrying
out training and community development because of its extensive grassroots links to local
communities through barangay health volunteers and midwives. The main problems encountered
during project implementation were the failure af the Project Implementation Review Committee
to provide adequate planning, coordination, and monitoring of implementation, inadequate
maintenance of the completed systems by the local communities, and institutional development that
lagged behind physical development of the systems. These problems have been taken into
consideration in the design of the proposed project.
Current Sector Strateav
1.30        The Bank's strategy in the sector through the coming decade will support the
Government's Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Master Plan 1988-2000, which permits the
initiation of assistance for sector-wide projects comprising time-slices of selected programs to be
implemented under the Master Plan. Within this context, a significantly increased level of
investment is expected in the rural and provincial areas in order to meet the basic needs of the
poor.  Support would also be provided to the Government's efforts at achieving greater
decentralization in planning, implementation, operation, maintenance and monitoring in the sector,
allowing local participation in the investment process. This reflects a more general movement
toward decentralization being pursued throughout the Government. The Bank also expects to
emphasize environmental improvement, particularly by addressing the sanitation problems of the
larger provincial towns which have received relatively little attention to date, given the higher
priority of water supply development. The proposed project reflects the new strategy in its
inclusion of support for rural water supply and sanitation investments, institutional development at
the local government level, and studies of future sewerage and sanitation facilities for the larger
provincial towns.



- 9 -
2. TH1= PROJECT
A. Proiect Origin and Formulation
2.1          The proposed project is a logical continuation of the Bank's long involvement in the
sector, during which time sector institutions were established or restructured, sector policies and
strategies were developed, a Master Plan was prepared, and experience was gained with the
implementation of individual projects. The status of sectoral development is now such that the
Bank can support a more broadly-based sector project, eventually moving toward sectoral lending,
i.e., financing a time-slice of sectoral investments.
2.2         The project was formulated in the context of the Government's development
objectives, the lessons learned by the Bank from earlier projects, and the sectoral issues and
constraints identified earlier (paras. 1.22-1.24). The project therefore supports the Government's
sectoral objectives, as embodied in the Sector Master Plan and the Accelerated Water Supply
Program, by financing investments for rural water supply and sanitation. The rural water supply
component would focus on the Luzon area and would complement a similar project for the Visayas
and Mindanao, which is being prepared by the Government of Japan. The objectives of this
component are conservative and seem attainable: while the AWSP calls for the development of
50,000 wells during each of the next two years, the proposel project covers only about 5,000 wells
a year or about 10% of the annual target. Other financing agencies are expected to support the
balance of the program over time. The project's rural sanitation investments would be carried out
nationwide, in parallel with the water supply development under this and the Japanese-assisted
project. This dual focus on water supply and sanitation is intended to maximize the potential
benefits of both investments.
2.3          The project also supports the Government's objective of decentralizing development
activities to the local government level by encouraging significant local government and community
participation in sectoral investment planning, operation and maintenance, and monitoring.
Provincial Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Sector Plans would be prepared by the provincial
governments, with community participation, and would reflect local needs and priorities. Two
Provincial Plans have already been prepared, financed by grants provided by the Danish
International Development Agency (DANIDA), and six more are currently being prepared, also
with grant funding by DANIDA. To enhance the sustainability of investments carried out under
the Plans, the project incorporates a comprehensive training and community development program
in the operation and maintenance of water supply systems and in health education. Finally, it
would provide institutional support to both the public sector and private enterprises, with the
objective of improving quality assurance and control procedures for handpump manufacture, well
development and operations and maintenance.
2.4          To avoid coordination problems that occurred among the implementing agencies for
Loan 2206-PH (para. 1.29), the project includes mechanisms such as use of the recently established
Project Coordination Committee, the provision of consultant support during implementation, and
tight monitoring and reporting requirements. The necessary interagency agreements have already
been concluded. To ensure that local experience, customs and practices were properly reflected in
the project design, the project was prepared with the assistance of a successful rural water supply
NGO, the Tulungan sa Tubingan Foundation, and the Manila office of the United Nations
Children's Fund (UNICEF). Assistance in formulating appropriate standards and specifications for
the water supply component was provided by staff of the United Nations Develtipment Programme
(UNDP)/World Bank Water Supply and Sanitation Program.  To review  possibilities for
decentralization, the Bank is currently also assisting the Government to carry out a Decentralization
and Local Government Development Study as part of the Bank's sector work.



- 10 -
B. Proiect Obiectives
2.5          The primary objective of the proposed project is to assist the Government to meet
the basic needs of the rural population through the provision of safe, adequate and easily accessible
water supplies as well as proper sanitation. Institutionally, the project is aimed at (a) promoting
effective community participation to achieve sustainable sector development; (b) developing
organizational arrangements for improved operation and maintenance of water supply facilities;
(c) supporting governnment decentralization by providing local government units with a greater role
in planning, implementation and monitoring of sector activities; and (d) training manpower in the
planning and implementation of water supply and sanitation systems.
C. Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.6          The project addresses several areas of special importance. By providing safe water
supplies and improved sanitation in the rural areas, it would meet important basic needs of the
rural population, the majority of whom are poor. Project-supported sanitation investments would
help improve environmental conditions in the targeted areas. And, by promoting institutional
changes to enlarge the role of women in sectoral operations in the rural areas (para. 2.43). it would
increase women's involvement in the development process. The project would also allow the Bank
to continue its sectoral dialogue with the Government, which was important both in gaining
government acceptance of community and local government participation in prepa.ing local sector
investment plans and in identifying external financial support for those investments. Finally, the
project provides the Bank with an opportunity to assist the Government in establishing a set of
integrated procedures, practices and standards for the implementation of rural projects in the
sector. Among other things, this should help to facilitate and coordinate the mobilization of
financial support by other lending agencies in implementing the Sector Master Plr,n and AWSP and
in reaching the approximately 25 provinces with some 16 million rural people not yet included in
identified rural water supply projects.
D. Proiect Descriotion
2.7          The proposed loan would help finance investments included in the Sector Master
Plan and has the following components:
(a)    Rural Water SuDDIv. The project would support the provision of Level I (point
source) water supply schemes to some 18,000 rural barangays in about 37 provinces
in the Luzon group, as part of the Accelerated Water Supply Program. This will
generally include a groundwater supply through shallow and deep wells,
development of springs, rainwater collectors, water treatment units, and
rehabilitation of existing wells in the barangays.
(b)   Sanitation.  Sanitation facilities would be provided to rural areas nationwide,
including family latrines, well disinfections, school and communal/public toilets,
sullage removal units and pilot wastewater disposal facilities.
(c)    Technical Assistance. Assistance would be provided for project implementation,
training and community development, improvement of private sector manufacturing
and production capabilities, quality assurance and control, preparation of the
Provincial Sector Plans and updating of the Master Plan, and feasibility and other
studies for the preparation of future projects.
2.8          The project's water supply component would focus primarily on the rural areas in
Luzon while the sanitation component would be carried out in rural areas nationwide. The Luzon
area, with a total population of about 24 million people, includes Regions I to V as well as the
National Capital Region and the Cordilleras Autonomous Region. It covers 37 provinces, with 731



- 11 -
municipalities and about 18,000 barangays. The Visayas covers Regions VI to Vlll and has a total
population of 13.2 million. It contains 16 provinces, 385 municipalities, and about 11,000
barangays. Mindanao, with a total population of 13.5 million, covers Regions IX to XII and has 22
provinces, 290 municipalities, and about 8,000 barangays (Map IBRD 22431). The project water
supply component would serve about 3 million people living in some 18,000 barangays. The
sanitation component would cover all 18,000 barangays in Luzon as well as the 11,000 barangays in
the Visayas and 8,000 barangays in Mindanao and would potentially benefit some 6 million people.
A table giving details of the project areas is included in Annex 2D.
Rural Water SuDDlv
2.9          The proposed project would finance investments from mid-1990 to mid-1995 to be
made under the Accelerated Water Supply Program. The project is expected to provide for the
construction of about 11,000 shallow wells (up to a depth of 12 m) and some 7,000 deep wells (up
to a depth of 60 m), al Level I systems, for unserved or underserved communities, and all wells
would be equipped with handpumps. Another 5,000 existing but nonfunctioning wells would be
rehabilitated, and cylinders and replacement parts would be supplied and installed. About 1,000
springs would also be developed, including construction of spring boxes and laying of about 3,000
km of transmission pipelines, and about 200 rainwater collectors would be provided. In addition,
the project would finance the construction of 1,000 pilot water treatment units, utilizing
appropriate technology for the removal of excessive iron and manganese to improve groundwater
quality in certain rural areas.  The equipment, materials and vehicles required for the
implementation of these works as well as 25 workshop buildings would also be financed.
Rural Sanitation
2.10         The proposed project supports the sanitation objectives of the first phase of the
Sector Master Plan, which aims to distribute some 1.0 million toilet bowls for individual household
latrines, construct toilet facilities for about 1,000 schools, and disinfect some 1,000,000
contaminated wells. The project would therefore finance the procurement of 1.0 million water-
sealed pour-flush toilet bowls manufactured from PVC (polyvinylchloride) or other acceptable
material, construction of 1,000 barangay school toilets, procurement of chemicals for the
disinfection of contaminated public wells, a pilot project covering the construction of 100
communal/public toilets, a pilot project covering the procurement and installation of 100
wastewater treatment units to serve public sites and services projects, procurement of about 1,000
suliage removal units, provision of laboratory equipment for water quality surveillance, and the
procurement of vehicles to carry out activities under the project. The wastewater treatment units
are prefabricated sewage digesters made of plastic for single or multiple family use; the feasibility
of using these units for National Housing Authority projects would be demonstrated. Sullage
removal units, comprising a PVC or fiberglass kitchen sink, fittings and a soakaway pit, would also
be provided to demonstrate sanitary disposal of kitchen wastes in rural areas.
Technical Assistance
2.11         The project would include comprehensive technical assistance for project
implementation, preparation of Provincial Sector Plans, training and community development,
quality control, preparation of future projects, and updaing of the Master Plan. The inputs,
although substantial, are necessary. They cover both the implementation activities and the
preparation of future projects. The training and community development input, which is essential
to the sustainability of the project, is very labor-intensive (see Annex 5), but much of this
assistance will be provided by local consultants and departmental staff. Major tasks included are
summarized below.
2.12         Proiect Imnl2lmentation. Consultants would participate in project implementation to
assist the Project Coo.-dinating Committee (para. 3.2) with its coordination and reporting activities,



- 12 -
and the implementing agencies with the planning, implementation and monitoring of project
progress as well as specialized tasks such as hydrogeology to locate well sites properly. Most of the
investigations and detailed design for the simple rural water systems would be carried out by
DPWH, following already adopted standard specifications and procedures and supported by
consultants as needed (terms of reference are attached as Annex 7D).
2.13        Prenaration of Provincial Plans. Details of the project water supply and sanitation
works to be carried out in Luzon would be formulated in accordance with Provincial Water Supply,
Sewerage and Sanitation Sector Plans to be prepared for each of the 37 provinces involved. To
decentralize the planning and implementation of infrastructure facilities throughout the country,
the Government has decided that such plans will be prepared by the provincial governments, under
the general supervision of DLG. Technical assistance to the 37 provincial governments would
therefore be provided under the project. The Provincial Sector Plans would include outline long-
term development plans to the year 2010 as well as medium-term investment plans indicating both
iuvestment and institutional development needs during the next five years. Terms of reference for
this assistance are given in Annex 7A. During negotiations agreement was reached with the
Government that Provincial Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Sector Plans, satisfactory to the
Bank, will be prepared, adopted and implemented for the 37 provinces to be assisted under the
project, in accordance with an agreed format and schedule. To facilitate a rapid start-up of
project implementation, preparation, adoption and putting into effect of at least eight provincial
development plans, in a form acceptable to the Bank, would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed loan.
2.14        Trainins and Community Develonment.  Experience with rural water supply
programs has indicated that their success is largely dependent on the ability and willingness of the
rural communities to become self-sustaining in managing system operations and maintenance. The
project will therefore finance skills training for the BWSAs operating the water facilities being
provided. Under this component, up to 17,000 Level I BWSAs are expected to be formed, creating
a demand for the training of some 34,000 BWSA officers in the management and financial upkeep
of their Associations. Training will also be offered under the project to 22,000 caretakers to
operate and provide preventive maintenance to Level I water supply systems constructed or
rehabilitated under the project. DPWH would be responsible for the provision of technical training
and would be assisted by DLG. The project would also finance the in-service training of about 75
DPWH staff each year to develop their capabilities in technical, institutional, and community
development activities. The existing DPWH training program and other local training programs
would be used for this purpose.
2.15        Physical inputs would be complemented by DOH staff training anid a rural health
and hygiene education program. Training would be offered to about 4,000 rural sanitary
inspectors, 150 sanitation trainers, and 210 chemists and laboratory technicians, the latter to work
at existing laboratories in support of DOlls ongoing drinking water quality management programs.
DOH would provide this training through expansion of its existing training programs. The national
health education program would be conducted through the DOH organizational network and would
focus on women and children in rural commnunities. The program would be supported by
centrally-produced information, education and communication materials.
2.16        Community development activities to be undertaken in conjunction with the
project's water supply and sanitation components would be carried out by DLG, which has a
mandate to promote community participation in the formation of BWSAs. Under the project, DLG
would (a) hold meetings and workshops to mobilize community support for the formation of
BWSAs to help carry out both the AWSP and sanitation improvements and (b) post one DLG staff
member to act as a Community Organizer in each of the 37 project provinces in Luzon, to facilitate
implementation. The Community Organizers would liaise with the BWSAs, the local government
authorities and the line agencies. Details of the project's training and community development
program are provided in Annex 5. During negotiations, agreement was reached with the



- 13 -
Government on the implementation under the project of the training and community development
program described in Annex 5 and on the posting by DLG of Community Organizers in each of the
project provinces in Luzon during the preparation and implementation of the respective Provincial
Sector Plans (para. 2.13).
2.17         Oualitv Assurance and Control. The project would provide assistance in improving
local handpump manufacturing capabilities and in establishing local quality assurance and control
capabilities, with the help of the UNDP/World Bank 'Water Supply and Sanitation Program and
specialist consultants (paras. 2.47, 3.3 and 3.6). Terms of reference for these activities are provided
in Annexes 7E and 7F.
2.18         Preparation of Future Proiects. The project would also finance consultants to assist
LWUA in preparing studies for future investments under the Sector Master Plan. LWUA would
carry out feasibility studies and designs for about 70 urban water supply schemes to meet Master
Plan objectives as well as a study for its own financial restructuring, with the aim of putting the
agency on a sound financial footing and to correct problems which arose during the economic
depression of the mid-1980s and the after-effects of the revolution. This work would lay the
foundation for a possible Second Sector Project. In response to the need for greater attention to the
sewerage and sanitation subsector (para. 1.15) the Government has requested LWUA to prepare a
national strategy for the subsector and, in light of the priorities thus identified, an investment
project for external support. The proposed project would therefore provide LWUA with consultant
assistance to prepare a National Sewerage and Sanitation Subsector Master Plan and feasibility
studies for its priority investments needs. This work would lay the foundation for a possible Third
Sector Project. Terms of reference for this assistance are provided in Annexes 7B and 7C.
2.19        Uodatini of Master Plan. Assistance would be provided to DPWH to update the
Master Plan and to establish a data base to monitor the status of the sector as well as ongoing or
proposed developments. This activity is included in the Terms of reference for consultants
assisting with project implementation (Annex 7D).
Status of Proiect Preparation
2.20        Project institutional arrangements, interagency liaison, and procedures and standards
for the proposed works have been agreed and the Project Coordination Committee was established.
Two Provincial Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Sector Plans have already been prepared and
a further six will be completed by loan effectiveness. Advance procurement of drilling rigs and
engagement of consultants for project implementation are also in progress. Training workshops for
the staffs of the implementing agencies have already been held. Implementation is wherefore
expected to have a reasonably smooth start and would proceed as additional Provincial Sector Plans
are prepared.
E. Cost Estimates
2.21        The cost of the proposed project, including physical and price contingencies, is
estimated at P 3,103 million (US$132.8 million equivalent), including US$54.1 million (41%) in
foreign exchange and an estimated US$10.6 million equivalent in taxes and duties. The project cost
includes an estimated US$65.5 million (about 61% of total base costs) for the water supply
component, US$17.5 million (16%) for sanitation, and US$24.7 mill-on (about 23%) for technical
assistance. The base costs are expressed in March 1990 prices. Physical contingencies average 8.9%
of the base costs of all project components. Price contingencies are estimated at 9% per annum for
local costs in 1990 and 1991 and 8% per annum thereafter and, for foreign costs, 7.2% in 1990 and
4.4% for each year thereafter. Price contingencies are equal to about 13.2% of base costs plus
physical contingencies. Estimated costs are given in detail in Annexes 4A and 4B and are
summarized in Table 2.1.



- 14 -
Table 2.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY /&
Local Foreign   Total  Local Foreign   Total Foreign
___(p alio) --- --- (USm rntion) --- as % of
total
Rura Water Supply
Civil Works                               611.9     .   684.2   28.6    3.4   31.9         11
Equipment, Materiab, Vehicles             164.8  556.0  720.8    7.7   25.9   33.6         77
Rural Sanitation
Civil Works                                96.4   17.0  113.4    4.5    0.8    6.S         15
Equipment, Materials, Vehicles             43.1  219.0  262.1    2.0   10.2    12.2        84
Technical Assistance
Project Implementation and Administratiorn  97.0   45.2  142.2    4.5    2.1    6.6        32
Preparation of Provincial Investment Plans  8.8   13.2   22.0    0.4    0.6    1.0         60
Training and Community Development        167.3   25.4  192.7    7.8    1.2    9.0         13
Quality Control and Asurance                0.0   13.1   13.1    0.0    0.6    0.6    100
Preparation of Future Projects            162.4   10.3  162.7    7.1    0.5    7.6          6
Master Plan Updating                        2.1    0.0    2.1    0.1    0.0    0.1          0
Base Cost (March 1990 prices)            1,343.7  971.6  2,3156S    62.6   45.2  107.8     42
Physical Contingencies                            156.8   67.3  224.1    6.7    2.9    9.6         S0
Price Contingencies                               342.0  221.7  563.7    9.5    6.0   15.6         39
T_otal Cosa                              1.842.5  1260.6 3S01    IS       ! i 1    1S2.    41
/a Columns may not add up due to rounding.
2.22           Cost estimates are based on unit rates for similar works being carried out under the
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project (Loan 2206-PH) and other ongoing projects. Average
cost estimates are considered reasonable and realistic. About 1,000 person-months of consultant
assistance are expected to be required, including 750 person-months of local consultants and 250
person-months of foreign consultants.
F. Financin Fl1an
2.23           The proposed Bank loan of US$85 million would finance about 75% of the total
project cost of US$132.8 million, excluding duties and taxes of US$10.6 million and US$7.2 million
for consulting services already contracted by LWUA which are not eligible for Bank funding and
US$1.2 million of project preparation activities, for which the Government does not seek Bank
funding. The loan would cover US$54.1 million in foreign exchange costs and US$30.9 million
equivalent or about 39% of local costs. The Government would finance the balance from its own
resources but is seeking grant financing for a number of technical assistance activities and hopes to
identify donors to assist with the financing of the sanitation component. Grants for project
preparation activities, estimated at about US$1.2 million equivalent, are under discussion with
bilateral donors. If further grants are not mobilized as and when required, the Government will
meet any shortfalls from its own resources. The Bank loan would be made to the Republic of the
Philippines and would be passed on as normal budgetary appropriations to the implementing
agencies by the Department of Finance.
2.24           The beneficiary communities would be expected to contribute about '0% of the cost
of the water supply component. The value of this is roughly estimated to be P 200 million. As in
Loan 2206-PH, this is expected to be in the form of voluntary labor or in kind, e.g., the provision
of land for the well site and time spent in attending training and community development
activities. Communities would also make a relatively large contribution to the sanitation component



- 15 -
through the voluntary construction of toilet facilities. i.e., digging and constructing the pit latrine
and building the superstructure. The value of these voluntary contributions could be in the order
of P 600 million or about 80%. These contributions have not been included in the cost estimates or
financing plan. Financing from official sources would be as follows:
Table 2.2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Local  Foreign     Total
Government                  47.8      0.0      47.8
World Bank                           S4,1A 
Total                       78.7     54.1    132.8
2.25        The project would require total annual budgetary allocations from the Government
of about P 300 million in 1990, about P 700 million in 1991, about P 800 million in 1992, about
P 700 million in 1993, about P 600 million in 1994 and P 100 million in 1995. These requirements
comprise a relatively small share of the government's allocation for developments in the Water
Supply, sewerage and Sanitation Sector, and the proposed project will not place an undue burden
on the Government's budget. About 75% of the project's financial requirements would be financed
by the Bank loan and other external sources. Annual budgetary allocations required for each
implementing agency are given in Table 2.3 below.
Table 2.3: ANNUAL BUDGETARY REQUIREMENTS FOR THE PROJECT
(P million)
Year         DPWH       DOH    LWUA        DLG      Total
1990            191       96         3       23       313
1991            386      166        84       32       668
1992           470       157       105       27       759
1993            504      167         -       19       690
1994           431       134         -       10       575
1995            62        36 
Total         2.044      7         191       11 I.
2.26        The implementing agencies plan to carry out project activities at a faster rate than
is reflected in these projections, so as to achieve the targets set by the Accelerated Water Supply
Program; this would increase the annual budgetary appropriations that the Government would be
required to provide the implementing agencies.
2.27        To ensure the continuity of activities begun under the Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation Project (Loan 2206-PH) and to be expanded under the proposed project, the
Government has requested retroactive financing of the procurement of equipment and engagement
of consultants required for project implementation. This would amount to no more than US$8.5
million or 10% of the loan amount. Hence, retroactive financing under the proposed loan, not to
exceed US$8.5 million, for expenditures made after January 1, 1990, would be made.



- 16 -
Cgst Recoverv
2.28         Recognizing the rural population's limited ability to pay for all costs associated with
the provision of a safe water supply, the Government in 1989 issued NEDA Board Resolution
No. 5, which commits the Government to meet the full cost of source development of Level I rural
water supply systems, i.e., wells or developed springs. The communities thus senred are, however,
required to meet the capital cost cf any reticulation works to provide standposts and to meet all
operation and maintenance costs. For service through shallow wells, deep wells and developed
springs, the estimated average monthly water fee paid to the BWSAs, based on the formula
developed under the implementing guidelines for the AWSP (which includes a provision for
depreciation as appropriate), would be about P 31 per household or an average cost of about P 3.70
per cubic meter. The income of a rural family at the second decile of the household income
distribution was estimated in 1989 at about P 1,20C per month. While it is possible that rural
incow,-s may improve somewhat in the future, the average monthly water fee would constitute
about 2.7% of household income in 1990. This is regarded as a reasonable price which consumers
can afford tnd are willing to pay. However, if rural household incomes were to increase
substantially, the Government's pricing policy and cost recovery standards would need to be
reviewed. During negotiations, agreement was reached that the Government will, commencing in
1991, undertake biennial reviews of its water pricing policy and cost recovery principles and shall
discuss and implement the results and recommendations of such review with the Bank by the end
of the calendar year in which the review is undertaken. The pour-flush toilet bowls would be
issued to beneficiaries under the project free of charge in order to encourage all families to install
household latrines for the sanitary disposal of excreta. The cost of these units is relatively low, at
about P IS0 each, and the recipients will make a substantial additional investment, estimated at
about P 600 each, through self-help, in digging and constructing the pit latrine and building the
superstructure. The Government's pricing policy in this regard is considered appropriate.
G. Procurement
2.29         Procurement arrangements for the project are summarized in Table 2.4. Equipment
and materials such as shallow- and deep-well handpumps, vehicles, toilet bowls, pilot wastewater
treatment units, and water testing equipment needed for the project totaling about US$52.1 million,
including taxes, will be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance
with the Bank's procurement guidelines. A margin of preference equal to 15% of the CIF price or
the prevailing import duty, whichever is lower, will be granted to domestic manufacturers in bid
evaluation. All ICB contracts will be subject to the Bank's prior review. Locally-available items of
equipment, materials, spare parts and supplies costing less than US$200,000 per contract and
totaling about US$2.5 million in aggregate will be procured follow:ng Local Competitive Bidding
(LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank. The Bank's prior review of contract documentation will
be required for all LCB contracts amounting to more than US$100,000 each.
2.30         Civil works for the construction and rehabilitation of wells, development of springs,
provincial workshop buildings, pilot wastewater treatment units, rainwater collectors, barangay
school toilets, sullage removal units and other minor works totaling USS41.5 million would be
procured through LCB procedures satisfactory to the Bank. These works will be widely scattered
throughout the project area, and, despite the packaging of contracts where possible, the size of
contracts is expected to be too small to attract foreign contractors. However, foreign contractors
would not be excluded from  bidding.  To facilitate rapid implementation and achieve
standardization and economies of scale, DPWH District Engineers will package well drilling and
construction and handpump installations under contracts as follows. a minimum of about 100 wells
per contract, with each coiaract estimated at about US$30,000 for shallow wells and US$200,000
for deep wells. All LCB civil works contracts amounting to more than US$500,000 will be subject
to the Bank's prior review of bidding documents before bids are sought. Civil works amounting to
about US$9.1 million will be procured through force account. Of the total value of contracts for



- 17 -
equipment, vehicles, and civil works estimated at US$95 million, about 70% will be subject to prior
review by the Bank.
2.31           The bulk of training and community development activities would be arranged
through existing departmental training progrums. with some overseas and local training as
appropriate.
2.32           All consulting services will be obtained in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants.
Table 2.4: PROCUREMENT SUMMARY
(USS million)
Procurement Method/
Project Element                   ICa            LCB            Other          Total Coat
Equipment,                         52.1            2.5             -              54.6
materials, vehicles             (41.5)           (1.8)                         (43.8)
Civil works                                       41.5             9.1           50.6
(26.9)          (6.9)          (32.8)
Training and community              ^              -              13.7           13.7
development                                                     (8.9)           (3.9)
Consulting services                 -              -              13.9           18.9
(6.0)          (6.0)
Total                              52.1           44.0            H.7            132.8
(41.5)         (28.7)          (14.8)         (86.0)
Notes:
1.  Amounts shown for each project element include contingencies.
2.  Figures In parenthes  are the respective amounts financed by the Bank loan.
H. _isbursements
2.33           The proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed against eligible expenditures as
follows:
(a)    EauiDment. Materials and Vehicles: 100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory); and 65% for other locally-procured items.
(b)    Civil Works:
(i)    57% of the unit cost of completed shallow wells with pump, deep wells with
pump, spring developments, rehabilitated welis, workshop buildings, toilet
units, and school toilets. The disbursement for these works includes related
training and community development activities (para. 2.35):
(ii)    57% of the expenditures on other civil works (including water treatment
units, rainwater collectors, pilot public/communal toilets, s-illage removal
units, and pilot waste water treatment units).
(c)    Consutin  Services  100% of total expenditures for consulting services.



- 18 -
2.34        To facilitate disbursement, a Special Account would be established at the Philippine
Central Bank, with an initial deposit of US$5.0 million equivalent, thc estimated average
expenditure for a four-month period. The implementing agencies wou'hi draw upon the Special
Account for all disbursements, and the Department of Finance, which would administer the Special
Account, would prepare applications for replenishment of the Account when funds are drawn down
to 50% of the initial deposit or three months of expenditures, whichever comes first, subject to a
minimum claim for replenishment of US$200,000.
2.35         In view of the very large number of small works to be carried out under the project,
a significant proportion of disbursements will be processed through the use of Statements of
Expenditure (SOEs). These bulk applications for reimbursement would be prepared by the
implementing agencies on the basis of Certificates of Acceptance, of Compliance and of
Completion. Certificates of Acceptance, which would be issued when BWSAs accept the completed
wells or developed springs, would certify that the complementary sanitation improvements as well
as training and community development activities had also been completed. The Certificates of
Compliance issued by Rural Sanitary Inspectors would indicate that sanitary improvements had
been correctly installed or completed. Certificates of Completion prepared by DPWH regional and
district engineers would indicate the satisfactory completion of workshops, water treatment units
and rainwater collectors. Because of the small sums and many activities related to project
expenditures for training and community development, disbursement for individual activities in
this category is not considered practicable. Consequently, funds for these purposes have normally
been included in the disbursement allowances for related civil works as noted in psra. 2.33 (b).
2.36         Disbursement for civil works as described in para. 2.33 (b) (i) would be made
against agreed unit costs for each activity; these unit costs may be reviewed from time to time by
the Bank and Government. Disbursements for other minor civil works and for training under the
provisions of pam. 2.33 (c) would also be made against SOEs, based on actual payments made to
contractors or suppliers.
2.37        The SOEs would be checked and verified by the consultants assisting with project
implementation.  The completed and verified SOEs would provide the documentation for
withdrawals from the Special Account. SOEs and supporting documents would be kept by DOF
and would be available for review by the Bank. Sample SOEs for the three categories of
withdrawals are given in Annex 4D.
2.38         A schedule of estimated disbursements under the proposed loan as well as the
disbursement profile for previous water supply projects in the Philippines is attached as Annex 4C.
Disbursement of the proposed loan is expected to be more rapid than that for past projects since
this is regarded as a time-slice operation, financing part of the ongoing Sector Master Plan and the
related Accelerated Water Supply Program. The loan closing date is th' refore expected by
December 31, 1995.
1. Environmental Aspects
2.39        The provision under the project of safe and adequate water supplies and proper
sanitation is expected to have positive environmental effects benefitting the health of the
population served. Approximately two thirds of the country's rural population still lack safe water
supplies and must rely on contaminated sources of water such as open dug wells, rainwater cisterns,
lakes, rivers and streams. Similarly, a large portion of the rural communities lack suitable facilities
for sanitary excreta disposal. The lack of such facilities is the major contributing factor in the
incidence of water-borne and water-related diseases, which predominantly affect infants, children
and the poor. Provision of new water supply and sanitation facilities and the rehabilitation of
existing water sources under the project would provide some of the basic needs of the communities
affected, and would thus benefit their heaith and quality of life. The infrastructure portion of the



- 19 -
project would be supported and enhanced by health and hygiene education provided in the
barangays.
2.40        The environmental benefits of the proposed project would be: (a) cleaner homes
and community environments; (b) less stream pollution; and (c) more rational and prudent water
use. Water supply and sanitary facilities would be planned, designed and constructed under criteria
which protect the conditions of the natural and man-made environment. Such facilities are not
expected to have adverse environmental impacts because of their simplicity and low volumes of
water used. No resettlement of the local population will be required.
2.41        The environmental sanitation component of the project will play a major role in
introducing personal and household hygienic practices through effective health education, leading
to improved environmental health conditions. In addition to disposal of human wastes through
properly constructed school and family latrines, the project will provide a means for disposal of
sullage waste from kitchens and e'sewhere to prevent the formation of polluted and unsanitary
puddles around houses. The elimination of odors and insects' access to the pit by the water-seal
pour-flush type latrines will further add to the quality of the rural environment. Furthermore, the
health and hygiene education component of the proposed project will also aim to improve other
environmental health parameters such as sanitary surveillance and protection of water supplies,
linkages of water and sanitation with diseases, sanitary handling and disposal of solid wastes, vector
control, food hygiene and sanitation, and environmental health aspects of rural housing. The
environmental impacts of the proposed water supply and sanitation systems are therefore judged to
be positive.
J. Women in Development
2.42         Improvements in the provision of basic human needs such as water supply and
sanitation would have a positive impact on the lives of the rural women and children benefited
under the project. In addition to the health benefits expected, the more accessible water supplies
delivered under the project would result, especially in poor rural households, in savings of women's
time and effort by obviating their need to carry water over long distances, as is now often
necessary, and reducing the time needed to care for sick relatives, especially children. This time
may then be put to productive use. Thus, the project's provision of an easily accessible, potable
water supply and improvements in environmental sanitation is expected to particularly benefit
women in the rural barangays.
2.43        The project has also been designed to increase the participation of women in the
planning, operation and maintenance of the water and sanitation services provided. Current
regulations governing the establishment and management of BWSAs appear to limit membership to
heads of households. Since the latter would normally be male, the regulations implicitly exclude
women from direct participation in BWSAs. To help ensure the increased participation of women
in the sector, during negotiations, agreement was reached with Government that it would ensure
that women have equal access to membership and leadership roles in BWSAs, and that records on
project training and community development activities wL' show the gender of participants.
Women would therefore be given increased opportunities under the project to: (a) play important
roles in the formation and organization of BWSAs; (b) serve as office holders in BWSAs; (c) gain
skills and experience in the planning, implementation, and management of water supply and
sanitation projects and in financial and technical aspects of system operation and maintenance;
(d) increase the involvement of other barangay women in these activities as well as in health
education courses (e) participate in training programs for well caretakers, operators, mechanics and
related courses; and (f) promote self-reliance and effective community participation in the
installation of water supply facilities and construction of family latrines.



- 20 -
K. Poverty Aleviatign
2.44         The project contributes to poverty alleviation by providing a scarce commodity,
clean water, within reach of the poor, who are normally not offered this basic service. In the long
term, project activities are expected to raise the standard of living in the rural baran3ays. The safe
water supply and sanitation to be provided under the project would initially have the direct benefit
of improving the health of the project population, as indicated by decreased mortality and
morbidity. In turn, improved health is expected to lead to higher productivity and income,
increased employment, improved labor use and higher farm output. The additional income thus
generated would result in further social and economic improvements and help to alleviate poverty
in the rural areas.
L. Assistance to Private Enterprise
2.45         Considering the substantial volume of work needed to achieve the objectives of the
Accelerated Water Supply Program, the active involvement of the private sector will be imperative.
Recognizing this need, the Program's implementing guidelines under RA 6716 (para. 1.18) specify
that the DPWH District Offices should carry out Program activities by both force account and
contract, with the arrangement selected dependent on factors such as equipment capacity,
availability of drillers and contractors, time schedule, hydrogeological conditions, and project
location. DPWH District Engineers are empowered to assess the situation and decide on the
appropriate implementation arrangement. DPWH Department Order No. 117 S of 1988 also
mandates that projects undertaken by the Department through force account in a given district
shall not exceed 25% of the total value of all projects therein; hence, 75% of the projects will be
carried out by the private sector.
2.46         A review of the capacity and quality of the local private sector with respect to
handpump manufacture, well drilling, and well and handpump maintenance found the following:
(a)    Handoumo Manufacture. The Philippine private sector currently lacks a capacity
for high volume manufacturing and quality control of handpumps. However, with
the provision of assistance to local manufacturers and the establishment of clear
specifications, this capacity could probably be established over a 12-month period.
(b)   Well Drilling. Current local private sector capacity for well drilling at the volume
required under the Accelerated Water Supply Program also appears inadequate.
DPWH will therefore initially carry out the Program ubing its own staff, at least
until the private sector is able to participate. However, through appropriate
packaging of contracts, including possible turn-key operations, large local and
overseas contractors will be provided the opportunity to bid and, if successful, to
participate in project implementation.
(c)    Maintenance Procedures. To instill a greater degree of responsibility for quality
control of items and services provided for the Program by DPWH, the handpumps
and wells it provides should have a warranty period of one year following
installation, during which time it will be responsible for maintenance (para. 3.20).
Simultaneously, efforts will be made to develop a private sector capacity for
maintenance of wells and handpumps.
2.47         To address the needs identified, with the aim of eventually reducing dependence on
imported equipment and technologies, the project includes the provision of assistance to the private
and public sectors for improving quantitative and qualitative capabilities in the manufacture,
installation and operation of water supply facilities. This assistance will be provided by staff of
the UNDP/World Bank Water Supply and Sanitation Program, based in Singapore, which has
extensive experience in the development of specifications and procedures for the manufacture of



- 21 -
handpumps, well development, maintenance procedures and quality inspection and assurance.
Assistance in training hydrogeologists and well drillers will also be sought from the International
Training Network (para. 1.20). Terms of reference for this assistance are gi; sn in Annex 7F.
3. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Imolementation Resognsibilities
3.1         Project implementation would be the responsibility of DPWH for the rural water
supply component, DOH for the rural sanitation component, and LWUA for the preparation of
future projects. DLG would be responsible for training, community development and liaison
activities. Project Management Offices (PMOs) already established within DPWH, DOH, and DLG
would coordinate project activities within their respective departments; the Administrator of
LWUA would be responsible for the various studies being prepared by LWUA for the formulation
of future sector projects. Details of implementation are given in Annex 2B.
3.2         Overall coordination of project activities would be handled by a Project
Coordination Committee (PCC), which has been established to review Provincial Water Supply,
Sewerage and Sanitation Sector Plans, prepare programs and budgets, coordinate among the
implementing agencies to ensure complementarity in the provision of water supply, sanitation,
community development and training, and prepare and submit reports on the progress of project
implementation. The PCC would be chaired by the Director of the DPWH Project Management
Office for Rural Water Supply (PMO-RWS) and would include the following as members: the
Project Manager of the DOH component, the Project Manager for DLG activities, a LWUA Deputy
Administrator, and a representative of NEDA. The PCC would be serviced by the PMO for Rural
Water Supply in DPWH, which would act as its secretariat with the assistance of consultants. The
PCC would meet at least quarterly to carry out its duties and to review and approve Quarterly
Progress Reports or project implementation for submission to: (a) the Secretaries of the three
central government departments involved in the project and the LWUA Administrator,
(b) concerned provincial governments, and (c) the Bank and other financing agencies. Minutes of
PCC proceedings would be prepared and distributed with the Quarterly Reports. Coordination at
the working level and the provision of clear operational guidelines for the functioning of the PCC
and for project implementation are expected to prevent the coordination problems that arose under
Loan 2206-PH (para. 1.29), which was coordinated at the ministerial level. The role of the PCC is
further covered in Annex 2B. During negotiations agreement was reached with the Government
that project implementation would be in accordance with the arrangements given in Annex 2B.
Agreement was also reached that the Government would organize and conduct a Project Launching
Workshop by December 31, 1990 in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
Water SuDDlV Comoonent
3.3         The proposed project would be part of the Accelerated Water Supply Pr.. ,ram and
would follow the implementation arrangements established for that Program. The DPt-! f MAO-
RWS would have overall responsibility for implementation of the project's water supply component.
Under its guidance, the DPWH Regional and District Engineer's Offices (RDOs/DEOs) would
manage the construction and installation of new water supply systems and rehabilitate existing
facilities. DLG staff would initiate the formation of BWSAs, assist in the BWSA registration
process and conduct training courses. The specific works would be carried out as determined by
the PCC in response to the Provincial Sector Plans, which would be prepared by the provincial
governments with the assistance of consultants engaged and supervised by the DLG-PMO. Overall
institutional arrangements for AWSP implementation are shown in Annex 2B. As a quality
assurance measure, during negotiations agreement was reached with Government that consultants
would be engaged to ensure quality control and obtain quality assurance in respect of handpumps,
wells and toilet bowls. Outlines for the development of specifications for handpumps and well



- 22-
drilling are given in Annex 3; DPWH will, with the help of consultants and the UNDP/World Bank
Team, develop these specifications. Terms of reference for the consultant and the UNDP/World
Bank Team are given in Annexes 7E and 7F.
3.4         As agreed by DPWH and DLG in the Memorandum of Agreement (August 1989)
which defines AWSP responsibilities, DPWH would handle all physical implementation and
technical supervision of Level I water supply systems, and DLG would strengthen the technical
capabilities and commitment of the local governmenti and communities to implement and operate
the systems provided. Specifically, DLG would (a) conduct training programs for the local
government units (LGUs) in the planning and management of projects, with technical assistance
provided by DPWH; (b) assist the LGUs in organizing BWSAs and supervise the municipal and city
councils in registering the BWSAs, and (c) in cooperation with the LGUs, conduct training
programs for BWSAs in the operation and maintenance of completed Level I water supply systems.
Sanitation Component
3.5         The DOH Project Management Office would be responsible for overall supervision
of the sanitation program and would provide nationwide planning, programming, management,
monitoring, reporting and logistic support to its District Offices; the latter would be responsible for
the actual implementation of project activities. The central PMO would also manage the bidding,
procurement and supply of equipment and materials.
3.6         The PMO at DOH's regional level would be responsible for monitoring operations in
the region, including training and guidance on technical matters provided by senior sanitary
engineers and support staff. At the provincial level, sanitary engineers and supervising sanitarians
under the Provincial Health Officer would be responsible for training and providing technical
assistance to the local inspectors. At the municipal level, the Municipal Health Officer, au .eader,
and the sanitary inspectors would be largely responsible for advising and supervising the local
communities on the private construction of sanitary toilets. The sanitary inspectors would be
assisted by health workers and midwives from Rural Health Units. Activities related to health
education, training, community motivation and the organization of toilet construction and water
quality monitoring would be carried out at the municipal level through the primary health care
delivery organization (para. 3.12). As a quality assurance measure, during negotiations agreement
was reached with Government that consultants would be engaged by December 31, 1990 to inspect
the conformance of toilet units to specifications before delivery is accepted.
Provincial Water SuDply. Sewerage and Sanitation Sector Plans
3.7         The Provincial Governments would prepare the Provincial Water Supply, Sewerage
and Sanitation Sector Plans (with the help of consultants engaged by DLG), monitor
implementation progress, be a party to the formal hand-over of completed water supply facilities to
the BWSAs, and monitor the continuing operation of facilities and report their findings to the PCC
at least once a year.
3.8         In response to each Provincial Sector Plan, the PCC, with the assistance of the
project implementation consultants, would prepare implementation schedules covering all phases of
the Plan, from planning to operation and maintenance. The detailed schedules would include:
(a) preparatory work and project mobilization; (b) detailed activities during the BWSA pre-
formation phase; (c) formation of BWSAs and undertaking of community development and training
activities; (d) equipment and materials supply, procurement, delivery, stores handling and all
related logistics support; (e) hydrogeological surveys, detailed surveys and construction schedules
for drilling, installation of handpumps and construction of household and school latrines;
(f) activities related to the preparation of information, education and communication materials;
(g) handing over of water supply facilities to BWSAs and (h) training of BWSAs in operation and
maintenance.



- 23 -
B. Implementine Aaencies
3.9         The capabilities ot the implementing agencies are considered adequate to handle the
activities planned under the project. Both DPWH and DOH, which would have the greatest project
responsibilities, have already implemented similar works under the earlier Rural Water Supply and
Sanitation Project, and their technical performance, with some exceptions, was satisfactory. The
organization structures of the four implementing agencies are shown in Annex 1.
DeDartment of Public Works and Highwavs
3.10        The Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) is responsible for the
planning, design, construction and maintenance of centrally-funded infrastructure projects. The
DPWH field organization comprises 15 regional offices, 101 district offices and 60 city offices. At
present, DPWH has an approved establishment of about 19,000 personnel, about 1,300 of whom are
at headquarters in Manila and about 17,700 are at the field offices. In 1988, DPW'H had a budget
of P 8.6 billion.  Because of relatively low government salary scales, the Department has
experienced a general shortage of experienced middle-level technical staff, particularly in the
maintenance organization. To handle the overload, DPWH employs about 2,300 contractual
employees.
3.11        DPWH already has a PMO for Rural Water Supply (PMO-RWS), which is
responsible for the coordination and implementation of projects funded through DPWH budgetary
allocations and external lenders. The PMO-RWS has a staff of 73: two regular government
employees and 71 contractual employees. The total includes about 30 engineers, with an average of
two years experience each, and 16 financial and administrative staff. The PMO is currently
responsible for overseeing five foreign-funded projects and for the overall coordination and
implementation of the AWSP. In view of the PMO's limited resources and heavy work load, the
proposed project would provide DPWH with consultant assistance to ensure adequate supervision of
project activities.
Department gf Health
3.12        The Department of Health (DOH) is the principal health policy-making and
implementing agency of the Government. It has five organizational levels: (a) central headquarters
in Manila; (b) Regional Directors of Health and general and special hospitals; (c) Provincial Health
Officers and provincial and district hospitals; (d) Municipal Health Officers; and (e) Rural Health
Units--including midwives and barangay health stations. A reorganization in 1988 streamlined
DOH management in order to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of health service delivery.
At that time, responsibility for the operational budget was transferred to the provincial level,
physical coverage of the public health care program was expanded, particularly at the barangay
level, and responsibilities at each level of the health care delivery system were clarified. In 1988,
DOH had a budget of P 5.3 billion. At present DOH has an approved staff establishment of about
69,000, about 3,000 of whom are at headquarters, about 57,000 are in the Regional Health Offices
and about 9,000 are in the special hospitals.
3.13        The DOH Project Management Office, attached to the Office of Environmental
Health in the Office of Public Health, is responsible for implementation of the sanitation program.
It has a staff of 44, including 39 regular employees and 5 contractual employees. The total includes
3 medical doctors and 21 sanitary engineers. Like the DPWH unit, DOH's PMO must rely on the
assistance of contractual employees or consultants for the implementation of the sanitatio1 program,
due to limits placed on staff growth.



- 24 -
DeDartment of Local Government
3.14        The Department of Local Government (DLG) is responsible for the promotion of
local autonomy by strengthening local government capabilities in delivering basic services. Its
specific task is to supervise and assist the Local Government Units (LGUs) in the implementation
of policies, orders and guidelines emanating from the executive and legislative branches of the
Government that promote and insure local autonomy. The Department has some 5,900 permanent
staff and is composed of the following staff and line offices the Bureau of Local Government
Supervision, Bureau of Local Government Development, tNational Barangay Operations Office,
Project Development Services, Support Services, Office of Public Affairs, and regional and field
offices. DLG functions through 13 regional offices and through field offices established in all
provinces, cities and municipalities which coordinate directly with local government leaders.
DLG's expenditures have been increasing, from P 419 million in 1988 to P 524 million in 1989 and
P 551 million budgeted for 1990.
3.15        DLG's Office of Project Development Services, attached to the Office of the
Secretary, has a number of Special Project Offices which take care of the developmental functions
of the LGUs. The Project Management Office for Rural Water Supply (PMO-RWS) was
established to manage the USAID-assisted Barangay Water Program (para. 1.14). While the
appropriation for the development of physical works was de-obligated, USAID has continued to
support DLG in its institutional development role. The PMO-RWS will undertake the LGU
institutional development and the community development to be carried out under the project.
This office has about 45 staff members, divided among three divisions: monitoring, research and
evaluation; engineering review and supervision; and training and organization.
Local Water Utilities Administrtion
3.16        The Local Water Utilities Administration (LWUA) was established in 1973 to
provide financial and technical assistance for the development of Level III water supply and
sanitation services in urban areas outside Metropolitan Manila.  About 800 municipalities
potentially fall under its jurisdiction. In these municipalities, LWUA assists in the formation of
Water Districts, which are autonomous from local government. In the future, as it implements an
ongoing plan to regionalize its operations, LWUA is expected to play a larger role in coordinating
and supporting overall regional water supply development. In 1987, when it absorbed the Rural
Waterworks Development Corporation, LWUA gained the added responsibility of providing Level
II water supply systems to small rural settlements.
3.17        LWUA has experienced considerable operational and financial difficulties due to
the economic depression of the mid-1980s and the after-effects of the revolution. Serious
management/staff disputes broke out which resulted in a succession of acting Administrators or
officers-in-charge who managed LWUA but had only limited executive powers. As a result,
LWUA has been virtually inactive over the past few years. However, a new Administrator was
appointed in mid-1989, and LWUA is now on its way to regaining its previous status as one of the
leading water supply authorities in southeast Asia.
3.18        LWUA has an authorized roster of 1,580 staff under its recently revised organization
plan; as of mid-1989, however, it had only 927 personnel. In 1988, its capital and operating
budgets totaled P 488 million and P 159 million, respectively, but actual expenditures on
investments and operations totaled only P 202 million and P 89 million, respectively. Both locally-
and externally-funded projects are implemented through LWUA's normal organizational structure,
which eliminates the need for special Project Management Offices. LWUA does, however, appoint
experienced staff to coordinate project implementation and liaise with external lenders.
3.19         Despite its past difficulties, LWUA remains a basically sound institution with a
well-qualified work force. Apart from its financial difficulties which would be partly addressed



- 25 -
under the project (para. 2.18), LWUA is in a satisfactory condition to resume its activities in the
sector and carry out the proposed project studies which would not only map its future sector
strategy and investments but also plan for its financial restructuring.
C. OLerations and Maintenance
3.20         Completed and fully functioning wells would be formally handed over to the
BWSAs, which would accept responsibility for maintaining the wells. However, to ensure adequate
quality control over the works carried out, DPWH would warrant the satisfactory performance of
wells drilled and pumps installed against defective materials and poor workmanship for a period of
one year after installation, during which time they would bear the cost of repairs due to defective
installation or manufacture. Thereafter, the maintenance responsibility will fall exclusively on the
users of the wells. During negotiations, agreement was reached with Government that DPWH
would provide one-year warranties against defective materials and faulty workmanship on
completed wells, including handpumps.
3.21         Routine maintenance of systems provided under the project would be the
responsibility of the relevant BWSAs, with back-up support provided for more complex overhaul
and rehabilitation tasks. Three alternative models of back-up maintenance support are possible.
First, in areas where Water Districts (WDs) are able and willing to provide back-up support, the
WDs would provide technical assistance and support to the BWSA in return for a fee; second, in
other areas, DPWH Regional or District Offices or Provincial Public Works Offices would provide
support on the same basis; finally, the Government would encourage a greater private sector role in
these activities through the training of local technicians.  Each Provincial Sector Plan will
recommend the most appropriate operation and maintenance arrangements for the rural water
supply facilities to be provided in the province.
D. Monitoring. Progress Renortina and Sugervision
3.22         The monitoring arrangements for the proposed project have been designed with a
view to promoting two key project objectives: to support government efforts in decentralizing
appropriate operations to the local government level and to promote community participation in
sector development. A bottom-up approach would therefore be taken in project monitoring, with
the BWSAs, local DOH units and local government units responsible for the first level of data
collection and reporting. To facilitate the introduction of this process in the Philippines and to
ensure the smooth implementation of this first sector project for water supply and sanitation, rather
detailed physical targets, standards and specifications, and implementation arrangements have been
prepared for the use of the implementing agencies and local monitoring units.
3.23         Project monitoring would cover two areas: (a) the actual progress of implementing
project components, i.e., in terms of achieving provincial plan targets, the expenditures incurred,
and the quality of work; and (b) subsequent operations and maintenance, population served and
measurable health benefits. A monitoring system would be put in place with the help of
consultants to ensure the funneling of information from the grissroots level up through the local
and provincial governments and to the PCC. Data on project progress would be reported by the
BWSAs and local DOH staff to the local municipal governments, which would receive training in
the preparation of periodic reports on project achievements for submission to the Pro;iacial
Governments. The Provincial Governments would include this information in their annual updates
of the Provincial Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Sector Plans as well as in their reports to
the PCC. The latter would also include the locally-based information in its reports, submitted as
defined in para. 3.2. The monitoring indices to be used in the various reports are shown in
Annex 2C.
3.24         The progress of project implementation would be reported in the Quarterly Project
Progress Reports submitted by PCC to the Bank. The DPWH Project Management Office would



- 26 -
also submit a Project Completion Report on the overall course of project implementation within six
months of the loan closing date.
3.25        Project supervision by the Bank will be coordinated through a Supervision Plan,
which would be agreed during the project launching mission scheduled immediately following
Board approval of the loan. Bank field supervision would require a total of about 60 staff-weeks
during the life of the project, of which about 15 staff-weeks would be required during each of the
first two years of implementation for project start-up, procurement, and specifications review.
Supervision would be carried out by general water supply and sanitary engineering and finance
staff; during the first two years of implementation, specialists would also be needed to provide
assistance with the improvement of handpump manufacture and well-drilling activities, training
and community development, and establishment of quality assurance and control capabilities.
E. Accounts and Audit
3.26        DPWH, DOH, DLG and LWUA would establish and maintain separate project
accounts for expenditures incurred under the project. Similarly, an account would be maintained
by DOF, showing transactions in the Special Account. LWUA would prepare annual financial
statements for its corporate operations. These accounts and annual financial statements, including
Statements of Expenditure, would be audited annually by independent auditors, acceptable to the
Bank, with the audit also including a separate opinion on Statements of Expenditures used as a
basis for disbursement.
4. JUSTIFICATION
A. Proiect Benefits
4.1         General. The safe drinking water and improved sanitation to be provided under the
project would improve the health of the rural population in the project areas, reduce their medical
and hospitalization costs, increase their effective nutrition - especially in children due to a
reduction of intestinal parasites - and foster the productivity of the rural population.
4.2         Statistics on morbidity and mortality in the Philippines indicate that while the
mortality rate has declined, the morbidity rate continues to increase, particularly for diarrheal
diseases. Diarrheal diseases, which are strongly associated with unsafe water and poor hygiene and
sanitation, are ranked second among the ten leading causes of morbidity, with an incidence rate of
about 990 per 100,000 population in 1986. During 1981-85, the total number of cases of diarrheal
diseases increased by an average 3.2% a year. It can be concluded that continued support to the
rural water supply and sanitation subsector, using a comprehensive community-based approach
which includes health education and community participation and is affordable to the poor rural
communities, seems essential to improve the health of the rural population.
4.3         The project would also establish the institutional arrangements, standards and
specifications required for an expansion of lending for water supply and sanitation development in
the rural areas and for increased cooperation and participation in this development by central and
local government and the local communities. The project particularly promotes and formalizes an
increasingly participatory role for local government and NGOs in the planning and implementation
of sector activities. In addition, a better balance in opportunities between rural and urban areas,
more equitable access to social services, reduced use of forest resources to boil unsafe water, and
improved environmental conditions in the rural barangays would also be brought about by project
activities. Women and children who spend long hours fetching water would especially benefit from
the project.



- 27 -
4.4          Population Benefitted. The rural water supply component would provide corimunal
service to clusters of households of about 20 families (about 130 people) from shallow wells, 30
families (about 190 people) from deep wells and 50 families (about 300 people) from developed
springs. Close to three million people in Luzon will benefit from these facilities. The rural
sanitation program would benefit about six million people nationwide.
4.5          Avorooriateness of Proiect Desian. Indicative levels of water supply service have
been determined as 2 lcpd to sustain life, 20 to 30 lcpd to provide a minimum level of hygiene, and
80 to 120 lcpd to significantly enhance the quality of life. Domestic consumption in Metropolitan
Manila was in the range of 135 to 160 lcpd from 1983 to 1988. For the proposed project, a target
has been set of providing about 30 liters of potable water per capita per day from shallow wells and
about 50 lcpd from deep wells, since, in the areas where the latter are located, alternate sources are
not normally readily available. Supplies from gravitv-fed springs have been estimated at about 80
lcpd. The project design is such that the least-cost anc: most appropriate technology would be used.
However, in the absence of economies of scale, the cost of rural water supply, particularly for deep
wells, is not inexpensive (see para. 4.7). Sanitary pour-flush toilets are designed to minimize the
quantity of water required for flushing and would be fabricated from durable PVC or other
appropriate material. The project also includes the development and use of rainwater collection,
wastewater treatment units and sullage removal.
4.6          Economic Evaluation. The project is designed to provide an integrated approach to
sector development in the rural areas by including not only safe water and basic sanitation, but also
health education in the use of the sanitary facilities, community development, community
organization and institution building, which should contribute to overall community improvements.
Due to the impossibility of assigning monetary values to these health and institutional benefits, the
economic return on the overall project investment cannot be quantified.
4.7           The financial return on the project's water supply component has been estimated,
however, based on a comparison of the expected production cost of water and, as a proxy for the
water's value, the average price that rural consumers will pay for water produced under the project.
The average per cubic meter cost of water to be produced under the project is roughly estimated at
P 2.05 for shallow wells, P 3.94 for deep wells and P 3.20 for developed springs; the weighted
average cost of water under the project would be about P 3.20 per cu m. The proportion of water
derived from each of these sources is determined by the physical conditions in the project areas.
The weighted average sales price of water is estimated at P 3.70 per cu m. The rate of return
computed on this basis is about 29% for shallow wells, 5% for deep wells, and 8% for spring
developments. The weighted average financial rate of return is 8%. which is considered reasonable
for a social project of this type. The production cost of water derived from the analysis is close to
the unit cost of about P 3.30 per cu m used in the economic analysis for the recently-approved
Angat Water Supply Optimization Project (Ln. 3124-PH) serving Manila, under which domestic
consumers would also be charged an average price of P 3.70 per cu m but where in addition profits
would be earned from large commercial and industrial consumers. It demonstrates that the
production cost and the selling price of water in the rural areas under this project, on average, is
not necessarily less costly then water supply in large urban areas.
4.8          The financial rate of return under-estimates the project's benefits, since it excludes
the many other direct and secondary socioeconomic benefits derived from the provision of a safe,
potable water supply. This includes the value of time saved when fetching water over long
distances is no longer necessary, conservation of fuel when boiling of water is no longer required,
the economii gains from decreased mortality and morbidity rates, and savings in other preventive
health costs.  The value of safe drinkinp water can be inferred from the price which consumers
4 See: The Value of Water SuODlV and Sanitation in Development An Assessment of Health:
related Interventions, WASH Technical Report, USAID, September 1987.



- 28 -
are willing to pay to vendors which can as high as P 0.30 per 20-liter can or a rate of P 15 per
cu m for the minimal quantities needed to sustain life. The financial rate of return calculations and
related test are shown in Annex 6.
4.9          No quantitative methods are available to evaluate the rural sanitation component.
Nevertheless, its impact on the well-being, health and environment should be significant. The
component is expected to have a major effect in reducing not only parasitical infections, especially
;. children, but also infant mortality and the death rate of young children due to enteritis and other
diarrheal diseases caused by fly-borne vectors. The health education and household toilet
construction program in the project is justifiable in terms of the reduction of these public health
hazards.
B. Ri,&k
4.10        The proposed project is part of a larger program and contains a number of
innovations which necessarily imply an element of risk. The parallel implementation of water
supply and sanitation improvements and related community development and training will require
close coordination between the central and local governments. Since the cooperation envisioned has
not always been forthcoming in the past, a Project Coordination Committee was established to
oversee the various project participants, and procedures to be followed by that Committee and
comprehensive performance monitoring requirements were developed.  Lack of adequate
counterpart funding in the longer term is also a potential risk. While the proposed project is but
one of several projects in the Government's Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Sector Plan
1988-2000 and is also in accord with the Medium-term Development Plan 1988-92, many
competing investment objectives exist. Any deterioration in economic performance and henca in
the availability of local counterpart funding would delay project implementation.
4.11        There is also the risk that the decentralization of responsibilities expected under the
project may not proceed at the pace anticipated. The Bank is concurrently providing assistance to
the Government in carrying out a Decentralization and Local Government Development Study,
which is expected to lead to recommendations on a sound fiscal framework that would facilitate
government decentralization plans. Ultimately, however, the sustainability of the program win
depend on the BWSAs' ability and willingness to maintain the facilities provided. The project
therefore includes a large training and community development program. Finally, under the
Accelerated Water Supply Program in particular, the central government agencies will be required
to meet very challenging implementation targets, in terms of the scale, quality and timing of
program activities. To help ensure that these targets are reached while maintaining satisfactory
quality control, the project provides substantial consultant assistance for project implementation,
introduces changed procurement arrangements-- with the packaging of contracts for selected items,
establishes a system for detailed monitoring of the progress of implementation, and provides
assistance to advise on production techniques and carry out independent quality inspections.
5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1         During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government that
(a)   it will cause the provincial governments of the Project Provinces to prepare, adopt
and put into effect Provincial Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Sector Plans,
which shall be satisfactory to the Bank and be prepared in accordance with an
agreed format and schedule (para. 2.13);
(b)   the Training and Community Development Program will be implemented as agreed
with the Bank (para, 2.16);



- 29 -
(c)   it will designate one DLG staff member to act as Community Organizer in each of
the Project Provinces (para. 2.16);
(d)   it will, commencing in 1991, undertake biennial reviews of its water pricing policy
and cost recovery principles and shall discuss and implement the results and
recommendations of such review with the Bank by the end of the calendar year in
which the review is undertaken (pan. 2.28)X
(e)   it will ensure that women have equal access to membership and management roles in
BWSAs, and provide information about the involvement of women in the Project
(para. 2.43);
(f)   implement the Project in accordance with a program acceptable to the Bank,
maintain a Project Coordination Committee, and organize and conduct a Project
Launching Workshop by December 31, 1990, in an manner satisfactory to the Bank
(pam. 3.2);
(g)   ensure quality control and obtain quality assurance as agreed with the Bank in
respect of specified goods (handpumps, wells and toilet bowls) provided under the
Project (paras. 3.3 and 3.6); and
(h)   DPWH w;I provide one-year warranties to BWSAs against defective materials and
faulty workmanship on completed wells and handpumps (para. 3.20).
5.2         A condition of loan effectiveness is the preparation, adoption and putting into effect
of at least eight Provincial Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Sector Plans, approved by the
Bank (para. 2.13).
5.3         Subject to the above agreements and condition, the proposed project would
constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$85 million equivalent, for a period of 20 years,
including a grace period of five years, at the standard variable interest rate. The borrower would
be the Republic of the Philippines.



PHIUPPINES
FIRST WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND HiGHWAYS
Organizational Chart
MHELWU          8UDEFECMTAM' 
AMg. sEOARY                            _. _AWs.:EREr
_PLAN""               R6Gm#                                                       pO  Y  ADB alPrNET  
SERVIC                                                                       VAT SERI0
_   suREwOF            cAR               REG  ON vn      _ gRD PR            _OOuT  r        
SUREWO                 -.EO   .      REIO Vo.                               W.SOr
I U EA OEFO    IEO i                     FMG i(            FOT PRiE7                  MA 8TA -f IY
MATEACEI    I II
D IRECTOR  UIO     IUNINFRA-                                                  AWT 1^SECT.ARY
SUtA OF                N.C.Ft             FtE q X            STUTt              MTERNAL AUT
Ft ASTDgrS. I                                           IPROJECTS               S  ERVICE
I " DECTOR   l    g{_                                             {
SUMM OF              FIG  NV-A            RION Xl 
i   I    I             I    I ~~~~~~FLOOD CONTFBL 
FM-GMNN IV-9        REMXONe   I&DRAINAGEI
.. 1    I   FCECTS                                          ol
RE1310                                DEVEqLOPM   I
1,   1                       I ~~~~~~ParsJ   I                                      -
SPEIA
1PROECTS
EKA433



PHIUPPINES
FIRST WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
DPWHI- PMO RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECTS
Organizational Chart
cv m I _r                   I
q A3 | -| l t WRUR4L4 | 3 RUFAL
EA
4 RR



PHILIPPINES
FIRST WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
Organizational Chart
Pr iPPINMESDICAL CAM  _OCHJLOFSWECRETARY
DANGERDOUS RUS MMAR                      SECRTA
PUIBUC H ALTH         MOMA                 EXEtMM[E          srANA   AND           MNGMN
SERVICE            AND fAMLY          FOR NArwL FIELI)     REGULA1KMN            6FRVICE9
J  NBERCIS |    I   HOSPITAL          HO|SPRVITALS &        FtUENSENAMDH      ADM IRAIV
_   CON1EOL   _   PERATINS        L_EH ALH             _ LBRATORIES         _     NDISR
|  CH"JUNICAE        RADILOGALT       |    DSREIGTA            FOI ANWNII      jH NANTE
M18A8ECONTOLI           HEATH            HEALTH OFF1CES g   11                      DEEL
TUBEASECUOSIS          HOPIA              PEAL  NCIAL         LIENIN         AND   MANAEMETlC 
|  ONTERtL           MANDENANI    HEARLY                        EUATO               CADVIOR
_COMNICA BLEH            HE_T DTHUC                               QUARATI          H
_om                                           RURALY                                PRPlEEN
t1t~~~~
ow
t~~~4                                  HELHTALN                                   PRODUCTIO
I  I  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
_AIMLYPLANNN9
NU_r_O



PHIUPPINES
FIRST WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
OFFICE OF ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH SERVICES
Organizational Chart
PREOUAURCIN               PROJECT
B18 8 A   SMAAEt                               -LTT
COM E                   OFIE
GENERAL            PROJECT STAFF         PROECT STAFF             <ENEUAL
lECHNICAL SUPPORT       IBRI>ASSSTED        LOCALLY-FUNDED         ADIWNISTRATIVE
STAFF               PROJECTS              PROJECTS            SUPPORT STAF F
FI RST RURAJLI
W8AND SAN.|
,FIRST SECTO1R
PROJECT
E
'I1



PHIUPPINES
FIRST WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
DEPARTMENT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT
Organizatonal Chart
uldw swratoy  0f ftx Watw6ppIy Is aUoed
PALS
-1     4~P I g I 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  a



PHILIPPINES
FIRST WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
DEPARTMENT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT - PMO FOR RURAL WATER SUPPLY
Organizational Chart
.  s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sf
R I ~~Techr" c lIIMn  b wtnrn
l  r   n  _            l          l   a M*"T r &fm  "
|     I d          I m*ftam  Samn  I           d      X
E
EKARM10ft ~ ~   @1



PHIUPPINES
FIRST WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
LOCAL WATER UTIUTIES ADMINISTRATION
Organizational Chart
pa P8C      IA   NAtBENT SERINCES 
|INTERNAL AUDIT                                       PUU ADMINIlRATO
S ERVIES            SERVICES |     AND FINANCIAL |      DNSEFIPAIV
| AREAS         I    ARtEAS             ON                HUMAN
1t4                    1-4             LON             RESOlURCES 
FORM PATIN           RNIN      G        WAtenYTA         PROPERTY
_    DIY1810N   l  1    DWVU3ON       AUDIT    l 1MNQ
| ADV180ORY             DE8KN         TFESR        LIl  GENERA
DOUN               DIVISION           AND SUDGE7T     SERV.I. E .
IIEGULATORY  CONSTMWM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
DIV1810N      _    OlSION        .ACCOUNTING
_OPERATIO           
TRAINING            SERVIM
_F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
EKi4SmI



- 37 -                                                   Annex 2A
Page 1
FHILIPPINM
FIRST WAT   SEWP,LY  S13AE NO SANITATION MMTOR PROT
Sector Hx-tar Plan: Phialcal T^argta. Inve_tMent Reauirmonts and Serviec Coverage  First Stapp
(1908-92)
Iaple-                                         Investment         Populatlon carved        Population carved
Particulare                       _entetion       Physical Targets                requir-mants     Addit.     Cuaulativ.   Addit.    Cuaulativs
agency                                         (P si llion)           (million)                (
1                                2                    8                            4             5             6           7          8
A. Watr SJupuly                                                                   21J6L91                                                8
I. Matro Manila and Its                                                            9S6  d         1,440       8,448                     87
continguous areas
1. manila - Water Supply                  Replace 131S000 house con.              973.87
Project                                Remove 28,000 spagheti con.
Replace 200 km pipelines
Install 600 floa rec. atations
Replace of 108,000 pcs. aster
meter.
Repair 22,80 pcs. moter cetera
Install 12,000 pcD.  matr meters
Repair 300 pca. viave.
Replace 2.250 pcc. valve
2. Metro Manila Water                     Construct 28 km na pipelines            829.51
Distributlon Project                                   nwtal I  100o000 ne house con.
Intercon. 72 cub, to cerve
15 600 FH
In#ill 24 areas with secondary
and tertiary pipelines
Conat. tertiary pipelines for
160 low-income aroas
Drill and equip 5 new deepwell.
S. Manila Water Supply                    Complete ongoing works                  176.08
Project II
4. Angat Water Supply                     Install new and upgrade old           5S,9810
Optiization Project                   auxiliary turbine pumps
Const. now 6.4 km tunnel
Conat. new 16.8 km
Eapunw  La Mesa Treatment Plant
Conat.lInstall distribution
pipelines, pumping stations
and reservoir
Install addtl. houe service
connections
S. Manila Water Supply                    Replace 104.000 house con.            1,048.40
Rehabilitation Project II              Remove 19,000 spaghetti con.
Replace 50 km pipelinea
In-tal l 1,040 water mter.
Repair 7,279 mater aters
In-tal I8120  water meters
Install 1,560 new valves
Replace 11,440 water aters
Repair or replace 1,560 valves
S. Fringe Aroes Vater Supply              Construct deep wells                 1.02155
Project                                ConstructlInstall pipelino.
Rehab existing facilities
Install now house service
connection
7  Water Supply Development   LWA         Construct shallow and deepal I-        161.64
in Rial                    OLO        Construct/Install pipelines
Develop springs
Install nouse service connection
I. Other Urban Ares D-lH                  Construct:
OLC          450 eiped system (L-Il/IIl) 
LWUA         Repai r/Rehab. 260 systems            424.00
ISt. Rural Areas                           Construct:
988 piped syste L_*-II/II1)        2,6S  00
87.460 point aourcss (L-I)        5S990,00
98.00
Sivrn                                                                          2,111W.6
I. Metro Mbni-a and Ito       1SS                                               1 9S6 6S
contiguous areas
1. IETRSS I                               Construct sewor lines                   288.16
Construct minor drainag
Rehabi existing sever lines
Install nw house sewer
connections



-38 -                                                   Annex 2A
Page 2
o Ip                                           Investmeat        Peculation aerved       PeOulation erved
Particular-                      _mntation       Physical Targets               requirments    Addit.        Cuoulative   Addit.   Cumulative
agency                                        (P million)            (million)               (U)
1                                2                   8                             4                         6           7       6
2. IETRS  lI                             Construct e km new double barrel     1.068.69
euttellI to MnlXa lOah
t;onstruct 80 km trun coer
and intoereptore
Conatruct 400 km *oe maine and
lateralI.
Construct several mewerage lift
stations
Install new houme seawr
connections
Construct primry saver treatment
plant
II. Other Urban Areas                                                            1 60000                    0.09          0.         0.8
I Key cities                  LMA,OPW4              6 projects                1,44O.00        0.04       0.06
2  Key urban areas            LMWA.DPdH             6 projects               60.00            0.0O       0.0O
C. Sanitati
Rural Armo                                                                       M.21.707.
Toilet construction         DM         1,500.000                                            7.T4       28.22         14.78       76.6
We11 disinfection                        800,0C0                                2.00
T Ph,f   5ia                                                                  25021
I   r    l



..nnex 2A
Page 3
PHILIPPINES
flRST  ATER   PPLY. S tA0E  ND SANITATION SJTIR PROJET
Sector ,hMater Pin   PlaclTargets. mnv.?  illft        r.mnts and Serv ic* Coverage. Fi rst Stage
mpl*_                                          Invoctmnt         Peeulat'gn      d       Pulatlun Zrv
Particular*                      2mtatian        Phy Ical Targets               requl ramente               w     .      ........u AMIN     'au.v
1             2                   a                     ~~~~~~~~~~~      ~    ~~~~~~~(P,  Illion)  (million)(1
I. Natro Nanila and Its                                                      22 68921          1.440     6.448
centinague ar"a.
1.   anlla -  ater Supply                Const. 118 a rockfillld dam         12.900.00         2.705     1. i53        10         97
Project                               Conat. 2.400 oId eater
treatment plant
Const. 14 km tunnel
Canst. 23.2 mega watte hydro
electric plant
Conct. pumping stations and
re*rvoi rs
Insta ll 170.000 new hoeus
service connections
It. ether Urban Area           LMV        Construct:                           6.915            9.025     23.506       18          95
654 Piped Systes_ (L-11/111)       6.S21            9.025
Repaii rRehab. 350 eyete_a             594
III. Rural Area                 oft".      Construct:                           2.874.21         2.715    3#.0          16          93
LJA          794 Piped Systems (L-II/III)       1,929.00         0.715
183,40 Point Source. (L-i)           755.4S         2.00
Rptair/Rehab. 21,000 system            161.25
Replaceant 9.500 system                 28.50
S. Sectors                                                                       Lm83.
I. Matr Manila and Its
continuouu  area
1.  3RSS n                    NSs        Comet. 6 km new double barrel        6t863.00         1.5       2.7           18          32
outfal l to fan I a ua
Const. 80 ka trunk meer and
Interceptors
Cont. 400 kamovewr main-
and lateral.
Conat. several awerage lift
stations
Canet. primary aewr treatmnt
plant
It.   Other Urban Area.                                                            500.00                   0.25         0.51         1.01
1. KIy Citi.s                 UKJA.OP               4 project.                  480.00         0.08      0.14
2. Key Urban Area,             I AA.DOW             8 project.                   20.00         0.06       0.11
C. Sauitatio n                   D
Rural Ar 
Tollt Centructian                                  2801,9165                  445.98         8.06      3.5 28        16.8        98.4
Well 1 l1infaction                                 1.540.000                    5.22
Tota Phu" UI Seat.,
NasteL  Plan                                                                   _0041



PHILIPPIMM
FIRST WATER SUPPLY. SEKCE AND SANITATION SB WR PROJET
PROJET PROFILES
ProjecttRequilreesot
Idntii-f                                                          I plente-                                        t;Inestent   oreIgn                                   (000.000)
cation No.       Project Title                Descriptien         tion Period         Loction                             Physical Targe        CDP (a)     *xchnn 6   To" I (a)
P91I.0-1
Central and Western Vitayye     L-I, Training R&0      1988-1990    Axian, Antique, Cepl,    COWl           625 SW' 1,200 VW.                   9.90        206.00
Water Supply Project                                                Ilolo., Sohal, Cebu                      76 Spring 0ev.                                  (69.90)
60 L-II
PHI-0-2      Institutional Development       Tra;ning Progra        1900-1990    Nationwide                  Om.          L.S.                                4.80        100.00
Project I                       H b Ee                                                          LJA, 0OH                                         (64.80)    (64.80)
*nd Surve l lance
Sector Studides
PHI-D-S      Pilot Rural Environmental       L-I,L-II, Toilet       1988-1990    8ulucan  Roeblon            1W,          70-L-I.                             12.22       254.10
and Sanitation Project II       Facilities,                        Cebut Aibay, Aqsan          LUA           42 L-11,                                        (612.22)
Consulting                         del Sur Miaomgs                          112 School
Serviceo                           Oriental. South                          Toilets
Cotebato, Lana. del                      4,200 sit Type
Sur1 Maguindanao and                     Toilets.
Taml-Tai                                 800 Squat T pe
Toilets wi;1
Treat_nt Faci I i-
ties,
21,140 Squat Type
To, lets, 
10 V h;cl.
10 Vacuum Trucks
PHI-D-4      Rural Water Supply Project      L-I. Training          1069-1991    Abra, Mt.Province.         DlWl          1.400 SW              121.62        8.77       304.04
for Autonomous Areas                                                 "uet. Apyao,                            1?700 DW              (68.8i)                  (114.62)
as ilan. Sulu, Tawi-                     600 Spring Dev.
Tawi, Zambonga del                       440 Rehab.
Norte, Zamboanga City,
Lanso del Norts,
Maguindmnao, North
Cotebato, Sultan
Kuderst
PHI-S        Rural Water Supply Project      L-I, Training         1989-1991   Metro Man;Ila and Major    OPWH            1 000 SW              46.13         2.15       90.82
for Slighted Areas                                                 Cities                                    800 OY                (62.22)                  (14.37)
PH4I--S      Water Supply, Sewerage end      L-I, L-IIl,           1989-1992    Luxon - L-I.                DPWH,         9000 SW               963.85        100.12     3 212 85
Sanitation Sector Project       Sewerage Sanita-                   Nationwide - L-III.         WUAA  DM1    7,000 CY               (.46.34)                 C&184.46)
tion and C,n-                      Sanitation and                           1,000 Spring Dev
sulting Services                   Secerage                                 3.000 Rehab.
70 L-111
4 Sewerage Proj.
1.800000 Toilets
12 Stabilization
Ponds
PHt-D-7      Rural Water Supply IV           L-I, L-III,            199-1992    V;oyn-s and Mindanao        0PH           6,8000 SW             477.96        83.58      1 592 12
Proj et                         Consulting                          (except those under        LUJA          8,SOO W               (M2396)                  (I76.84)
Services                          IAO, 'd  and JICA)                        1,000 Spring Dev.                                                       to
2.000 Rehab.                                                           co 5
100 L-III                                                              ID C
PH1t8        Water Suppi Facilities          Rpir and               19W31997   Nationwide                   DPH.          lis     SW            173.36        12.5       433.40                   .
Reprar and UmbebI I tation     RMoab; itat;on of                                               LJA           30.000 VW             (68S.3)                  (120.84)                    tI
Progra                          L-I L-II and                                                                 2,000 SPR
L-III Project                                                               20 L-II
20 L-ZU1
PH1-0-9      Deep Well Construction in       Level I/Training       1980-1991    Nationwide                DOPW           8S.0  Dv                                       843.423
Selected Provinceo in the (e40.163)
Philippine 



PIoectfi                                                            Implementa-                                Ivleseonting                          Inveetment    foreign        (000 00
esttin No.        Project Title                 Description         tion Period          Location              Agenp /.iee    Physicul Target         CDP (a)       euchange (8) Total"(0)
PHI-I        Angst Water Supply                Construction of        198-199S      Angst, Sulacan              iM             A. 6.4 km Tunnel       1 881 98       I.3.3      4 655 25
Optimization Projoct             Aqueduct,                                                                          from IPO to         (i90.48)                   (122S8.1)
Additional                                                                          isgt;
Tratrment Plant                                                                8. 16.8 km
Capacity and                                                                        Aqueduct from
Distribution                                                                       8igtt to La
System Network                                                                     me"t
PHI--        manila Water Supply               Phasue I              1988-1992      Tonsy, Rizal,                 SS           A. 113 m Hit             273 42      277.9S      11 054 78
Project III  SlP III)            A. Head Works                        Antipolo, Rizal                               Rock-Fil ed         (0258:85)                  (SAal.41)
8  Treatment                                                                      DNa
Worksi                                                                      8. 80m W."
C. Distribution                                                                   Reeervoi r
System                                                                      C. 14 km Tunnel
0. 28.2 Meoawatte
Phase U1              199-1997                                                    Hydro-
A. Treatment                                                                      El ectric Plant
Works                                                                       E. 121 M Liter
S. Distribution                                                                   Treated Water
System                                                                      F. 60 H Liter
Covered
Phase III             1998-2000                                                   Rservoi rs
A. Trsteent                                                                    0. 100 ka Prismary
Works                                                                          M ins
D. Distribution                                                                H. 400 km
system                                                                         secondery
2001-2002                                                   Network
Phase Ir                                                                       I. 170,000
A. DiOstribution                                                                  Domestic
System,                                                                        Servi ce
Connections
PHI-8        Metro Manila Seweragst and        E"pa.talon of         1988-1993      Southern Part of metro      NMS           A. 80 kgm of Trunk      1 240 66      143.44      4 28S 22
Sanitation Project I             Sewerage System                      Manila                                        Swer  nd            (160.08)                  (1O   62),1
(OETROSS I)                      to  eb Soutihern                                                                   Interceptors
Portion of Metro                                                               8. 400 km Sewer
Manila                                                                            Maine and
Lateral.t
FHI--4       Metro Manila Sewerage and         E     ipanson of      1998-1999      Northern Part of Metro       5Si          Lump Sum                                          10.00D 00
Sanitation Project II            Sewerage System                      Manila                                                                                      (40T.77)
(IfREOSS II)                     to the Northern
Portion of Metro
Manila
PF MS        Manila Water Supply Rth*b-        A. Accelerated        1988-1992      Metro Manila                "S             Lump Sum               406.64        29.9        1 028 77
Ilitation Project II                Rehabilitation                                                                                      (*19.5U)                  (149.46)
(NOWP II)                           Program
8. Reduce NRW In
the RemI ning
53 Zones to
23-30t
PHI-M-I       Water Supply Development in      A. Provide            1988-1991     Metro Manila                "tMS           Lump Sue               81.74          9.6         156. 62
Zeal Prov          (3lP)            Potable Water                                                                                       (8.S9S)                   (S7.oS)
to the Rest of
Rizal Towns
8. Upgrade
Exsting
osoe in
hse Towns
PHI-N-?      Fringe Area Water Supply          Provide Potable       19881992      Metro ManIla                "MSS           LuMp SuN               111.07         141.42     S 052 61
Projects (FAWSP)                 Water to the                                                                                           (*5.34)                   (1146876)
Iaolatad Fringes
of "M5S Service                                                                                                                                              X
Ares  ms sll as a
Pocket wi thin
the Central yet
uneerved and
which ore rot
included In the
Current Water
Supp ly Irrwe-
sent rrore of
MIISS



Proe .       PrjctTtl                       scrpio                                                      IleitigIveten                                       ment
cation "D.      ProJ ct Title                lOecriptten         tion Period         Location             Agency/ie.    Physical Target       COP (a)   exchangs (a)  To 1ta
PHI-L-I     Second Water Supply Sector       L-1 L-11 L-11I.    1M9-            16 Island Prosinces                     7,000 SW              24.5          30.60      915
Project                         Traninyi ;ad                                                  0DW          6.000 06              (613.20)                  (144.00)
Conultirg                                                                   1,000 SPaR
Services                                                                   2.000 Rehab.
Construction af
570 L-II and
L-III Syste
PWI-L-2     Urban Water Supply               Cntructio  nd    l9.16-2000         t      - t1.41i2iIJ0 L-II(I2 211.                                          4S)00      3 2sas
leprovesnt Project              Ieproweant of                                                              Projct.                     70)                  u 70)
Water Supply
Fci lI tie " for
68 Area,
PlI-L-S     Rural Water Supply               F.$ 8   Design and    1109-2000    Natinide                   YUF          7620 L-1 and          a 006.00      168.00     11,440.00
1.proveeet Project             Conptruction of                                                             L-IlI System.         (8- 8.00)                (68000)
7,6210 Rural Water
Supply System
FMH-II    Solid Wast Manaement               Soltd Waste          1969-1994    Chartered City             0O U          Lup SuO               68.11         14.18      00.20
sownstration Project for a    Manaemt                                                                                            s3.148)                  (33.68)
Chartered City
PHI-2       Rural Water Supply and           Construction ad      1907-1090    Nationide                  0.            IN L-I                898 7tU.75    11.2       82S.00
Sanitation Project              Repair of L-II                                                              (Construction)       (618.7b)                 (620.00)
Syutr_.                                                                    12 L-11 (Rhab.)
Couter..
WhCleo$
PHN-II      Water Quality Manaent           Disnfection of        19-198       Nationide                  am            Ltup Sue              25.09         .01        2.1t0
Water Supply                                                                                     (381.76)                 (626.00)
system.   ter
Anrlyale                                                                                                                                             g
Laboratories
00i
I'
IN 



- 43 -
Annex 2B
Page I
PHILIPPINES
FIRST WATER SUPPLY. SEWERAGE AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Imnlementation Arrangements
Proiect Organization
1.          The implementation of the proposed project will be a joint and coordinated effort
of four government agencies, namely, the Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH),
the Department of Health (DOH), the Department of Local Government (DLG) and the Local
Water Utilities Administration (LWUA). The rural water supply component will be implemented
by DPWH through its Project Management Office for Rural Water Supply (PMO-RWS), with
suprport from DLG for institutional and commnunity development activities. DOH will implement
the sanitation component, and LWUA will undertake technical studies for future sector projects.
2.          At the national level, a Project Coordination Committee (PCC) will be established
to ensure the efficient and effective implementation of the project. The PCC will facilitate
coordination, monitor progress and disbursements, conduct periodic reviews of project
implementation, and oversee consultants engaged to assist with project implementation. The
Committee will be chaired by the DPWH PMO-RWS Project Director and will include as
members the DOH PMO Project Manager, the DLG PMO Project Manager, a LWUA Deputy
Administrator, and a NEDA representative. The PCC will meet formally at the launching of the
project and at least quarterly thereafter. It will review and approve Quarterly Progress Reports
for submission to: (a) Secretaries of the involved Departments and the LWUA Administrator, (b)
concerned provincial governments, and (c) the Bank aid other financing agencies. It will
maintain minutes of its proceedings which will be distributed with the Quarterly Reports. An
organization chart showing the agencies involved in the PCC is attached as Appendix 1.
Prenaration and Use of Provincial Sector Plans
3.          Project activities under the project in Mindanao and the Visayas will be limited to
rural sanitation activities, to be planned and carried out by DOH. However, project activities in
the Luzon island group, consisting of the integrated delivery of water supply, sanitation, training
and community development, will be implemented in accordance with Provincial Water Supply,
Sewerage and Sanitation Sector Plans to be prepared for all 37 Luzon provinces. The Plans will
be prepared by the provincial governments, initially with the help of central government aguicies
and consultants funded under the p.roject. Each province will be considered a subproject, and
the preparation of the Provincial Sector Plan will be required for each province in which
integrated water supply, sanitation, and training and community development will be provided
under the project. The Plans will provide the local governments and communities with a means
to express their aspirations and priorities within the provinces and will thus engender a closer
local identification with the project through the initial planning and subsequent monitoring of
project implementation and performance. The Provincial Sector Plans will also provide the sector
agencies with a means to ailocate resources among orovinces in a rational and equitable manner.
4.          The Plans will be prepared according to an already developed standard format and
will cover a description of the planning area, the existing situation, future developments,
requirements and priorities, an investment program and details of implementation and operations
specific to the concerned province. The Plans will be formally presented by the provincial
governments to the PCC, the sector agencies, and NEDA in their bid lor government financial
support to improve water supply and sanitation in the provinces.



- 44 -
Annex 2B
Page 2
5.          After reviewing a Provincial Sector Plan, the PCC will formally advise the
concerned province of the physical targets to be achieved and the financial support forthcoming
for water supply, sanitary improvements and training and community development within the
province, as well as the time frame and annual monitoring indicators to be used in reviewing
progress. The PCC will further inform the provincial governments of their obligations under the
agreed investment program, including their participation in the formal handover of completed
water supply facilities to Barangay Waterworks and Sanitation Associations (BWSAs), their
provision of institutional and technical support to the BWSAs, the monitoring of impkimentation
progress and the operation of facilities, and the reporting of monitoring results at least annually
to the PCC.
Sector Aaencies
6.           The roles of the sector agencies will be as follows:
(a)   The DPWH Project Management Office for Rural Water Supply will
(i)   chair the PCC and prepare the consolidated Quarterly Reports; and
.ii)  implement the rural water supply component for the provision of Level I
service and moni or the performance of contractors and consultants.
(b)   The DOH Project Management Office will
'i)   implement the rural sanitation component;
(ii)   prepare information, education and communication (IEC) materials and
conduct community health education programs;
(iii)  assist with the monitoring of implementation, operational performance,
and health status at the barangay level; and
(iv)   undertake community health education and training activities.
(c)   DLG wilt
(i)   supervise preparation of the Provincial Sector Plans I v the provincial
governments, with the assistance of consultants; and
(ii)   assist in the institutional development of local governments for improved
program delivery.
(d)   LWUA wilt
(i)   undertake the preparation of feasibility studies and designs for a potential
project, with the assistance of consultants;
(ii)   engage consultants for and supervise the preparation of the Sewerage and
Sanitation Master Plan to lay the groundwork for future investment; and
(iii)  supervise consultants to be engaged for the Financial Restructuring Study.



- 45 -
AXxex 2B
Page 3
ImWlementation of the Rural Water SuDDlv Comoonent
7.          Implementation of the project water supply component will be based largely on
the institutional arrangements established by the Government for the implementation of the
Accelerated Water Supply Program (AWSP). The magnitude of this program as well as the need
for essential community development and participation necessitated the formulation of an inter-
agency collaboration for sustained program delivery. Consequently, a Memorandum of
Agreement (MOA) was concluded between DPWH and DLG in August 1989, which describes
their roles and those of the local government units (LGUs) in the implementation of Level I
water supply projects. The water supply component of the proposed project will, therefore, be
implemented in line with the above arrangements, which make DPWH responsible for physical
implementation and technical supervision of works. Related institutional development activities,
comprising training and community development, will be shouldered by DLG and the local
government units. The MOA further states that DPWH and DLG will undertake a three-year
program to develop the LGUs' capability to a3sume responsibilities in project preparation, design,
the bidding and awarding of contracts, monitoring, and implementation of Level I water supply
projects. DPWH has also entered into another Memorandum of Agreement with DOH and the
Department of Education, Culture and Sports (DECS) for their assistance in the formation and
organization of BWSAs and in the conduct of training and health education activities.
8.          To establish a clearer understanding of AWSP implementation procedures and
institutional arrangements, a national workshop involving the relevant sector agencies was held in
September 1989 to formulate an Institutional Development Program. A model was developed
identifying the activities at the provincial, municipal and barangay levels to be undertaken by the
respective agencies and units of DPWH, provincial, municipal and city governments, barangay
councils, BWSAs, DOH, DECS, and non-governmental organizations. The institutional
development model which will form the basis for the implementation of the water supply
component is attached as Appendix 2.
9.          Di'WWs PMO-RWS will have overall responsibility for implementation of the
rural water supply component. The Regional and District Engineers Offices of DPWH
(RDOs/DEOs) will be responsible for construction and installation of the water supply systems
and rehabilitation of the existing facilities under the overall guidance and direction of the DPWH
PMO-RWS. DLG wiUl initiate the formation of BWSAs, assist in the registration process and
conduct training courses. The PMO-RWS will have the following responsibilities in the
implementation of the project
develop guidelines, primers and training materials,
. conduct project site surveys,
. prepare detailed design of projects,
. prepare work programs and schedules,
construct water supply facilities,
consolidate project implementation status reports,
provide technical assistance to LGUs,
provide general supervision and coordination.
10.         As stipulated under NEDA Resolution No.5, which was recently issued in
conjunction with the AWSP, both DPWH and DLG will jointly strengthen the LGUs in the
implementation of Level I water supply facilities. DPWH would provide technical training, as
described in Annex 5, while DLG will:
. assist in the conduct of briefings and dialogues at the provincial and local levels,



- 46 -
Annex 28
Page 4
. conduct training courses for provincial and municipal planning and development
offices, to develop their capabilities in community organization and training of
BWSAs,
. coordinate and assist in the organization and registration of BWSAs,
. undertake reproduction and printing of training materials,
. monitor the operational status of BWSAs,
. provide institutional assistance to BWSAs,
. provide feedback and reports to DPWH and the PCC.
11.          The provincial and municipal governments will actually implement the
institutional and community development activities related to the rural water supply component.
Their responsibilities are to:
. brief and conduct dialogues with the governors and mayors,
. conduct provincial training
. consolidate BWSA formation/registration reports,
. assist the BWSAs,
facilitate the registration of BWSAs,
. conduct BWSA basic skills training,
. monitor the operational status of BWSAs,
provide institutional assistance to BWSAs,
prepare reports for DLG and DPWH.
ImWlementation of the Rural Sanitation Cornonent
12.           The DOH Project Management Office, attached to the Environmental Health
Office, is responsible for overall supervision of the sanitation program and will provide
nationwide planning, programming, management, monitoring, reporting and logistic support.
Through its grassroots organization at the municipal and barangay levels, DOH will assist in the
integrated training of the BWSAs. The central PMO will also manage the bidding, procurement,
and supply of equipment and materials.
13.           Implementation of the sanitation component will be carried out by Project
Management Offices organized by DOH at several levels. The PMO at the regional level will be
responsible for monitoring operations in the region, including training and guidance on technical
matters provided by senior sanitary engineers and support staff. At the provincial level, sanitary
engineers and supervi3ing sanitarians under the Provincial Health Officer will be responsible for
the training of and technical assistance to the local inspectors. At the municipal level, the PMOs
will carry out project activities related to health education, training, community motivation and
organization in toilet construction and water surveillance, using DOH's primary health care
delivery organization. The municipal PMOs will be headed by Municipal Health Officers and
staffed by sanitary inspectors. The latter wiU be primari!y responsible for project activities
related to sanitary toilet construction and water quality surveillance. They will be assisted by
health workers and midwives from the Rural Health Stations.
Imnlementation Schedules
14.          DOH will prepare an implementation schedule for rural sanitation activities
carried out in Mindanao and the Visayas. Project-financed consultants will prepare
implementation schedules for project activities to be carried out in each province in Luzon,
covering all phases from planning to operation and maintenance. The detailed schedules will
include:



- 47 -
Annex 2!
Page 5
(a)   preparatory work and project mobilization;
(b)   detailed activities during the BWSA pre-formation phase;
(c)   formation of BWSAs and implementation of community development and training
activities;
(d)   equipment and materials supply, procurement, delivery, stores handling and all
related logistics support;
(e)   detailed surveys and construction schedules for hydrogeological surveys, drilling,
installation of handpumps and construction of household and school latrines, and
preparation of information, education and communication materials; and
(f)   handing over of water supply facilities to BWSAs and training of BWSA officers in
system operation and maintenance.
Project Launchine Workshon
15.         A Project Launching Workshop will be held for the staff of the implementing
agencies and of relevant Provincial Development Offices before project start-up. This would
provide the project managers with an opportunity to rally support for the project and emphasize
the need for coordination of project activities and for speed, quality and dedication. At the
Workshop, an overview wiUl be given of project implementation arrangements and Bank
procedures for procurement, engagement of consultants, preparation of disbursement
applications, including use of Statements of Expenditure, reporting and monitoring requirements,
and preparation of project accounts and the audit thereof. Arrangements for the Workshop wili
be made by consultants to be engaged to assist with project implementation (see Annex 7D).
Other Proiect Implementation Assistance
16.         To further assist the implementing agencies, the Singapore-based UNDP/World
Bank Water Supply and Sanitation Team (WSST) will from timo to time ',:ovide the services of
experts to advise on the manufacture of handpumps, well drilling techniques including
hydrogeological advice, quality assurance and control, and operations and maintenance
procedures. See Annex 7F for terms of reference for this assistance.
17.         Under the auspices of the International Training Network (ITN), which is
administered by LWUA under the direction of a Steering Committee comprising representatives
of concerned sector agencies and in ntitutions of learning, assistance will be provided for the
formulation and execution of train.ng courses for well drillers and hydrogeologists being educated
in the Philippines, and for the production of training manuals pertaining to the various activities
and skills in the water supply and sanitation sector. Terms of reference for ITN assistance are
included in Annex 7F.



PHILIPPINES
FIRST WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
PROJECT COORDINATION COMIMITTEE
OrganIzatIonal Chart
PROJECT COORDINATION
COMMITTEE
(NEDA.DPWHDOH.OLG.LWUA)
DPWH             DON              OLG             LWUA
RECODNAL         REXUONAL         REGIONAL
DIRECTORS         HEALTH         OEVELOPMENT         WATER
OFFICES         COUNCILS         DISTRIICTS
DITROINCT      PROVINCI             NAL                                                                     O
ENGINEERS         HEAt4LTHVL
OFFICES         OFFICES          OFFCESI
DISTRACT        MUNICIPAL
HEALTH         OVELg:g
OFFICES         IFFCES
MNIKCIPAL-I
HEALTH
OFFICES
STATKONS
EK/W46373C
I0.
H 't'



PHIUPPINES
FIRST WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Rural Water Supply Institutional Development Model
Assey              BWSA Fonrmti Phm                      .mpleme    Pa                        Opeatn A MaiMale Phase
Oqu~~~~~tsn    RsgWbuflon    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~   B~WmA overtanmm at ins
* * svGI     *            i            Stw           .         ooblita                *       e * ' a
OWSA                     teo                                                        fro
~~~tmln* pw                                                            ma       l     b     _      ta~
,orw 
*                                   *pwen
OWSA~~~~~~~~~e
~~~ttae                                               * US8    *         _        * Wmso    h   -C     *neo
*s w-
ptovhwa      tot                                           kf0
IXsWO ' : m D 
oilyi Gov't                                                   *moan*poia                                         mf
huc ond uct
modcom ev-t       P.Aes                                   wss  I                                           '
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e                                  d
courcogNm                                                                                     Ws aesimos(DON
wamw ~ ~      ~       ~      ~       x
DOME08/030           (DOH)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 50 -
Annex 2C
PHLTIPNiES
FIRST WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE; ANDM SANffATION SECTO PROJECT
Monitoring Indicators
(Cumulative Completions)
122k     1991    i122        1993      1224      19S
Plannin
Preparation of
Provincial Water Supply,
Sewerage & Sanitation
Sector Plans                 6        18        37        37        37       37
Water SUOD1V:
Shallow Wells              550     2,750     5,500     8,250    10,450    11,000
Deep Wells                 350      1,750    3,500     5,250     6,650     7,000
Spring Developments         50       250       500       750      950      1,000
Well Rehabilitation        250      1,250    2,500     3,750     4,750     5,000
Rain Water Collection
Installation                10        50       100       150       190      200
Pilot Water Treatment Units    0     100       300       600     1,000     1,000
Workshop Construction        1         6        12        18       24        25
Saniteation
Household Latrines
Installation 000's         100       300       500       700      900      1,000
School Toilets             100       300       500       700       900     1,000
Pilot Communal/Public
Toilets                      0        50       100       100       100      100
Pilot Wastewater
Treatment Units              0        10        30        60       100      100
Sullage Removal Units       50       250       500       750       950     1,000
Well disinfections 000's   100       300       500       700      900      1,000



- 51 -
Annex 2D
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
EB!. WATER SUPPLY. SEWERAGE AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
froiect Area
A. Luzon
Population       Number of         Number of
Region          Province           (1988)       Municipalities      Barangays
Cordillera      Benguet              435,337           13                  267
Admin. Region   Abra                 177,931           27                  312
Mt. Province        117,433            10                 143
Kalinga-Apayao      227,676            15                 281
Ifugao              131,304            10                 162
Subtotal                           1.0899.681          21                L16
Region I        Pangasinan         1,823,255           46                1,349
La Union            521,297            20                 574
lnocos Norte        427,136            22                 557
lnocos Sur          491,251            34                 864
Subtotal                           3.262.39           12                 344
Region I        Cagayan              842,588           28                  789
Isabela            1,050,704           37                1,053
Nueva Vizcaya       300,862            15                 271
Quirino             108,719             6                 118
Batanes              14,036             6                  29
Subtotal                           2.316.909           92                h2
Region m        Bataan               438,554           12                  230
Bulacan            1,314,638           24                 521
Pampanga           1,397,302           21                 538
Tarlac              813,472            17                 509
Nueva Ecija        1,277,944           29                 815
Zambales            535,276            12                 233
Subtotall                          5.777.219          1IS                2
Region IV-A     Batangas           1,394,127           32                1,079
Rizal               728,726            14                 191
Aurora              130,656             8                 152
Laguna             1,191,393           29                 667
Quezon             1,405,458           40                1,242
Cavite             1,003,614           20                 532
Subtotal                           5,5397274          m                  Ll



- 52 -
Annex 2D
Page 2
A. Luzon (continued)
Population       Number of         Number of
Region          Province           (1988)       Municipalities      Barangays
Region IV       Mindoro Or.          567,594           15                 420
Mindoro Occ.        293,171           11                  158
Romblon             226,159           17                  215
Marinduque          207,673            6                  218
Palawan             478,066           21                  415
Subtotal                           1.772.S64           la                126
Region V        Camarines Sur      1,246,614           35                1,068
Albay               929,464           17                  142
Catanduanese        204,521           11                  314
Camarines Norte     360,753           12                  273
Masbate             678,157           21                  536
Sorsogon            533,393           16                  546
$mbubtotl                          4.002.902         La                 2.87
GRAND TOTAL                       24,076,188          731               17,783
__Q_=



- 53 -
Anex 2D
Page 3
B. Visayas
Population       Number of         Number of
Region          Province           (1988)       Municipalities      Barangays
Region VI       Alkan                387,004           17                  327
Antique             414,962            18                 591
Capiz               599,770            16                 472
Guimaras            110,139             3                  96
lloilo             1,693,684           43                1,720
Negros Occidental  2,343,569           26                 653
Subtotal                           5,549              123 in59
Region VII      Bohol                864,355           47                1,103
Cebu               1,419,590           48                1,172
Negros Oriental     809,033            22                 555
Siquijor             79,671             6                 134
Subtotal                           3,172.649          123                2 _4
Region VIII     Northern Leyte     1,133,927           41                1,381
Southern Leyte      359,680            18                 503
Eastern Samar       382,304            23                 587
Northern Samar      462,629            24                 567
Western Samar       420,313            25                 790
Biliran Sub-Prov.   130,816             8                 136
Subtotal  2O89T  11,61                                 35                3.1 4
GRAND TOTAL                       11,611,446          385               10,787



- 54 -
Annex 2D
Page 4
C. Mindanao
Population       Number of         Number of
Region          Province           (1988)       Municipalities      Barangays
Region IX       Basilan              274,090            7                  196
Sulu                429,202            18                 403
Tawi-Tawi           233,098            10                 148
Zamboanga del Norte 558,569            26                 552
Zamboanga del Sur   924,036            41                 923
Subtotal                           2.391.995          l2
Region X        Agusan del Norte     240,732                               148
Agusan del Sur      339,395                               259
Bukidnon            786,793                               458
Camiguin             62,423                                58
Misamis Occidental   266,311                              334
Misainis ofiental   465,544                               339
Surigao del Normt   357,922                               355
Subtotal                           2.519.120                             L2SI
Region XI       Davao Province       871,493           21                  388
Davao del Sur       630,444            15                 314
Davao Oriental      416,162            11                 179
South Cotabato      759,393            18                 281
Surigao del Sur     469,608            19                 297
Subtotal                           3.147.100          I8"
Region XII      Cotabato             712,267                               505
Lanao ddl Norte     355,578                               462
Lanao del Sur       413,633                               932
Magu.ndanao         545,883                               443
Sultan Kudarat      395,158                               212
Subtotal                           2.422519                              2.SS4
GRAND TOTAL                       10,480,734          186                8,186
m 



- 55 -
Annex 3
Page I
P!HILIPPIES
FIRST WATER SUPPLY. SEWERAGE AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Develonment of Snecifications
1.          The following guidelines have been prepared to assist in the further development of
specifications for handpumps, drilling rigs, well drilling procedures and sanitary pit latrines.
Existing and any new specifications will be periodically reviewed by the implementing agencies
with the assistance of consultants and staff from the UNDP/World Bank Water Supply and
Sanitation (WSS) Program.
A. Guidelines for Preparation of Handnumn- Soecifications
2.          Two standard handpumps will be used, a suction pump for shallow wells with a
water level of up to about 6 m, the other for deep wells with water levels between 6 m and 40 m
below ground. Pump specifications, including detailed drawings, will be part of the bidding
document for procurement, and are detailed enough to ensure that a high-quality product will be
obtained. External quality inspection will be carried out, if desired at the factory, before
acceptance of the product.
3.          PMO-DPWH has prepared a detailed manual for caretakers (BWSA Operators),
Level I Oneration and Maintenance Manual, March 1989, which contains detailed instructions on
O&M of handpumps, the duties of a BWSA Operator, trouble shooting for the pump and well, and
how to carry out health education in the community.
Shallow Well Suction PumDs
4.          The Jetmatic-type suction pump has been in use in the Philippines for many years.
It will be the standard for shallow wells with water levels of up to about 6 m and consists of a cast
iron body with a cylinder liner, a cast iron lever assembly and handle, connecting rod, piston and
foot valve (see Drawing 1). PM3-DPWH keeps and updates the standard drawing, which is used in
procurement. Improvements on the standard specifications will be made with the assistance of the
UNDP/World Bank WSS Program, based on the experience gained with pump performance in the
field. With these specifications the pump is expected to give, on average, at least one year of
trouble-free operation when used by about 12 households. Maintenance is simple, since all
components are located above-ground.
DeeD-Well Pumo
5.          The Molave standard design will be used for deep-well pumps of water levels
between 6 m and 40 m (see Drawing 2). It consists of a pump head that incorporates improvements
of the standard head presently used in the Philippines and the present standard specifications of the
below-ground structure with minor modifications. The finalization of the standard specifications
will be assisted by staff from the UNDP/World Bank Water Supply and Sanitation Program. With
this design it is easy for village caretakers with a little training and simple tools to carry out the
most common repairs, such as replacing the bearings or the seals of the foot valve. This is possible
because of a feature called the "open-top cylindere and quick-release mechanisms requiring only a
single tool. The pump is expected to give, on average, at least one year of trouble-free operation



- 56 -
Annex 3
Page 2
when used by 25 households in a well that has been constructed to avoid sand intrusion from the
aquifer.
6.           The maximum stroke length is 225 mm with a maximum displacement angle on the
handle of 90 degrees, giving the user the choice of how to operate the pump most comfortably. The
cylinder diameter is 2 1/4 inches. The pump head is mounted on a steel pedestal, firmly cemented
into the platform. The manufacturer is required to include a set of special tools and installation and
maintenance instructions with each pump, and a set of commonly-used spare parts that are
separately priced in the bid.
B. Guidelines for Drillins Rig Stecifications
7.           A total of about 7,000 deep wells and about 11,000 shallow wells will be drilled
under this project, to be fitted with handpumps for Level I installations. Standard designs and
procedures for well drilling are in use by DPWH, which will be utilized also for this project with
small modifications, as described under Well Specifications below.
Snecification 1: Rotary Drilling Rig
8.           A rotary type drilling rig suitable for drilling in soft rock and unconsolidated
formations of different types up to a 200 mm well diameter to a depth of 100 m, will be mounted
on a trailer and self-contained.
9.           The rig should be driven by an independent diesel motor and simple to operate.
The whole assembly should be light-weight, easy to transport and assemble, suitable for drilling in
areas with difficult access (such as islands requiring ocean transport), and corrosion-resistant for
normal operation in coastal areas. The rotation motor and feed system should be suited to the
drilling requirements mentioned above with a reasonable margin to overcome problems that may be
encountered during drilling operations.
10.          A PVC or steel casing with screen of 100 mm diameter in 3 m lengths is to be fitted
in the wells. A gravel pack will normally be placed. The static water level in the completed wells is
expected to range from 3 m to 40 m. A handpump and a cement platform of a standard design are
to be installed on each completed well.
11.          The usual accessories and spare parts are to be supplied, including the following:
(a)    Mud pump for 200 mm diameter to 100 m depth operation, preferably a piston
pump, suitably mounted,
(b)    Cat head winch (or whichever is standard to the rig),
(c)    Drill pipe, drill bits, and subs for the above-specified drilling conditions (drill bits
for four years of operation),
(d)    Side supports for the trailer, or other recommended system,
(e)    Complete set of instructions for operation and maintenance, complete list of parts,
in English, and all required tools,
(f)    Commonly-used spare parts for three years of operation, to be separately priced in
the bid.



- 57 -
Annex 3
Page 3
12.          Extras: Any recommended extras to the above specifications should be separately
listed and priced, such as a compressor for developing the above-specified wells (but not for a
down-the-hole hammer), a training period for the drilling foremen, additional accessories and
spare parts beyond those listed above, generator (for welder), water tank, etc.
13.          The quotation is to include transport and insurance to Manila and to specify the
delivery period and provide for a one-year warranty period.
14.          The name and address of the nearest representative agency should be given with a
description of its capability regarding availability of spare parts, maintenance and repair, training
of operators, etc.
SDecification 2: Rotary Rip with Down-the-Hole Hammer Attachment. 100 m Wells
15.          A rotary drilling rig with a down-the-hole hammer capable of mud-rotary drilling
will be r junted on a trailer and self-contained. The rig should be suitable for drilling in (a) hard
rock, including but not limited to basalt, to a maximum of 125 mm well diameter with down-the-
hole hammer, down to a depth of 100 m, with overburden of varying thickness, and (b)
unconsolidated formations of different types to a well diameter of 200 mm and 100 m depth. A
compressor suitable for 125 mm down-the-hole hammer drilling to 100 m should be included.
16.          The rig should be driven by an independent diesel motor. The whole assembly
should be light-weight and easy to transport and assemble, suited to drilling in areas with difficult
access (such as islands requiring ocean transport), corrosion-resistant for normal operation in
coastal areas, and simple to operate. The rotation motor and feed system should be suitable to the
drilling requirements mentioned above with a reasonable margin to overcome problems that may be
encountered during drilling operations.
17.          A PVC or steel casing with screen of 100 mm diameter in 3 m lengths is to be fitted
in the wells. A gravel pack will normally be placed. The static water level in the completed wells is
expected to range from 3 m to 40 m. A handpump and a cement platform of a standard design are
to be installed on each completed well.
18.          The usual accessories and spare parts are to be supplied, including the following:
(a)    Mud pump for 200 mm diameter to 100 m depth operation, preferably a piston
pump, suitably mounted,
(b)   Cat head winch (or whichever is standard to the rig),
(c)    Drill pipe, drill bits, and subs for the above-specified drilling conditions (drill bits
for four years of operation),
(d)   Side supports for the trailer, or other recommended system,
(e)    Complete set of instructions for operation and maintenance, complete list of parts,
in English, and all required tools,
(f)    Commonly-used spare parts for three years of operation, to be separately priced in
the bid,
(g)    Down-the-hole hammer, capable of drilling up to 125 mm diameter to a depth of
100 m.



- 58 -
Annex 3
Page 4
19.         E^agg Any recommended extras to the above specifications should be separately
listed and priced, such as a training period for the drilling foremen, additional accessories and
spare parts beyond those listed above, generator (for welder), water tank, etc.
20.         The quotation is to include transport and insurance to Manila and to specify the
delivery period and warranty.
21.         The name and address of the nearest representative agency should be given with a
description of its capability regarding availability of spare parts, maintenance and repair, training
of operators, etc.
Specification 3: Rotary Rig with Down-the-Hole Hammer. 60 m Wells
22.         A rotary drilling rig with a down-the-hole hammer capable of mud-rotary drilling
will be mounted on a trailer and self-contained. The rig should be suitable for drilling in (a) hard
rock, including but not limited to basalt, to a maximum of 125 mm weli diameter with down-the-
hole hammer, down to a depth of 60 m, with overburden of varying thickness, and
(b) unconsolidated formations of different types to a well diameter of 200 mm and 60 m depth. A
compressor suitable for 125 mm down-the-hole hammer drilling to 60 m should be included.
23.         The rig should be driven by an independent diesel motor. The whole assembly
should be light-weight and easy to transport and assemble, suited to drilling in areas with difficult
access (such as islands requiring ocean transport), corrosion-resistant for normal operation in
coastal areas, and simple to operate. The rotation motor and feed system should be suitable to the
drilling requirements mentioned above with a reasonable margin to overcome problems that may be
encountered during drilling operations.
24.          A PVC or steel casing with screen of 100 mm diameter in 3 m lengths is to be fitted
in the wells. A gravel pack will normally be placed. The static water level in the completed wells is
expected to range from 3 m to 40 m. A handpump and a cement platform of a standard design are
to be installed on each completed well.
25.         The usual accessories and spare parts are to be supplied, including the following:
(a)   Mud pump for 200 mm diameter to 60 m depth operation, preferably a piston
pump, suitably mounted,
(b)   Cat head winch (or whichever is standard to the rig),
(c)   Drill pipe, drill bits, and subs for the above-specified drifling conditions (drill bits
for four years of operation),
(d)   Side supports for the trailer, or other recommended system,
(e)   Complete set of instructions for operation and maintenance, complete list of parts,
in English, and all required tools,
(f)    Commonly-used spare parts for three years of operation, to be separately priced in
the bid,
(g)   Down-the-hole hammer, capable of drilling up to 125 mm diameter to a depth of
60 m.



- 59 -
Annex 3
Page 5
26.          Exts: Any recommended extras to the above specifications should be separately
listed and priced, such as a training period for the drilling foremen, additional accessories and
spare parts beyond those listed above, generator (for welder), water tank, etc.
27.          The quotation is to include transport and insurance to Manila and to specify the
delivery period and warranty.
28.          The name and address of the nearest representative agency should be given with a
description of ts capability regarding availability of spare parts, maintenance and repair, training
of operators, etc.
Well Dgfini%ion
29.          The definitions for different types of welis for Level I projects are given in the
ImDlementing Guidelines to the AWSP, RA 6716, Section 6.5: Typical Level I Designs,
Specifications and Programs of Works, and in PMO-DPWH, TVnical Projrams of Work and
Maternals Sneuifications. In all cases, the works to be accomplished include well development,
water quality analysis, handpump installation, and construction of a cement platform according to
a standard design.
Shallow Well
30.          Driven Wel. Suitable in areas where the water level is within the suction limit of
about 6 m. A 35 mm to 50 mm GI pipe with screen and drive point is driven into the well. A
drawing of a typical installation, including the suction pump and cement platform, is attached to
Annex 3. Driving can be used where the aquifer is located within about 13 m from the ground level
and consists of coarse sand or gravel.
31.          Drilled Well. Also suitable where the water level is within about 6 m, this type of
well is drilled to a diameter that is sufficient to place a gravel pack around a 35 mm to 50 mm GI
casing and screen. This drilling method is applicable where the aquifer consists of fine material,
occurs at a depth below about 13 m, or where the well is located in volcanic areas or former river
beds where large boulders may block the drive point before the desired depth has been reached.
The depth of such wells varies considerably and will average about 40 m. Such wells are also fitted
with a suction pump.
Deep Well
32.          Suitable where the water level is below 6 m. It involves driling a 200 mm diameter
well and placing a gravel pack around a 100 mm PVC or steel pipe casing and screen in
unconsolidated formation. Otherwise, only the overburden wil be cased off and the well drilled
into rock to a diameter of 125 mm. When the aquifer consists of coarse sand or gravel, no gravel
pack is required and the well is drilled to 150 mm diameter. The well depth varies considerably
from well to well and will average around 60 m. Such weUls are fitted with a standard deep-well
handpump.
Procedures For Drillina
33.          The construction of the shallow weUls wiU be carried out entirely by the private
sector, since there are numerous backyard drillerse and the investment needed in the drilling
equipment is very small. They require clear well specifications and implementation guidelines, close
supervision, and in some cases training. (See Annex 7F on training for well drilling, water quality



- 60 -
Annex 3
Page 6
analysis and groundwater hydrology.) For the deep wells, the participation of the private sector,
which has not participated in the driUling of deep wells for handpumps, will be actively promoted
by contracting out a group of wells in the same area of a large enough number to make it
worthwhile for the bigger drillers to operate equipment in rural areas, and possibly to invest in
additional equipment.
34.         In future, sites for wells with handpumps will no longer be chosen on a case-by-
case basis. Plans for well sites wi11 be prepared by DPWH for each province in the project area,
based on the needs and priorities as identified in the Provincial Sector Plans (see terms of reference
for consultants, Annex 7A) and on hydrogeologic and logistical factors. Drilling contracts must be
consolidated in drilling areas to minimize the movement of drilling equipment and personnel. The
Provincial Plans for well sites will consider the preparedness of communities to participate and
other criteria specified in the Imolementin. Guidelines to the AWSP, RA 6716, Section 6.3: Criteria
in the Identification and Selection of Projects. The Rapid Assessment of Water Supply Sources,
undertaken in 1982 at the start of the First Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project and mapped
in 1984, will be updated by DPWH in collaboration with NWRB, the National Statistical
Coordination Board, LWUA, etc. It will provide a consolidated groundwater data base of the
Philippines and will include geological information needed for well drilling.
C. Sanitary Pit Latrine Snecifications and Bowl
35.         The proposed sanitary pit latrine provides a hygienic and low-cost form of excreta
disposal and has minimal requirements for user care. The pit latrine is composed of three
components: (a) a pit; (b) a squatting plate and foundation; and (c) a superstructure. An important
feature of the pit latrine is the use of the pour-flush type water seal bowl set integrally as part of
the squatting plate. The toilet bowl works on the same principle as the common water closet except
that the wastewater is removed by pouring a small amount of water into the trap and flushing the
contents into the pit. The hydraulic design of the bowl allows the retainment of water in the lower
portion of the trap, thus sealing in the odors and preventing flies and mosquitos breeding in the pit.
36.         The leaching pit can be constructed either directly below the squat bowl or offset
from the superstructure, in which case a connecting pipe should also be provided. The pit should
be designed according to criteria established for wet pits, and a design capacity of about 0.04 cubic
meter per person per year can be used. The depth of the pit can vary between 2 to 3 meters with a
diameter of about 0.8 meters. For the offset type of toilets, a shallower and wider pit can be
constructed. The adoption of the offset type of toilets that can be installed inside the house can also
be encouraged. The base of the pit should be made of sand and gravel for soakage and side walls
from bamboo, with other wood pieces or cement blocks as structural support. As the general
practice is for single pit latrines in the rural areas, the emptying time of the pits can vary between
2 to 5 years depending on the leaching capacities. The location of the pits should be selected at
least 30 meters away from the water sources. A typical drawing of a pour-flush type water seal
latrine is attached as Drawing 3.
37.         The toilet bowl has undergone extensive improvements during the implementation
of the Bank-assisted Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project (Loan 2206-PH). The bowl is
manufactured of hard PVC possessing a smooth surface with hydraulic characteristics fully tested
under the above project. A typical drawing of the bowl showing the structural design and
dimensions is attached as Drawing 4. Depending on the local preferences for squatting or sitting
during defecation, the bowl can be built using a seat and riser section.
38.         The superstructure of the pit latrine can be built using locally available materials. It
may consist of a wooden or galvanized iron frame, nipa or coconut-leaf roofing, ratta and nails.



- 61 -
Anngex 2
Drawing 1
Shallow Well Hndirumo
suCnoN PUMP
V4.
r 40mm 6 CASING PIPE
SANITARY SEAL (GROUTI 3m
omme _ _1. COUPUNG
L~~~3 smm~ @: t plp
63mmO a SommO 0.. RECWCER
WELL POINT 0 SCREENt
(NOT DRAWN TO SCALE)



- 62 -
Annex, 
Drawing 2
Kalavaan DeanWeli Handnuma
COVER                                    LSTEEL HAPNDLE
SPOUT
7 y ~~FLANGES
!DROP or COLUMN PIPE (63mm0)
.I w t " > CEMENT GROUTING
'.PUMP ROD (16mm0)
l      ---4CASING PIPE (lOOmm0)
PUMP SETTING
CYLINDER
PIFTON
FOOT VALVE
!STRAINER
SCREEN (1OOum)
PLUG



- 63 -
Annex 3
Drawing 3
PHILIPPINES
ElM ATERLY. SEWERArGE AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJEC
Sanitary Pit Latrine with Pour-Flush Toilet Bowl
PLAN
Use AvOM"e Local
Skots
Lis 7.5 x ?.5cen Posts              ._ _ _ _ _ _
arAOfe   t Local M aterials.__
CDoof Panel     l
Clayt Fins for  stbiit
ote:         conAcrDemteeSlab      .          - n Meters
Troilet 8owA   -uiung
0.75 -
Could be fined with    Ll  
Bamoas. WOCCo Drnfts or l X                    f      
Clay Rhg8s for stebmlty  |r                       _ _ _
N&oie AD hwrwons are In mleers
e"WWGf



- 64 -
ArnuLs
PHILIPlNEiS                                lDrawing 4
PVC Toilet Bowl rl Pit Latrine
440
I   1   440                3
T           <                     3       X           SECTION
225
SIDE VIEWA WITH P.TRAP     2                              PMTr4 p
Note: ANl Dimenrioos are in MM                              k6rAv46623a



PHILIPPINES
FIRST WATER SUWPY, SEWERAGE AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Table 1: Project Cost Estlmtes - Rural Water S4Wtly
.................................. ...................................................................... ............ ....................... ..............................................................
----- NILLION PESOS ----    OF   ...--- MILLION US$ -----MPhpsc l             .......--ILLION US$ --------
IREKS                                                      8ASE                           Centin-  Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total    COST   Local  Foreign  Total gencias             1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    19s9
A. RURAL WATER SWPPLY  DPUH
Water Supply System:
Shaltto  wells           Civ.Wrks    69.0      7.7    76.7    5.17!  3.21    0.36    3.57    20.0!  10.0o   0.18    0.71    0.89    0.89    0.71    0.18
Equip.       7.9    26.5    34.4    2.32!  0.37    1.23    1.60       S.0!  76.9s   0.16    0.32    0.40    0.40    0.32    0.00
Deep Wvlls               Civ.Wrks  42S.8   47.3  473.1   31.90X  19.32    2.20   22.02    20.0!   10.0!   1.10    4.40    5.51    S.S1    4.40    1.10
Equipm      83.1  277.1   360.3  24.29s   3.87   12.90   16.77        S.OX   76.9s   1.68    3.35    4.19    4.19    3.3S    0.00
Spring Develont          Civ.Wrke    66.1    11.7    77.7    5.24!  3.08    0.54    3.62    20.0X   15.0!  0.18    0.72    0.90    0.9          0.72    0.18
Equip.      49.1   163.9  213.0   14.36X   2.29    7.63    9.92       S.0!  76.9!  0.99    1.96    2.48    2.48   1.9        0.00
Rehabilitation           Clv.Urka    13.4      1.S    14.8    1.00!  0.62    0.07    0.69    20.0!.  10.0!  0.03    0.14    0.17    0.17    0.14    0.03
Equip.       0.7    27.5    28.2    1.90!  0.03    1.28    1.31       5.0!  97.7!  0.13    0.26    0.33    0.33    0.26    0.00
Workshops                Civ.wrks      5.5     0.6     6.1    0.41!  0.26    0.03    0.29    1S.0!   10.0o   0.01    0.06    0.07    0.07    0.06    0.01
Equip.       0.0     0.0     0.0    0.00!  0.00    0.00    0.00       5.0!   0.0!   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Voter Treatment Units    Civ.Wrks      4.6     o.s     5.2    0.3s5   0.22    0.02    0.24    10.0!  10.0!  0.01    o.os    0.06    0.06    0.0o    0.01
Equip.       0.0     0.0     0.0    0.00!  0.00    0.00    0.00       5.0!   0.0    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Rain Water Clstern       Civ.Wrks      9.5     1.1    10.6    0.71!  0.4       0.05    0.49    15.0!   10.0o   0.02    0.10    0.12    0.12    0.10    0.02
Equip.       0.1    0.3      0.3    0.02!  0.00    0.01    0.02       s.0o   78.1!   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Minr Cfvil Works         Civ.Wrke    18.0      2.0    20.0    1.3S!  0.84    0.09    0.93    1s.0!  10.0!  0.05    0.19    0.23    0.23    0.19    0.05
Equip       0.4     1.6     2.0    0.13X   0.02    0.07    0.09      5.0!  78.1!  0.01    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.00
Equipment and Vhicles:                 23.4    59.2    82.6    5.57!   1.09    2.76    3.84      2.0   71.7X   2.50    1.35    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Institutional Devltop snt:
Training                               S.6     0.4     6.0    0.41!  0.26    0.02    0.28       5.OX   6.9!   0.06    0.07    0.07    0.06    0.03    0.00
IEC Moterials                         4.5      0.5     5.0    0.34!  0.21    0.02    0.23       S.0!   10.0o   0.17    0.06    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Technical Assistance:
Project Implementation                14.7   29.4   44.1    2.97!  0.68    1.0    7    2.05     5.0!  66.7!  0.62    0.41    0.41    0.41    0.21    0.00
UNlP/1  Water & Son. Progr.            0.0    10.0    10.0    0.67!  0.00    0.47    0.47       5.0X  100.0!  0.09    0.14    0.14    0.O7    0.02    0.00
blity Control                          0.0     3.1     3.1    0.21!  0.00    0.1S    0.15       S.0!  100.0!  0.01    0.09    0.04    0.00    0.00    0.00
AcInistration Cost:                    10.0     0.0    10.0    0.67!  0.47    0.00    0.47       0.0!   0.0!   0.09    0.09    0.09    0.09    0.09    0.00
...........................................................................................................................................................
SASE COST, PRICES OF MAR. 1990       811.5   671.8  1483.2  100.00! 37.78   31.27   69.05               4S.3!  8.11   14.52   16.15   16.02   12.66    1.59
PNYSICAL CONTINENCIiS               129.0   46.2   175.3  11.82!  S.49    1.97    7.46                26.SX   0.56    1.61    1.97    1.96    1.56    0.31
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                   230.6  1S5.4  386.0  26.02!  6.46    4.18   10.65                 39.3!  0.24    1.13    2.14    2.97    3.05    0.59
........................................................................................................................................................
TOTAL COST  1/                      1171.0  873.4  2044.4  137.84! 49.73   37.43   87.16                42.9!  8.91   17.26   20.26   20.96   17.28    2.50        oo X
1/  Includes taxe  ouivalent to abt  USS 8.0 million                                                                                                                  x
Due to romdIng the lost digit In totals my appear different than the s  of digits
17-ay90



PNILIPPIIESS
fIr    TER SUPPLY,   GERAGE ASNSANITATIN  SECTOR PROJECT
TWble 2: Project Cost Estfmlts - Rral Eqnitatlmn
...........................................................................................................................................................
-.---NILLION PESOS ..-          OF   *-.. NILLI0N US$ -*----Phlcl              X          ------- NILLtON U# .....
SAE"                               Contin  ferolun
Local   orelgn  Total    COST   Local   Forin  Total geclens                         1990    w1   192    1993    1990               1995
....... ...................... .................................... .....................................................................................................
S.   AL       ITATION - OOh
Civil lloroa:
Construction School                        79.4      14.0    93.4   16.14X   3.69         0.6S    4.35       15.01   15.0X   0.00    0.65         1.09     1.09    1.09    0.43
Hine CIv.WAs & Ooty. Toutats               17.0       3.0     20.0    3.461   0.79    0.14    0.93           15.01   15.01   0.05    0.19    0.23    0.19    0.9              0.09
Pro__emont of E1pAp. & Naterfls
Nosnhold Tol tts                            4.7   150.9   155.6   26.901   0.22    r.03            7.24       5.01   97.01   0.00    1.09    2.17    2.1T    1.61    0.00
Well Disinfectlon                           0.6       2.7      3.5    0.601   0.04        0.12    0.16        5.01   77.01   0.00    0.04    0.04          0.04    0.04    0.00
Sulte" l   em al                          0.6       0.6      1.5    0.261   0.04    0.03    0.07            5.01   43.31   0.00    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.00
Pilot wmstester units (RUt                  0.2       0.7      0.9     0.1a    0.01       0.03    0.04        5.01   77.ox   0.00    0.01         0.03     0.00    0.00    0.00
Water Oulity Control                       27.9    49.0    76.9   13.301   1.30    2.28    3.S6              10.01   63.7r    1.79       1.79    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Vehicl  and MNotorclels                     6.7      15.1    23.7    4.101   0.40         0.70     1.10       s.01   63.51   0.55        O.S5     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Technical Aesttaneo
Co_nity Ow. S Training                     25.2       2.0     27.1     4.691   1.17    0.09        1.26       5.01     7.21   0.19    0.32        0.25    0.25       0.19    0.06
IEC N.terflt                               79.6      6.0    05.6   14.80        3.71      0.28    3.99        5.01     7.01   1.00    1.00        1.00     1.00    0.00    0.00
Comulttntels                                7.8      15.8    23.6    4.011   0.36         0.74     1.10       S.01   67.01   0.16    0.22    0.22    0.22    0.16    0.11
Adinistrative Cost                          46.6       0.0      6.6    11.511   3.10       0.00    3.10        0.01     0.01   0.31       0.62     0.62      0.62     0.62     0.31
............................................ ............................................................................................ .. .. ...................................... ...................................___.
CSA   tOST. PRICES OF NU. 1990             318.6   259.8   57r.4  100.001  14.83    12.09   26.93                      44.91   4.0S    6.49    S56           5.59    4.12      1.01
PNYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                      23.6      18.5    42.1      7.28x   1.01       0.80      1.81              44.01   0.28    0.47    0.38          0.38    0.30      0.09
PRICE COTINSECIES                           75.6    60.1   135.7   23.46          2.08     1.62    3.69                43.8X    0.12    0.49    0.72    0.9           0.95    0.34
...... ......... .  -   -- - .................................................... -. *-**  b= ........ ^* ......................  .......................@....
TOTAL COST  1/                             417.6   336.4   756.2  130.7r4   17.92    14.51    32.43                    44.71   4.46       T.44     6.77     6.96    5.37    1.44
1/  Incluin  tm  equivalent to about US# 2.5 mIlifon
Om  to rewHng th  let digit in totals my _pper differnt that the   A of digits
17T-490
4%



PNILIPPtIES
VIM   VATER  WPLY, SEIERAND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Table 3: Project tCst Estimtes - TIeohnicl Asistance wW Su4pot
............................................................................................................................................................
---W-ILLION PIS   ---   X oF    -*N.   ILLION Uss -. Physicsat         I               - NILLION USS .......
w18                                                           ASE                            COntin- Foreign
Local Forign  Totl    COST   Luocl  Foreign  Totol gena                      t       1991    1992    1993    1994    195
C. TECIUICAL ASSISTANCE MO PIPORT-L
Prep. Feabl.Sss     u Oea n u 2        142.0     0.0   142.0   6T.30O  6.61    0.00    6.61         0.0O    0.0O  0.00    2.97    3.4    0.00    0.00    0.00
Ffnancfl Uastruacewng                    1.8     2.9      4.7    2.91X   0.08    0.14    0.22    10.01   62.01   0.11    0.11    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Stu* Urban Evwirrm.nt lopronmmt          0.6     7.3    15.9    9.79M    0.40    0.34    0.74    10.01   46.01   0.00    0.37    0.37    0.00    0.00    0.00
...........................................................................................................................................................
SAW  COST, PRICES OF  r. 199M          152.4    10.3   162.7  100.00      T.10    0.48    7.57              6.31   0.11    3.46    4.01    0.00    0.00    0.00
PmICA  CONTINOECIES                      1.0     1.1      2.1    1.301   0.05    0.05    0.09              51.01   0.01    0.05    0.04    0.00    0.00    0.00
PRICE CUITINENKIES                      24.7      1.5    26.2   16.121  0.67    0.04    0.71                 6.2X   0.00    0.24    0.47    0.00    0.00    0.00
...........................................................................................................................................................
TAL COST   /                           178.2    12.6   191.0  117.431   7.81    0.57    6.36                6.01   0.12    3.74    4.S1    0.00    0.00    0.00
I/  Includb no ta_
Out to rrowing the lst digit In total mwr   apear different thn tbe os of dlgits
1T-May-90
Table 4*  Project Cost Eatittes - hntitiatonal Dentennt
...................................................................................... .....................................................................            .     ........................................................ ,   ........ f
-----NILLION PESOS.--.   XO    ---- NILLION USS . .Phical              I         ....... NILLIONUS --------
m                                                            "aS                             Cntin- Foreign
Local  Forefon  Total   eO          Local  Foreign  Total  ncies             1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    195
..................................................................................................................................................
O. IllSTITUTI04AL SEWELOENT -OLGJDW
C ity   lqInt                          35.6     2.4    36.0   41.74     1.4"    0.11    1.77       5.01    6.41   0.35    0.4       0.44    0.35    0.16    0.00
Ccmity Organise                        16.9     1.1    16.0   19.781   0.78    0.05    0.84        S.OX    6.41   0.17    0.21    0.21    0.17    0.08    0.00
Vdiles ad Eahp.aint                     0.0    13.0    13.0   14.29S   0.00    0.61    0.61        5.01O 100.0    0.12    0.15    0.15    0.12    0.06    0.00
Proncial Pt1w                           6.8    13.2    22.0   24.11   0.41    0.61    1.02         5.01   60.01   0.37    0.4       0.19    0.00    0.00    0.00
...........................................................................................................................................................
"a  cS, PRICEs OF mAm. 1990             61.2    29.6    91.0  100.001   2.08    1.39    4.24               32.71   1.01    1.26    1.00    0.6        0.32    0.00
Pll5ICAL COTICIES                        3.1      1.6     4.6    5.09    0.13    o.07    0.20             34.11   0.05    0.06    0.05    0.0        0.02    0.00
P91K CONTISICIlES                       11.2     4.7    15.8   1T.39M    0.31    0.13    0."               29.91   0.03    0.09    0.12    0.11    0.07    0.00
...........................................................................................................................................................
TOTAL COS   11                          75.5    36.0   111.5  122.UX   3.29    1.59    4.U8                32.51   1.09    1.A2    1.17    0.79    0.41    0.00
1   Inclmud    t tanseuivalen to  at  MS 0.1 million
Oue to rowMdni  tho lt digit In totals amy _ppr different tha  the vA of digot.
17-by-"



PHILIPPINES
FlIST WATER SPPLTY, SEUERAGE AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Table S: ProJect Cost Estimates - Sueary of Total Costs
...................................................................................................................................................
-----MILLION PESOS  ---    I OF    ---- MILLIONU    .... -                X         .-------  NILLION USS ------
WORKS                                                                        BASE                                  Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total          COST    Local  Foreign  Total                     1990      1901      1992      1993      1994      1995
...................................................................................................................................................
A. RURAL  MTER SUPPLY - OPWN                  811.5    671.8   1483.2        64.1X    37.8       31.3      69.1      45.3X    8.11    14.52    16.15    16.02    12.66           1.59
S. RURAL SANITATION - DOW                     318.6    259.8    S78.4        25.0    14.8        12.1     26.9      44.91    4.05       6.49      5.67      5.59      4.12      1.01
C. TA AND SUPPORT - LWU                      152.4       10.3    162.7        7.01      7.1       0.5       7.6       6.31    0.06      0.11      3.46      4.0t    0.00        0.00
D. COIIIIITY DEVELOPNENT - DLO                 61.2      29.8      91.0        3.91      2.9       1.4       4.2     32.71    0.33        1.01      1.26     1.00      0.64      0.32
.............................. .................................................................. ....... ............. .... ...... . .................................................................. ............... ...........
SASE C0ST, PRICES OF MAR. 1990               1343.7   971.6  2315.3    100.01    62.6            45.2    107.8       42.01   12.55    22.13    26.54    26.62    17.42           2.92
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                        156.8      67.3    224.1         8.91      6.7       2.9       9.6     30.21       1.6       0.9       2.2       2.4       2.4       1.9
PRICE COITINGENCIES                           342.0    221.7    S63.7        14.41       9.5       6.0      15.5     38.61       1.2       0.4       1.9       3.4       4.1      4.1
...................................................................................................................................................
TOTAL PROJECT COST  1/                       1842.5  1260.6  3103.1    123.31    78.8            54.1    132.8       40.71   15.30    23.43    30.67    32.51    23.86           8.88
If Includes taxes equfvalent to about US$ 10.6 mfillon
Due to rond1ing the lest digit In totals may appear different than the sue of digits
17-May-9
10090
oI



- 69 -                                         Annex 4B
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
FIRST WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Table 1: Project Cost Estimates - Rural Uster Supply
...................................................................................................................
*   MNILLION PESOS  - -          X                    MILLION USS ---------
WORKS                                                         Foreign
Local  Forefgn  Total            19I0    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
,... .... ..........................................................................................................
A. RURAL WATER SUPPLY   DPWH
Water Supply Systems:
Shallow Wells            Civ.Wrks  104.10   11.61  115.71    10.0X  0.22    0.91    1.20    1.24    1.04    0.28
Equipm     10.29  34.49   44.78    77.0x   0.17    0.36    0.47    0.49    0.41    0.00
Deep Wells               Civ.Wrks  642.43   71.67 714.09    10.02   1.36    5.64    7.38    7.68    6.40    1.73
Equipm    107.65  360.81  468.46    77.0o   1.81    3.78    4.93    5.14    4.29    0.00
Spring Development       Civ.Wrks  99.67   17.66  117.33    15.1X  0.22    0.93    1.21    1.26    1.05    0.28
Equipm    63.63  213.39  277.02    77.0X   1.07    2.23    2.91    3.04    2.54    0.00
Rehabilitation           Civ.Wrks   20.15    2.25   22.39    10.0X  0.04    0.18    0.23    0.24    0.20    0.05
Equipm      0.84   35.83   36.67   97.7X  0.14    0.30    0.39    0.40    0.34    0.0Q
Workshops                Civ.Wrks   8.00    0.89    8.89    10.02   0.02    0.07    0.09    0.10    0.08    0.02
Equipm      0.00    0.00    0.00     0.0X   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Water Treatment Units    Civ.Wrks    6.42    0.72    7.13    10.0X  0.01    0.06    0.07    0.08    0.06    0.02
Equipm      0.00    0.00    0.00     0.02   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Rain Water Cisterns      Civ.Wrks   13.77    1.54   15.30    10.02  0.03    0.12    0.16    0.16    0.14    0.04
Equipm      0.09    0.33    0.43    78.2X  0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Minor Civil Works        Civ.Wrks   26.03    2.90   28.93    10.0X  0.06    0.23    0.30    0.31    0.26    0.07
Equipm      0.57    2.03    2.60    78.22   0.01    0.02    0.03    0.03    0.02    0.00
Equipment and Vehicles:              25.26   63.86   89.12    71.72   2.62    1.47    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Institutional Development:
Training                             6.97    0.52    7.49      6.9X   0.06    0.08    0.08    0.07    0.04    0.00
IEC Materials                        4.97    0.55    5.52    10.02   0.19    0.07    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Technical Assistance:
Project Implementation              18.11   36.34   54.45    66.72   0.66    0.46    0.48    0.50    0.26    0.00
UNDP/WB Water & San. Progr.          0.00   12.29   12.29   100.02   0.10    0.16    0.16    0.09    0.03    0.00
Quality Control                      0.00    3.74    3.74   100.02  0.02    0.10    0.05    0.00    0.00    0.00
Administration Cost:                 12.11    0.00   12.11      0.02   0.10    0.10    0.10    0.11    0.11    0.00
...................................................................................................................
TOTAL PROJECT COST  I/             1171.04 873.41 2044.45    42.9X  8.91   17.26   20.26   20.96   17.28    2.50
1/ Includes taxes equivalent to about USS 8.0 million
Due to rounding the last digit in totals may appear different than the s8a of digits
17-May-90



- 70 -
Annex 4B
Page 2
PHILIPPINES
FIRST WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND SANITATION SECTOR PRJECT
Table 2: Project Cost Estintes - Rural Senitation
.............................................. .........................................................................................................................
NILLION PES06 .. - X                               ----.-- NILLION US S ...
WORKS                                                           Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total             1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
...............................................................................................................
S. RURAL SANITATION - DON
Civil Works:
Construction School                 118.31   20.93  139.24    15.0X   0.00    0.80    1.40    1.45    1.51    0.65
Minor Civ.Yks & Cmty. Toilets        24.79    4.38   29.18    15.0K   0.06    0.23    0.30    0.25    0.26    0.14
Procurement of Equip. & Materials
Household Toilets                     6.22  202.63  208.85    97.0K   0.00    1.22    2.56    2.67    2.32    0.00
Well Disinfection                     1.06    3.56    4.61    77.1X  0.00    0.05    0.05    0.05    0.05    0.00
Sutlage Removal                       1.11    0.86    1.97    43.5S   0.00    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.00
Pilot Wastewater Units CR&D)          0.26    0.89    1.15    77.1X  0.00    0.01    0.04    0.00    0.00    0.00
Water Quality Control                32.87   57.77   90.64    63.7X   2.02    2.11    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Vehicles and Motorcycles              9.74   16.93   26.67    63.5K   0.60    0.62    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Technical Assistance
Community Dev. & Training            32.24    2.51   34.75      7.2K   0.20    0.35    0.30    0.31    0.24    0.09
IEC Materials                        97.17    7.34  104.51      7.0X   1.08    1.12    1.17    1.22    0.00    0.00
Consuttancies                        10.15   20.61   30.76    u7.0X   0.18    0.25    0.26    0.27    0.21    0.15
Administrative Cost                   83.88    0.00   83.88      0.u7.  0.32    0.66    0.69    0.72    0.75    0.41
...................................................................................................................
TOTAL PROJECT COST  1/               417.81  338.40  756.21    44.7K   4.46    7.44    6.77    6.96    5.37    1.44
1/ Includes taxes equivalent to about UsS 2.5 million
Due to rounding the last digit in totals may appear different that the sun of digits
11-May-90



- 71 -
Annex 4B
Page 3
PHILIPPINES
FIRST WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Table 3: Project Cost Estimates - Techneal Assistance end Support
...................................................................................................................
- -.NILLION PESOS ---          X                        ....... NILLION US S    .-------
WORKS                                                                Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total                1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
...................................................................................................................
C. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND SUPPORT - LUM
Prep. Feasbl.Stud & Dsgn 072#           165.09    0.00  165.09         0.0O   0.00    3.17    4.06    0.00         0.00    0.00
Financial Restructuring                   2.12    3.4        5.58    62.0X    0.12    0.13    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Study Urban Envirorment Improvment   10.95    9.38   20.33    46.1    0.00    0.44    0.4                 0.00    0.00    0.00
...................................................................................................................
TOTAL PROJECT COST  1/                  178.17   12.84  191.01         6.8X  0.12    3.74    4.51    0.00    0.00    0.00
1/ Includes no taxes
Due to rowiding the last digit in totals my appear different then the sum of digits
17*-ay 90
Table 4: Project Cost Estimates - Institutionol Development
...................................................................................................................
....NILLION PESOS----          1..                      -------ILLION US S .----.
'Rs                                                                  Forefgn
Local  Foreign  Total                1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1M95
...................................................................................................................
D. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT - DL6DPWH
Camminty Development                    44.32    3.02   47.34         6.41   0.38    0.50    0.52    0.43    0.22    0.00
C-mnity Organfiers                      20.99    1.43   22.42         6.41   0.18    0.23    0.25    0.20    0.11    0.00
Vehicles and Equfpment                   0.00   16.26   16.26   100.01   0.13    0.17    0.18    0.15    0.08    0.00
Provincial Plans                        10.17   15.27   25.44    60.01   0.40    0.52    0.23    0.00    0.00    0.00
...................................................................................................................
TOTAL PROJECT COST  1/                   75.48   35.97  111.45    32.5X  1.09    1.42    1.17    0.79    0.41    0.00
I/ Includes taxes equivalent to about USS 0.1 million
Due to roanding the lost digit In totals may appear different than the sUn of digits
17-Nay-90
Table 5: Project Cost Estimates - Sumary of Total Costs
...........................................................................................................................
-  .NILLION PESOS  ---  X OF           X                 .......... NILLION USS ---------
wORoS                                                                 OF    Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   TOTAL                 1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
...........................................................................................................................
A. RURAL WATER SUPPLY   D OPUH          1171.0   873.4  2044.4    65.91   42.71   8.91   17.Z6   20.26   20.96   17.28    2.50
B. RUMAL SANITATION - DON                417.8   338.4   756.2    24.4     44.7     4.46         7.44    6.77    6.96    5.37        1.44
C. TA AND SUPPORT - L                     178.2    12.8   191.0        6.21    6.7?   0.12    3.74    4.51    0.00    0.00    0.00
D. COll ITY DEVELOPMENT - DLO              75.5    36.0   111.5        3.6    32.31   1.09    1.42        1.17    0.79    0.41    0.00
...........................................................................................................................
TOTAL PROJECT COST  1/              1842.5  1260.6  3103.1   100.01   4061  14.S8   29.86   32.71    28.70   23.05    3.94
1/ Includes taxes equivalent to about USS 10.6 million
Due to rounding the last digit in totals may appear different than the su  of digits
17uNary9o



- 72 -
Annex 4C
Page I
PHllIPP-INES
FIRST WATER SUJPPLY. SEWERAGE AND SANfAiIO    SECTR, PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Loan Disbursements
USS Million
Bank          Year and                     Cumulative
Fiscal        Semester          Disburse-    Disburse-    Disbursement Profile of
Year          Ending            ments l/    ments        Project      Country
1991         31-Dec-90           6.4          6.4        7.5%          1.0%
30-Jun-91          4.3         10.7        12.6%         4.0%
1992         31-Dec-91          10.1         20.8       24.5%          8.0%
30-Jun-92         10.2         31.0        36.5%        12.0%S
1993         31-Dec-92           9.4         40.4       47.5%         16.0%
30-Jun-93          9.2         49.6        58.4%        21.0%
1994         31-Dec-93           9.0         58.6       68.9%        29.0%
30-Jun-94          8.9         67.5        79.4%        39.0%
1995         31-Dec-94           7.2         74.7       87.9%         54.0%
30-Jun-95          7.1         81.8        96.2%        65.0%
1996         31-Dec-95           2.6         84.4       99.3%        76.0%
30-Jun-96          0.6         85.0       100.0%        85.0%
if Includes the initial disbursement for the Special Account.



- 73 -
An nex 4D
Page 1
PHILIPPNES
FIRST WATER SUPPLY. SEWERAGE AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Pro FQrma Statements of Exoenditure
To facilitate claims for reimbursement from the Special Account it is agreed that
Statements of Expenditure (SOE) will be used in the outline form as given in this annex. The
supporting documentation for the SOE will be the Certificates of Acceotance for completed new or
rehabilitated wells or developed springs, Certificates of Comoliance for satisfactorily installed
household toilets, and school toilets, and Certificates of Com2letion for workshops. Each of the
certifications will include a unique identification of the location the works. The pro forma SOEs
are as follows:
FlRST WATER SUPPLY. SEWERAGE AND SANITATION SECTOR PROlECT
STATEMENT OF EXPENDITURE
REIMBURSEMENT CLAIM FOR THE SPECIAL ACCOUNT
(based on Certificates of Accentance)
DEPARTMENT:                               FOR THE PROVINCE OF:
erlt No. Tvye of work       Municipalitv  Barangav    Location        Contrct No.
SW DW RW SD
Totals                                .%9      P Unit Cost           Total Claim
SW No. -                               57         11,200      -
DWNo. =                                57        114,500
RWNo. -                                57         4,800       3
SD No. -                               57        97,300 
TOTAL THIS SOE        (Claim No.:                     )       P
NarmeDa:                         Signa=ure
This SOE was prepared by .............    on ...... 
and checked by .............    on.           ........................
Withdawal authorized by .............    on ......   ..
Certificates are kept in Bundle No ............ and kept at .
*(SW = Shalow Wel; DW = Deep Wel; RW = Rehabhit&Wd WA; SD = Spdng Developmet)



- 74 -                                  Annex 4D
Page 2
F:IRST WATER SxJPPLY. SEWERAGE AMU SANffATION SECTOR^ PROJECT
STATEMENT OF EXPENDITURE
REIMBURSEMENT CLAIM FOR THE SPECIAL ACCOUNT
(based on    ia f ao          fia
DEPARTMENT:                                  FOR THE PROVINCE OF:
Cert. No. TL     of work*   Muiciolditv  BamaLn       Locton           Contract No.
HT ST
Totals:         times          9b ~ ~ P Unit-Cost              Total Claim
HT No.    _                               57            225        -
ST No.-                     *             57         124,500       -
TOTAL THIS SOE    (Claim No.:_ _                                   P
This SOE was prepared by ............        on ......   ........................
and checked by .............       on ......   ........................
Withdrala authorized b  .............        on ......   ........................
Certiricates are kept in Bundle No ............ and kept at .........................
( iHT = Household Toilet; ST = School Toilet)
FIMS WATER SUPPLY SEWERAGE AND SAITION SECTOR PROJECT
STATEMENT OF EXPENDITURE
REIMBURSEMENT CLAIM FOR THE SPECIAL ACCOUNT
(based on Certificates of Com1letion)
DEPARTMENT:                                   FOR THE PROVINCE OF:
Cert. No. TyDe of work    MunicialiX  Planav          Location             C rt No.
WB
s       P Unit Cost            Total Claim
WB No.,                     *             57        379,300      3
TOTAL THIS SOE    (Claim No._                                    P
e:                  ate                Sianat
This SOE was prepared by .............       on ...... 
and checked by .............       on.           ........................
Withdrawal authorized by .............       on ......   ............ I ...........
Certificates are kept in Bundle No ............ and kept at .........................
(WB = Workhop Building)



- 75 -
Annex 5
Page I
FIRST WATER ,SUPPLY. SEWERAGE AND SANITATION SERCT=  PROJECT
Trainin. and Community Develonment Prouram
General Pringioles
1.        C,gxt.  Experience in implementing rural water supply and sanitation
development programs indicates that the success of these .nvestments depends largely on the
ability and willingness of rural communities to manage and direct their own operations, and to
plan for and finance the operations and maintenance of their systems, i.e., to become self-
sustaining. Most rural water supply and sanitation projects therefore include training and
community development components to complement and support the construction of physical
facilities.
2.         The Philippine Government, both at the central government and local government
levels, clearly recognizes the importance of training and community development to sectoral
progress, with training used as the primary instrument to accomplish community development,
capacity building, and skill transfer among the ultimate beneficiaries. However, despite the
commitment and effort of all concerned, the results of institutional and training investments to
date show that improvements are needed. While physical targets have been met and even
exoeeded, only a small number of the Barangay Waterworks and Sanitation Associations (BWSAs)
which have been formed to own, operate, and maintain their systems are functioning fully
satisfactorily, especially for Level I water supply systems. Many others have ceased to function,
resulting in a high number of systems in need of repair or rebabilitation.
3.         The factors responsible for this less than satisfactory performance include:
(a)   the large volume and geographic dispersion of training needs generated by the
Government's plan to provide safe water, improved sanitation, and health education
to all unserved and underserved rural communities;
(b)   shortages of provincial and municipal staff working in the sector, so that staff are
unable to devote their services full-time to managing, coordinating, implementing,
and monitoring a continuous, province-wide, rural water supply and sanitation
training program, including regular follow-up technical assistance to BWSAs once
formed;
(c)   limited local financial resources to cover the costs of implementing provincial
training programs, which require technical assistance, vehicles, equipment, travel,
per diem, fuel, honoraria, etc4
(d)   the need for staff training by the Provincial Planning and Development Offices
(PPDOs), the Provincial Water Supply and Sanitation Development Task Forces
(PWSSDTF), and the local government units (LGUs), particularly in regard to
training skills and community moblihtion and development;
(e)   the difficulty of synchronizing effective hands-on skills training for BWSA
members, operators, and caretakers with system construction; and
(f)   the need to improve inter-agency coordination at all levels of government.



- 76 -
Annex 5
Page 2
4.         In preparing the proposed project, the implementing agencies recognized that their
existing institutional, manpower and training resources fell short of what would be required for
successful project implementation. They therefore requested the inclusion in the project of a
training and community development program designed to strengthen their capabilities and to
support the achievement of overall sector objectives under the Master Plan.
5.         Qbiectives. The objectives of the project's training and community development
program and its strategy for achieving them have been guided by the main themes and policies
articulated in the Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Master Plan 1988-2000 and by related
government regulations, particularly for the Accelerated Water Supply Program as mandated
under Republic Act 6716. Accordingly, the overall objer;tive of training under the project is to
assist agencies to systematically develop the attitudes, knowledge, and skills required for the
adequate performance of all persons participating, either individually or collectively, in the
management and execution of the rural water supply and sanitation program. More specifically,
the project's training and community development is expected to:
(a)   obtain the commitment and support of civic leaders, especially at the provincial and
municipal levels, through consultation and information dissemination;
(b)   strengthen the competence of program agency staff at all levels in carrying oitt their
technical, community development, and training responsibilities, with priority given
to the staff of the Project Management Offices (PMOs), the PWSSDTF, the
Integrated Provincial Health Offices (IPHO), and regional and provincial Master
Trainer Teams (MiT);
(c)   prepare local government staff for their role in coordinating, implementing and
monitoring program activities within their boundaries;
(d)   mobilize and train barangay communities to form self-sustaining BWSAs to manage,
operate and maintain the facilities to be provided;
(e)   reduce the incidence of water-borne and water-related diseases through the
provision of a health education program for rural communities and schools; and
(f)   improve inter-agency coordination arrangements for the implementation of
complementary training activities.
Trainini and Community Development Strateiv
6.         The strategy adopted for project training and community development activities
considers the following factors
(a)   the number of training events in relation to the proposed physical targets, and the
need to synchronize the timing of training events with the related construction;
(b)   the resources and logistical support required to implement the training program
compared with existing resources available at the municipal, provincial, regional,
and national levels;
(c)   the selection of appropriate ainig methodologies; for example, the need to
provide hands-on traing relevant to the type of system to be managed, operated
and maintained by a BWSA;



- 77 -
Annex S
Page 3
(d)   the need to provide continuing technical and institutional assistance following
system turnover to BWSAs; and
(e)   the government policy of providing this type of training at no cost to rural
communities, which will require the largest part of total training and community
development.
7.        In particular, project training and community development activities would employ
the following strategies:
(a)   adopting the 'cascade' principle of training, from the national level through to the
communities;
(b)   extending the existing in-house staff training programs of government agencies to
relevant provincial-level staff;
(c)   integrating motivational, orientation and information dissemination campaigns,
particularly those targeted to municipal and barangay officials;
(d)   maximizing the training role of community-based program personnel like rural
sanitarians, barangay health workers, and midwives;
(e)   encouraging greater participation of women in the planning and implementation of
sector activities in the rural areas, including BWSA membership and the operation
and maintenance of facilities;
(f)   establishing in each municipality a small number of demonstration BWSAs to
provide a venue for conducting skills training for small groups of officers, operators
and caretakers from newly formed BWSAs;
(g)   reinforcing the pivotal role of PPDO institutional development and training staff
with NGO technical assistance specializing in community mobilization and
development; and
(h)   reimbursing funds under the proposed Bank loan for the implementing agencies'
project-related incremental costs for training, education, and information
dissemination programs, on the basis of BWSAs formed and fully functioning.
Target Audienc
8.         One of the features of all rural water supply and sanitation programs is the variety
and level of target groups who need training to underpin the success of the proposed program.
The Philippine program is no exception to this general rule, and target audiences of the proposed
training component include technical cadres at each planning and implementation level (national,
regional, provincial, and municipal), officers of the many BWSAs to be formed to own, operate
and maintain the facilities, end-users--the beneficiaries of the water supply and sanitation
facilities to be provided, and school children trained through health and hygiene curricula in the
proper use of the facilities. Based on indicators derived from pilot Provincial Sector Plans, the
project's physical target for the provision of Level I water supply systems (including
rehabilitation) is likely to generate the task of forming about 17,000 BWSAs and training 34,000
BWSA officers and 22,000 caretakers. This assessment excludes the probable need to strengthen



- 78 -
Annex 5
Page 4
existing BWSAs reported to be only partially functioning. The volume of training and
community development activities wil consequently be very large.
The Trainint and Community Development Proaram
9.        Three different types of activities would be cafried out under the program. First,
community development activities would be carried out to mobilize local government and
community support for the preparation and implementation of Provincial Water Supply, Sewerage
and Sanitation Sector Plans and for the formation of BWSAs to operate and maintain the facilities
constructed under the Plans. Project support for community development will be provided to
the 37 provinces in Luzon where the pro,; will also finance the preparation of Provincial Sector
Plans. The community development activ-iies will be carried out by the staff of the Provincial
Planning and Development Offices, under the guidance of the Department of Local Government
(DLG).
10.       Second, training in the operation and maintenance of rural water sunilv systems
would be offered to BWSA leaders, while DPWH staff capabilities would be strengthened to deal
more effectively with rural water supply systems and the BWSAs. These activities would be
carried out by DPWH in the 18,000 Luzon barangays to be provided with rural water supplies
under the project.
11.       Third, in support of the rual sanitation component, DOH staff would be trained
to supervise and inspect the construction of sanitation facilities under the project, to train other
inspectors, and to monitor drinking water quality. In addition, materials wiU be prepared for
a national rural community health education program promoting safe drinking water and proper
sanitation. DOH would be the implementing agency, with training provided nationwide.
12.       Costs of the program are shown in Attachment 1, some of the assumptions used in
designing the program are given in Attachment 2, and an implementation schedule for program
activities is shown in Attachment 3. Details of the program are given below.
A. Community Develooment
13.       Community development activities under the project would include the following:
(a)   Orientation and Infomnation Dissemination
(i)   Communit. Organize  DLG will outpost one community organizer to each
of the 37 provinces in Luzon covered under the project. The basic training
for these community organizers will have been provided under the Rural
Water Supply Project funded by the United States Agency for International
Development (USAID). The tasks of the community organizers will be to
mobilize the communities, provide liaison among barangays, LGUs and the
central government, and assist with monitoring arrangements under the
project. The direct cost to DLG for these activities is estimated at P 18.0
miUion.
(ii)   Orientation Conferenge: A one-day conference would be held for all
municipal mayors in each of the 37 Luzon provinces to promote the rural
water supply and sanitation program and, through consultation, seek the
commitment of the municipal leaders to the program. A follow-up
conference would be held at the mid-point of project implementation for
purposes of consultation, progress reporting and feedback. Each conference



- 79 -
Annex S
Page 5
will be attended by about 30 participants; the conferences would therefore
reach 2,220 participants.
(iii)  Infgrmation Dissemination Meetinas. A one-day meeting would be
conducted in Luzon's 731 municipalities to inform barangay officials about
the rural water supply and sanitation program, and to encourage their
participation in the program, particularly in regard to the mandatory
formation of BWSAs. A follow-up conference would be held at the mid-
point of project implementation for purposes of consultation, progress
reporting and feedback.  Each event will be attended by about 20
participants, so that a total of 29,240 participants will be reached. Total
estimated cost for Orientation and Information Dissemination, including
Departmental administrative costs, is estimated at P 16.7 million.
(b)   BWSA Formation A series of meetings and workshops would be conducted within
each barangay to motivate, encourage, and mobilize community participation in the
rural water supply and sanitation program and the formation of BWSAs. Separate
meetings wil be held to cover BWSA formation and organization, roles and duties
df elected officers, and turnover of the system to the BWSA. In the case of Level
II systems, additional pre-formation meetings will be held to explain, and present
findings of, the system feasibility study. The meetings may be attended by up to
co participants per barangay or a total of 850,000 participants. There will be three
one-day meetings in each of the 17,000 barangays where BWSAs are expected to
be formed; in total, therefore, there will be 51,000 training events. The unit cost
per event is estimated at P 400, for a total cost of P 21.3 milion.
(c)   Vehicles Eauiment and Manuals. Motor cycles would be provided to about 500
Sanitary Trainors, and Sanitary Inspector and Engineers and other field staff taking
part in the implementation of the project. A set of maintenance tools and
equipment would be allocated to each of the demonstration BWSAs for the provision
of Basic Skdlls training. A copy of the DPWH manual on the operations and
maintenance of rural water supply systems would be provided to the BWSAs once
formed. An estimated P 13.0 million has been allocated for these purposes.
(d)   Technical Assistance to NGOs and other Trainint. The services of staff and
volunteers from existing rural water supply and sanitation NGOs would be retained
to provide assistance to newly formed BWSAs. An allowance has also been made for
other training contingencies. A lump sum of P 2.2 milion has been allowed for this
purpose.
B. Rural  ter SupplV Component Related Trainint and Community Develonment
14.       Training activities related directly to the rural water supply component are as
follows
(a)   RWSA Skills Trainint. Practical on-the-job training would be provided to small
groups of BWSA officers, operators, and caretakers. The venue for skils training
will be one or more demonstration BWSAs to be established in each municipality.
Officers of the demonstration BWSA may assist in conducting skils training and
will receive special coaching for this role. The objective of skills training will be
to develop the participants' competence in BWSA management procedures, accounts
and bookkeeping, billing and collection, and operation and preventive maintenance
of water supply systems. For maximum effectiveness, skills training will be



- 80 -
Annex 5
Page 6
scheduled prior to system turnover to the BWSA. Skills training will be followed
up within one month by technical and/or institutional assistance arrnged, or
provided, by the PPDO through the respective municipalities. The duration of
training will vary from one to three days depending on whether it is for Level I or
I systems. The two training events will be as follows:
(i)    Basic Skills I (Manauement and Accountinnt attended by groups of about
20 participants, for one day at each of about 1,800 demonstration barangays
(about 10% of all barangays in Luzon), reaching a total of about 36,000
participants. The estimated cost for each of the 1,800 events is P 1,200, for
a total cost of P 2.1 million.
(ii)   Basic Skills  (Onerations and Maintenance): attended by groups of about
6 persons for two days at the demonstration barangays. To cover the 22,000
Level I systems (including rehabilitated systems) to be provided under the
project, 3,667 trairing events will be required, at an estimated unit cost of
P 720 for each event and a total cost of about P 2.6 million.
(b)   Information. Education. and Communications Materials. Basic visual-aid training
equipment will be provided for use in carrying out orientation, information and
dissemination activities and for training provincial staff assisting DLG in these
tasks. The cost of this equipment is estimated at P 5.0 million.
(c)   In-service Trainina. In-service training will be provided to program staff at each
level of the DPWH organizational network. Training will be arranged through the
extension and expansion of the DPWH annual in-service national training program,
conducted in-house, through technical assistance support, and by making use of
locally available, in-country training and education programs. Priority will be given
to strengthening competence in technical, institutional, and community development
activities. A summary of the subject areas to be covered by this program is given
in Attachment 4. About 75 staff wouid be trained each year, for a total of 375
participants over five years. The unit cost is estimated at I 1,000 per person and
the total cost at P 375,000.
C. Rural Sanitation Comoonent Related Trainint and Community Development.
15.        Training support for the proposed rural sanitation component will comprise the
following activities:
(a)   National Sanitation Trainers. Reintroduction of the National Sanitation Trainer
Program to train up to 24 key supervising sanitarians per year from all regions, or
a total of 120 over the five-year project implementation period. Sanitarians would
be trained to become trainers and supervisors at provincial and district levels. The
estimated cost per recipient is P 9,207 and the total cost is P 1.1 million.
(b)   Training of Rural Sanitary Inspectors
(i)    The remaining phase of the DOH National Sanitarian Training Program
(NSTP), launched in 1983, would be completed. About 1,300 rural sanitary
inspectors (RSI) are expected to be reached during the project period. The
average cost per recipient is estimated at P 4,250, for a total cost of P 5.5
million.



- 81 -
Annex S
Page 7
(ii)   Phase II of the NSTP for about 2,800 RSls recruited to augment and replace
departing staff. This would be offered in view of the high RSI wastage rate,
particularly among those employed by municipalities (i.e., as temporary
staff). The cost per recipient is estimated at P 4,250, for a total cost of
P 11.9 million.
(iii) RSI to be trained under the project would also receive field training and
portable training and demonstration kits to enable them to transfer skills as
envisioned. A lump sum of about P 4.6 million has been allocated for this
purpose.
(c)   Sanitation Skills Trainina. A skills training program will be given to about 200
Sanitary Engineers und about 400 Supervising and District Engineers. The training
for 600 staff at an estimated cost P 3,000 each will amount to a total cost of about
P 1.8 million.
(d)   Water Qualitv Management Trainina. An in-service training program would be
conducted centrally by DOH for regional and provincial chemists and laboratory
technicians to support a drinking water quality management program. About 120
staff would attend the Bacteriolo-,y Technician Training Course and a further 60
the Chemical Technician Training Course. The estimated average cost is P 3,920
per person, for a total cost of P 823,030.
(f)   Health Education Program. A rural health and hygiene education program will be
conducted nationally through the DOH organizational network, focusing on rural
communities, especially women and school children. The program will relate to the
proposed provision of one million pour-flush toilet bowls and the construction of
sullage disposal systems. It will be implemented primarily through a nationwide
orientation and information campaign at the provincial, municipal, and barangay
levels. Centrally-produced information, education and communication materials
for this purpose would cost an estimated P 86 million and include 480 films, 75
film projectors, 466,000 posters, 3 million comics, 3 million handbills, six hours of
promotion time on national television (at a unit cost of P 8,000 per 30 seconds) and
10 hours of radio promotion (at a unit cost of P 600 per 30 seconds).  The
information dissemination campaign will be c'mplemented by a follow-up health
education program conducted for barangay households and schools. The overall
health education program is expected to reach about 2 million people, including
LGUs, barangay councils, households, teachers and pupils.
ImDlementation Arrangements
16.       DLG  would be responsible for supervising and coordinating community
development activities, which would be carried out by the PPDO staff in all provinces of Luzon.
DOH and DPWH will provide training related to sanitation and water supply, respectively. The
DLG Community Organizers will be seconded to PPDOs in each of the beneficiary provinces and
are expected to play a key role in coordinating and monitoring training and community
development efforts at the provincial level in Luzon. Training provided in the rest of the
country will be monitored by PPDO staff. At the central government level, the Project
Coordination Committee (PCC) will coordinate implementation of training and community
development activities through the preparation of training and community development



- 82 -
Annex S
Page 8
programs, with the assistance of consultants and on the basis of Provincial Sector Plans, for
each province included under the project.
17.        The training and community development program would actually be implemented
by a cadre of support staff mobilized from the following sources
-     PPDO institutional development and training staff;
-     Project consultants;
-     Provincial consultants;
-     Technical staff of District Engineers Offices;
-     Provincial Master Training Program staff, reinforced by regional master trainer
teams;
-     Integrated Provincial Health Offices;
-     Water Districts (WD) for Level 11 systems;
-     Municipal sanitarians and RSIs;
-     NGOs and voluntary organizations, either local or foreign (e.g., parent-teachers
associations, US. Peace Corps volunteers); and
-     Demonstration BWSAs.
1s.        The community development action plans for BWSAs will be incorporated into the
Provincial Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Sector Plans. Overal coordination and
monitoring will be provided by the institutional development and training staff of PPDOs,
assisted by Provincial Water Supply and Sanitation Development Task Forces, Provincial Master
Trainer Teams, local government units and NGOs.
19.        The extent and manner in which the resources for training and community
development wiU be combined at the provincial level will depend largely on the size and nature
of specific truining programs prepared to support each Provincial Sector Plan and, accordingly,
will vary from province to province.  It is expected that in some cases existig staff
complements, particularly of PPDO, may need reinforcing with temporary staff hired for the
project period.
20.        Implementation progress reports submitted annualy by Provincial Governments to
the PCC will include a separate section on the monitoring results of the Provincial Sector Plan
community development and training programs. Monitoring would be based on the
implementation schedule shown in Attachment 3 and, for community development activities,
staff visits to check that the BWSA water supply systems are operating sadsfactorily.



- 83 -
Annex5
Attachment I
PH.IPPINS
FIRST WATER SUPPY. SEWERAGE,AND SANffATION SECTORt PROJECT
Community Development and Trainini Program: Cost Estimates
(row)
General Community Develonment
Orientation and information dissemination
Community organizers                                    18,000
Community Development                                   16,700
BWSA Formation                                              21,340
Vehicles, equipment and manuals                             12,950
Technical Assistance to NGOs and other Training              2.221
Subtotal Community Development                              71.211
Rural Water SuDDlV Related
Skills training
Basic skills I (Management & Accounting)                2,134
Basic skills II (Operations & Maintenance)              2,640
Information, education, communication materials              5,000
In-service training
Subtotal Rural Water Supply                                 10.149
Rural Sanitation Related
Training of National Sanitation Trainors                     1,102
Training of Rural Sanitary Inspectors
Phase I                                                 5,525
Phase H                                                 11,900
Provision of Training Kits                              4,600
Skills Tr*ining
Sanitary Engineers                                        600
Supervising and District Engineers                       1,200
Water Quality Management Training
Bacteriology Technician                                   588
Chemical Technician                                       235
Information, education and communication materials          AL,520
Subtotal Rural Sanitation                                  11LZ270
Total                                                      192,630
1 Base costs at end-1989 prices.



- 84 -
Annex S
Attachment 2
PHILIPPINES
EIRS WATERR SUPPLY, SEWERtAGE, AND SANffATION SECTOR PROJ1lCT
Assumptions Used in Prenarins the Training and Community Development Proaram
The following assumptions were made in estimating the volume and cost of training
to be provided.
(a)   None of the beneficiary barangays receiving new water supply systems under the
project currently has a functioning Level I BWSA; it is consequently expected that
approximately 17,000 BWSAs would need to be formed.
(b)   BWSAs would be formed, if not already existing and functioning, for rehabilitated
systems.
(c)   The combined 22,000 Level I water supply systems to be constructed and
rehabilitited, would be distributed among approximately 37 provinces, 731
municipalities, and 18,000 barangays in Luzon.
(d)   Each of the 22,000 Level I facilities will be provided with a caretaker.
(e)   To report progress and provide an opportunity for feedback, orientation conferences
for municipal mayors and civic leaders will be repeated at the mid-point of ihe
program period.
(f)   Implementation of the training program would be spearheaded by PrMTT, reinforced
from Regional and National Master Trainer Teams, and supported by NGO
technical assistance.
(g)   The project would be implemented over a five-year period.
(h)   The construction program would be spread evenly over the project period.



- 85 -
Annex 5
Attachment 3
PHI,LIPPINES
FIRS WAQTER SUPPLY. SEWERAGE. AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Proiect Training and Community Development Implementation Schedule
(Cumulative events completed)
Community Development
Outposting of DLG Community Organizers    10       20        30       37        37        37
Orientation & Information Dissemination:
Orientation Conferences:
First Meeting                       10       20        30       37        37       37
Follow-up Meeting                    -       10        20       30,       37       37
Information Dissemination Meetings:
First Meeting                      170      340       520      690       731      731
Follow-up Meeting                   40      170       34Q      520       690      731
Total events                          220       540      910    1,277      1,495     1536
BWSA Formation:
First Meeting                        2,000    6,000    10,,000   14,000    17,000   17,000
Second Meeting                        800    4,000      8,000   12,000    16,000   17,000
Third Meeting                           -    2.000      6.000   10,000    14.000   17.000
Thtal events                         2,800   12,000    24,000   36,000    47,000   51,000
Rural Water SuiDDV Related
Skills Training:
Basic Skills I (Management & Accounting)  100  500       900    1,300      1,700    1,800
Basic Skills 1 (Operations & Maintenance)  200  900     1,800    2,600     3,500    3,667
In-service Training                       35      110       185      260       340       375
Rural Sanitation Related
Training of National Sanitation Trainers   -       30        60       90        120      120
Training of Rural Sanitary Inspectors
Phase I                               480    1,000      1,300    1,300     1,300    1,300
Phase 11                              240      760      1,280    2,040     2,800    2,800
Skills Training:
Sanitary Engineers                    200      200       200       200       200      200
Supervising and District Engineers      -      400       400       400       400      400
Water Quality Management Training:
Bacteriology Technician                30       60        90       120       150      150
Chemical Technician                    30       60        60        60        60       60
TOTAL ALL EVENTS                        4,345   16,580    31,215   45,684    59,102   63,445
=~_a ==u3_ m                     in



- 86 -
Anneii
Attachment 4
PHILIPPINEPS
FIRST WATER SUPPLY. SEWERAGE. AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
in-service TMran EmnaPrnaM
Review of the overall training implications of the project's rural water supply and
sanitation components indicates that technical staff of program agencies at the national, regional,
provincial and municipal levels will require training in the following areas:
(a)   Hvdrox eolori well drilling, water quality analysis.
(b)   Groundwater Hydrology.
(c)   Sanitary Engineerin: design, construction supervision, water quality control,
chlorination and chemical dosing.
(d)   Water Exa7mination  Physical,'chemical anb bacteriological examination of water,
surveillance, sampling, and analysis.
(e)   Civil Engineerin  design, well drilling operations, construction supervision.
(f)    Pumoing Operatio  performance, cafe capacity, testing, operation and maintenance
(O&M), and rehabilitation.
(g)   Wastewater Treatme  Pilot prefabricated treatment units.
(h)   Survevina.
(i)   QOM Levels I, n, and In water supply and sanitation systems.
(j)    Manatement public heath, planning and budgeting, accounting and financial systems,
user charges, management reporting, project feasibility analysis.
(k)   Institutional DeveloDment community organization and development, management
principles and practices, trainer training, training analysis, program design, training
delivery methodologies (including skiRs transfer), follow-up monitoring and
evaluation.
(I)    Media -DevelooepS rAesign and dissemination of information, education and
communication materials.
(m)   Research and Development appropriate techniques for planning, design, and
construction of water sources and distribution systems.
(n)   Compuer ODesmtions and Data Processin.



- 87 -
Annex 6
Page I
PHILIPPINES
FIRST WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
PART A: COAPUTATION OF AVERAGE COST OF WATER PER SYSTEN
Type of system       Shallow Well                Deep Well             Spring Devetlopent          Wefghted Average
Total    Unit             Total    Unit              Total    Unit              Total    Unit
COSTS (1989 Pesos)    P m       P               P n        P              Pmn        P               P m        P
Civil Works  (on)  76.70    6818              473.10   67586              77.70    77700           627.50   32597
Equipment    (an)  34.40    3058              360.30   51471             213.00  213000            607.70   31569
Phys. Cont'cies:
-Civil Works  ( X)  20.00    1364              20.00   13517             20.00    15540            125.50    6519
-Equipment    (5)    5.00      153              5.00    2574              5.00   10650              30.39    1578
Units         (No)  11250        1              7000        1              1000        1            19250        1
Total Cost         128.16   11392             946.04  135148            316.89  316890            1391.09   72264
0 & N:                                                               e                             4
P/uonth/systeo                 152                        159                        172            35.94      156
Puip replaCement:
- in year                       10                          0                         0
* cost P/unit                  700                          0                         0
USG:
Households         225000       20            210000       30             SO0OO      50            485000    25.2
persons/household              6.4                        6.4                       6.4                        6.4
No. of people     1428750      127           1333500      191           317500      318           3079750    160.0
lcpd                            30                         50                        8o                       43.8
oiu.Mday            42863      3.8             66675      9.5             25400    25.4            134938      7.0
cu.*/year        15655528    1392           24353044    3479           927m750    9277           49285921   2560.3
FLOIS/UNIT/YEAR:     Cash   Water               Cash   Water              Cash   Water               Cash   Water
DiscowmtU    6.00   Pesos    cu.M              Pesos    cu.1              Pesos    cu.m              P am    cu.m
Year        0       11392                     135148                    316890                    1391.09
1       1824    1392               1908    3479               2066    927?             35.94   49.29
2        1824    1392              1908    3479               2066    9277             35.94   49.29
3        1824    1392              1908    3479               2066    9277             35.94   49.29
4        1824    1392              1908    3479               2066    9277             35.94   49.29
5        1824    1392              1908    3479               2066    9277             35.94   49.29
6        1824     1392             1908    3479               2066    9277             35.94   49.29
?       1824    1392               1908    3479              2066    9217              35.94   49.29
8        1824    1392              1908    3479               2066    9277             35.94   49.29
9        1824     1392             1908    3479               2066    9277             35.94   49.29
10       2524    1392               1908    3479               2066    9277             43.82   49.29
Il       1824    1392               1908    3479               2066    9277             35.94   49.29
12       1824    1392               1908    3479               2066    9277             35.94   49.29
13       1824    1392               1908    3479               2066    9277             35.94   49.29
14       1824    1392               1908    3479               2066    9277             35.94   49.29
15       1824     1392              1908    3479               2066    9277             35.94   49.29
16       1824    1392               1908    3479               2066    9277             35.94   49.29
17       1824     1392              1908    3479               2066    9277             35.94   49.29
18       1824     1392              1908    3479               2066    9277             35.94   49.29
19       1824    1392               1908    3479               2066    9277             35.94   49.29
20        1824    1392              1908    3479               2066    9277             35.94    49.29
NET PRESENT VALUEs  32704    15962            157032   39904             340587   u6410           1807.73   565.31
Cost P/cu.-          2.05                       3.94                      3.20                       3.20



- 88 -
Amex 6
Page 2
PHILIPPINES
FIRST WATER SUPPLY, SEEIERAGE AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
0CMPUTATION OF ECONOMIC INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN
Type of system        Shalltou wet                Deep Wet              Spring Development           Weighted Aversge
Total    Unit              Total    Unit             Total    Unit               Total     Unit
COSTS (1989 Pesos)   P mn        P               P n       P                Pn         P               P Pn       P
Civil Works   Cmn)  76.70    6618              473.10   67586              77.70   77700             627.50   32597
Equipment     (n)  34.40       3058            360.30   51471             213.00  213000             607.70   31569
Phys. Conteles:
-CivIl Works  C X)   20.00     1364            20.00    13517             20.00    15540             125.50    6519
-Equipment    C 1)   5.00       153             5.00    2574               5.00    10650              30.39     1573
Units        (No)  11250          1              7000        1              1000        1             19250        1
Total Cost          128.16    11392           946.04   135148            316.89  316890             1391.09   72264
O & ":
P/month/system                  152                        159                        172             35.94      156
Pump replacement:
- in year                        10                         0                          0
- cost P/unit                   M 7000                                                 0
USAGE:
Households          225000       20            210000      30             50000       50             485000     25.2
persons/hwsehold                6.4                       6.4                        6.4                         6.4
No. of people      1428750      127           1333500      191           317500       318           3079750    160.0
tcpd                            30                         50                         80                       43.8
cu.m/day            42863      3.8             66675      9.5             25400      25.4            134938      7.0
cu.m/year         15655528     1392          24353044     3479          9277350      9277          49285922   2560.3
FLOWS/UNIT/YEAR:     COST BENEFIT               COST  BENEFIT              COST  BENEFIT               COST  BENEFIT
P/cu.m u    3.70    Pesos   Pesos               Pesos   Pesos              Pesos    Pesos              P mn     P an
Tear         0       11392                     135148                    316890                     1391.09
1        1824    5149               1908    12872             2066   34326              35.94   182.36
2        1824    5149               1908    12872             2066   34326               35.94   182.36
3        1824    5149               1908    12872              2066    34326             35.94   182.36
4        1824     5149              1908    12872              2066   34326              35.94   182.36
5        1824     5149              1908    12872             2066   34326               35.94   182.36
6        1824     5149              1908    12872             2066   34326               35.94   182.36
7        1824    5149               1908    12872             Z166   34326               35.94   182.36
8        1824     5149              1908    12872             2066   34326               35.94   182.36
9        1824     5149              1908    12872              2066   34326              35.94   182.36
10       2524     5149              1908    12872              2066   34326              43.82   182.36
11       1824    5149               1908   12872               2066   34326              35.94   182.36
12       1824    5149               1908    12872              2066   34326              35.94   182.36
13        1824    5149               1908    12872             2066   34326              35.94   182.36
14       1824    5149               1908    12872              2066   34326              35.94   182.36
15        1824    5149              1908    12872              2066   34326              35.94   182.36
16       1824    5149               1908    12872              2066   34326              15.94   182.36
17       1824    5149               1908    12372              2066   34326              35.94   182.36
18        1824    5149               1908    12872             2066   34326              35.94   182.36
19       1824    5149                1908    12872             2066   34326              35.94   182.36
20        1824    5149               1908    12872             2066    34326              35.94   182.36
ECONONIC IRR X   a           '99.99                       5.13X                      7.99X                      8.41X
PROOF, NPV O IRR a   17m77    17m77            158666   158666           337185  337185             1736.94  1736.94
-          -          _     ~      nm                          m                          3a



- 89 -
Anex 6
Paoe 3
PHILIPPINES
FIRST WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
SENSITIVITY ANALYSES
COST OF WATER PER CU8IC METER AT VARIOUS DISCOUNT RATES
.......................................................
Type of system              Shallow Vett                 Deep Well                      Spring                    Ueighted
Average
DISCOUNT RATES:
2 X                       1.84                        2.92                        2.31                        2.46
4 X                       1.94                        3.41                        2.74                        2.81
6*X 42.05                                             3.94                        3.20                        3.20
8 X                       2.17                        4.51                        3.70                        3.61
10 X                       2.30                        5.11                        4.23                        4.05
ECONOMIC INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN AT DIFFERENT VALUES
. .... ...... ..............................
Type of system              Shallow Well                 Deep Welt                     Sprfng                    Veighted
Average
VALUES PER CUBIC METER:
P 3.70 (1)               28.86X                       5.13X                       7.94X                       8.41X
P 7.60 (2)               76.81X                      17.422                      21.13X                      24.00%
P10.00 (3)              >99.99                       Z4.0OX                      28.43X                      32.72X
Alternative values placed on potable water by dbmestic consumers:
(1)      Average cost to domestic consumers of water per cubic meter In Manila by WUSS during 1990.
(2)      Average cost as per (1) plus computed consumer surplus In Manilt.
(3)      Arbitrary estimate of highest value taking accout of price of P15 per cubic meter charged by vendors.



- 90 -
Annx 7A
Page I
PHILIPPINES
FIRST WATER SUPPLY. SEWERAGE AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Preparation of Provincial Water Sn!nDlv.
Seweranse and Sanitation Sector Plans
Outline Terms of Reference
Background                                  I   ,                                 4
1.          The Government of the Philippines has, over the last decade and with assistance
from external donors, made considerable progress in developing the water supply, sewerage and
sanitation sector. Its activities are currently guided by the Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation
Master Plan 1988-2000 which sets out overall objectives and strategies. Development in the sector
has thus far largely been directed by central government organizations, but the Government is now
in the process of decentralizing the planning, implementation, operation and maintenance of
infrastructure facilities. In the water supply sector, some decentralization has already taken place
through the establishment of Water Districts (WDs) which are responsible for water supply
development and operation in the larger municipalities.
2.          The Government intends to strengthen Local Government Units (LGUs) and has
decided to develop Provincial Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Sector Plans as a first step in
promoting greater LGU involvement in planning and guiding investment and institutional
development. The Department of Local Government (DLG) will, through the Provincial Planning
and Development Offices, be responsible to oversee the preparation of the Plans. The preparation
of such Plans will be further assisted by DPWH Regional and District Offices, DOH Public Health
Offices and by LWUA and the Water Districts.
3.          The first eight Provincial Plans for the First Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation
Sector Project are now being prepared with the assistance of external consultants, using a
participatory training approach under which the Provincial Development Staff, together with staff
of the sector agencies and the consultants, prepare the Provincial Plans. It is proposed that this
approach also be used in the preparation of Plans for the remaining 29 provinces under the
proposed project. It appears that the optimal size for such participatory working groups would
cover about six provinces at a time. To cover the remaining 29 provinces, groups of four to six
provinces could be combined in accordance with regional boundaries as shown in Attachment 1.
One or several regions could be covered by one or more consultancy contracts. The Government
wishes to attract grant financing from bilateral donors for these assignments.
Obiectives
4.          The purpose of this assignment is to:
(a)   form the basis for the implementation of the World Bank-assisted First Water
Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Sector Project;
(b)   propose Medium-Term  (Five-Year) Sector Investment Plans for the priority
provinces, based on Long-term Development Plans to the year 2010; and



- 91 -
Annex 7A
Page 2
(c)   recommend arrangements for implementation and identify the needs for institutional
strengthening.
Scope of Consultinu Services
A.    General
5.          The Consultant shall assist the Provincial Development Offices in conducting all
surveys, colection and analysis of demographic, physical, economic and financial data as described
herein to attain the objectives stated above. In the conduct of his work, the Consultant shall
collaborate closely with the Regiondl Development Committee's staff, notably NEDA's Regional
Offices (NROs), the Department of Local Government (DLG) and national agencies operating
within the provinces. The Consultant shall be solely responsible, however, for the interpretation of
all data and recommendations included in the reports issued.
6.          The Consultant's prime responsibility would be to assist the Provincial Development
Staff with the preparation of Provincial Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Sector Plans
(PW4SP). Incidental to that task, the consultant will review the experience and performance of the
Provincial and Municipal Administrations in the implementation of ongoing projects. A particularly
important part of this assistance would be to advise Local Government (i.e., Provincial and
Municipal Development Staffs) in making sure that experience with earlier rural projects is used
beneficially in the preparation of the proposed First Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Sector
Project. The format and procedure for the preparation of the Plans shall be based upon the model
and criteria developed in the first eight plans.
B.    Work of the Consultant
7.          The major task of the Consultant is to play a,leading role in the preparation of
Medium-Term Investment Plans for groups of provinces listed in Attachment 1. The preparation
of the plns will be a prerequisite before a province can be included in the proposed Bank-
financed sector project.
8.          Each PW4SP will cover the following:
(a)   a description of geographical, hydro-geological and economic development and
demographic features of the province;
(b)   a summary of the health statistics for the province and its subdivisions based on
Department of Health Barangay Health Statistics;
(c)   the current status as regards the level of water supply (Levels 1, II and E), sewerage
(or combined sewerage and drainage) and sanitation covering both physical
provision, operations and maintenance, and institutional development;
(d)   Long-term Development Plans for the provinces to the year 2010 in line with the
national policies and strategies set in the National Water Supply, Sewerage and
Sanitation Master Plan 1988-2000, including a projection of demographic trends,
possible changes in standards and the resulting additional needs, expressed both in
terms of both physical measures and investment costs expressed in current prices;
(e)   on the basis of the economic development status of the province and the
Government's sector goals, to recommend optimum service levels for the planning
periods; and



- 92 -
Annx 7A
Page 3
(f)    a Medium-Term (Five-Year) Investment Pi"n, including an assessment of the
current shortfall in physical terms (of facilities, supporting construction and
operation and maintenance capabilities, including vehicles, equipment, stores,
workshops, etc., training requirements and institutional development) and the public
investments required to meet target levels of service. The Medium-Term Investment
Plan shall for each of the years for a five-year planning period specify works for
implementation and their relative priority, differentiatin between responsible
implementing agencies; showing needs expressed in physical and financial terms;
and allowing for physical and price contingencies. The estimates should separately
show requirements for feasibility studies and designs, project investments, motor
vehicles including motor bikes, tools and equipment, chemicals for chlorination of
newly constructed wells, training by category and other institutional development
needs.
9.          The Consultant will prepare a separate brief report for each province, supported by
maps and outline technikal drawings, on the current status and proposals putting forward specific
recommendations, including those of the participating central and local government units in respect
of:
(a)   imolementation of the project through the Barangay Waterworks and Sanitation
Associations (BWSA), WDs, DPWH and LWUA; coordination mechanisms between
local and central agencies; resolution of priorities as established through the
Provincial Plans and funding requirements;
(b)   ove:-gtion and maintenance arrangements, particularly those for Level I and II water
supply systems; and
(c)   monitorina arrangements to review the functioning, subsequent to implementation,
of systems and facilities provided and the performance of institutions.
Appointment of Consultant
10.         The consultant will be responsible to DLG which will keep the sector agencies,
provincial governments and the World Bank and other financing agencies fully informed on the
progress of the work.
Time Schedule and Renortint Reauirements
11.         It is envisaged that the Consultant will work with the provinces in groups of six and
his work plan shall ensure that all Provincial Plans for each group are completed within 6 months
after commencement of the assignment.
12.         Four weeks after commencement, the Consultant shall submit 30 copies of his
inception report to DLG and a copy to the Project Coordination Committee (PCC), to be followed
by 30 copies of progress reports every second month thereafter.
13.         It is proposed that the Consultant make a presentation of his findings to a joint
meeting of the PCC, at which relevant staff of the Provincial Development Offices, DLG, DPWH,
DOH and LWUA would be represented. This would occur towards the end of completing the
assignment and would cover all of the provinces in the group.



- 93 -
Annex 7A
Page 4
14.         The Consultant wil prepare 150 copies of each of the final PW4SP, of which one
should be an original in type written or printed form and the remaining as photocopies, and make
available computer diskettes, in MSDOS format, containing the text and any graphics included in
the Plans.
15.         The Consultant will provide 100 copies of the separate report on future projects.
incorporating the comments of national implementing agencies and local experts.
Training
16.         The Consultant wil be expected to make every effort to transfer skills to staff in
the Provincial Development Offices with whom he is working. This will primarily be done by
assisting local staff in planning the collection of data, analysis of collected data and preparation of
plans and monitoring systems. For each group of provinces the assignment will be initiated by the
Consultant through the conduct of a workshop in which planning staff from the selected provinces
will participate in preparing the work for their own provinces in conformity with the models
already developed. To facilitate a build-up of local skills, the Consultant shall maximize the use of
local professionals, preferably by co-opting local consulting firms. The consultant will provide a
personal computer, printer, software and stationery for use by the provincial development staff of
each participating province at the workshops, and hand these over to the Provincial Development
Offittes on the completion of the assignment.
Data. Services and Facilities to be Provided by the Government
17.         Sutoort by DLG. DPWH. DOHf LWUA and NEDA. DLG, DPWH, DOH, LWUA
and NEDA will provide all local support required by the Consultant, including access to all relevant
files and data and to personnel who have been involved with provincial and rural water supply and
sanitation projects and with the planning of the proposed sector project. DLG, DOH, DPWH and
LWUA will each second one staff member to work full time with the Consultant. The Consultant
shall provide his own local transportation, office space, secretarial and computer services.
Estimate
18.         The Consultant will be required to make a two-part estimate covering his technical
and financial proposals, respectively, and should include the following cost components:



- 94 -
Annex 7A
Page 5
Budet for Each Group of Provinces
Man-weeks       Rate    Sub-total       Total
or N.s.      US$         US$         USS
Expatriateo
Water & Sanitary Engineer,
Hydro-geologist
Training Specialist                   48      3,50J                 168,000
Local consultants                          104        350                   36,400
Refundable
(a)   International Travel             4     10,000       40,000
(b)   Local Travel                    24       750        18,000
(c)   Printing                     Lump                   30.000
88,000
Workshops
(a)   18 Participants, 2 x I week,
Board & Lodging (P 250 per day)
Tranort (P 200 per trip),
Hall Rents (P 1,000 per day)                        5,000
(b)   Computers, printers              6      3,000       18.000
23,000
Contingencies                                                               44.600
Total                                                               360,000
=. 



- 95 -
Annex 7A
Attachment I
PHILIPPBINFS
EMS  WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND SANITATIO  SEC rR PROJEC
Proiect Area
A. Luzon
Prov.                     Population     Number of         Number of
Region   Plans      Province         (1988)       Municipalities    Barangays
Cordillera          Benguet           435,337           13                 267
Admin. Region       Abrs              177,931           27                 312
Mt. Province     117,433            10                143
Kalinga-Apayao   227,676            IS                281
Ifugao            131,304           10                162
Subtotal                             1.089.681          21               1.16
Region I            PaDgasinan,      1,823,255          46               1,349
C    La Union          521,297            20                574
llocos Norte     427,136            22                557
IOcos Sur        491,251            34                864
S3ubtotal                           3.262.939           122              LI44
Region II           Cagayan           842,588           28                 789
Isabela         1,050,704           37              1,053
Nuevi Vizcaya    300,862            15                271
Quirino           108,719            6                118
Batanes            14,036            6                 29
Suo1ta1                             2.316.909           92               2.2
Region m            Batman            438,554            12                230
Bulacan         1,314,638           24                521
Pampanga        1,397,302           21                538
Tarlac           813,472            17                509
Nueva Ecija     1,277,944           29                815
Zambales         535,276            12                233
Subtotal                            5,777.219          II                24
C = Sample Prvhin  Wat Supply, werage and Sanitaion Secgor Plan completed.



- 96 -
Annex 7A
Attachment I
A. Luzon (continued)
Prov.                   Population     Number of       Number of
Region     Plans    Province         (1988)      Municipalities    Barangays
Region IV-A         Batangas         1,394,127          32              1,079
Rizal             728,726           14               191
Aurora             130,656           8               152
Laguna           1,191,393          29               667
Quezon           1,405,458          40              1,242
C    Cavite           1,1003,614         20                532
Subtotal                             5,853.974         143             3.86
Region TV           Mindoro Or.       567,594           15               420
Mindoro Occ.      293,171           11               158
Romblon           226,159           17               215
Marinduque        207,673            6               218
Palawan           478,066           21               415
Subtotal                             1.772.S64          70              1.426
Region V            Camarines Sur    1,246,614          35              1,068
Albay             929,464           17               142
Catanduanes       204,521           11               314
Camarines Norte    360,753          12               273
Masbate           678,157           21               536
Sorsogon          533,393           16               546
Subtotal                             4.002.902         112             2.872
GRAND TOTAL                         24,076,188         731             17,783
=== =                          =



- 97 -
Anex 7B
Page I
PHILPPINTES
FIRST WATER SUPPLY. SEWERAGE AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Studies for Urban Sewerate and Sanitation ImDrovements
Outline Terms of Reference
Backeround
1.          In 1987 the Government of the Philippines prepared its Water Supply, Sewerage
and Sanitation Master Plan of the Philippines, 1988-2000, outlining sector objectives, policies,
programs, institutional arrangements and economic considerations. Historically, in the Philippines
and elsewhere, water supply has been given first priority in supply of public services while the
wastewater from human and industrial consumption has been dealt with at later stages of
development.
2.           At the end of 1986 only about 360,000 households were connected to a Wad
seweraee svstem. Only 69% of all households had sanitary toilet facilities, 15% had unsanitary
facilities and 16% had no facilities at all. Service levels were generaUy higher in urban areas at
73%, with 93% in Metro Manila, while in rural areas only 62% of the population was served.
Apart from parts of Metro Manila, piped sewerage systems have been installed only in Baguio
City, Zamboanga City and Cebu City. Only about 25% of the sewage in Metro Manila and the
system in Zamboanga receives treatment before disposal to the recipient; the system in Cebu City,
which had the capacity to service the entire reclaimed area, is serving a bottling plant only and
the plant in Baguio City lacks a collection network.
3.          The Master Plan provided a more balanced investment program and, in the first
phase of the program, 1988-1992, contains projects in Manila, six projects in cities and six
projects in other urban areas. The second phase, 1993-2000, contains projects in four cities a.d
in eight other urban areas. Targets for toilet construction are for 1.5 million and 2.8 million for
each of the two phases of the Plan, respectively.
4.           The Government realizes the need for sustainable developments, which is within
the means of the urban administrations and has charged the Local Water Utilities Administration
(LWUA) with the responsibility of developing a national strategy and preparing a subsequent
investment project suitable for financial support by External Supporting Agencies (ESA). The
proposed consultancy is expected to identify an optimum development sequence, onsisting of
the staged development and implementation of a series of feasible sewerage and sanitation
projects to meet the near-term needs of (a) Zamboanga City, (b) Cebu City, (c) Daet (part of
Camarines Norte Water District), (d) Ozamis City (part of Misamis Occ. Water District), and
(e) Butuan City. The approach should be sufficiently flexible to permit the simultaneous
application of different technological solutions, low-cost or otherwise, taking into account the
needs, means and preferences of each city/town area.
Obiectives
5.          The objective of the consultancy is to prepare background and feasibility studies
for five cities for sustainable intervention in sewerage, sanitation and solid waste
management, and based thereon to establish
(a)   recommendations for national policies and strategies for the subsector, and



- 98 -
Asnnex 7B
Page 2
(b)    an investment program of physical and institutional measures which win optimally
improve the environment in the five cities.
6.           The studies wiUl lay the foundation for a possible Third Water Supply, Sewerage
and Sanitation Sector Project for possible financing by the World Bank or other external funding
agency.
Scope of Consultin. Services
A.    General
7.           The Consultant shall conduct all surveys, colection and analysis of demographic.
physical, economic and financial data to attain the objectives stated above and shaU not be
confined by what is specified in these terms of reference. In the conduct of his work the
Consultant shall collaborate closely with both (a) central agencies and departments, and
(b) provincial and municipal administrations, and shall in preparation for the subsequent policy
discussions conduct meetings and workshops on appropriate technologies and their financial,
health and ecological implications. The Consultant shall, however, be solely responsible for the
interpretation of all data and recommendations in his reports.
S.           In the following summary, activities have been grouped together for reasons of
clarity but the Consultant shall in his work ensure ful cross-referencing between the tasks
described.
B.    Work of the Consultant
9.           The work shall cover the following major phases
(a)   review of existing studies and plans pertaining to the sector,
(b)   for each of the five urban areas, make recommendations for a long-term strategic
sewerage, sanitation and waste investment plan, and a feasibility consultancy for
investments during an eight-year period. 1992-2000, taking into consideration
reasonable scenarios for likely future development of the towns/cities; and
(c)    based on the findings during the review of the existing sector situation and in
preparation of the feasibility studies, the Consultant shall propose national policies
and strategies for the sector.
C.    Scope of Work
10.          The Consultant shall acquaint himself with existing studies and plans within the
sector in the Philippines and shall summarize the status of ongoing studies.
Existing Situatiojn
11.          For each of the five towns/cities, the review of the existing situation shall include:
(a)    general information on administrative organization, staffing numbers and
qualifications;
(b)   economic and health indicators;



- 99 -
Anneix 7B
Page 3
(c)    present service coverage and standards in human waste disposal; and
(d)   shaU show the developments of these fields during the lsst 10 years.
Future Dmen
12.          The future requirements for waste and wastewater services shall be based on
considerations of:
(a)    population projections and densities, water consumption, geophysical and climatic
conditions and conditions of the recipients;
(b)   sewerage and sanitation service needs in aU residential zones; and
(c)    waste disposal needs for commerce, industry and institutions.
Service Standards
13.          Service standards for different zones of the city/towu shall be based on
(a)    explicitly stated criteria, which shall reflect the characteristics of the development
as weli as the relative environmental importance of the waste types and quantities;
(b)   technical and financial feasibility,
(c)    community preferences, affordability and willingness to par, and
(d)   application of the criteria to the range of technological options.
Feasibility Consultancy for Proiects for 1992-2000
14.          The Consultant shall, with due consideration to adoption of alternative appropriate
technologies and methods, prepare a feasibility consultancy for the proposed waste and
wastewater projcs for the period 1992-2000, based on alternative strategies analysis of coverage,
cost, health and environmental impact, covering private and public components of the
investments in:
(a)   rehabilitation of existing sewerage and sanitation facilities and strengthening of
institutional procedures;
(b)   construction of new facilities, including the following:
(i)    on-site systems (septic tanks, pits and desludging services);
(ii)   off-site systems (sewerage, simplified sewerage);
(iii) iiatermediate systems (interceptors, trunk and smallbore sewersk
(iv)   waste treatment facilities;
(v) final disposal of septic tank and leaching pit sludge; and



- 100 -
Annex 7B
Page 4
(vi)  final disposal of effluent.
(c)    a package of support activities such as public motivation, user education, health
education as well as education and training needed to plan, promote, construct,
operate and maintain the system; and
(d)   equipment and other measures for effective operation and maintenance of
desludging equipment and all other mechanical equipment for maintenance of
installed facilities (including spares).
15.          The Consultant shali:
(a)    determine operating procedures and maintenance requirements;
(b)    define responsibilities for project implementation;
(c)    prepare cost estimates and implementation schedules;
(d)    assess environmental impacts of the proposals; and
(e)    prepare recommendations for preparation of detailed design, including terms of
reference for necessary consultancies and estimated cost for the detailed design.
Financaial and Institutional Asoects
16.          The Consultant shai also:
(a)    prepare a Provisional Investment Plan for the proposed project(s) including the
cost recovery proposal for estimated capital and recurrent costs. These plans shall
differentiate between private and public investments and, as the private
investments may be of considerable importance, the Consultant shall consider
availability of funds as well as institutional arrangements. Given the breadth of
the participants, this may vary from credit facilities for industries to social
marketing to individual households;
(b)   review existing legislation, institutional arrangements and administrative and
operational procedures and recommend such changes which will enable the
proposed projects to be sustainable. Where the Consultant recommends changes in
regulations and legislation, he is required to draft the proposed new regulations
and legislation including necessary referencing to other regulations affected by the
proposals;
(c)    define coordination required with existing city planning water supply, solid waste
and drainage agencies;
(d)   list key actions necessary to implement policies and projects;
(e)   identify the local and national agencies or individuals to be responsible for each
action, together with a suggested timetable; and
(f)    provide outline scope of work and detailed activities to be undertaken.



- 101 -
Annex 7B
Page 5
D.    Time Schedule and ReDortingf Reauirements
17.         The cocsultancy is expected to be completed within 12 months and the Consultant
shall submit his draft proposals to LWUA for both feasibility studies and the policy and strategy
recommendations nine months after commencing the consultancy. The government agencies will,
in the two motnths following the submission of the draft proposals, review and comment, after
which the Consultant shall finalize the proposals within one month.
18.         Within four weeks of commencement of the consultancy, the Consultant shall
submit 30 copies of his Inception Report and he shall every month thereafter submit 30 copies of
a brief Monthly Progress Report highlighting the progress of the work and issues needing
Government's or agencies' resolution.
19.         The Government recognizes that not all policy issues can be resolved before the
Consultant is required to embark on preparation of the feasibility studies. To ensure that the
feasibility studies can lead to implementable projects, the Consultant shaU maintain a close
dialogue with aUl involved agencies and shall in writing, as early as possible, and in each Monthly
Progress Report, identify issues needing government action and the related implications.
Trainina
20.         The Consultant will be expected to make every effort to transfer skills to
Provincial and Municipal Development Offices with whom he is working. This wiln primarily be
done through assisiing the local staff in planning data collections, analysis of collected drta and
preparation of plans and monitoring systems and by co-opting local consulting companies in the
works.
Data. Services and Facilities to be Provided by the Government
21.          LWUA will introduce the Consultant to the appropriate agencies, which will
provide all local support required by the Conqultant, including access to asl relevant files and data
and to personnel who have been involved with provincial and rural water supply and sanitation
projects and with the planning of the proposed sector project. LWUA will also provide such local
transportation, office space, secretarial and computer services as may reasonably be requested by
the Consultant for the purposes of this assignment.
Estimate
22.         The Consultant shall, in making his proposal, independently assess the input
necessary to meet the objectives of the consultancy and include the following cost components in
the estimates (note the amounts shown in the following table are not part of the Te"s of
Reference):



- 102 -
Annzex 7B1
Page 6
Man-weeks       Rate        Total
or Nos.      USS         USS
Expatriates: Coordinator,
Water and Snitary Engineers,                                                                  _
Sociologist, Economist, Spec.               25     12,000      300,000
Local consultants                          13t      1,400      193,200
Refundable
(a)   International Travel             6     10,000       60,000
(b)   Local Travel & Transp.          40       750        30,000
(c)   Printing                     Lump                   30,000
(d)   Office Exp. incl. Computer
Support & Support Staff     Lump 
140,000
Seminars                                 Lump                   20.000
Total                                                    652,200



- 103 -
Annex x
Page I
PHILIPPINES
FIRST WATER SUPPLY. SgWERAGE AND SANITATION SECTOR PROJECT
Financial Restructuring Study for LWUA
Outline Terms of Reference
Backsround
1.         The Local Water Utilities Administration (LWUA) was estcblished in 1973 under
the Provincial Water Utilities Act of 1973. LWUA was chartered to assist with the formation
of Water Districts (WDs), prepare feasibility studies and designs, arrange for the construction of
water supply systems, assist with institutional development, provide financing for these
activities and recover the cost through loan repayments by WDs to LWUA.
2.         As is common with new organizations, LWUA concentrated in its formative years
on physical development, as a means to overzome the neglect in maintenance, upgrading and
expansion of water supply systems in the provincial cities and towns. Later, LWUA started to
place more emphasis on institutional development of the WDs.  A greater degree of
specialization on financial matters--in line with its role as an intermediate development bank-
-started in the early 1980s.
3.         By the end of 1987 nearly 400 WDs were formed, 320 of which received assistance
from LWUA. At that time, total loans granted amounted to P 2.7 billion of which P 1.6 billion
had been drawn down. From the beginning, it was apparent that LWUA's institutional and
financial viability was almost totally dependant on the success or failure of the WDs created by
LWUA. Some 80% of LWUA's investment were placed with the largest 20 WDs. While up
until about 1985 a substantial impact was nmsde in terms of ohysical and institutional
development, many of the larger WDs were not meeting their financial commitments to LWUA.
In 1985, the joint-consultants Walker (Canada) and Superius (Philippines) undertook a
Corporate Planning Study to review LWUAl's past performance and to determine the future
direction. This Study produced a number of important recommendations but was not acted
upon for the reasons given in para. 4 below.
4.         During the last five years, the Philippines experienced a major economic
recession, and a revolution and change in Government in 1986. With the change of
Government, LWUA, like all other government corporations, saw the appointment of a new
Board and Management. However, in early 1988 severe management/staff conflicts broke out
and these lasted almost without interruption till mid-1989 when a new Administrator was
named.
5.         LWUA, under its new leadership, wishes to reactivate its operations and has
sought World Bank assistance to finance its next major phase of development of WDs. In
addition to assisting WDs, which were expected to meet almost all of the capital and operating
and maintenance costs of their systems, LWUA, as a result of its takeover of the Rural
Waterworks Development Corporation, now also has a role in the rural areas where it will
provide small and simpler systems operated by Rural Waterworks and Sanitation Associations
(RWSAs), the capital cost of which will be almost totally funded by grants. Its financial
policies therefore require updating.



- 104 -
Annuex x
Page 2
6.         The World Bank is now assisting LWUA with the formulation of a new project
which is scheduled for appraisal in late 1990. As part of this project preparation, it is proposed
to undertake a Financial Restructuring Study. the objective of which would be to present the
Government with options to place LWUA on a sound financial footing. This Study and the
Government's actions to restore LWUA's credit rating would be a pre-condition before LWUA
could assume additional outside financial liabilities from multilateral financing agencies.
Obiectivgs
7.         The purpose of the Study is to formulate proposals for consideration by the
relevant government authorities which would place LWUA on a sound financial footing and
allow it to sustain its long-term financial viability.
Consultant Services
8.         The consultant will conduct the work so as to achieve the above objective. LWUA
has agreed to provide the data, services and facilities described below. The consultant shall,
however, be solely responsible for interpretation of data and for the recommendations in his
report.
9.         The consultant will undertake, but not necessarily limit his work to,the following
tasks.
LWUA's and WDs' current and pro ieced financial hosition:
(a)   carry out analyses of LWUA's and of the 20 largest WDs' current financial
position and future trend, the latter by means of a financial projection, based on
current and committed investment and assuming a continuation of current
financial policies, procedures and practices;
WDs' financial restructuri:
(b)   estimate the debt servicing capabilities of the 23 largest WDs, based on their best
and achievable efforts;
(c)    by inference, estimate the debt servicing capabilities of the remaining smaller
WDs;
(d)   on the basis of (a), (b) and (c) above, compute the potential total debt service
recoveries 'rom WDs and compare these with their irdebtedness to LWUA, and
formulate proposals for the financial restructuring of WDs;
RWSAs' financial restructuring:
(e)   assess the potential debt servicing recoveries from RWSAs and compare these with
their indebtedness to LWUA, and formulate proposals for the financial
restructuring of RWSAs;
LWUA's financial restructurinR:
(f)   assess LWUA's debt servicing commitments for loans obtained from  the
Government and any other lenders, to fund Water Districts' physical and



- 105 -
Annex 7C
Page 3
institutional development and compare these with the potential debt service
recoveries from WDs;
(g)   assess LWUA's debt servicing commitments for any loans taken over from the
defunct RWDC, and those since incurred, to fund RWSA development and
compare these with the potential debt servicing recoveries frorm RWSAs;
(h)   estimate that part of LWUA's current operating costs which could reasonably be
charged against project development costs;
(i)   determine whether any part of the project development cost could reasonably be
expected to be recovered from present and prospective WDs and RWSAs or
covered by government grants or subsidies;
(j)   compute the level of subsidies and grants to which LWUA was entitled since its
inception based on the provisions in its Charter and those covenanted in Loan and
Credit Agreements with External Support Agencies (ESAs);
(k)   review  LWUA's current balance sheet and assess whether it carries any
uncollectible deferred or other assets or unverified liabilities, which should be
taken into account in any financial restructuring;
(1)   estimate the extent of financial restructuring required for LWUA taking into
account (i) a conservative estimate of its debt service recoveries from WDs and
RWSAs; (ii) the share of operating costs estimated as a reasonable charge against
the administration of the current portfolio; (iii) any previous shortfall in subsidies
or grants; and (iv) any adjustments required as regards non-performing assets
carried in the Balance Sheet;
(m)   develop alternative options for the financial restructuring of LWUA, including
conversion of foreign exchange losses into equity/grant and conversion of cash
advances into equity, and test each of the alternatives through the preparation of
long-term financial projections, including not only the present portfolio but also
any ongoing or proposed projects, such as, the Bank-assisted project now under
preparation;
Financial Dolicv review
(n)   review the Government's and LWUA's current financial policies as regards
financial support to WDs and RWSAs for funding physical development, and
institutional development including training, noting especially the different cost
recovery levels, and assess whether these policies will sustain LWUA's long-term
financial viability,
(o)   to the extent that any policies reviewed under (n) above would seem to require
modification for LWUA to be able to discharge its functions and retain its
financial viability or require reiteration by the Government, develop alternative
policies for consideration by LWUA and the Government;
(p)   identify the institutional, operational and financial policy changes necessary to
improve the long-term capability of LWUA, the WDs and RWSAs to perform
their respective mandates;



- 106 -
Annex 7C
Page 4
(q)   propose any improvements, if necessary, in LWUA's monitoring and control
procedures over WDs and RWSAs as lender that will enable the former to enforce
the required conditionalities attached to the financial restructuring;
Presentation of findings and recommendations:
(r)    make a presentation to the LWUA management, and to the Board if requested,
substantiating the findings and recommendations of the Study; and
(s)   assist LWUA in its discussions with other agencies of government which will be a
party to considering and processing the financial restructuring.
Data. Services and Facilities to be Provided by LWUA
10.        Prior to the Consultant commencing his assignment, LWUA's Financial Services
will have prepared (a) drafts of the financial position and projections required under para. 9 (a)
and (b) above, (b) tables of all financial particulars known at this stage, and (c) a summary of
the Government's and LWUA's current financial policies.
I.         LWUA's Financial Services will make available experienced and adequate
counterpart staff, provide access to all records and relevant staff with experience in
implementing the water supply development program, and provide local transportation to visit
LWUA and selected WDs and RWSAs, as well as office space, and secretarial and computing
support.
Ret)ors
12.        The Consultant wiU submit an Inception Report within one month of his start in
the field; thereafter, draft reports for each successive stage of the Study, as identified in
para. 9 above, will form the basis of a separate report to be submitted to LWUA and the Bank
for comment within one week of completing each successive step.
13.        The major phase, described in paras. 9 (d), (e) and (m) above, bringing all
foregoing components together should be the main report and should be submitted in draft
form to LWUA and the Bank for comment within two weeks of the completion of this task and
be finalized within a further two weeks following receipt of LWUA's and the Bank's
comments.
Avoointment of Consultant
14.        The Government will seek bi-lateral grant financing for the engagement of
a Consultant for the study.
Timetable and Plan of Action
15.        The Study, which is an integral part of the preparation of the proposed Bank-
assisted project, is expected to start in January 1990 and be completed in June 1990.
16.        The Consultant shall, in making his proposal, independently assess the input
necessary to meet the objectives of the consultancy and include the following components in
the cost estimates (note the amounts shown in the following table are not part of the Terms of
Reference):



- 107 -
AnneZ 7C
Page S
Man-months      Rate    Sub-total        Total
or Nos.    USS/          USS         USS
Expatriates: Financial Analyst,
Auditor or Specialist                   10    12,000                  120,000
Local consultants: Financial
Analyst, Accountants. Auditor          20      1,200                   24,000
Refundable
(a)  International Travel                3    10,000       30,000
(b) Local Travel and Transport          10       750        7,500
(c)  Printing                        Lump      5,000        5,000
(d) Office Exp. incl. Computer
Support and Support Staff          40       350       14,000
56,500
Total                                                            200,500
=
1/ Rates include all expenses, including housing in Manila.



- 108 -
Annex 7D
Page 1
,PHILIPPMiS
FIRST WATER SUPPLY, SEWERAGE AND SANI AllON SECTOR PROJECT
Consultancy Services for Proiect Implementation
Outline Terms of Reference
Introduction
1.          The Philippine Government has launched the Accelerated Water Supply Program
(AWSP), as part of its Master Plan for the Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Sector 1988-92,
and covered by the updated Medium-Term Philippine Development Plan (1988-92). The main
objectives of the Master Plan are to increase the water service coverage from the 1987 level of
about 63% to about 92% by 1992 and to reduce the incidence of water-borne diseases by 16% at the
end of the plan period. The objectives of the AWSP are to provide 100,000 new wels during 1990-
92.
2.          As the lead agency for implementing the rural water supply program, the
Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) will, through the Project Management Office
for Rural Water Supply (PMO-RWS), be responsible for the implementation of the First Water
Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Sector Project in coordination with the Department of Health
(DOH), the Department of Local Government (DLG) and the Local Water Utilities Administration
(LWUA). Coordination of the activities by the various departments will be done by the Project
Coordination Committee (PCC).
3.          The Project involves the construction of 18,000 Level I water supply systems
comprising 11,000 shallow wells, 7,000 deep wells as weUl as 1,000 spring development projects,
rehabilitation of 5,000 Level I systems, construction of 25 workshop buildings, construction of
1,000,000 household toilets, disinfection of about 1,000,000 wells, construction of 1,000 school
toilets, a pilot project for 100 wastewater treatment facilities, a pilot project for 100
Communal/Public toilets, 1,000 sullage removal units and preparation and dissemination of
information education communication (IEC) materials. Parallel to this a comprehensive training
and community development program wiUl be undertaken.
4.          With the magnitude, complexity and need for close coordination among
implementing agencies, there is a need for consultancy services and technical assistance, by one or
more firms, to strengthen and assist the implementing agencies' capabilities in implementing the
Project in an efficient and timely manner.
Obiectives
5.          The major objectives of the consultancy services are to contribute in the successful
implementation of the Project and develop the capabilities of the implementing agencies. Towards
these ends the consultants will provide the services described below.



109 -
Annex 7D
Page 2
Soe  of SGYI
6.           The scope of services is outlined as foUows
W          ~~A.   TASKS FOR THE PROJECr COORDItATION COMMI2EE
7.   (a)   Review Provincial Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Sector Plans for each of
the provinces proposed for inclusion under the project, and in conjunction with
concerned implementing agencies (DPWH, DOH and DLG), develop a proposed
investment program covering rural water supply, rural sanitation and training and
community development programs.
(b)   Assist with the formulation of implementation plans for each province, including
contracting arrangements, training and community development activities,
implementation schedules, monitoring indicators, and operation and maintenance
arrangements.
(c)   Assist with the formal notification of Provincial Governments of the investments
and related activities proposed and to establish the related monitoring arrangements.
(d)   Undertake independent checks of implementation progress and the quality assurance
and control procedures established under the project.
(e)   Assist with the preparation of quarterly reports for each province showing the
agreed program and actual performance.
(f)   Review compliance with loan covenants, particularly as regards financial reporting
and audit requirements of Project and Special Accounts.
B.    TASKS FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS AND HIGHWAYS
8.          For the PMO-RWS as the lead aaencv
(a)   Support the PMO-RWS in its role as the lead agency with the administration,
control, reporting and monitoring of overall project implementation by DPWH,
DOH, DLG and LWUA.
(b)   Establish and assist with the maintenance of administrative, procurement, and
financial systems and procedures concerning the implementation of the project.
(c)   Train staff of the PMO-RWS in project implementation systems and procedures to
a level that they wiU be able to operate without external support.
(d)   Organize the proposed Project-launch workshop, held to review the proposed
coordination and project implementation procedures.
(e)   Assist in organizing a donors' meeting to seek support for the funding of the Master
Plan and coordination of its implementation.
(f)   Review and approve disbursement applications and Statements of Expenditure
(SOE), and advise on systems and procedures for the documentation and safekeeping
of records supporting SOEs.



- 110 -
Annex 7D
Page 3
9.           For PMO-RWS as the imolementina aaencv of the rural water SuDDly comDonent
(a)   Assist with the implementation of the Project, including preparation of
implementation plans for each province, procurement and contracting arrangements,
training and hydrogeological assistance with the selection of well sites.
(b)   Liaise with the specialist consultants engaged for the review of capabilities of the
performance of well drilers and handpump manufacturers and for the training of
well drillers and hydrogeologists.
(c)   Assist in the review of training and IEC needs of the water supply program, the
development of IEC materials and the conduct of training programs.
10.         For DPWH as the sector Dlannina aaencv
(a)   Undertake an overall assessment of water supply  plans, programs and
accomplishments in relation to the preparation of an updated Master Plan.
(b)   Establish a database pertaining to historical, present and proposed activities in the
water supply, sewerage and sanitation sector, including service levels, health and
other statistics that will assist in planning and development.
C.    TASKS FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
11.         For the Of_ice of Environmental Health for the rural sanitation comoonent
(a)   Assist with the implementation of the project, including preparation of a detailed
implementation plan, procurement and contracting arrangements, and design of
school toilet systems.
(b)   Review and evaluate the existing operation and maintenance procedures for
household and school toilet facilities, and pilot sulage removal and wastewater
treatment units. Develop recommendations on improvement of current practices
and prepare operation and maintenance manuals for Barangay Waterworks and
Sanitation Associations (BWSAs), school and household beneficiaries.
(c)   Monitor and evaluate the construction, installation, operation and maintenance, and
performance of household and school toilet facilities and pilot sullage removal and
wastewater treatment units. Develop recommendations on improvement of design
and installation.
(d)   Recommend improvements on the current sanitation practices and on the installation
and design of sanitation facilities.
(e)   Advise on the selection of suitable areas for pilot sullage removal and wastewater
treatment units.
(f)    Review the current procedures for quality control of drinking water in urban and
rural areas. Recommend appropriate measures to improve the performance of water
quality surveiUlance.



- 111 -
Annexs 7D
Page 4
(8)   Assess the effectiveness of the training, community development and health
education programs, and provide assistance with the development of training and
IEC materials.
(h)   Develop a computerized system for recording, reporting, and monitoring project
activities and relate it to the existing health information system.
(i)    Assess the project's environmental health impact.
(j)    Review and evaluate the existing organizational set-up of the PMO and assess its
management efficiency from the national level down to the field implementation
level. Provide recommendations if improvement is deemed necessary.
D.    TASKS FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT
12.         For PMO-RWS as the coordinatina training and community develonment auency,
(a)   Prepare a schedule for the preparation of Provincial Water Supply, Sewerage and
Sanitation Sector Plans for the remaining 29 provinces to be covered and assist DLG
in the recruitment of consultants.
(b)   Prepare and coordinate the community development efforts, assist in planning and
monitoring of performance.
(c)   Assist with the implementation of the training and community development
programs.
Outputs Expected
13.         In accordance with the above Scope of Services, the consultants will produce, as
applicable:
(a)   Inception report;
(b)   Quarterly progress reports;
(c)   Technical reports;
(d)   Detailed designs including drawings and specifications for design tasks under these
term of reference;
(e)   Reports on the job-site inspections carried out for the PCC;
(f)    Reports concerning areas of special concern;
(g)   Performance of handpumps and wells constructed under this, previous and parallel
projects;
(h)   Functioning of BWSAs established under this, previous and parallel projects;
(i)    The participation and opportunities for women to participate in the planning,
implementatdon, operation and maintenance and monitoring and training and
community development activities under the project;



- 112 -
Annex 7D
Page 5
(j)    Environmental Health Impact Assessment;
(k)   Computer Data Bases;
(1)   Inputs for the update of the Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Master Plan; and
(m)   A final report covering the consultants' observations and recommendations as
regards the implementation of future sector projects.
Exverts Reauired and Person-MWnths
14.         The consultants will be required to make proposals as regards the person-months
and expertise required for the satisfactory execution of the consultancy and technical assistance
assignment. Consultants may make proposals for one or more of the groups of tasks identified as A,
B, C and D above. It is tentatively estimated that about 700 person-months consultant' inputs will
be required, about 456 of which are for the rural water supply component and the remainder of
244 for the rural sanitation component. (See Attachment I for anticipated consultants inputs.)
Facilities and Suonort Staff to be Provided by the Consultants
15.         For the purposes of carrying out these Terms of Reference, certain facilities and
staff would be required to be provided by the consultants and are expected to be as follows:
(a)   Office accommodation at a convenient location to serve the implementing agencies;
(b)   Office equipment, including computers, supplies, communication facilities, and
secretarial services;
(c)   Motor vehicles for use by the consultants, who will cover the running and
maintenance costs, including drivers; and
(d)   Local support personnel.
Sutwort to be Provided by the Imilementing Agencies
16.         The consultants will be attached and report to the Director of the PMO-RWS in
DPWH. The Director wiD assign consulting resources from time to time to the other implementing
agencies in order for the consultants to discharge the wider consultancy and technical assistance
responsibilities.
17.         The consultants will be provided with access to all relevant records and staff of the
implementing agencies associated with the implementation of the project. The consultants will be
provided with the opportunity and local transportation to visit on a regular basis each of the
provinces included or proposed for inclusion under the project.
18.         The implementing agencies wiDl assign, on a full-time basis, a sufficient number of
appropriately qualified counterpart staff, who wiDl be trained by the consultants to take over in due
course the consultancy services and technical assistance tasks covered by these Terms of Reference.
19.         The consultants will be required, without exception, to attend all meetings of the
PCC and all other interdepartmental and departmental meetings pertaining to planning,
implementation and monitoring of the project, as appropriate.



- 113 -
Annex 7D
Attachment I
FIRST WATER SUPPLY SEWERAGE AND SANITATION SECOB PROJECT
EStMLWna  InlDUtS of IMWOlMentton Consultants
It is estimated that the following consultancy inputs will be required to discharge
satisfactorily the tasks covered by these Terms of Reference.
EXPERTISE                                                PQ ERSON-QMQNTHS
A. For Water SuDDIV DeVeloDment
ImDlementation of phvsical works:
Project Manager/Teami Leader                               1                   54
Deputy Project Manager                                     1                   54
Civil/Sanitary Engineer                                    4                  168
Hydrogeologist                                             1                   24
Ecologist/Environmentalist                                 1                   24
Computer Specialist                                        2                   36
Economist                                                  1                   12
Imdlementation of Training and Community Development:
Training Specialist                                        3                   42
Planning Specialist                                        1                   18
Sociologist                                                1                   24
TOTAL                                16                  456
B. For Sanitation Develonment
Implementation of ohysical works
Civil/Sanitary Engineer                                    3                  135
Ecologist/Environmentalist                                 1                   24
Computer System Analyst-                                   1                   12
Imnlementation of Training and Community Devela)Dment:
Training Specialist                                        2                   15
Planning Specialist                                        2                   34
Sociologist                                               A                   .24
TOTAL                                1                   24
GRAND TOTAL                                  26                  700



- 114 -
Annex 7E
Page 1
FlRST WATER SU"PLY, JEWE-4,GE AND SANITATIONSETOR PROJCT
Ouality Assurance and Control by External Consultants
Outline Terms of Reference
Introduction
1.          The Philippine Government has launched the Accelerated Water Supply Program
(AWSP), as part of its Master Plan for the Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Sector 1988-1992
and the updated Medium-Term Philippine Development Plan (1988-92). The main objectives of
the Master Plan are to increase water service coverage from the 1987 level of about 63% to about
92% by 1992 and to reduce the incidence of water-borne diseases by 16% at the end of the plan
period. The objectives of the AWSP are to provide 100,000 new wells during 1990-1992.
2.          As the lead agency for implementing the rural water supply program, the
Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) will coordinate, through the Project
Management Office for Rural Water Supply (PMO-RWS), the implementation of the First Water
Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Sector Project in coordination with the Department of Health
(DOH), the Department of Local Government (DLG) and the Local Water Utilities Administration
(LWUA).
3.          The project involves the construction of 18,000 Level I water supply systems
comprising 11,000 shallow wells, 7,000 deep wells as well as 1,000 spring development projecrs,
rehabilitation of 5,000 Level I systems, construction of 25 workshop buildings, construction of
1,000,000 household toilets, disinfection of about 1,000,000 wells, construction of 1,000 school
toilets, a pilot project for 100 wastewater treatment facilities, a pilot project for 100
Communal/Public toilets, 1,000 sullage removal units and preparation and dissemination of
information education and communication (IEC) materials. Parallel to this a comprehensive
training and community development program will be undertaken.
4.          Experience has shown that the sustainability of a project of this nature will be
significantly improved if appropriate steps are taken to obtain the best quality products, within the
bounds of due economy, and ensure that the workmanship and materials consistently meet
specifications. For this purpose, consultants would be engaged to undertake quality assurance and
control of the handpump manufacture and well drilling operations under the project. It is therefore
proposed to engage internationally experienced consultants to carry out reviews of manufacturing
procedures at the factories of firms selected or proposed for selection for the manufacturing of
handpumps, and to carry out inspections of batches of handpumj: before shipment and delivery is
accepted by the Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH). Similar inspections wiUl be
required of toilet bowls to be procured under the project. To ensure the proper functioning of
wells, periodic site inspections will be required of wells under construction and those completed to
ensure that proper procedures are followed for the driling, and subsequent development and
operation of wells and handpumps.
Obiectives
5.          The major objective of the consultancy services is to contribute to the successful
implementation of the project and to develop local capabilities for the manufacture of a large



- 115 -
Annex 1E
Page 2
volume of high quality handpumps, for driling and development of wells, and for the
establishment of local quality assurance and control capabilities. Towards this end, the consultants
will provide the services described below.
Scoge of Servce
6.          The scope of services are outlined as Collows:
HandpuMM
(a)   Assist with the development of specifications for a handpump;
(b)   Impect manufacturing plants and handpumps manufactured in the Philippines and
assess current capabilities;
(c)   Develop recommendations and assist with the improvement of the manufacturing
capabilities in the Philippines;
(d)   Inspect sample pumps provided by prospective manufacturers at the pre-registration
stage;
(e)   Assist with bid evaluation of tenders submitted; and
(f)   Inspect samples of handpumps prior to the acceptance of delivery.
(g)   Interview and review the capabilities of weU drillers at the pre-registration stage;
(h)   Periodically inspect well drilling operations and completed, and subsequently,
operating wells to review performance; and
(i)    Prepare recommendations for improvements in well drilling and well development
procedures, as appropriate.
Toilet howl
(j)   Inspect bowls prior to acceptance of delivery and on a random basis following
delivery to ascertain compliance with agreed specifications.
Outputs Expected
7.          In accordance with the above Scope of Services, the following are expected to be
produced
(a)   Inception report
(b)   Quarterly progress reports;
(c)   Inspection reports and certificates; and
(d)   A final report covering the work carried out and the recommendations as regards
the establishment of a local quality assurance and control capability.



- 116 -
AnneuxI
Page 3
Experts Reouired and Person-Months
8.          The Consultant will be required to make proposals as regards the person-months and
expertise required for the satisfactory execution of this consultancy and technical assistance
assignment.
Facilities and Sunnort Staff to be Provided by the Consultants
9.           For the purposes of carrying out these Terms of Reference, certain facilities and
staff would be required to be provided by the Consultant and are expected to be as follows:
(a)   Office accommodation at a convenient location to serve the implementing agencies;
(b)   Office equipment, including computers, supplies, communication facilities, and
secretarial sen'ices
(c)   One (1) motor vehicle for use by the consultants, who will cover the running and
maintenance costs, including one (I) driver, and
(d)   Local support personnel.
Support to be Provided bv the Imolementina Agencies
10.         The Consultant will be attached and report to the Director of the PMO-RWS in
DPWH in his capacity as Chairman of the Project Coordination Committee (PCC).
11.          lhe Consultant will be provided with access to all relevant records and staff of the
implementing agencies associated with the implementation of the project. The Consultant will be
provided opportunity and local transportation to visit on a regular basis each of the provinces
included or proposed for inclusion unar the project.
12.         The implementing agencies will assign, on a ful time basis, a sufficient number of
appropriately qualified counterpart staff, who will be trained by the Consultant to take over in due
course the consultancy services and technical assistance tasks covered by these Terms of Reference.
13.         The Consultant will be requested, from time to time, to attend meetings of the PCC
and other interdepartmental and departmental meetings to provide reports pertaining to quality
assurance and control, as appropriate.



- :17 -
Annex 7F
Page 1
FlRS WATER& SUPPL  SEWEIIAGE ANI) SAI llTTION SECTOR MIO1=C
Quality Assurance and Control by the UNDPLW rld Dank Water and Sanitation proaram
OulUne Ierm of Rteference
Back,gu,d
1.          The First Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation Sector Project in the Philippines
comprises perhaps one of the largest rural water and sanitation projects supported by the Bank. It
provides, among other components, water supply facilities including the construction of some
18,000 wells with handpumps, the rehabilitation of some 5,000 wells, and development of about
1,000 springs; sanitation facilities including the supply and construction of some one million
household latrines and toilet facilities at about 1,000 schools; and a comprehensive training and
community development program to ensure sustainable development.
2.          The UNDP/World Bank Water and Sanitation Program has extensive and world-wide
experience, which can be beneficially brought to bear on this comprehensive and ambitious project
to improve the living conditions of the rural population in the Philippines. The project will provide
the opportunity to demonstrate the value of the specifications, standards and procedures developed
by the UNDP/World Bank Team for application elsewhere in the developing world. The
UNDP/World Bank Team would work jointly with the staff retained under the provisions of the
International Training Network established in the Philippines for the project's training component.
Terms of Reference
3.          The Bank has sought the contribution by the UNDP/World Bank Water and
Sanitation Program Team which has given undertakings to assist in four specific areas of specia!
interest as briefly defined below:
(a)   Handoumnm  Development and review of specifications, provision of advice on
handpump manufacture in terms of both quantity and quality, and assistance with
the periodic quality assurance and control of handpumps procured under the project;
(b)    WgjS Development and review of specifications for well sites, well drilling and
construction, and rigs; provision of advice on the packaging of contracts and review
of bidding documents to achieve opfimal procurement and installaftion, including
periodic quality assurance and control of well location, construction, functioning
and operation and maintenance;
(c)   Pour-flush toilet bowls  Development and review of specifications and periodic
inspections of batches prior to and following delivery as regards conformance to the
agreed and contract specifications; and
(d)   Training Assistance in establishing arrangements for the training of hydrogeologists
and well drillers; the establishment of quality assurance and control systems and
procedures within the implementing agencies, handpump manufacturers, and well
drilling suppliers and contractors; and the establishment of local quality assurance
and control capabilities.



- 118 -
Annex 7F
Page 2
Detiled Description of Tasks
4.          umm
(a)   General specifications for handpumps are described in Annex 3. These
specifications will be refned under this Terms of Reference and included in the bid
documents. Performance in the field will be monitored with the objective of
improving specifications.
(b)   Assistance will be provided to local handpump manufacturers in the tooling up for
and establishment of manufacturing processes and establishment of internal
production control which will facilitate volume production of high quality
handpumps meeting the specifications as defined under (a) above. Periodic
inspections of the manufacture of handpumps procured under the project wil be
carried out on the premises of overseas or local manufacturers and random testing of
samples wil be carried out before completed handpAmps are accepted for delivery
under the project.
(c)   Quality assurance and control reports will be prepared for DPWH, upon which
batches of handpumps will be accepted for delivery. The UNDI./^World Bank Team
will recommend on and assist in the establishment of a long-term sustainable quality
assurance and control system. While this is being developed and established, the
Team may during the first two years contract the quality assurance and control
function to an independent agency. This input is covered by separate of Terms of
Reference (see Annex 7E).
5. 
(a)   To overcome well failures due to poor hydrogeological preparation, the Team will
review available hydrogeological information and actual practices and experience of
local hydrogeologists employed under the project. Recommendations wili be
developed for additional hydrogeological investigations and training of
hydrogeologists, as needed.
(b)   Assistance wil be given in the optimal packaging of well drilling contracts and the
review of bidding documents so as to achieve efficient delivery.
(c)   Reviews will be made of the actual practices and experience of local well drillers
employed under the project to identify training needs, as seems appropriate.
(d)   Periodic quality assurance and control inspections will be carried out of randomly
seleed wells during construction, after completion, and after extended use to
revew actual performance and advise on design, drilling, construction and operation
and maintenance procedures.
6.          lgainina
(a)   Assistance will be provided, in conjunction with the International Training Network
in the Philippines, with the baining of well drillers and hydrogeologists. Funding
will be sought from the lTN for attendance of tainees at appropriate courses and
workshops.



- 119 -
Annex 7F
Page 3
(b)   Assistance will be provided with the review and establishment, as needed, of local
quality assurance and control practices and procedures in private enterprises,
implementing agencies and national standards laboratories or institutes.
Personnel Provided
7.          The assistance to be provided will be managed by the Manager of the UNDP/World
Bank Water and Sanitation Team based in Singapore, who will draw on resources available within
the UNDP/World Bank network and from the ITN as appropriate, including personnel with
international expertise and local support as needed. The assistance may include the use of
intemationall:- experienced quality assurance and control consultants and other experts. The
UNDP/World Bank Team already has held discussions and has received a proposal from
internationally experienced consultants.
InDuts to be Provided
8.          As agreed, the UNDP/World Bank Water and Sanitation Program will provide 50
staff and consultant support, tentatively estimated at 100 weeks, during the first two years of the
project. The following table shows the estimated staffing requirement for each year.
990-1991     1991-1992        Total
weeks        weeks         weeks
(a)    Team Leader (from Singapore)        3             3           6
(b)    Handpump expertise                 30            10          40
(c)    WeUl Drilling Expertise            10            30          40
(d)    Training                            7             7            4A
Totals                             S0            S0          100
Timetable
9.          The Team Leader and other concerned staff or consultants will take part in the
Project Launch meeting at which the Bank mission will review with the implementing agencies
the implementation arrangements. Several of the inputs to be provided by the UNDP/World Bank
Team will be required at or immediately following loan approval. The Team Leader will make
prior arrangements for the assignment for staff or consultants, as appropriate, to facilitate the
provision of inputs in a timely manner.
10.         It is envisaged that the majority of inputs for handpump manufacture and
preparation of specifications will be required during the first year of the implementation period,
i.e., during 1990-91, with a greater emphasis on weUl drilling performance and operation and
maintenance during the second year. Thereafter, it is expected that local expertise and experience
will be adequate to sustain the further implementation of the Bank-assisted project in the context
of the Government's Accelerated Water Supply Program.



- 120 -
Annx 7F
Page 4
11.         The UNDP/World Bank Team will prepare a detailed work program  for the
delivery of the above-defined advice and services. Such work program will be prepared in
conjunction with the Bank's Task Manager and agreed with the implementing agencies.
Liaison and Renortina
12.         Within the framework of these Terms of Reference, the Team Leader will
organize staff, consultants and other resources within a time frame and for such duration as will
be mutually agreed between the Task Manager and the Team Leader. Each subset of these Terms
of Reference will be covered by a specific Terms of Reference to cover the task or mission to be
undertaken by the concerned assigned staff member or consultant. The Team Leader will prepare
Back-to-Office and other specific reports and send these to the Task Manager within one month
of the completion of the mission or specific assignment. Bank management will review the
reports, and the Task Manager, in consultation with the Team Leader, will send the Bank's action
telex or facsimile and reports to the implementing agencies.



- 121 -
Annex 8
Page 1
PHELIPPINS
FIRST WATER SUPPLY. SEWERAGE AND SANrrATION SECTOR PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Name of Docupment                             EPuByeDMBv
I       Project Proposak First Water Supply, Sewerage  DPWH, DOlH and LWUA          Aug. 89
and Sanitation Project
2       Institutional Development Model                DPWH                         Sep. 89
3       Project ProposaL Second Water Supply, Sewerage    LWUA                      Sep. 89
and Sanitation Sector Project (SW4SP)
4       LWUA Corporate Plan, 1989-92                   LWUA                         Aug. 89
5       Provincial Water Supply, Sewerage and Sanitation    Provincial Planning and  Oct. 89
Sector Plan - Cavite                          Development Office assisted
by Kampsax-Kruger
6       Provincial Investment Plan, Province of La Union   Provincial Planning Office, La  Sep. 89
Union
7       Policy Proposal on (a) Water Supply Responsibility   LWUA                   Jan. 89
and (b) Grant Financing of Water Source
Development (Annex A: Cost, Fees and
Affordablity)
8       Draft Terms of Reference for Financial         LWUA                         Sep. 89
Restructuring Study of LWUA
9       LWUA Target Number of Projects (1989-92)       LWUA
10      LWUA Cash Flow Statement CY 1988-92           LWUA
11      Polomolok Water District.                     LWUA, Planning Department   Jun. 89
Water Supply Feasibility Study, Phase n,
Improvements, Draft Report.
12      Organization and Position Chart, NEDA Regional   NEDA
Office (NRO)
13      Organizational Chart, La Union Water District  La Union Water District      1989
14      Project Proposal Wastewater Disposal Systems for   LWUA                     Jun. 89
Selected Water District Areas
15      UNDP/World Bank Demonstration Component       Pre-appraisal Mission (GT)    Sep. 89



- 122 -
Annex 8
Page 2
Name gf Document                               PNgpared By                  Pae
16      An Action Agenda. Message of Sec. Fiorello R.  DPWH                          Jul. 89
Estuar, Sec. DPWH
17      Levels I & n, Operation and Maintenance Manual   Project Management Office   May 89
for Rural Water Supply,
DPWH
18      Performance Review 1973-88                     LWUA                          Oct. 89
19      Water Rates in WDs and Regional Averages       LWUA                          Jul. 89
20      International Training Network Center for Water    Netherlands Government    1989
and Waste Management at LWUA, Apprasal
Report
21      Financial Report to the Board for CY87         LWUA                          Apr. 88
22      Operational Data of Top 41 Water Districts     LWUA                          Jul. 89
23      Community Development Cost Estimates           DOH
24      (a) Rules and Regulations of the National      Professional Regulation       Jun. 89
Pollution Control Commission, Off. Gazette, Vol.   Commission
74, No. 23
(b) Effluent Regulation of 1982, Off. Gazette,  Ministry of Human
Vol. 73, No. I                                 Settlements
(c) Act No. 3931, Creating the National Air    Congress of the Republic of    Nov. 64
Pollution Commission                           the Philippines
(d) River Classification                       National Pollution Control   Sep. 75
Commission
(e) Rules and Regulations of the National      Ministry of Human            Jun. 81
Pollution Control Commission for Domestic Waste   Settlements
Water Disposal
(f) Reorganization of the Department of        President of the Philippine's    Jun. 87
Environnment, Energy and National Resources    Office
(renaming), Executive Order 192
25      Project Proposal for Provincial Water Supply and    PMO-RWS, DPWH            Jul. 89
Sanitation Master Plan (Provincial Plans)
26      Project Proposal for Philippines Wastewater    DPWH                          Jul. 89
Master Plan
27      Metro Manila Environmental Projects, Appraisal    DANIDA                     Aug. 89
Report



- 123 -
Annex 8
Page 3
Name of Document                              Pepdi Byate
28      Environmental Law in the Philippines           Amados Tolentine, Jr.;       1981
National Environmental
Protection Council
29      Organizational Structure and Unit Functions,   LWUA                         Jun. 89
LWUA (1988) Existing and Proposed
30      Accelerated Water Supply Program, RA 6716.    DPWH                          Apr. 89
Implementing Guidelines and Primer
31      Draft Report on the Institutional Development of   Hans Rood, World Bank    Sep. 89
the Water Supply Sector in the Philippines    Consultant
32      Program of Works, Sarmt WD, Ilacos Norte      LWUA                          May 89
33      Training Components (IBRD Funded Projects)    LWUA                          Sep. 89
34      Kabacan Water District Water Supply Feasibility  LWUA                       Dec. 88
Study, Phase I Improvement, Draft
35      Subic Water District Water Supply Feasibility  LWUA                         May 89
Study, Phase II Improvement, Draft
36      Contract Documents, Lemery Water Supply        LWUA
System, Phase I Improvement Program, VoL 1 of
2
37      Guidelines for Integrated Regional Economic cum    ADD                      Oct. 88
Environmental Development Planning: A Review
of Regional Environmental Development Planning
Studies in Asia, ADB Environment Paper No. 3,
Vol. I and 2



IBRD 22431
t16                                           .120                                              124-                                            I 8'
CLASSIFICATION OF PROVINCES
BY GEOGRAPHICAL REGIONS
I ILOCOS               VI WESTERN VISAYAS                                       10                        PHILIPPIIN  ES
20'       1                                                                          losNfl  Bj~a                                                                 O
Zo   1 locos Nonrt             4H uAkan                                                                                                                      0
2llocos Sutr             .4  Capt,
I La Union               4OAnbque                                  HATANE5
4 Pangasirna             41 lloib
CORDILLERA ADMINISTRATIVE 42 Negros Occ,dental
REGION4 (CAR)               4-3 Guimaras
RFGION ICAR)   4.1 GulmaTas~~~~~~                                                         Province CapItals
S Abra          VII  CENTRAtL VISAYAS
U KCala.aApayao          4 4 Cebu
7 Mountain ProvInec      4 I Negros orient                                                                          National capital
H Iifugao                46 Bohol
'Benguet                 47 Squhor                                                                         - -   Province  Boundarles
CAGAYAN VALLEY   Vill EASTERN VISAYAS                                          1 I
I It Batanes              4!t Northern Samar                                                                  -      RegIon  ioundaries
11 Caga,an                 4 '15Wesern Samar                                                                         ReioSBunar ies
12 Isabela                 50EasternSWV                                                 .                     -      International  HoundarIes
13 Nueva Vrca* I Leyte                                     VIIanai TAb.l o 1        I1
14Quirino                  52 Southern Leyte                              0 J
'   CENTRAL LUZON               5 3B,lrn 0d8
1 5 Nueva Ecija         WESTERN MINOANAO                        \i' ,I5.5
,6 Tarlac                 54 Zanmboanga del Norte             :3                  2 12
1 7 ZaMbalares             55 Zambroanga del Sur    S_ Fe"A"'.9        .                       fILOEAVTERS 0            100        I0a        300
I aPnsI"m ga               S (I Basil an                                 0)
19 Eatitil                5 7 Sulu                               -    I i       /     -MLSO                           s        o        s         0
2    uacaan                57U*                                            \ ~ -MILES IS                              so       100      'S0      2100
RNEAGION 11INCq;TA   X  NORTHERN MINDAINAO            U     E       2        /1
RO SOUTHERN TAGALOG IC')i uia d                   %Ott                   aIas,    otl
2 I Aurc.ra                b1 AgusandelNorte       1           1 T    ;                           N
22 Quezon                  o2 Misatmis Onenta                           . In   U            r '.j
2 4 RatJ                  '.3 Misamnis Occidental           1 7r   l
24 Cavie                   Z4 Buldnnn                olrsnfg*o. .r 'or  IoBd
25 Laguna                  65 Agusan delSue MSw                             \                                   "I' 1                   _
26 B7 Martngas     XI SOLIHERN MINOAntA Ol2Drc
2 7 Marunduque             6r Surigw del Sur                  Trqce             CrU |
2  Mindonro Ociental       67 Davao Oriental                                                    "l. V
2aMindnro Occidental      3bBDavao del Norte                       2r    ><  22            3.DOel
30 Rombion                 69DOavo del Sur                                   0                                   CATANDUANES
31 Piaavan                 70 South Cotabato                     p\ t "g                            I \  l     A  
V   BICOI              XII CENTRAL MINDANAO               /|\    \                                                     a
32 Cjtmlrlnes Nonte        71 Lanao del Norte                -  
33 Canarines Su            72 L.nao del Sur a
3 4 Cantaniduanes          73 Norath CoalaoMa...an . 
3 5bay                     74 Maguindanao
36 Sorsogon                75 Sultan Kudarat
317 Masbate                                                 I    \Q O                                             43
'4~~~~ ~ ~ ~ i/   ''}i  (70 1 iA
tZ   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                         /    93~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  7     \       .4 -)
/s/ >A                                                  I I 1
12'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ /4J/  @,)f,                                                                                  7- 
PALAWAN                                                           ,/CEU             )' 
II                            V I SA42 
puerto Princes-
-31 *4 59o     Oe<                                                        463ribJo$
0                                                                    o d j  O  rTagndas
/M  I 31 O -,<  s    &  oH 6
C _,  Z l,OPIC   i  ,                         /     .   _    o tt                       73  S 7~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 )    ob     ot7
f'ti-LIS'l'lNlrS                                                                           t k         '
NAU 8'EI     ' ,\\  SULU                                                                                                      -
c- J          .  .; .                                                                         1d,Rag,,F,W0,,m,,&b&             S,.6s      ,,4<,
I N Da0 RIU o990
L   ._,   .'  ,i' .  ' _.  .        t~~~~~20"                                          t;f4-                                               tdo_      
)JUtsE 1990



