Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repot N.. P-4156-}I
REPORT AND RECOMNENDATION
OF TME
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVEIOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROFOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt7.8 MILLION
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI
FOR AN
INDUSTRIAL AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
December 2, 1985
This dooatnet L-s a restioFtd distribudon and may be used by renpiemts OdY in the ped see of
0      ~~their Lfcmd duSe; Its rontents ass not owerwise be dsSosed wit.1twit World Bank uoiza*fiwon



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(August 1985)
Currency Unit - ILawian Kwacba (MK)
US$1 - MK 1.80
MK 1 - US$0.56
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADB      - African Development Bank
ADMARC   = Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
CBM      - Commercial Bank of Malawi
CDC      - Comonwealth Development Corporation
DEG      - Deutsche Entwicklungsgesellschaft (German Finance Company for
Investments in Developing Countries)
EIB      = European Investment Bank
FM       = Nederlandse Financierings Maatschappi Voor - Outwickeling Sladen
(Netherlands Finance Company for Developing Countries)
IFC      - International Finance Corporation
INDEBANK = Investment and Development Bank of Malawi Limited
MDC      - Nalawi Development Corporation
.EPC     = Malavi Export Promotion Council
NEK      = National Bank of Malawi
NBS      - New Building Society
PGL      - Press Group Limited
POSB     = Postal Savings Bank
SEDOM    = Small Enterprise Development Organization of Malawi
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Malawi: April 1 - March 31
INDEBANK: January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAWI
INDUSTRIAL AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Republic of Halawi
Beneficiaries: Investment and Development Bank of Malawi (INDEBANK), National
Bank of Malawi (NBM) and the Commercial Bank of Malawi (CBM).
Terms:          Repayable in 15 years, including four years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Amount:         US$7.8 million equivalent
Relending
Terms:          INDEBANK Line of Credit.  The Government would onlend
US$3.0 million to INDEBANK to finance industrial, and commercial
projects at the variable interest rate to be paid by Government
on the proposed loan. Repayment would be in accordance with the
aggregate of the amortization schedules applicable to subloans.
The maximum repayment period is 15 years including four years of
grace. INDEBANK would on-lend loan proceeds at a variable rate
that would be positive in real terms and adequate to cover
reasonable administrative expenses. INDEBANK's current lending
rate for industrial credit is 13% p.a. Sub-borrowers would bear
the exchange rate risk.
Agricultural Credit. The Government, through the Reserve Bank
of Malawi, would onlend US$4.5 million to INDEBANK, the National
Bank of Malawi and the Commercial Bank of Malawi at a rate
initially set at 10.5% p.a. These institutions would onlend at
rates initially ranging from 11.5 to 15% p.a. The Government
would bear the exchange rate and variable interest rate risks.
Technical Assistance Component.  US$.3 million would be a
Government grant to INDEBANK.
Project
Description:    The project's objectives are to:  (i) build upon and further
*                   strengthen INDEBANK's institutional capabilities, assist in
diversification of its role in productive sectors, and expand
its activities in the agricultural sector-the mainstay of
Malawi's economy; and (ii) fulfill the need for term financing
for agricultural estates to increase productivity thereby
improving the potential for diversification. The proposed
project consists of (i) a US$3.0 million credit line to finance
viable industrial, commercial, transport and tourism
investments; (ii) a US$4.5 million agricultural credit component
to Provide investment credit to agricultural estates; and (iii)
US$.3 million in technical assistance to INDEBANK to strengthen
its capability to promote, appraise and monitor agricultural
projects.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank aumiorization.



(ii)
Benefits
and Risks:      The proposed project would strengthen INDEBANK's capabilities to
promote the development of productive activities and thereby
enable it to create new investment and employment opportunities
in Malawi. Benefits would accrue from the agricultural
component by (i) satisfying existing unfulfilled demand for term
finance for agricultural estates thus filling a void in the
financial sector; and (ii) financing productivity improving
investments which would free up land and thereby increase
potential for diversification. The pilot nature of this
component - partly to be channeled through the commercial banks
would permit evaluation of-the suitability of these
institutions to effectively administer term credit to the estate
subsector. -
The main project risk is that the estate crops are produced for
export and a substantial drop in the international prices for
these crops would result in liquidity problems for sub-borrowers
and in defaults on loan repayments. Bank forecasts indicate
some stability in these commodity prices. Further, investments
to be financed are expected to develop lower cost producers
better able to withstand price falls. Gradual diversification
would further reduce farmers' vulnerability to this risk.
Finally, participating financial intermediaries' careful review
procedures would screen out marginal investments.
Estimated Cost:                                     Local   Foreign    Total
-C USS million)
INDEBANK Line of Credit Component   3.42       6.13     9.55
Agricultural Credit Component        1.80      2.70     4.50
Technical Assistance Component        .10       .20      .30
5.32      9.03    14.35
Financing Plan:  a/                                 Local   Foreign    Total
(US$ million)-
Internal cash generation            2.22       -        2.22
IBRD loan                           1.90       5.90     7.80
Other borrowings (from ADB,          1.20      3.13     4.33
EIB, CDC and FNO)                   5.32       9.03    14.35
Estimated
Disbursements:
Bank FY               1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
%,USS million)
Annual             1.0    2.0    1.5    1.4    1.0      .3     .3      .3
Cumulative         1.0    3.0    4.5    5 9    6.9    7.2    7.5    7.8
Rate of Return: NA
Staff Appraisal
Report:        No. 5815-HAI, dated December 2, 1985
a/   Commercial banks would provide short term financing to the agricultural
estates to supplement term financing provided under the proposed project.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR AN INDUSTRIAL AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Malawi for the equivalent of US$7.8 million
to help finance an Industrial and Agricultural Credit Project. The loan
would have a term of 15 years, including 4 years of grace, with a variable
interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum dated October 4, 1985, was
circulated to the Executive Directors on October 15, 1985. The following
paragraphs summarize the principal findings of that report. Annex I
contains the basic country data.
3.        Malawi is a small (118,500 sq km), densely-populated (about 6.6
million people in 1983) landlocked country in southeastern Africa. Its
main assets are moderately fertile soils, good water resources and a
climate favorable to crop production. Unlike its neighbors, Malawi has no
known substantial mineral resources.
4.        With a GNP per capita of US$210, Malawi has been identified by
the United Nations as one of the world's poorest countries. Nevertheless,
since independence in 1964 until 1979, Malawi had steady economic growth,
averaging six percent per annum in real terms (three percent per capita).
The leading sectors were agriculture and manufacturing. Investment rose
from 9 percent of GDP at independence to 33 percent in I979, financed by
increased domestic savings (from nil to 14 percent of GDP in 1979), and
official and private capital inflows. In 1980 and 1981, Malawi met with
serious difficulties due to world economic conditions, and GDP contracted
by six percent over these two years. Consumption fell somewhat, but
savings and investment were reduced drastically. S'nce 1982, recovery has
been underway, with annual GDP growth averaging 4.6 percent through 1984.
5.        With the exception of the 1980-81 recession, Malawi has enjoyed
steady economic growth, due in large part to the pragmatic policies of the
Government. Malawi has adopted an outward looking strategy based on
agriculture, consistent with the country's resource endowment. Government
investment has concentrated on provision of infrastructure, utilities and
support services to encourage private initiative. The Government has also
emphasized smallholder agriculture, a sound policy given that 90 percent of
the population lives in rural areas and depends on agriculture for its
livelihood. Traditionally, three quarters of the development budget has
been directed towards agriculture and transport, the rest for
administrative and social functions.
6.        Malawi's economy is heavily dependent on three primary commodity
exports (tobacco, tea, and sugar) and is highly vulnerable to international
price fluctuations. Since 1974, there have been periodic balance of



payments problems of increasing severity due primarily to (a) rapid
escalation in import prices, particularly of fuel and intermediate and
capital goods; (b) cyclical swings in export prices of tobacco, sugar and
tea; (c) significantly higher costs of transport for exports and imports
owing to rising ocean freight charges, port congestion in Mozambique, and,
more recently, severe disruptions of overland transport routes through
Mozambique; and (d) an increasing debt service burden.
7.        Beginning in 1978, Malawi's chronic balance of payments problems
became less manageable. The current account deficit rose from a level of
8-9 percent of GDP in the mid-1970s to 18 percent in 1978 and 23 percent in
1979. This balance of payments crisis was due to declining terms of trade,
which fell 40 percent between 1977-80, increased transport difficulties and
drought. Import prices rose by 39 percent over this period, primarily due
to petroleum price hikes. Conversely, export prices declined by 16 percent
(due mainly to falling tea and tobacco prices). In 1980 and 1981, a
drought led to reduced agricultural exports and necessitated increased
imports of subsistence crops (maize). Nevertheless, by 1981 Malawi enjoyed
a surplus on the merchandise trade balance thanks mainly to a contraction
in imports and has increased this surplus steadily since 1981. Continuing
current account deficits were due to a large deficit on the service
accounts. Transport costs for imports and exports were greatly increased
due to continuing problems with traditional export routes through
Mozambique. Debt servicing also contributed to the deficit on the
invisibles account. These current account deficits were initially financed
by sharply increased private capital inflows. These were still not
sufficient to finance the current account deficit and the country drew down
its foreign reserves to less than one month of imports by end 1983. In
1984, the current account deficit was greatly reduced to three percent of
GDP and reserves were increased by US$65 million. This was due to
improvements in the terms of trade, led by record tea prices, and a sharp
increase in exports, as previous stocks of tobacco and sugar were moved out
of the country, resulting in a large trade surplus, nearly matching the
deficit on the services account. The outlook for 1985 is for a larger
deficit as export prices have declined and carryover stocks are not as
large.
8.        The economic difficulties of 1980-81, as well as problems with
public corporations led to an increase in the Government budget deficit
reaching 16.5 percent of GDP in 1981, double historic levels. This was due
primarily to a rapid increase in government expenditures, attaining 35
percent of GDP in that same year. Much of this was made up of recurrent
expenditures, especially interest payments. Revenues did not increase
commensurately, given the recession, hence the large fiscal deficit. These
deficits were financed by government borrowing, primarily domestic. Public
sector credit represented 60% of the total in 1984 and as a percentage of
GDP it increased to 13% in 1984 as compared to 9% in 1974. The fiscal
position has improved since, with increased revenues and restrained
spending so that the deficit has been reduced to 8.2 percent of GDP by
FY85, an improvement, though still above target levels. Improving
expenditure control is a key element to continuing Malawi's economic
recovery. Inflation has been steady at approximately ten percent since
1981.



-3-
9.        Given Malawi's early stage of development, foreign capital
inflows, especially of a public nature, have been important in development
financing. In the pre-recessionary period (1969-79), foreign savings
financed approximately half of domestic investment. During the recession
(1980-81), public and private capital inflows were used to maintain
consumption levels, and domestic savings fell. Since 1981, domestic
savings have been increasing, while private inflows have virtually ceased.
Public transfers continue, financing approximately 50 percent of all
investment, much of this from World Bank Group loans and credits. Grants
and bilateral transfers have declined from past levels, and have not kept
pace with Malawi's needs.
10.       Initially, the country attempted to ameliorate the economic
downturn of 1979-1980, by increased external borrowing, mostly on
commercial terms, in order to maintain import levels and thus production,
employment and consumption. Investment in the economy declined sharply,
while consumption declined only slightly. It soon became evident that with
increasing inflationary'pressures and fiscal and balance of payments
disequilibria, more stringent adjustment efforts were needed. The
Government, therefore, launched a stabilization effort designed to reduce
short-term fiscal and balance of payments disequilibria and a structural
adjustment program designed to improve efficiency of resource use and
ensure that positive growth of per capita income can be reestablished and
sustained over the medium and longer-term within the context of a
manageable balance of payments current account deficit. The structural
adjustment program is broad-based; aimed at encouraging diversification of
production and exports, improving performance of productive sectors,
rehabilitating, restructuring and otherwise strengthening key development
institutions, and improving resource mobilization and allocation in the
public sector.
11.       The Government and the EMF agreed to a standby program for SDR 22
million in August 1982. A first phase of a multi-year stabilization
effort, the program aimed at reducing both the balance of payments current
account deficit and the budgetary deficit. As part of the program, the
Government devalued the kwacha against the SDR by 15 percent in April
1982. The other performance criteria involved phased ceilings on net
domestic assets of the banking system and on net credit to the Government
and a limit on government external commercial borrowing. The standby was
implemented satisfactorily, and the Government and the IMF concluded a new
multi-year program, and a three year Extended Fund Facility was approved in
September 1983 and, except for a six-month interruption in late 1984-early
1985, it has been implemented successfully so far. As part of the Extended
Fund Facility, the Government devalued the kwacha against the SDR by 12
percent in September 1983 and switched to a basket of currencies in January
1984. Since January of 1984, the kwacha has depreciated more than 30
percent against the dollar, including a 15% devaluation in March 1985.
12.       The Bank's first Structural Adjustment Loan in support of the
Government's program was made in June 1981, for US$45 million. After
initial difficulties, good progress was made in implementing the
Government's adjustment program. Additional funds were allocated to the
agricultural sector, certain agricultural prices were adjusted, public
utility tariffs were increased and the budget for 1982-83 was trimmed, with
sufficient resources provided for major development sectors. The second



- 4 -
tranche was released in April 1982. However, during 1982 the country's
efforts were set back by increased disruption of the traditional transport
routes and continued depressed demand for Malawi's export products.
Nevertheless, the country was ahle to hold its current account deficit to
11.3 percent of GDP in 1983, reduce the budgetary deficit for FY1983 to 9
percent of GDP, and meet its IMF standby borrowing ceilings.
13.       The second phase of the structural adjustment program was
supported by SAL II and approved by the Board in December 1983. The
program builds upon the reforms of SAL I, focussing on measures to improve
the mobilization and management of resources, to strengthen key
institutions, and to upgrade the performance of the public sector. The
program has been successful in achieving most of its objectives. Among the
achievements of the program have been (a) increased smallholder export
production following an increase in price incentives; (b) increased
industrial production and investment incentives resulting from a program of
price decontrols; (c) increased domestic energy production; (d) a
strengthening of the financial position of key public and private
enterprises; and (e) a reduction in the budgetary and balance of payments
deficits. Efforts to improve the control and allocation of public
expenditures and to reduce the overall size of Government have been slow,
but steps in the right direction have been taken. While the economy has
grown well in 1983 and 1984, prospects are for continued economic
difficulties and the need for continued adjustment to balance of payments,
fiscal and transport constraints. Government remains committed to the
adjustment process and is preparing to continue its program with the help
of a Third Structural Adjustment Operation (paras. 15 and 16).
14.       By the end of 1984, Malawi's external public debt outstanding and
disbursed totalled US$741 million.  In late 1982, Malawi rescheduled both
its official and commercial debts. Otherwise its debt servicing, including
repayments to the IMF, would have amounted to over US$130 million,
equivalent to over 40 percent of exports of goods and services. This
compares to a level of about 10 percent in the mid-1970s. A second year of
rescheduling was agreed to in October of 1983, keeping the debt service
ratio to 26.7 percent in 1983. The Government has indicated that it will
not be asking for any further rescheduling, and the debt service ratio is
expected to remain at about 40 percent in 1985 and 1986 before falling to
less than 25% in 1990. Because of this high debt service ratio, commercial
bank borrowing will have to remain sharply curtailed and the balance of
payments gap should be closed by concessionary financing. Similarly,
constraints on local borrowing would indicate the need for local cost
financing to be provided by donors.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAWI
15.       Over the past 19 years, Malawi has received 34 IDA credits and
one Special Fund credit totalling about US$463 million and 8 Bank loans
totalling US$99 million, of which 2 were on third window terms. The first
Bank loan to Malawi was made on third window terms in June 1976 and the
first standard Bank loan in April 1977. Of the Bank Group assistance, some
US$165 million (29 percent) was for agriculture, USS108 million (19
percent) for education, TJSS114 million (20 percent) for roads, USS98
million (18 percent) for structural adjustment, USS39 million (7 percent)
for power, USSII million (2 percent) for water, and the balance of US$27



million (5 percent) for health, development finance, technical assistance,
and urban housing. For FY86, a credit of US$11.6 million equivalent for an
Agricultural Extension and Planning Support Project has so far been
approved. Documents for a US$30.0 million equivalent IDA Credit and US$40
million equivalent African Facility Credit for the Third Structural
Adjustment Operation are being submitted to the Executive Directors at
about the same time as this project. A Forestry/Wood Energy Project is
also scheduled to be presented to the Executive Directors during FY86.
IFC's equity participations and lending commitments in Malawi total about
US$25.8 million and include investments in textiles, sugar, a DFC
(INDEBANK), tourism, and the manufacture of alcohol from molasses.  In
addition, a US$0.5 million equity subscription and US$1.8 million loan
investment in the Viphya Plywoods and Allied Industries United were
approved in August 1984, but are not yet signed. On September 23, 1985, an
IFC investment to finance the first leasing and finance company was
approved.  Annex II contains a Summary Statement of Bank Group Operations
as of September 30, 19B5.
Bank Lending Strategy
16.       During the next five years, Bank group assistance will focus on
helping Malawi restructure its economy, especially in the areas of improved
agricultural productivity and dealing with the transport problem. Focus
will also be given to strengthening the effectiveness and efficiency of
Government and other development institutions. Bank group assistance will
also address Malawi's pressing needs in the area of human resource
development, including the issues associated with a population growth rate
of 3.2%, among the highest in the world. The objectives of key reforms
under the Third Structural Adjustment Operation (para. 15) are to further
improve incentives and productive efficiency in the economy, including
improved export promotion incentives and support for diversification. The
credit will also support strengthening the planning and policy formulation
process and public investment progra-uming. Project lending will complement
Government's structural adjustment program by providing necessary
technical, financial and institutional support. Future lending will be in
health and population, water supply, transportation, education and
agricultural credit.
17.       The Bank Group's economic and sector work will continue to build
an analytical base for discussions with the Government on key development
issues. In agriculture we have concluded a study on diversification and
the steps needed to help broaden the export base of the economy; a study of
the question of land utilization and what can be done to improve the
productivity of this scarce resource is underway, as are project funded
studies on livestock, smallholder irrigation and management and training in
the Agriculture Ministry. In FY87, we will prepare an updated Agricultural
Sector Memorandum, looking at progress made as a result of structural
changes in the sector and also analyzing sub-sectoral policies pertaining
to agricultural manpower training, production of perennial crops, etc. The
transport sector report which deals with external transport constraints has
been completed. In the social sectors, we will complete in FY86 a study of
the dynamics of population growth, its implications for the economy and the
recommended development assistance strategy for the sector. In education
we will study the training needs in the economy with special emphasis on
the agriculture, health and transport sectors. A Public Sector Investment



-6-
Review has recently been carried out. These studies will provide the basis
for helping Malawi develop appropriate sectoral strategies and investment
programs. Further studies expected to be carried out in the near future
include a special study on the institutional aspects of development which
will look at shortcomings in the Government's institutions and bureaucratic
system which have led to some of the structural weaknesses in the economy.
A study of the financial slystem will also be carried out.
18.       A Consultative Group meeting is planned for January 1986 to
improve donor coordination and increase the level of resources needed to
support MalawiTs adjustment process. The Country Economic Memorandum
planned for FY87 will concentrate on the long term constraints to Malawi's
development (porulation, agricultural land pressure, etc.).
Disbursements-
19.       The levels of disbursements for Malawi, including program lending
were as follows: in 1982, US$70.1 million; in 1983, US$33.2 million; in
1984, US$58.2 million; and in 1985, USS46.4 million. Disbursements of the
Bank Group loans and credits in Malawi have generally been good and compare
favorably witb other countries in the region and even on a Bank-wide
basis. During the period FYBO-85, the disbursement rate on loans and
credits to Malawi (excluding the effect of non-project lending) averaged
about 26 percent per annum, significantly higher than the Eastern Africa
Regional average of 19 percent and the Bank-wide average of about 21
percent.
Project Implementation
20.       Overall, implementation of Bank projects continues to be good.
The Audit and Project Completion Reports underscore Malawi's sound
development record and progress in extending nationwide the benefits of its
investments. However, the third National Rural Development Program (NRDP)
-project and the Fifth Highways project have experienced moderate problems
due to inadequate budget provision and management shortcomings. Efforts
are being made to allocate sufficient budgetary resources for these
projects.
PART III - THE MANUFACTURING, AGRICULTURAL ESTATES AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
A. Manufacturing Sector
Performance and Structure
21.       Malawian industry is still embryonic although it accounted for
12.4% of GDP in 1984, up from 5% two decades earlier. The sector is
dominated by the production of food and beverages, textiles and footwear
for domestic consumption, and tobacco and tea processing for export.
Between 1964 and 1975 the sector was characterized by rapid growth
averaging 12% in real terms, approximately twice the growth rate of the
national economy. Between 1976 and 1981 manufacturing export growth slowed
to an annual average rate of only 3.3% in line with the overall economic
recession in Malawi. After 1982, growth in the sector began to recover and
has grown in line with the rest of the economy in both 1983 and 1984. This
improvement is due in part to price liberalization as part of the



structural adjustment program. Malawian industry in general is one of the
most labor-intensive in Africa, consistent with Government's policy to
support employment generation. However, the sector's overall share of the
total labor force declined from approximately 162 in 1968 to 9% in 1982 due
to the faster growth of employment in the estate subsector.
22.       Manufacturing activity is concentrated around Blantyre, the
commercial center of Malawi. The sector is dominated by large scale firms
which generally reflect appropriate economies of scale given the limited
domestic market and special transportation constraints posed to export
oriented enterprises. Fourteen large firms (tea, sugar and tobacco
agroindustries) each with more than 500 employees account for more than 51%
of total manufacturing employment while firms with between 10 and 100
employees account for less than 10% of sector employment.
23.       Because of poverty and a low level of savings in the country,
only a few local enterprises, often in collaboration with foreign partners,
can mobilize the investments required in medium- and large-scale industry.
Statutory corporations, notably Malawi Development Corporation (MDC), Press
Group Limited (PGL) and the Agricultural Development and Marketing
Corporation (ADMARC) were formed with the objective of catalyzing the
sector's growth and development of a strong indigenous private sector in
Malawi. The profitability of these three bodies has, in the past,
permitted their investments in and management of many subsidiary companies
which together contributed more than 70% of the sector's value added and
more than 40% of its GDP in 1979. Each of these enterprises has undertaken
extensive reorganization and divestment programs under the Government's
Structural Adjustment Program.
24.       Results of these reorganization efforts have for the most part
been successful. MDC, whose corporate objective is to catalyze new
investments and generate funds for new industrial project development, has
reduced its subsidiary and associated companies from 32 to 21 through
mergers, divestment and new management. After making losses in both 1983
and 1984, the company is expected to make a modest profit in 1985. Efforts
to strengthen ADMARC's institutional and financial structure have focused
on divestment of non-agricultural enterprises and measures to improve
operational efficiency. The objective has been to allow the company to
carry out more effectively its mandate to promote development of Malawi's
agricultural exports, provide an efficient marketing system for smallholder
produce and develop agroindustrial enterprises. In the past the company
has been quite profitable. However, it has recently begun to experience
serious financial strains due in particular to poor export prices, weakened
markets for maize and tobacco, and growing financial obligations incurred
as a result of the Government's Food Security Policy. The Bank is working
with the Government in dealing with these issues and with issues of
ADMARC's restructuring and operational efficiency. PGL's financial
restructuring has made substantial progress. A set of corporate guidelines
were adopted and a sound strategy for rationalization of the company's
assets have been adopted by its Board. Assets have been swapped with MDC
and ADMARC and convertible preferred stock was issued to Government to
satisfy the company's debt to the two commercial banks which as a result
were set on a sound financial footing.



-8-
Policy Framework
25.       The (overnment is committed to maintaining a mixed economy system
with incentives and a policy framework which fosters the development of a
strong private sector. Government has pursued a well-publicized, liberal
policy of full repatriation of profits. Tax incentives, available equaUly
to foreign and indigenous entrepreneurs, take the form of allowances for
accelerated depreciation with special allowances of up to 10% of
expenditures on industrial buildings, and write-offs over an indefinite
period of expenditures incurred before and during start-up (up to lB
months). In January 1984, the Malawi kwacha was tied to a basket of
currencies. The Government is committed to maintaining a flexible exchange
policy. Currency adjustments are made as needed to realign the kwacha with
the basket for equalizing the supply and demand for foreign exc.hange.
26.       Malawi's sectoral policies are generally sound.  However, the
economic crisis of the early 1980's has highlighted the following sector
related issues which are being addressed in the Government's Structural
Adjustment Program.
(a) Price Controls. By the early 1980's with increased inflationary
pressures the system was creating serious disincentives for
producers by failing to signal shortages, surpluses, cost
inefficiencies and imposing a financial burden on firms
experiencing large input price increases. Under SAL II,
Government reduced the number of controlled items from 56 in
December 1983 to 9 items in August 1985 and is committed to
completing the liberalization program by December 1985.
(b) Foreign Exchange Allocations. In the early 1980's the system was
strained at times on account of heavier than usual debt repayment
requirements, the stagnation in certain categories of export
earnings and increased external transport costs. This resulted
at times in delays of foreign exchange allocations. Under SAL
III, the Government intends to pursue an active exchange rate
management policy which should virtually eliminate the need for a
formal allocation system. Also, it will actively facilitate
importation of competing products to encourage efficiency in
production.
(c) Export Incentives. A duty drawback system, under which exporters
can claim the duties paid on imported inputs used in exported
production has been ineffective. Under SAL III, the Government
would take specific measures to stimulate exports by developing
and adopting an export promotion scheme and setting up an export
financing facility. Institutional strengthening, with external
technical assistance would be part of the overall export
promotion effort.
Manufacturing Sector Prospects
27.       Assuming a stable international economic environment, the
manufacturing sector is expected to grow in line with overall growth in the
economy at an average of 4.02 annually, with growth in exports averaging
4.9%, during 1985-89.



- 9 -
Bank Group Experience and Strategy in the Sector
28.       The Bank has completed one DFC operation in Malawi, a
US$3.0 million loan to support INDEBANK's assistance to medium- and
large-scale enterprises (Loan 1610-MAI). The Project Completion Report
concluded that project objectives to strengthen INDEBANK's capabilities
with the development of adequate procedures and policies had been met, and
the loan proceeds were being profitably utilized. Overall, INDEBANK was
receptive to Bank advice which played an important role in building
INDEBANR into a sound and efficient institution. The recently approved
Wood Industries Restructuring Project (Loan 2486-MAI) has as its objective
rationalizing and privatizing sawmills and other Malawian wood industries.
IFC has played an active role in the sector and has to date financed six
operations (para. 15).
29.       Bank strategy in the industrial sector is to encourage efficient
manufacturing expansion based on Malawi's agricultural, forestry and
livestock resources. The strategy is to support export-oriented industries
given the small size of Malawi's market. Prospects for agro-industrial
expansion are good and several promising projects with considerable export
potential have been identified with the assistance of a Bank-funded study.
The Bank's main lending in the sector in the medium term will be to
INDEBANK because of its position as the main source of long-term finance
for productive enterprises. The proposed project would support
strengthening INDEBANK's role and resource base as part of the Government's
efforts under its structural adjustment program to (a) provide a healthy
industrial policy and institutional environment; (b) support efficient
sector development; and (c) increase investment opportunities and
employment.
B. Agricultural Estate Subsector
30.       Agriculture is the most important sector of the Malawian economy
and in 1983/84 employed 85% of the labor force, provided about 40% of GDP
and accounted for 85 to 90% of the country's foreign exchange earnings.
The sector is divided into the smallholder and estate subsectors. While
growth in the smallholder sector averaged about 3% p.a. in the 70's,
performance of the estate subsector has been spectacular, with output
expanding bv around 17% p.a. in real terms since 1968 and providing about
80% of all foreign exchange earnings in 1984, principally through exports
of tobacco, sugar and tea. Despite a threefold increase in tobacco
production, productivity has been virtually static as production increases
came mainly from increased area brought under cultivation. In recent
years, the expansion of estates has outstripped the availability of good
management. Although the sector includes many large, well-established
tobacco estates with hired professional management, many estates have 1 to
100 hectares and are run by relatively inexperienced farmers who manage
their own farms. During the late 70's and early 80's, the financial
position of many estates seriously deteriorated and many went into
receivership due to management and financial problems combined with weak
tobacco prices and problems of international transportation.



- 10 -
Development Strategy
31.       Because of the potential of the estate sub-sector in export
growth and in stabilizing export earnings, the Government's structural
adjustment program includes measures to encourage diversification and to
improve estates' financial and technical management. Two key elements of
Government's strategy to improve the sub-sector's performance are: a)
provision of credit for medium and long term investments; and b) formation
of an extension and management training service. Government has perceived
the lack of access of estates to term finance as a major impediment to
estate development and diversification. To remedy this, under SAL II, the
Government carried out a feasibility study financed from the Second
Technical Assistance Project which showed that under existing conditions
establishment of a separate agricultural credit institution would not be
financially viable due to high overhead costs and a low level of demand.
Consequently, the Government has decided to channel credit funds to estates
through established financial institutions-the two commercial banks and
INDEBANK. This is intended to be a pilot arrangement to allow assessment
of potential demand and the performance of participating institutions.
32.       Credit to the less well established estates must be supported by
management and extension services. Government has decided to establish an
autonomous authority initially to be funded with some R700,000 (US$388,900)
in earmarked funds, raised through fines paid by the tobacco industry for
overproduction. ODA has firm plans to provide technical and financial
assistance to support this initiative. The proposed service is expected to
be self-financing in the long-run, with fees and charges to be paid by
users. An ODA appraisal team is expected to visit Malawi before the end of
1985 -to define the new institution's scope of activities, its
organizational structure, and a detailed annual work program. Initi-aly it
is expected that the majority of project credit funds would be provided to
estates which have experienced management and which need term finance to
improve the efficiency of their tobacco production and curing and to
diversify into other crops.
33.       A feasible diversification strategy which would address key
constraints related to marketing and processing infrastructure is in the
process of being developed. An agricultural diversification study was
produced in November 1984. A subsequent Bank review which focussed on the
estate sub-sector indicated that the principle elements of a
diversification strategy could be as follows: a) an increase in the
productivity of tobacco estates through improved management, better
cropping patterns and increased efficiency of input use; b) a move to
production of higher value import substitution crops (eg. wheat) or to
crops with significant local value added (eg. cotton and vegetable oil); c)
increased utilization of cultivable land through better crop rotation,
irrigation and soil conservation; and d) expanded cultivation of existing
plantation crops such as coffee, rubber and macademia and cashew nuts. The
proposed agricultural credit component would be a first step in the overall
strategy and would finance productivity improving investments, particularly
on tobacco estates, thus providing the potential for increased profits and
freeing land for diversification.



- 11 -
C. Financial Environment
34.       The financial sector is comprised of the Reserve Bank of Malawi,
two commercial banks, the Postal Savings Bank, the New Building Society,
the Financial Corporation of Malawi, two insurance companies and three
development finance institutions - INDEBANK, its subsidiary INDEFUND which
finances Malawian-owned medium-scale enterprises, and SEDOM which promotes
and finances small-scale industries.
35.       The Reserve Bank plays the customary role of a central bank as a
regulator of commercial banks and administrator of national monetary and
credit policies. The two commercial banks-the National Bank of Malawi
(NBM) and the Commercial Bank of Malawi (CBM) -account for the bulk of
domestic credit and domestic resource mobilization mainly through
short-term deposits and lending for equally short periods, primarily to
agriculture. In the late 1970's, the Government encouraged the two
commercial banks to finance tobacco estates to take advantage of the
embargo on Rhodesia's production. During the boom period, total loans to
tobacco estates went up from about K9 million (US$10.4 million) in 1975 to
about K90 million (US$110.8 million) in 1980 and represented 51% of the
banks' total advances, compared with a mere 15% in 1975. These loans were
characterized by negligible borrower contributions and short repayment
periods. When commodity prices fell the banks suffered substantial losses;
however, they have since recovered and almost all the bad loans have been
written off.
36.       The Reserve Bank's interest rate policy is to maintain rates at
levels conducive to the growth of savings while fostering the efficient use
of investment resources. Accordingly, interest rates have been revised
fairly regularly over the past five years. The Reserve Bank discount rate
was increased from 8% to 10% in 1980 and recently to 11%. Deposit rates
have been recently increased to a minimum of 11.75% on demand deposits and
to a minimum of 12.25Z for time deposits. Commercial banks' lending rates
currently range from 11.5% to 15% p.a. on loans to the agricultural sector
to a maximum of 19% p.a. for loans in other sectors. The current interest
rates are in line with Government's objectives and are generally positive
in relation to recent experience of average price increases of 10% p.a.
since 1981.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.       INDEBANK expressed interest in the proposed follow-on industrial
line of credit in September 1983 during supervision of the first project.
In February 1985, the Government of Halawi requested the Bank to provide a
second line of credit to INDEBANK, to assist in the establishment of an
institution for providing medium- and long-term credit to the agricultural
estate subsector, and to provide a line of credit to the agrictultural
credit institution. During appraisal, however, it was found that such an
institution would not be financially viable in the immediate future. On
the Bank's recommendation, the Government agreed to channel Bank assistance
to the subsector through INDEBANK and the two commercial banks on a pilot
basis (para. 31).
38.      *The proposed project was appraised in March and May 1985 and
negotiations were held in Washington from October 18 to 23, 1985. The
Malawian delegation was led by Mr. J. R. Phiri, Deputy Secretary for the



- 12 -
Ministry of Finance. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5815-MAI) of December
2, 1985 is being circulated separately. A loan and project summary is
given at the beginning of this report and a supplementary project data
sheet is provided as Annex III.
Project Objectives
39.       The principal objectives of the proposed project are to:  (i)
stimulate the efficient expansion of Malawi's industrial, commercial,
transportation and tourism subsectors by providing much needed term
finance; (ii) improve the utilization, efficiency and productivity of
agricultural estates and gradually encourage diversification into viable
new crops; and (iii) sustain and strengthen INDEBANK's institutional
capabilities to effectively promote efficient development in the
agricultural, industrial and commercial sectors.
40.       The project would assist the Government in achieving its
objectives under its structural adjustment program to increase agricultural
diversification in the estate subsector by providing term finance. The
agricultural component fills a void in the financial system where currently
estates have access only to short-term credit. The project would also
encourage INDEBANK to build on its solid institutional foundation by
developing its overall project promotion capability and in particular its
agricultural projects promotion and appraisal capability. The project,
which consists of two lines of credit and funds to finance technical
assistance, would be implemented by the two commercial banks and INDEBANK
which are described below.
The Participating Financial Institutions
A. The National Bank of Malawi (NBM)
41.       NBK was founded in 1971 by merging the operations of the Standard
Chartered Rank and Barclays Bank (both fully foreign-owned). At that time,
ADMARC acquired a majority shareholding. At present Press Corporation and
ADMARC own 47% and 33% of shares, respectively, and the Standard Chartered
Bank 20%. NBM has a network of 14 branches and 66 agencies throughout the
country. Top management of the Bank is provided by the Standard Chartered
Bank through seconded expatriate staff.
42.       Ever since its incorporation, National Bank has been the dominant
commercial bank in Malawi. Its financial resources and volume of
operations are about three times as large as those of the Commercial Bank
of Malawi. Between 1981 and 1984, NBM's customers' deposits increased by
60%, to K244 million (USS207.0 million). Similarly, its loan portfolio,
after making provision for doubtful debts, increased by 192 to K126 million
(US$107.2 million). In general, NBM follows conservative and sound
financial policies and adequately provides for all bad and doubtful debts.
Following this policy NBM has set aside nearly 100% of the amount of bad
deuLs relating to the tobacco loans made in the late 1970s (para. 35).
Despite making such large provisions, NBM has remained profitable.



- 13 -
B. The Commercial Bank of Malawi (CbM)
43.       CBM was incorporated in 1969 as a joint venture between local and
foreign interests. Following the sale of Bank of America's 30% share in
1983, CBM is now owned 40% by the Press Group and 30% each by the
Government of Malawi and the Halawi Development Corporation. CBM has a
network of 13 branches and over 80 agencies spread throughout the country.
44.       Although CBM maintains as large a branch network as NBM, its
operations in financial terms are much smaller. As of June 30, 1985, CBM's
total assets amounted to K150 million (USS83.3 million). Total deposits
amounted to K87 million (USS48.3 million), a large proportion of which came
from large depositors. CBM's profitability has in the past been marginal.
Due to large provisions against possible losses on its loans, the bank's
net profit after tax represented less than 1% of total assets in both 1983
and 1984. However, following this period of having adequately provided for
losses, profitability has shown significant improvement in fiscal 1985.
Prospects are for continued improvement (para. 46).
The Commercial Banks' Operations, Policies and Procedures
45.       Both banks are involved in financing all the main sectors of the
economy, primarily providing working capital financing. They actively
compete for customers' deposits which are the main source of their
financial resources.
46.       Until the late 1970s, both commercial banks employed minimal
agricultural staff. However, with the rapid increase in the banks' lending
to the estate subsector and the poor performance of the borrowers (para.
35), the banks recruited additional staff to provide technical and
financial management support to the borrowers, and revised their
agricultural lending policies. The banks now restrict their seasonal
lending mainly to activities that demonstrate strong viakility and now
impose greater financial controls on their clients. The banks encourage
borrowers to produce alternative crops (other than flue-cured tobacco) and
assist them in adopting sound agricultural, conservation and management
practices. These measures have resulted in a substantial drop in tobacco
loans from a peak of about K100 million (USS94.7 million) in outstanding
loans to about 500 estates in 1982 to about K60 million (US$33.3 million)
to less than 300 estates at present.
47.       The commercial banks charge interest rates ranging from 11.5% to
15% on agricultural loans. Generally, rates charged have enabled the
commercial banks to cover their costs and earn a sufficient profit margin.
At negotiations, agreement was reached that the Government would annually
review and revise interest rates to ensure that the rates are (i) positive
in real terms; (ii) in line with the overall interest rate structure in the
country; (iii) adequate to enable the institutions to cover their
reasonable administrative expenses, provide for possible losses on their
loans and earn adequate profit margins; and (iv) adequate to permit the
attainment of the objectives of the project.
48.       In line with their new agricultural lending policies (para. 46),
the commercial banks have strengthened their appraisal procedures and
capabilities, which are now satisfactory. To ensure that appraisal



- 14 -
standards remain adequate, the Bank would review from time to time
agricultural appraisal reports produced by the institutions. Agreement was
reached at negotiations that at the Bank's request, each participating bank
would submit appraisal reports selected at random by the Bank. NBM and CEM
would be required to make the requisite improvements or adjustments in
their appraisal methodologies and practices based on the Bank's comments.
Also agreement was reached that the Reserve Bank of Malawi would cause NBM
and CBM to calculate financial rates of return for all projects of more
than K180,000 (US$100,000). The banks regularly supervise their
investments - particularly agricultural projects. Management is kept
advised of the performance of each borrower through supervision reports
prepared at least once a month. These supervision procedures and practices
are satisfactory. The commercial banks do not have specific procurement
procedures. They rely on subborrowers to obtain goods and services from
the most advantageous sources.
C. Investment and Development Bank of Malawi (INDEBANK)
49.       INDEBANK was established in December 1972 as a private limited
liability company under Malawi's Companies Act. Its basic objective is to
promote the economic development of Malawi by providing finance and other
services to viable projects in the productive sectors of the economy.
INDEBANK gives preference to projects sponsored and financed by Mk-lawian
interests and encourages foreign investors to find local partners.
Ownership, Management and Staffing
50.       INDEBANK is owned 22.25Z each by ADKARC, the Commonwealth
Development Corporation (CDC), the German Finance Company for Investments
in Developing Countries (DEG), the Netherlands Finance Company for
Developing Countries (FMO), and 11% by IFC. INDEBANK's capital-authorized
and fully paid-amounts to K4.5 million (US$2.5 million).  In addition, the
shareholders (with the exception of IFC) have provided INDEBANK with
resources in the form of income notes amounting to K11.25 million (US$6.2
million) which are unsecured and carry an interest charge of 8%, which is
payable only if INDEBANK makes a profit. INDEBANK's Board of Directors
consists of eight members representing the shareholders. The ADMARC
representative is also the Chairman. The Board members, all senior people
in their respective organizations, take active interest in INDEBANK's
activities.
51.       All management positions in INDEBANK, with the exception of the
General Manager and the Coordinator of Project Investigations, are held by
Malawian nationals. The INDEBANK Board has recently appointed a Malawian
as Assistant General Manager who is expected to replace the expatriate
General Manager when his contract expires in August 1986. INDEBANK does
not have adequate staff to effectively participate in financing
agricultural estate activities. The proposed project would support
international recruitment of a Manager for the Agricultural Projects
Investigation Division and an agricultural specialist. In addition,
recruitment of two qualified Malawians capable of taking over from the
expatriate staff would be funded under the project (para. 70).
52.       INDEBANK has 26 professional staff.  Overall, the staff is of
good quality and have solid academic backgrounds in Economics, Business
Administration and Accountancy. In order to manage adequately its future



- 15 -
operations, INDEBANK plans to recruit four additional project officers
within the next 12 months. INDEBANK actively pursues staff training which
emphasizes on-the-job training but which effectively utilizes selected
overseas training programs.  INDEBANK's staff development and training
activities are adequate.
Policies and Procedures
53.       For its investment decisions, INDEBANK is guided by a Statement
of Investment Policy Principles and Operating Procedures. The salient
features of the policies are that the institution will: (i) base its
investment decisions on sound technical, financial and economic appraisal
criteria; (ii) encourage local participation in its projects; (iii) limit
to 35% of the project's total equity its equity investment in any one
project; and,.(iv) maintain a prudent equity to loan ratio.
54.       INDEBANK mainly provides long-term loans with maturities of 8 to
12 years including grace periods of one to two years for appropriate
projects. Mortgages of projects' assets and the personal guarantees of the
borrowing company's directors are used as security. ITTDEBANK's lending
rates range from 13% p.a. to 16% p.a. At the time of negotiations, a
minimum rate of 13% p.a. was charged on loans denominated in foreign
exchange and on projects that are considered to be of high developmental
value to the country. Interest rates higher than 13% p.a. are charged on
local currency loans. INDEBANK also charges a one-time commitment fee of
0.5% and a project appraisal fee of 1% of the value of the approved loan.
Interest rates are adequate to ensure INDEBANK's profitability. The lower
interest rate charged on foreign currency denominated loans is adequate to
allow INDEBANK to earn an average spread of about 4%, given the low average
cost of these funds (9%). The foreign exchange risk is borne by
sub-borrowers. Agreement was reached at negotiations that INDEBANK would
annualily review and revise its lending ratesl/ to ensure that they are (i)
positive in real terms; (ii) in line with the country's overall interest
rate structure; (iii) adequate to enable INDEBANK to cover its reasonable
administrative expenses, provide for possible losses and earn an adequate
profit margin; and (iv) adequate to permit attainment of the objectives of
the project.
55.       INDEBANK has not developed an adequate project promotion
capability and therefore has not utilized fully its institutional resources
and capabilities to foster the growth of productive activity in the
country. To date most of the projects it finances have been promoted by
PGL, ADMARC and MDC. INDEBANK acknowledges the need to develop in-house
project promotion capability to help reduce concentration of its portfolio
in the investments of the three companies. Agreement was reached at
negotiations that INDEBANK would (i) by June 30, 1986, establish a Project
Promotion Unit and recruit two experienced Malawian professional staff to
carry out a project promotion function; and (ii) by December 31, 1986,
prepare a manual establishing appropriate procedures for the promotion,
appraisal and monitoring of agricultural projects. Agreement was reached
1/   The Reserve Bank of Malawi sets interest rates for financial
institutions registered under the Bank Act. INDEBANK can set its rate
structure independently as it was established under the Companies Act.



- 16 -
that INDEBANK would comply with the same review by the Bank of agricultural
subprojects as specified for the commercial banks participating in the
project (para. 48).
56.       Appraisals are comprehensive and cover the project's key
features. The only major weakness is that most appraisals do not include
an economic assessment in sufficient detail. Agreement was reached at
negotiations that INDEBANK would calculate economic rates of return for
projects requiring financing of more than US$100,000 as well as cover in
its appropriate reports aspects such as projects' potential for creating
employment and dependence on imported inputs. Projects in the portfolio
are supervised regularly. INDERANK submits reports on the performance of
selected projects to each Board meeting to seek guidance for dealing with
problems.  Supervision reports are comprehensive and of high quaiicy.
57.       INDEBANK's procurement procedures are in line with pro:edures
followed by Bank-assisted DFCs namely, they are based on competitive
quotations from the main sources of supply to ensure that purchases are
made from the most advantageous source.
Operations Portfolio and Financial Position
58.       Since inception in 1973, INDEBANK has approved a total of 102
loans amounting to K32.4 million (US$22.8 million) and equity investments
totalling K5.2 million (US$2.9 million). INDEBANK's level of operations
have shown wide fluctuations, reflecting trends in the manufacturing
sector. In the past five years, for example, total approvals declined
sharply from R5.0 million (US$6.2 million) in 1980 to K0.5 million (US$0.43
million) in 1983 before rebounding to K4.2 million (US$2.9 million) in
1984. The decline in the level of approvals between 1980 and 1983 was due
to two main factors: (i) sluggish growth in the Malawian economy and
especially in industrial activity over this period, and (ii) a sharp
decline in new investment activity by PGL, MDC and ADMARC due to their
liquidity and other operational problems (para. 24).
59.       In 1981, INDEBANK established INDEFUND Limited as a subsidiary
responsible for financing projects ranging in size from K25,000 (the
maximum project size eligible for funding under the Government small-scale
industries program) to K100,000 (the minimum loan size allowed under
INDERANK's policies). INDEFUND was established with a paid-in share
capital of K650,000 (authorized share capital is K1.0 million), of which
62% is subscribed by INDEBANK and 38% by FMO.  INDEFUND shares some
management and professional appraisal staff with INDEBANK. As of Janu4ry
31, 1985, INDEFUND had approved 43 loans in 45 projects amounting to K1.8
million (USSI million) of which 11.1 million (US$0.6 million) had already
been disbursed.
60.       As of December 31, 1984, INDEBANK had a total portfolio amounting
to 118.9 million (US$13.4 million). Projects in the industrial and
commercial sectors account for 59% of the portfolio; agriculture accounts
for 17% while tourism and property development constitute 14% and 10%,
respectively. INDEBANK has maintained an excellent arrears record. As of
December 31, 1984, only four projects involving 0.4% of the value of the
loan portfolio were in arrears of over three months. The total arrears
amounted to 1.5Z of loans outstanding. Despite this impressive record, the



- 17 -
underlying quality of INDEBANK's portfolio is still of some concern because
61Z is concentrated in enterprises wholly or partly owned by the Press
Group, MDC, and ADMARC. Although individual loans are well secured, the
overall safety of the portfolio will continue to depend on these companies'
financial performance and condition. In view of this potential risk,
INDEBANK has adequately increased provisions for possible losses to about
4% of the portfolio. Overall, the portfolio of equity investments is in
very good condition; in 1984 INDEBANK earned an excellent return of about
16.4% on average equity.
61.       INDEBANK has, since its inception, maintained sound financial
performance, with net profit averaging K290,000 (US$161,000) p.a.,
representing an average return on average total assets and on equity of
1.3% and 62 respectively. Administrative expenses averaged a relatively
low 2.7% of average total assets over the period 1980-1984. INDEBANK has
maintained a sound liquidity position and an adequate debt service
capacity. As a result of new borrowings, INDEBANK's debt-equity ratio
increased steadily from 2.6:1 in 1980 to 4:1 as of December 31, 1984.
Despite the increase in the debt-equity ratio, INDEBANK's debt service
capacity remains satisfactory with a debt service coverage ratio of 1.6 at
the end of December 1984. Agreement was reached at negotiations that
INDEBANK would (a) limit the value of its equity investments to 120Z of its
net worth; (b) maintain a debt-equity ratio not exceeding 5:1; and (c)
annually review with the Bank the level of its administrative expenses and
implement agreed measures to reduce the level, if necessary.
Projected Operations and Resource Needs
62.       INDEBANK's approvals are projected to increase by 15X p.a. in
nominal terms from K5.0 million (US$2.8 million) in FY85 to K8.7 million
(US$4.8 million) by FY89. On the basis of its projected operations,
INDEBANK will require new resources amounting to K21.9 million (US$12.2
million) to meet its investment commitments over the three year period,
January 1986 to December 1988. The proposed Bank line of credit would
represent about 25Z of INDEBANK's total resource requirements over the next
three years.
63.       In order to reduce its dependence upon external agencies as its
main source of finance, INDEBANK plans to diversify its sources of finance
by mobilizing domestic savings. It is also in the process of setting up a
leasing company which would start a deposit mobilization operation.
Obstacles such as lack of a branch network, the lack of a capital market in
the country and competition from the commercial banks for a small domestic
savings market could inhibit INDEBANK's ability to effectively mobilize
savings. iuring negotiations, INDERANK agreed to carry out by June 30,
1986, a study of its prospects for domestic savings mobilization and to
discuss the findings and recommendations with the Bank.
Main Features of the Project
64.       The proposed project consists of:
(a) an INDEBANK line of credit component of US$3.0 million;
(b) a pilot agricultural credit component of US$4.5 million to be
channelled through INDERANK, NBM and CBM; and



- 18 -
{c) a technical assistance component of US$0.3 million.
Terms and Conditions
65.       The proposed Bank loan of US$7.8 million would be made to the
Government of Malawi on standard terms. The INDEBANK line of credit
component would be repayable in accordance with a schedule that would
conform substantially to the aggregate of the amortization schedules
applicable to the subloans made by INDERANK. The maximum repayment period
would be 15 years including four years of grace.  The balance amount of
US$4.8 million would be repayable over 15 years including four years of
grace.  The Government of Malawi would utilize the proceeds of the Loan as
follows.
66.       INDEBANK Line of Credit Component.  The Government would on-lend
to INDEBANR under a subsidiary loan agreement, USS3.0 million at a variable
interest rate (equal to the rate charged from time to time on the proposed
Bank loan). The execution of a subsidiary loan agreement, satisfactory to
the Bank would be a condition of disbursement of the line of credit to
INDEBANK. INDEBANK would relend the funds at a variable rate of interest
that would be (a) positive in real terms; (b) in line with the country's
interest rate structure; (c) adequate to cover reasonable administrative
expenses; and (d) adequate to achieve the objectives of the project. The
current rate is 13% p.a. for maturities of up to 15 years including
appropriate grace periods. Subborrowers would bear the exchange rate
risk. In order to ensure that the Bank funds are used to finance as many
projects as possible, agreement was reached at negotiations that INDEBANK
would not use Bank funds in excess of US$750,000 equivalent to finance any
one enterprise. INDEBANK would obtain Bank approval for all individual
subprojects requiring Bank financing of more than US$250,000. The
aggregate of individual subloans less than the amount which can be financed
without Bank approval would be US$1.5 million.
67.       Agricultural Estate Credit Component.  US$4.5 million would be
made available under three separate participating bank agreements to the
three participating financial intermediaries--NBM, CBM and INDEBANK on a
first come, first served basis. The execution of a participating bank
agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, between the RBM and a participating
institution would be a condition of disbursement of the proceeds of the
component to that institution. These funds would be channelled through the
Reserve Bank of Malawi. Participating institutions would use these
resources to provide term financing to the estate subsector. Participating
banks would initially pay 10.5% per annum interest on the amounts
withdrawn. Agreement was reached at negotiations that the RBM will
annually review and revise as appropriate the onlending rate to the
participating banks to reflect any changes made in interest rates for
agricultural subloans. The Government has decided to bear both the
variable interest rate and the exchange rate risk for the agricultural
component. This is deemed satisfactory in view of the Government's
objective to expand credit availability and stimulate development in the
estate subsector.
68.       Participating banks would relend the funds for periods ranging
berween three and ten years at interest rates initially ranging between
11.5% and 15Z per annum. Subloans would be given to estate owners who have
clear right to the land, who have competent management and who can



- 19 -
demonstrate the technical feasibility and financial viability of the
proposed investment. The sub-borrower's contribution, which may be in cash
or kind, will be determined by a participating bank on the basis of its
appraisal of the investment proposal.
69.       Subloans would be available for investments including:
irrigation and drainage; establishment and improvement of infrastructure
e.g., curing barns, storage sheds, processing facilities; purchase and
improvements of farm equipment and machinery; purchase of livestock; and
rehabilitation of estates with the objective of improving management and
productivity.  In order to ensure that the component benefits as many
projects as possible, agreement was reached at negotiations that the
maximum size of a subloan (except for irrigation subprojects) would be
K450,000 (US$250,000). For irrigation subprojects, subloans of up to
K900,000 (US$500,000) would be allowed. For some time now the estate
subsector has not had access to term credit which has resulted in pent up
demand. To satisfy part of this backlog and to accelerate project
benefits, the project would provide for retroactive financing of up to K1.5
million (US$0.8 million) to finance eligible subprojects approved after
July 1, 1985. It was agreed at negotiations that, as a condition of
disbursement of funds to be provided retroactively, a sample of subprojects
to be retroactively financed would be submitted to the World Bank for
review.
70.       Technical Assistance Component.  The Government would provide a
grant of US$0.3 million to INDEBANK to help the institution strengthen its
capabilities to promote, appr:-ise and monitor agricultural projects in
order to expand its role in agricultural lending. Proceeds of this
component would finance the cost of employing for a term of three years, a
Manager for the Agricultural Projects Department with experience in
agricultural credit operations and an experienced agricultural specialist.
In view of a shortage of Malawians with the required experience, it is
expected that INDEBANK will recruit expatriates to fill these positions.
In addition, proceeds of the technical assistance component would be
utilized to finance the cost of employing two suitably qualified Malawian
counterparts. A US$41,00U cost per manyear is estimated for the expatriate
staff and a cost of US$9,000 per manyear is estimated for the Malawian
counterparts. The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment for the persons selected would have to be acceptable to the
Bank.   At negotiations, INDEBANK agreed to fill these positions by June
30, 1986. Hiring the Manager for the Agricultural Projects Investigations
Division is a condition of disbursement of the agricultural line of credit
to INDEBANK.
Project Implementation
71.       Reporting and Audit Requirements.  INDEBANK would submit
quarterly reports which would include a summary of operations, financial
statements, resource position, statement of arrears and collection ratios.
INDEBANK would also submit within six months following the end of each
fiscal year annual audited accounts prepared in accordance with the Bank
Group guidelines for audit of DFCs, by qualified auditors approved by the
Bank. NBM and CBM would submit quarterly reports which would include
details of the subloans approved and committed, and a summary analysis of
the status of implementation and performance of subprojects financed under
the agricultural credit component of the project. The two commercial banks



- 20 -
would submit their annual dudited accounts within nine months of the close
of their financial years. Agreement was reached at negotiations that
INDEBANR, CBM and NEM would comply with these repoxticg requirements.  In
addition, the three banks participating in the agricultural component would
be required to maintain separate records of transactions relating to the
financing of agricultural subprojects, based on which statements of
expenditures will be prepared, and against which reimbursements would be
sought by them from RBM (para. 74).
72.       Procurement.  Procurement of goods under the INDEBANK line of
credit component of the project would be in accordance with INDEBANK's
procurement practices which are adequate (para. 57).
73.       Most equipment and materials to be financed under the
agricultural credit component would be available locally. Neither
international nor local competitive bidding would be feasible under -this
component because of the small size of individual investments; balking of
contracts is not practicable because of the wide dispersal of estates in
Malawi. Mechinery and equipment would be acquired through ordinary
commercial channels in which both local and foreign firms operating in
Malawi participate. Private contractors are available for construction of
civil works on a competitive basis.
74.       Disbursements.  The proceeds of the loan would be used for
financing:
(a) Under the INDEBANK line of credit component:
(i) 100% of the cif cost of imported goods and services needed
for the implementation of eligible subprojects;
vii) up to 75% of the local cost of goods previously imported
into Malawi;
(iii) up to 50% of the cost in local currency of civil works
included in subprojects; and
(b)  100% of the amounts disbursed under the agricultural credit and
technical assistance components.
In order to facilitate disbursement of funds under the project, agreement
was reached at negotiations that two special accounts would be
established. The account for the agricultural component would be
administered by the Reserve Bank of Malawi. The second account would be
established for the INDEBANK line of credit and technical assistance
components and would be administered by INDEBANK. Reimbursement would be
claimed against Statements of Expenditures. Both accounts would be
established in a financial institution acceptable to the Bank. Each
special account would be initially started with an advance of US$400,000
and would be replenished by the World Bank in accordance with agreed
procedures. Establishment of the special accounts would be a condition for
disbursement of the proceeds of the loan. The 100% financing of amounts
approved for term agricultural subloans is justified since World Bank funds
would represent only a small part of the resources required to implement
projects. The commercial banks would provide seasonal credit and project
sponsors would make their own contribution to project costs.



- 21 -
75.       Pilot Agricultural Credit Component Implementation Review. A
review would be carried out by the Bank in cooperation with the Government
approximately two years after project effectiveness to assess progress in
achieving the project's objectives (para. 39).  During the review, special
attention would be given to assessing (a) commercial bank effectiveness in
implementing the agricultural credit component; (b) the level of demand;
(c) the structure of interest rates for agricultural lending; and (d) the
effectiveness of the management training and extension service.
Benefits and Risks
76.       The INDEBANK line of credit component of the proposed project
would support the further strengthening of INDEBANK's institutional
capabilities to play a more effective role in promoting the efficient
development of productive economic activities. By developing its project
promotion capabilities, INDEBANK would be able to expand and diversify its
operations away from its traditional lending activities, which are
dominated by the Press Group, ADMARC and MDC. The project would also
enable INDEBANK to create new investment and employment opportunities in
Malawi. Based on the experience with the first Bank line of credit to
INDEBANK, it is estimated that the projects financed with the proposed line
of credit would help create about 500 new jobs.
77.       The pilot agricultural credit component of the project would
support Malawi's structural adjustment program by financing productivity
improving investments which would free up land and thereby improve the
potential for crop diversification. The pilot nature of the component
would provide a basis for better assessment of investment credit needs and
the suitability of the existing institutional framework to effectively
administer term credit to the agricultural estate subsector.
78.       The main risk associated with the project is that the export
market for estate crops could suffer from a substantial drop in
international prices which would result in liquidity problems for
sub-borrowers and in defaults on loan repayments. However, according to
World Bank forecasts, prices in constant US dollars are expected to remain
somewhat stable in the medium term; these prices are forecast to drop below
current prices by 5% in 1986 and by 7% by 1990. However, investments to be
financed are expected to develop lower cost producers better able to
withstand price falls. Gradual diversification of estate crops would
further reduce farmers' vulnerability to price instability. And finally,
participating financial institutions' review procedures would screen out
marginal investments.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
79.       1 am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments.
Washington, DC
December 2, 1985



- 22 -
ASEX I
T A   L * SA                              la-go  1 f  7
Or                      (M ;Ac umw#la
1i9MU      it7a EkITNK             3 013 0P EMM         A3CA  . lo  EMMA
am Oem IQ. MO
IOTAL .111.5                                 118.3       118.*5
aECmzLSLa                          37.1      3u.         *1.7
a  a  cairn CuES)                      ..         ..       210.0             231.8                   1083.8
CzuaRAMS or a      uLut)            .         35.0       48.0              82.3                    981.5
lflltJ   .NII-        (M0SAM)    2329.0     4513.0     882..0
an" POPULAEZON CZi TO  M)           4.4        8.4       11.1              20.1                     32.0
IIUSSZM PROJJ sZ
L  lA 20 (N                                  11.4
wauuLatEdS NE1U1ilf                                     2.0
in sQ. ED.                       29.8       38.1       35.9               33.2                    63.1
PU  EQ. M. aI. LAND              93.1       14.3      154.1             IUJ                     124A
POPULATXIS AG&SITURU (2)
0-14 uE                          3.S3    4*.U          47.1              48.0                    45.
153-64 52312.0                              50.J       48.9               so.8                    31.5
435 ANDA3                         2.         2.4        4.0                2.9                     2.7
P01PMAT13 GOMW RA  CZ)
TarAL                             2.0        2.3          .0              2.8                      2.9
ninA,                             4.3        6.2        7.0                8.4                     3.1
ce  Dinm tASK tR. TOM)             56.0       36.0       34.0              47.2                     47.0
cam OEM 33 (in IBMS)               29.7       26.0       23.0               17.1                    13.0
63O0S 3EMOOUTEO  am                 3.a        3a.        5.8               3.3                      3.2
PANMY PLASINGO
ACCOr . ANNUL(COS)                ..         ..
U   tS (Z OF NA      1 N          ..         ..         IA /c              5J                      6.4
siM  or PWo  am. ms cairn
(199-71-100)                     90.0        91.0       96.0              033                      82.9
. ca= smi or
CALMZn Co OF ulquhu)             91.0        9.         9.a               67.7                    ".3
Puensm  cAss in mAM"             62.0       71.0       68.0               51.9                    55.4
Of W    ANAL AD AM 1.5          13.0       19.0        19.0 Ic           18.7                    16.5
CO=  CAMS 1-4) 03A2I 5iS            9.7       50J        38.0              23.1                      6.6
LIFE  Ctr. AT D11 (CUM)            36.3       40.0       44.2              47.S                     52.0
CNTr mET:. A (is c    30ous)      207.0      193.3      16.0               119.5                   108.8
ACCSS 70 SAi uAu  (CZi)
TonL                              ..         ..        41.0 id            27.1                    42.4
on"                               ..         ..        27.0               63.5                    67.5
iDEAL                             ..         ..        37.0               19.3                    35.8
ASUES '0 5031A, DISPOSAL
CZar rwuL*nrn)
TOTL                              ..         ..         3.0 1d            26.5                    Zl.9
IISUII                            ..         ..         00o.0 W           65.4                    37.7
RUAL                              ..         ..        s.e 77             20.4                    20.7
iOPULAIONn PITICAZ              36380.0    38430.0    40 .0              27901.7                 11791.7
pop. PiE inr  PSOS              13220.0 /r  9050.0     3830.0 i          33T0.4                   2439.
PP. PR HDSPITAL -30
TOal                            80.        650.0       740.04p          1273.6                   91.1
URA                             1200 if   160.0        80.8 i            428.2                   388A
RaRM                           t310. 7    900.0       1480.0o7T         3292.5                  4371.9
ADNESSIOUS IM HOSPITAL D            .D        32.1        39.0 /             ..                     27.2
swi  sm or uammz
30*1                              ..         5.407K      ....
056  10. w7 iZSUSIRo
TOrAL                             ..         ..
1B1a                              ..         1.7/        .
a.                                ..         .....
inRcurs Or DNLLIES IInv nsc.
ToTAL                             ..         ..
n11a                              ..        16.0k1t      .                  ..
aIU                               ..         ..          .                  ..



- 23 -
T AS L                                     ANNEX I
lAawI                  - S AL IfDCJkmR DATA SHr                P.e          of  7
MLAWI                                REFEREIUZ CltOPS (WSICHTE  AVSSM) /a
MIOST                    (mSTwxU  ESTS ATE) lb
'b60/h  1,70/b  RECENT         LOW  UlC01 ArRtCA        MIDDLE INCON
1960_       WWII  ESrIKATSb          SOUTH (O SAtAIU      AVRICA S. Ct' SAHAR
ADJUSTED IOILIEIT tATIOS
PtIMIAR:  TOTAL                    .-        3b.0        62.0               67.8                     9b.7
MALE                    ..         45.0        73.0              77.6                     1WU.O
FEMAlE                  ..         26.0        51.0              54.9                      83.2
SECIDAEP: OTAL                     1.0        2.0         4.0               13.5                     17.3
HaLE                    1.0         3.0         5.0              17.9                      25.0
FEAltE                  0.3         1.0        2.0                9.1                     14.1
VOCAxxsaL C2 OF SECOuDAR)          23.6         2.9         2.9 /d           13.2                       5.9
IPUPIL-TEACfR RATIO
PRpuj                            41.0        4.0         65.0 /d           44.9                      41.1
SECONDAR                          14.0       16.0        21.0 7d           27.4                      25.5
PASSEmCnR CaRS/ToSND POP            1.8         2.2         2.4 II            3.8                      20.8
RADIO RECEsVERS/TuOUSAND POP       21.6        23.5         4.8              55.8                     107.8
7V *ZCnnInsl So ND POP               1.7        ..          ..                2.6                      20.8
NCE1SPAPEE ("DAUM GENERAL
IMlEREST') CIRCUnAno
PER DTIUSAND POPIUL4ON             ..          ..          4.8               5.0                      18.4
CIaIM   ANNUAL ATIENANCE/CAWETA     0.3         *           .                 0.5                       0.4
LAStI DOIC
TOnLi LABOR FORCE (23005)         1621.0     1983.0      2751.0
FEMA  (PERCENr)                  38.7        38.1        37.5              34.2                      3b.2
AZRICUILUE (PERCIT)             92.0        89.0        86.0 /d           77.5                      56.5
nmuSn  (PEM)                      3.0         4.0         5.0 7T            9.7                      18.3
PARTICPATIOI RATE CPCEMT)
TOL                               45.9       43.9        40.9              39.3                      36.8
HUE                              57.5        55.3        52.6              50.9                      47.1
FMLJE                            34.8        32.9        30.8              28.1                      Z7.2
ECONOm  DnnMicE  RATIO               1.0        1.1         1.2               1.3                       1.3
PERCENr OF PRIVAIE INCOME
PECSliED Er 
amEn3 5S 0 H0M581OLDS              .-        32.6 j       ..
RIDMET 20S OF OIUSNILDS           ..         50.6 l
tWEST 20S  F HOUSEHOLDS            ..        10..
LOWEST 402 OF HIOUSEHODS           ..        21.5         .
IMD  AFSOa=E rovry m
LEVE CUS  ER CAPTA)
uiBAN                              ..         ..        123.0 /c           1t5.5                    590.7
omAL                               ..         ..         99.0 T            95.0                     275.3
ESrTMAIED RELATVE POPERZ! INCME
LEML CUR PER CAPITA)
URcam                              ..         ..         65.0 Ic          113.!                     545.6
RUUAL                              ..         ..         S2.0  -           67.6                     201.1
ESTIIMAED POP. ELW ABSOLUTE
PW7CM  INO  LEVEL CZ)
UliN                               ..         ..         25.0 /c           36.6
NIP?L                             ..           .T 85.07;                   61.8
MIlr AVAUABLE
MrT APPLICABLE
N OTE S
la  The group awerags for each Indicator ae populstion-ueighted aritbmtic  um. CveraWe of couatria
among the indicrtore depende a availability of data and Is not umifozu.
lb  Unlte  othervie octed. tData for 19W" refer to any yar hetusn 1959 and 1961: "Data for 1970" betvee
1969 and 1971; and date for "Moat Recat Eatiate  between 1981 ed 1983.
lc  1977; Id 1980; /e 1979; If 1962; :A 1967; /h 1972; Ii 1978.
.1Il1, 1985



ANNEX I
- 24 -                                     PageX3o f 7
PEFINMONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes Alithoush the dar are dmwn from wourcm generlly judged the most authoritadve and relible, it should also be noted that they may not be interfntonaliy
compable becauwe or the iek of standardized definitions and concpts used by different countries in colletog the daa. The date ar nonetbele  use(ld to
describe orde of magnitude. indicate trnds, and chamterize certain major diffeenc between countrie.
The reference groups are I I) the -e country group or the subjet country and (2) a country wmsp with somewha higher averae Incomne tha the country
group of th ubjec coumtry texcept for -Hb Income Oil Exporersr group where "Mile Inconme North Afric and Middl EE I   ese  b e  of stragnr
solo-cultural alfinities). In the reference grup duar the avegs ae populaden weighted arithmedc mea   for each Indicator and shown only wben majority
of tbe counries ir a group has data for tha indicator Since the coverWe ocauntrzi among therlndica  depends on thed avalabty ofda nd a is ot unWorm
caudon must be exercied in relating a vegn oraone indictor to mnothe. Them averages ae only usel in cemparing the value done indicatr at a timeamng
the coumtry and referne grup
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                         Crude Ai& Rate (per tamdJ-Number oflive births in the year
ToJe-Total surface area comprising land area and iniand waters:  per thousand of mid-year population; 1960, 1970, and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                      Crude Death Rate (per thas_d)-Number of deaths in the year
Agrknhreal-Estimate of agriculturai area used temporily or     per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970, and 1983 dataL
permanenly for crops pastures market and kitchen gardens or to  Gross Repredwedox Rate-Average number ofrdaughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960.1970 and 1982 data.                           will bear in her normai reproductive period if she expeences
prsmnt ag-specific fertiity rates; usualy five-year avcrages endig
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at ctrrent       in 1960. 1970, and 1983.
market pnces. cakulated by same convemrsion method as World    F       P/NNag-Accqa vs, AAvaa (rxeamdfl-Annual n-
Bank Arias (198143 basis): 1983 data.                          ber of acceptors of birth-control device underauspices of naiona
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PElt CAPITA-Annual apparent                 family planning program.
consumption of comninercial primary energy (coal and lignite.  Fadyp Pamsa-Usm (perce  ofnsied uoassen-The pccn-
peroleum. natural gas and hydro-, nuclar and geothernmal deec-  tag or married womcn of child-bearng age who are practcing or
tricity) in kilogrms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970, and  whose husbands are practcing any form of contraception. Womcn
1982 data.                                                     Sf child-bearing age are generally wmn  aged 1549, although for
some countries contraceptive usage is mcasured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                groups
Toan Popalt n Mid- Year (thowdaads)-As of July 1; 1960. 1970.  FOOD AND NUTRMON
and 1983 data.
Inle of Fhod Padwdion Per Cq*ia (JF990-71 - 1M-Index of per
ibhat PopuLa/e  (perct of troit--Ratio of urban to total       capita annual producon of al foo  cmmoditd  Production
population different definitions of urban aras may affect compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agricu=tue Food commodities
ability of data among countries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.    indude primary commodities (cg. sugarcane instead of sugar)
Popuiioa tRwiecions                                            which are edible and contain nutrients (eg. coffee and tea are
Pobpuadin in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.  excluded); they comprise cereals, root crops, pulse  oil seeds,
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on  vegetables, fruits, nuts, sugarcane and sugar bets, lihveck. and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates, mortality rates, and  livestock products Aggrete production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters  on national avcrage producer price weights; 1961465, 1970, and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  19S2 data.
assumptions until the population becamne stationary.          P.r CGpt Spy  qfCaries (perce t rfrequh'ese)- Comput-
Stationary popularion-ls one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of nt food supplies awilable in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertlity rates have sinultaneously remained at replace:ment levd  tion, imports kss exports, and changes in stock Net supplies
(net reproduction rate= 1). In such a populatin the birt-h rate is  exclude animal reed, seeds for use in agrculture, quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structurc is aiso  food processing. and losses in disribution. Requiremnts were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal actvity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characutristics of  and health considering environmental temperature, body weights,
the population in tie year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population, and allowing 10 pecent for
rate to replacement level.                                     waste at household levct 1961, 197u and 1982 dataL
Population Momentum-Is the tendency for population growth to   Per Copita Sepply of Proten (Spasn per dej)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertity has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is. even after the net reproductijn ratc has reached  as above. Requirments for all countres established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year : is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of t'ke ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grants
the year t. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protei  These standards are lower than those of
ment level from year : onward. 1985 data.                      75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
mpq-*s    tie.*                                                average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqkm.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec    Su-ly  961. 1970 and 1982 data
tares) of total aman 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                Per Capita Proteie  Supply fronm t Amaan PWe-Protein supply
Per sqkm. agiculkral land-Computed as above for agricultural   offood derived from animals and pulses in grans per day, 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                          1970 and 1977 data.
Pop.krioa Age Stuere (percet) -Children (0-14 years). work-    Child (aes 1-4) Death Rate (per thousad)-Number ofdeaths of
ing age (15-64 years). and retired (65 years and ovcr)as pcrcentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children ir the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.             group in a given year. For mest developing countries data derived
Populariea Gromurh Rate (pmen)-torel--Annual growth rates or   frmn life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.   HEALTH
PopJat  Grok Rhatwe gpmenrp-rhAa-Annual growth rates           Life Expecacy at Ilh (e-Nmher of years a ewborn
of urban populatior for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.    infant would live if prevai!ng pattens of mortality for all people



ANNEX I
- 25 -                                       Page 4 of 7
it the time of of its birth were to stay the same throughout its lire:  Pupd-marker Raio - primary, and secondory-Total students en-
'60. 1970 and 1983 data.                                     rolled in pruimry and seandary lcvels divided by numbers of
.afan Moralty Rate (per tShousd)-Number of infants who dic    teachers in the corresponding levels.
befom reaching one year of age per thousand live births in a gkven
year. 1960. 1970 and 19U3 data.                               CONSUMPTION
Access to Safe Water (pecwt of populion -total. rban, and     Pasecr Can (per thouand popalationJ-Passenger ears comn-
rura-Number of people Xttal, urban. and rural) with reasonable  prise motor cars seating less than eight persons: ecludes ambul-
access to safe watcr supply (includes treated surface waters or  ances. hearses and military vehicles.
untreated but uncontaminated water such as that from protected  Ra&o Rearws (per t    lsandpopation)-All types of rmceivrs
boreholks spnngs and sanitary weils) as percentages of their repec-  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population:
tive populations. In an urban area a public fountain or standpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
located not more than 200 meters from a house may be considered  registration or radio sets was in effect; data for    t years may
as being within reasonable aazss of that house. In rural areas  not be comparable since most countries abolidhed licensing.
reasonable accss would irnply that the housewife or members of the
houselbold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  ToRger p(per A hudpopa Tio        crevces forubni cest
in fetching the fanfily's water needs.                        to gencral pu1bEc per thousand populatin; ceduds unliensd Tv
inAfetching the framilys water niqfeeds                       receivers in countries and in years when registration of TV sets was
Access to Excrea DiVspoa (percent of populaton)--fotal, urba,  in effect.
and rrat-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by
excreta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  AIwsp"w Cwcxldoa (ptr ditaSandpopuiotl--Sbows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the colkction and disposaL with or  age circulation of -daily gcneral interest newspaper.- defined as a
without treatment, or human excreta and waste-water by water-  penodicwl publication devoted plimariy to recoding geal new
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considerd to be -daily if it appars at klest four times a we.
Popatien per PAyPo-fpulation divided by number of prac-       Gnm  Annal Attendac  per Capita per Yer-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university levl.    number of tickets sold during the year, including admissions to
Popurato per Nursin Perso-Population divided by number of     drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses, assistant nurses.
prAcidcal nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                     LABOR FORCE
Popurn  pe Hospital eSL-t4 un, ad rural-nPpulation            Tota Labor Force (rho=wnd)-Economi:alIy active persons in-
(total, urban, and rural) divided by their respective nunber of  cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hospital beds available in public and private, geneal and    p   students. etc.. covering population of al ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabiltation centers. Hospitals are establishments  various countries are not comparable: 1960. 1970 and 1963 data.
permanendtly staffed by at least one physician Establishments prov-  Femak (percet)-Female labor force as percentage of total labor
ifing prindpally custodial care are not induded. Rural hospitals  force
however. include health and medical centers not pemanently staffed  Agr&lt- (perceut)-Labor force in fanuing. forestry, hunting
by a physician (but by a medial assistant. nursn  midwife. etc.)    and fisiing as pentage of total labor force; 1960, 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient acconmnodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                   -      dsry (percent)-Labor force in mining. construction. mnanu-
Admissiow per Hospita fed-Total number of admissions to or    facturing and electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.      forc; 1960, 1970 and 1980 data.
P.9lephon Raw (pereear-tara,ale. andf-ipuFarticipation
HOUSING                                                       or activity rates are computed as totaL male. and female labor force
AverWg .   qf Hiof lnolod (persons per hmnselliold)--tot  arban,  as percentages of totaL male and female population of al ages
ad rural-A household consists of a group ofindiiduals who share  respectively: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data These are based on MLWs
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflectng age-sex struum of the populaion, and
may not be induded in the hous:holi. for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are From national sourmc
Aerg Nunber of Perso  per Room-riota, rban ad rual-           Economic Depnideny Ratio-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban. and rural    65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                INCOME DlS;RIBUTION
Pecage of Delgs wit Eleetuidtp-totl, urba. and ra-            Percentage of Tota  Dispsbl Income (both in cas ad kind)-
Conventional dweDlings with elatricity in living quarters as perne-  Accruing to prctik groups of households ranked by total house
tage of totaL urban. and rural dwellings respectively.        hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A,5ed Euroient Ratios                                         The folowing estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
PrF1amy school - total. mal and feJule-Gross total. male and  levels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enroDment of aU ages at the primary kvel as percentages of  Eiated Absolt Poverty Incone Leve (= per capgta)-orban
respecive prinmary school-age populations While many countries  and rural-Absolute poverty income level is that income levl
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country pracics in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Estaxed Relative Poverty Income Leve l(USS per capita)-urbln
education. gross enrollment may xceed 100 percent since some  and rural-Rural relativc poverty incomc level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban kvel is
age.                                                          derived from the rural kvel with adjustment for higher cost of
Sicondvy shool - total. male and femak-Computed as above:    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four vears of approved pri-  Esmated Populaion  Seow Absne  vty Inome Lead (per-
mary nstrucuion provids generaL vocationaL or teacher training  cenr)-urban and rna- Prcent of population (urban and rural
instrutions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age: correspond-  who arc absolute poor.'
ence courses are generaUy excluded.
Vocational Enrfoln   (percent of secondary)-Vocational institu-         Comparativc Analvsis and Data Division
tions include tchmnicaL industriaL or other programs which operate    Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departnents of secondary institutions.                            June 1985



- 26 -
s "2- 1S, d_Z~~~~~- 
or ftc~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iTf
ladl  o    645  - Cud-K.dW
- eO Dm:
(OL11M UN                         AbUEL                                            hultidx
kdLgmC St  mat 1dm.)
13IN19G0    11    13M                   1963   131       15    1986    137    19        13     I19O
own dsu    c PMieL           103.3          -1.0   -3.1      2.5    4A      7.6          33      3.4    3.6    3.7    3.        4.0
_m1b                       437.A          -G.6    -2       6.9    4.3   6.3            3.2    3.3    3.        3.5    3.6    3.7
lnizy                      212            -1.    -2.6   -0.1    4.1    2.9             3.4     36      3.3    4.0    4J       4.6
atht                        53.0           42    -3.6      0.6    4.9   3.6            33      3.5    3.7      3       4.0    41
amzmt                        103.           -3.5    4.3    -1.4    3.2    7.6            L0      1.3    2.5    2.6    3.0   2I
arm   I        *19O                        -I5J   -34.1    21.1   147  -1A               6A      3A      23     3.9     43      6.9
.d ao                   30.9           25d   -19J    -6.7    7.1   20.3            1I       5.3    5.0    5.       5.1    4.8
jtU  cc f                    324.2          -9J   -4.9   -4.5    4        -15.0         17.0     2a      2.6    2.7    3.7      3d
m  ami  mdrt_                153.0           4       57    60.5    14.J7   1           -.       17.     3.L0    21.2    132    16A
C03 dMeltr C197lIV                     109.6   13.A  1437   D.0  103.6             20A.   22Lo    20A  273.4   25.2   315.9
bmiNW =buutuOUgdm*                       1.2317  1.U1    0.933  OA854"  0.7        0.5747  0.5555  0.W    0.5  O.D5   0.53
Man. of OF at tkilt PtLm  M)                           buMp huK l          aa C)
I95   153   l9B5   1990                             L95754:    1l9I8       1490
Gms    icm sct 10.0  10.0  10D.0  1O.0                                                           5S6        1s        3.65
ipIinI.1    At   ant m                        37.5   36.3  35.3   35.9                              5.8         032        3.4
Iw~am       .   2 *otef GOP at                 19.4   3.5   17.7   17.9                              4.7         055        3.95
-dw            f f      ant                    43    45.2  46.0  46.2                                5.          2J65       3.73
Ou'-ti-                                          5.4A  36.8   90.2   85.8                              5.0        0a2         4.06
5  iSau.                                        31.6  25.5   17.0   17.4                               4.3       -10.75       467
1mqot 068                                       2U.8  25.6  23.1   25.1                                8.7         3.48       4.55
Iottm an                                         S5.9   4L.6   3D.3  273                               3.2       -V12W7       531
cmmm omdinl miiu.                              12.    18      5.9   12.4                              -         17.01       2.99
I of CM 
197Kql7  1975/76  19681/2  193/33  1913/34  1935
Ofat zwfmom                                                25.5    16.5    20.4    19.9    19.6    20.0
Cltu  e nmitzi                                             16.5    15.4    2IA       21.2    20.4      2.7
S9p2  (W) er cdddt C-)                                     -1.1      1.1   -15.9   -12J    -10.8    -6.3
adapil e adtzuz                                            124A    IZ.9    11.5    11.4    10.1         7.6
FaIp fl-g                                                  11.2      8.8      6.8     9.5      8.5      52'
197540  19 5   139590
am 
g0  BMW&      (2)                                         5.8      3.72     4.01
GNP P-t etta   -ritb   C()                                 1.9     0.       1.21
R     inqidm gpmth uto CZ)                                6.1      2.22     2.62
lax                                                       6.4      1.0      437
11gu ml I   uta                                           0.1      0.75     0.37
bw-t dimtlty                                             -0L2      1.35     0.83
C quvs!w  am eqzina,1 at            t
b/ "jtu  y    at                                                                                E pd   Eatern and Southern Africa Region
C/At          1990 MDE                                                                          October 5. 1985



- 27-
m 6 of 7
Papant       : 6452 - (utd-1952 td.b)
GN FM I!  Lts :     1210 - (IS8)
KVAa- Ed=d Tadu   uad          2
hwm  ath meC)
(WLIII                          ACJeWa wu                      16 Pd )
-~~~~~~~o iliV' C                                        lcbl)net
Lafimla             at caazut Pdim)
354           1980    1981   1952    1953   1954                  19B 6    I195    l955   1Dl9    1990
mt_diu                       305.1          22.9  -16.5   -L6        43   323           -.0      4.5     5.      5.3    5.0    4.7
PdEI-                      23.7          17.3  -19.5    6.1       4.7   31.5         -1.5     4.5    5.0      5.4    4.9      4.5
1      _IEadm              21.4         II.0    9.6 -26          0.5   141           4.0    4.      4.5     5.0    6.0    7.0
Nxblda                       U 174.3         0.3  -17.1  -18.7       0.1  -16.8          8.3    3.0  Z 7         3.0    3.       3.3
Foad                        5.8          3.0    57.2  -56.3   -11.A  -30.7            14.3    1.0     1.4     L3      2.0     2.4
Pftval         ~           31.2          -6.6   -5O   -20.3       1.7  -1.6           B.3    2.6      27      2       2.7     2.8
Ibdm1yud  .yi              30.S          I.9   41.3  -16.9   -3J   -5.8              3.4    6.5      43      S.      6.3    6.1
13mm                       56.5         -2.5   -6A    -B.6        2.5  -19.6          9.7    2.1      2.2      l1     2.3    2.3
qmzpdt m 1Mm                                1.1   39.0    9.1   -1.5   34.4           -20.      7.9    9.1      9.1    9.4    9.6
IOzt pdctmuo                                21.6   16.9    7.6    23J.   29.2           -1.6    4.7      7.0    7A       7.6     7.5
om  E t                                    -17.0    19.0    1.3  -2O.5    4.1          -19.2    3.1    1.        1.5     L7      L9
_lm       of tl-ua&m    1mb CZ)                                *,g Amid mcm_ CC)
(* ama pln)                                           (Et ammt 1979 pttm)
1IN3   198    D                                           19750       1905    1915-50
Euou                                      100.0.IODD   =A   10.   1M0.0                               9.6         2.7       5.0
pdmy                                    92.6   89.7   903   90.1                                     83          3.3        4.9
-umE     M                               T7.4   10.3   9.7    9.9                                    17         -1.4        5.2
zu                                        100.  10D.0  1.0  ICO.0                                      -1.4        -9.4       3.1
rea                                       9     7.3    5.6    5.2                                   -0.9       -39.8        L6
fttulm                                   9.1   13.9  18.2   17.9                                      5.3                   2.7
Ibdd-t   d e*dpmq=                      24.5  34.    21.0   24.0                                      1.0      -15.1        5.9
.Omeh                                    61S   444   55.2   52.9                                     -4.5        -5B        2.2
Sm of TOb uWth                   9.16 of T1mb udd                   9Dom cf T     idth
kWhatdSL Guu1u  CZ)       X       I,PIg aotdim co                 C    l     l    1 74m1     ICZI)
1970    1975     19B0            1970     1975   1m               1970         1975         I950
P                                          *65.3  76.2    69.0             11.3      10.3    7.0             23.4        13.S        2A.
56.7 6*         75.0           26.2     14.5    6.0             19.0    ZI     7          19.0
1/ illai  a od       n &wldua~a
Eastern and Southern Africa Region
October 5, 1985



- 28 -
cs 7
r.pde1m       i 2 6432 Odd-If. ua )
iw FMtrit I Uio - '11"2)
MM- DEM   ue,81 tULH 0171 S  -
RVMK           meman pileD)              M
nt_
w        a
maw muss ~ ~ im 90no   mlm mim i    w                                                                                          
Dp"  a   -  ad maaim                     34A.5  396  32B.7 326.3  369.                         S.0  r.a   371.  316 wa        4e   maJ
Of St_bs tNSfs. Eb.b                    3J4.3  M7A   M41 23DJ   303.1                         MO.   3.   30.1  3D5.1  4019  4f61.
bip     of -  ad m62.3  S06A  474.7 43J   414A                                                  40.5  4414  470  3145J   1.3  531.3
of ld I   iB_Sam    fob.                31.2  237J   198.6 111.2  17.J             I3.0  199.3  21.3  2.   10.0  21.
ut umauls   *                            1.4   21.1   20.1  12.7   10.3                       -13.7  -14.7  -15.7  -11J   -13.0  -19.2
CIant asat blum                         -06.A  -133J -12.0 -14.2  -34.3                       -1     -132.9  116.1 -li07   -13   49.7
PinsM  din le                               -      -      -     -       -
lfl  al PM a                               30.0   46.2   35.3  29a   24.4                        63A    32.1   64.8  3N.8   41    46J
"IL iSa  (t)                              176.9   51.4   24.3  22.6   427                        42.5   "1   754   1234   75.4   92.9
Otldat                                  36.8   423   32J  29        63.0                      73.5  119J    b6.9  12A   7141   79.3
Iuivm                                    40.1    9.1  -6.4  -73  -20.3                        -33.0  -24.6  -119   -6.0    4.4   16
ar Itm                                     41.6   29.4    0.6  12A.    5.4                        8.2   13.0  -19J  -15.  -49.6  -19
O-W  in mmcm(- -um..                      -19.1    67   63a   79.5  -9.0                         1.0  -11.4  -464  -35A4    3.   -19J
ctls -lisul_   l   a                      79.7   37.0   32.3  263    69.9                       319   70.3   74.7  110.1  104.   12.4
Nut fit tinat    ae                       -40.7 -121.3 -1410-17L7   -64.2                         -      -               
CM   tea -            i                     1.3    1A    0.8   0.7    2.0                         1J     19  1J9    2.6    2.2    2.
ZKOWIL MMlL ADf ., 
72.1  2L13  173.5  109.6  949  1534                          92.2  31.9  13.7  2143  13.3  1.0
Offldal Ctns                      4.6   10.1   46.3   36.3  3.4  25.2                          30.0   321   34.3   36A    39J   42.1
t}is nml tmm                      43UJ    60.6   46.1   42A   41.9  103.5                      46.3  1231   3.4   934    LI0    N3
DeC                             16     7 1JJ   IL6    3       .1.3    5                       3.3    68    4J    42    4.4    5.5
S|                               -      -      _       -     -      _                         _      -       _      -      -      _
111                             14.3   15.1   21.0   27.1  32.3   83.6                       33.3  110    41d   79.0   33.8   3LI
r120   2.8   13.3   10.3  14       14.6                       9.7    7.8    8J  102   11.9   13T
Ibr-OXsau1. Is                    8L2  IW6   61.1   30.5  17.6    .7                          13.    26.7   3.0   8L1   66.1   73.
OfldA  It I     n                 .    3.2    34    1.2   6J        LB                        4.4    6.6    82    9A    10        07
ID                              128    76  268 21.0  1.             1.6                       4.0    7.4  129   49.7  25.7    9
OtUr hItistemd                   S.l    6.9    3.0  . OJ   2.0   16.0                         2.3    4.3    6.6    9.1   IIJ    13.9
Pink                            355    37J9   47.9    76   7.4      I                         5.0    8.4   11.3   13.9   1J9  2Z.1
Debt  0dt     l d DlsbaS        718.3  638.8  726A   770.1 807.8 84.4                       83.   9l.4  11132.9 1156.31 17.1  1315.9
offdat                         56741  4134  4t5.6  354.2 394.1  707.2                       749.1  8A.8  925.2 1054.6 1l93  U96.1
P t                            171.4  225.4  21.0  2J.9  13.7  177.2                        14.2  119.6  101.7  101.7  106.2  119a
tUhnlcd DIt                      171.   17.2  2mJ3.   1.8 225.6  2.1                         30116  3632  399.3  47.J   46.9  59.3
Debt Smnia
ThI SKIi  k n                    -43.5  -67.6  -U.   -61J -56.3  -.9                          -66.2  -93.0  -0.7  -60        9    -60
Dneant                         -24J  -34.6  -49.4  -3L0 -29A   -30.6                        -0    -38.3  -3D.8  -31.9  -7.5  -41
Dlf 0uMS ad ltpzd               4.0   -6.6  -13.9  -Z1.0 -18.9  -30J                        -3.3  -35.1  -3.3  -32.5  -35.3  -33.0
a - S p                                 194   25.0   B.8  17.9   21.9                        23.    23.    21.7   203   17.1   152
Ahas lDt 1 iL  1m l             3                                       3.0                       4.0    4.0    6.0    3.0    5.0    6.0
A  mp IBbulty Sa  -   mm (j)                                 *0m5                               27.8   3.3   22.    29.0   2.1   29.5
ifat
Pit
An Z of Oft CitntanIlz
at  afd o      31f   133
laiety           Of eebt mtsediq
thttris due wIthdn 5 yas                 29.0
1 uldd   anu ttu  10ym                   44.1
e ft um an of eLbt  ems g
rIbest dua tUtu fiast jw                  3.6
Eastern and Southern Africa legion
October 5, 1955



-29-                                   ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NALAWI
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1985)
Amount in US$ million
tless cancellations)
Loan or    Fiscal                                                   Undis-
Credit No.  Year  Borrower    Purpose               Bank     IDA    bursed
6 loans and 19 credits have been fully disbursed  74.96    224.64
Cr. 857-MAI  79              NRDP I                          22.00    3.04
Cr. 910-MAI  79              Education III                   14.50    1.03
Cr. 992-MAI  80      -       NRDP 1I                         13.80    4.00
Cr.1123-MAI  81              Education IV                    41.00   11.53
Cr.1183-MAI  82              NRDP III                         7.30    2.99
Cr.1272-MAI  82              Lil. Water Supply Eng.           4.00    1.56
Cr.1330-MAI  83              Education V                     34.00   27.49
Cr.1343-MAI  83              NRDP IV                         10.60    8.38
Cr.1351-MAI  83              H Health                         6.80    4.11
Cr.1352-MAI  83              Smallholder Pert.                5.00    0.16
Cr.1423-MAI  84              H Highway V                     26.90J/ 19.20a/
Ln.2363-MAI  84              Highway V              18.00            17.96
Cr.1428-MAI  84      -       Tech. Assist. II                 1.50    1.10
Ln.2486-MAI  85              Wood Industries         6.40            .6.04
Cr.1528-MAI  85              Urban Housing b/                15.00   15.00
Cr.1549-NAI  85              Natl. Agri. Res. b/             23.80   23.80
TOTAL c/                                     99.36   450.84  147.39
of which has been repaid                     5.15     5.77
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA                94.21   445.07
Amount sold           .30
of which repaid    .30
TOTAL undisbursed                            24.00   123.39  147.39
ai  Includes Special Fund Credit.
b|  Became effective November 19, 1985.
cl  In addition, a US$11.6 million equivalent credit for an Agricultural
Extension and Planning Support Project was approved by the Executive
Directors on September 19, 1985, and will be signed shortly.



- 0-                          AMAu  11
3                              zPage 2 of 2
D. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of September 30, 1985)
investment Fiscal                     Type of
Number     Year   Obligor             Business        Loan    Equity   Tbtal
----(US$ Million)-
326-MAI    76,82  David Whitehead    Textiles        10.8        -      10.8
& Sons (Malawi)
Limited
362-MAI    77,81  Dwangwa             Sugar           9.9        -       9.9
Sugar Corpora-
tion Limited
434-MAI    79     Investment and      Development       -        0.6    0.6
Development        Pinance
Bank of Malawi     Company
502-MAI    80,84  Malawi              Tourism         2.1        -       2.1
Hotels
Limited
542-MAI    81,82  Ethanol Company    Manufactur-
Limited of         ing Alcohol
Malawi             from
Molasses       2.2         0.3    2.5
Total gross commitments                              25.0        0.9   25.9
Less cancellations3 terminations,                    10.2        -      10.2
repayments and sales
Total commitments now held by IFC                    14.8        0.9   15.7
Total Undisbursed
V



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
MALAWT
INDUSTRIAL AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.  Timetable of Key Events
a)  Time from project identification to appraisal:  9 months
b)  Prepared by                                   : Government/
INDEBANK/Bank
c)  First Bank Mission to consider project        : October 1984
d)  Appraisal Mission Departure                   : February 1985
e)  Negotiations                                  : October 1985
f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness                 : January 1986
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
_II. Special Conditions
A.  Conditions of Disbursement of the Agricultural Component
1)  For the agricultural line of credit, R3BM's execution of
participating bank agreements with INDEBANK, NBM and CBM (para.
67).
2)  Establishment of two Special Accounts, one each for the
agricultural credit component and foz the INDEBANK line of credit
component (para. 74).
3)  INDEBANK shall hire the manager of the Agricultural Projects
Investigations Division as a condition of disbursement of the
proceeds of the agricultural line of credit to INDEBANK (para.
70).
B.  Interest Rate Review
1)  RBM shall annually review (a) the interest rates charged to
participating banks, and (b) the rate charged by participating
banks on agricultural subloans. These rates would be revised as
appropriate (para. 67).
2)  INDEBANK shall annually review its interest rates to ensure that
they are (a) positive in real terms; (b) in line with the overall
interest rate structure of the country; (c) adequate to enable
INDEBANK to cover reasonable administrative expenses; and (d)
adequate to achieve the objectives of the project (para. 54).



- 32 -                              ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
C. Employment of Key Staff
By June 30, 1986, INDEBANK would employ a usnager for the
Agricultural Projects Investigation Division, an agricultural
specialist, and two counterpart Malawian staff (para. 70).
D. Retroactive Financing
US$0.8 million in retroactive financing would be provided for the
agricultural component, subject to a prior review by the Bank of
a sample of subloans to be financed retroactively (para. 69).
E. Implementation Review of the Pilot Agricultural Credit Component
A joint review would be carried out by the Bank in cooperation
with the Government approximately two years after project
effectiveness to assess progress in achieving the project's
objectives, commercial bank effectiveness in implementing the
agricultural credit component, the level of demand, the structure
of interest rates and the effectiveness of the management
training and extension service (para. 75).
- -:. .   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



