Doument of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14011
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
INDUSTRIAL AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2646-MAI)
MARCH 2, 1995
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bY recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha (MK)
Exchange Rates
1985               1993
(at appraisal)      (at closing)          Current
US$1.00 =            MK 1.80              MK 4.42              MK 4.39
MK 1.00              US$0.56              US$1.37              US$1.36
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CBM              Commercial Bank of Malawi
GDP           =  Gross Domestic Product
IBRD          =  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA           =  International Development Association
IFC           =  International Finance Corporation
INDEBANK   =  Investment and Development Bank of Malawi Limited
NBM           =  National Bank of Malawi
TA            =  Technical Assistance



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Ofce of Director-Genral
Operalonr Evaluation
March 2, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Malawi
Industrial and Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 2646-MAI)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Malawi - Industrial and Agricultural
Credit Project (Loan 2646-MAI) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No comments have
been received from the Borrower.
The project comprised a loan of US$7.8 million to the Investment and Development
Bank of Malawi (INDEBANK) for onlending to industrial and estate agricultural enterprises.
Separate loans were made to INDEBANK for each of these purposes. The objective of the
industrial component was to support expansion through the provision of term finance, while the
agricultural component was specifically targetted at agricultural diversification activities.
These broad objectives were attained. Available funds were quickly commited, but
take up of loans was initially slow. Monitoring of the agricultural component was inadequate and
it was not noted until well into implementation that the devaluation of the kwacha meant that
additional local funds would be available. Since by that time alternative funds were available
through an IDA credit, the unused portion of the loan (23 percent) was cancelled. Funds from
the technical assistance component were used to prepare a corporate Strategic and Business Plan
for INDEBANK This has been implemented through the development of commercial banking
activities, and has increased the organization's available funds and improved its overall financial
performance. The outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory, institutional development as
modest and sustainability as likely.
The Project Completion Report provides an adequate account of project
implementation. No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties.
Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
INDUSTRIAL AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2646-MAI)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE . ..............................................                                              i
EVALUATION SUMMARY   ...................................                                             iii
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE                            .........            I
Project Identity .......................................                                      1
Background .........................................                                         1
Project Objectives and Description  ..........................                               3
Project Design and Organization ............................                                 3
Implementation   ......................................                                      4
Project Results .......................................                                      6
Project Sustainability  ...................................                                  8
Bank Performance .....................................                                       8
Borrower's Performance .................................                                     8
Project Relationship ....................................                                    9
Project Documentation and Data ............................                                  9
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE                            ........           10
PART HI - STATISTICAL PROFILE  .............................                                         11
Attachment 1
- Related Bank Loans and/or Credits .........................                              11
- Project Timetable ....................................                                   11
Attachment 2 - Loan/Credit Disbursements  .....................                             12
Attachment 3 - Project Costs and Financing .....................                            13
Attachment 4 - Status of Covenants ..........................                               14
Attachment 5 - Use of Bank Resources ........................                               16
Attachment 6 - Commercial Bank of Malawi  ....................                              17
Attachment 7 - National Bank of Malawi .......................                              18
Attachment 8- INDEBANK   ..............................                                     19
Attachment 9 - Financed Subprojects .........................                               21
INDEBANK
Commercial Bank of Malawi
National Bank of Malawi
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.          l






- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
INDUSTRIAL AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2646-MAI)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Industrial and Agricultural Credit
Project in Malawi, for which Loan 2646-MAI in the amount of US$7.8 million was approved on
December 19, 1985. The loan was closed on January 13, 1993, six months earlier than the
planned date. The last disbursement was July 21, 1992 and US$1.8 was cancelled.
The PCR was prepared by the Industry and Energy Division of the Southern Africa
Department (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III). Comments (Part II) from the
Borrower were expected by end-May 1994.1/
Preparation on this PCR was started during the Bank's final supervision missions, and
is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan and Project Agreements, supervision
reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.
1/As of June 24, 1994, no comments had been received.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
INDUSTRIAL AND AGRICULTURE CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2646-MAI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    The Industrial and Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 2646-MAI) for US$7.8 million was
appraised in March 1985, signed in April 1986 and became effective in July 1986. The project
closed in January 1993, earlier than the planned date of June 1993. At closing, only 77 percent
of the loan amount had been disbursed. The Bank encouraged the Government of Malawi to
cancel the remaining amount as there were funds available to the Government on IDA terms
under the Financial Sector and Enterprise Development Project (FSEDP, Cr. 2221), which
became effective in August 1991.
2.    Objectives. According to the President's Report, the objectives of the project were: (i)
to stimulate the efficient expansion of Malawi's industrial, commercial, transportation and tourism
sub-sectors by providing term finance; (ii) to improve the utilization, efficiency and productivity
of agricultural estates and gradually encourage diversification into viable new crops; and (iii)
to sustain and strengthen INDEBANK's institutional capabilities to effectively promote efficient
development in the agricultural, industrial, and commercial sectors. The three components of
the project included: (i) a US$3.0 million line of credit to finance viable industrial, commercial,
transport and tourism investments; (ii) a US$4.5 million agricultural line of credit to provide
investment to agricultural estates. This component of the project was a pilot project to provide
investment credit to strengthen the existing production base and support the efforts to initiate crop
diversification; and (iii) US$0.3 million in technical assistance to INDEBANK to strengthen its
capability to promote, appraise and monitor agricultural projects.
Implementation Experience and Project Results
3.    Industrial Component. The industrial component of the project substantially achieved its
objectives. Implementation of this component was done by INDEBANK. In general,
implementation of this component of the project was satisfactory. Seven sub-projects were
financed and all are performing as expected except for Viphya Plywood. Viphya Plywood is
experiencing problems and the shareholders, which include the Government and IFC, are
considering restructuring options. This component initiated a healthy relationship between the
World Bank and INDEBANK that led to another line of credit and continued technical assistance
under FSEDP, Cr. 2221-MAI.
4.    Agricultural Component. In addition to INDEBANK, the National Bank of Malawi
(NBM) and the Commercial Bank of Malawi (CBM) participated in this component. In general,
progress in the achievement of the development objectives was minimal. In part, this was
because the objectives were very ambitious for a small pilot project: the agriculture line of credit
was only a very small fraction of the agricultural portfolio of the commercial banks in Malawi,



- iv -
and there was no technical assistance aimed at promoting the developmental objectives. Only 10
sub-projects were financed by the participating financial intermediaries (PFIs), of which six had
been fully repaid at the time of the PCR mission (August 1993). Some estates were able to
achieve some efficiencies and better productivity during the project period, primarily related to
the installation of irrigation.
5.    More importantly, however, the lack of success is attributable to inadequate linkages
between the project, and the sector work that was going on at the same time regarding agriculture
diversification, which identified a number of possible crops. This report, Malawi: Agricultural
Diversification, was published in November 1984, which meant that the findings of the report
could have been better incorporated into the design of Loan 2646. However, other than stating
that an important objective was to encourage diversification, and providing a small amount of
term finance for the estate sector, the project did nothing to facilitate the diversification process.
The assumption underlying the design of this component was that improvements in estate
productivity, particularly regarding tea and tobacco, would, almost automatically, engender
diversification away from those two products; there was no technical assistance provided under
the project aimed at assisting farmers to determine how to diversify and what to diversify into.
The diversification effort was complicated by the boom in burley tobacco prices between 1986
and 1992: tobacco became more profitable, and accordingly, diversification out of it, less
attractive. Most of the estates that attempted diversification replaced tea with coffee, which did
not achieve diversification. How to achieve diversification of the Malawian economy and
specifically of agriculture remains a structural problem.  A draft Agricultural Sector
Memorandum has been prepared, and the key to unlocking Malawi's diversification potential is
considered to be that of providing an enabling environment for investment by farmers and non-
agricultural businesses through the removal of policy obstacles and the improvement of
institutional support.
6.    Some progress was made in strengthening the capacity of INDEBANK in agricultural
lending. However, it should be mentioned that during the project period, INDEBANK undertook
a strategic analysis of growth options and decided to reduce its exposure in agriculture lending.
7.    The US$1.3 million that was cancelled from the loan proceeds was entirely from the
agriculture component. However, this cancellation does not indicate lack of interest by would-be
sub-borrowers, but rather inadequate monitoring of commitments and disbursements on the part
of the Bank and the Government. Once the loan became effective, the agriculture component was
committed quickly; however, subsequent devaluations meant that the US dollars went further than
expected at time of commitment.  This situation was not discovered until well into
implementation, by which time the Government preferred to cancel the proceeds in favor of using
Cr. 2221.
8.    Technical Assistance Component. The technical assistance component of the project had
a permanent positive impact on INDEBANK, and more generally, on the financial sector in
Malawi; the presence of this component alone would have made the project worth doing.
However, it should be carefully noted that the beneficial TA was not the TA envisioned at project
design. Several years into the implementation of the project, it became clear that agricultural
lending did not constitute a profitable, growth business activity for INDEBANK, and the Bank
and INDEBANK agreed to redirect the funds towards developing a corporate strategy aimed at



v 
"growing' INDEBANK. In 1990/91, INDEBANK undertook, with the assistance of a consulting
firm, the development of a Strategic and Business Plan to Diversify Current Operations, which
identified moving into commercial banking activities. A commercial banking facility within
INDEBANK, formerly called the Banking and Financial Services Division and currently
INDEFinance, was set up in 1992. The Banking and Financial Services Division contributed to
the profitability of INDEBANK and since April 1993 the division became independent and is now
a subsidiary of INDEBANK. INDEBANK also was successful in mobilizing local resources
amounting to K4.3 million. The flexibility shown by Government, INDEBANK and the Bank
in handling the technical assistance component is commendable.
Issues eardinf the Lines of Credit
9.    Foreign Exchange Risk. The design of the two lines of credit in respect of the foreign
exchange risk was inappropriate. The industrial sector in Malawi is mainly composed of non-
exporters. However, under the industrial line of credit, sub-borrowers accepted directly the
foreign exchange risk. Many industrial companies were reluctant to accept this risk, and the
industrial line of credit was slow to commit. Many of those companies that did borrow under
the industrial line of credit ran into trouble when the kwacha was devalued during the course of
the project, and INDEBANK was forced to restructure several loans. In contrast, Government
accepted the foreign exchange risk for the agricultural borrowers, virtually all of whom were
exporters and accordingly would have been better able to hedge the risk. This line of credit was
committed very quickly.
10.   Inlementation - involvement of two Bank divisions. During the design period, the
country department debated whether to prepare two separate projects, one for industrial lending
("INDEBANK I") and one for agricultural lending. It was agreed that in view of Board slot
constraints, only one project would be prepared, and that the IDF division would take the lead,
with the agriculture division providing support.  Accordingly, for much of the early
implementation period, during which the agriculture line of credit was commited, two separate
divisions, IDF, and Agriculture, supervised and implemented the two lines of credit. This
division of labor on the Bank's part reflected the Bank's previous approach to lines of credit, by
separating them into the relevant sector divisions (e.g. housing, agriculture). While this division
of implementation between two divisions was intended to facilitate the inclusion of required skills,
while maling clear overall responsibility, the actual implementation did not work this way. The
two divisions had different approaches to implementation and supervision of the same project.
Inadequate records were kept on the agriculture subprojects, primarily related to disbursements,
which meant that an enormous amount of work was required by later missions and by the Reserve
Bank to reconstruct disbursements by project (necessary to determine how much was actually
disbursed on the subprojects). In addition, different procedures caused some confusion for
INDEBANK, which participated in both components of the project. The IDF division is at fault
for not managing the implementation more proactively, and ensuring that certain practices were
followed.
11. Special Accounts. Separate special accounts were set up for the agriculture and industry
components.  Neither account was well managed, largely because responsibility within
Government was never clear. It should be noted that poor experience with special accounts in
Malawi has not been limited to this project. Problems with disbursement recordkeeping in relation



- vi -
to the agriculture subprojects also impacted the agriculture special account. In trying to address
this problem the RBM and Bank established an Apex Unit in the Reserve Bank of Malawi; all
World Bank projects, and some donor projects, are managed by this unit.
Filndings and Lessons Learned
12.   Regarding the agricultural component, changes in sectoral orientation, such as
diversification, must be based on a well designed strategy, based on an in-depth understanding
of the constraints to agricultural diversification. This strategy must be clearly 'operationalized'
in the project design; in particular, the design should include technical assistance, with a strong
orientation toward capacity building, aimed at achieving the required supporting environment
(policy changes, development of support services).
13.   Foreign exchange risk in lines of credit should only be passed to sub-borrowers in cases
where they have the means to adequately cover the risk (e.g. export earnings, hedging
capabilities). In general, Governments should bear the foreign exchange risk for those enterprises
that do not have foreign earnings with the pricing of the loans structured in such a way that there
is compensation to the Government for this cost.
14.   Flexibility in project desi2n can reap large rewards by responding to changing
circumstances. The technical assistance to INDEBANK has been one of the most significant
developments in the financial sector by increasing the level of competition in the banking sector.
However, this TA, which was directed to the commercialization of INDEBANK, is far removed
from the original design, which further developed the developmental activities. This component
of the project was the most successful part of the loan and the impact of the TA alone would have
made the loan worthwhile.
15.   The past practice in the Bank of establishing sectoral lines of credit with different terms
and conditions, and supervision arrangements was inefficient (e.g. re-submission of audit of
progress reports), and confusing to implementing institutions. The current trend in the Bank
toward non-sectorally specific lines, which share common terms and conditions, should result in
more efficient use of the lines.
16.   Inadequate implementation and supervision of the project contributed to the need to cancel
US$1.3 million from the loan amount. Several factors contributed to inadequate supervision,
including the split in supervision responsibility between different divisions. In addition, the 1987
Bank reorganization was particularly disruptive, as the involvement of a third division was
introduced. In situations like this project, which can be unavoidable due to project complexities,
the managing division has to be particularly diligent about ensuring comprehensive and uniform
supervision practices are followed.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
INDUSTRIAL AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Ln. 2646-MAI)
Part I - Project Review from the Bank's Perspective
1.    Project Identity
Name                :      Industrial and Agricultural Credit Project
Loan Number                2646-MAI
RVP Unit                   Africa Region
Country                    Malawi
Sector              :      FIL
2.    Backeround
2.1   In formulating its development strategy after independence in 1964, the Government of
Malawi emphasized the development of agriculture, exports, and the private sector. In order to
implement some of its policies, the Government established the Investment and Development Bank
of Malawi (INDEBANK) in 1972. The main objective of INDEBANK was to make a contribution
to the advancement of productive business enterprises which in turn would contribute to economic
and social progress in accordance with the developmental goals set and pursued by the Government.
2.2    The country presented one of the major development success stories in the region, when its
real GDP doubled and real per capita income grew by 3 percent per year. This strong economic
growth came to a halt in the early 1980s when the country faced a combination of unfavorable terms
of trade, high interest rates, weather related shocks, and other major domestic policy weaknesses.
The first series of adjustment operations throughout the 1980s was a response to this set of shocks.
These structural reforms and improvements in short-term macroeconomic management created a
stable macroeconomic environment. After negative growth in 1986 and 1987, GDP (at market prices)
grew by 4.8 percent in 1990 and 7.8 in 1991, restoring per capita GDP growth to a positive level.
In 1992, the economy was affected by two major shocks; a severe drought that reduced the maize
crop by nearly 60 percent and the outcome of May 1992 Consultative Group meeting, when bilateral
donors and the European Community abstained from pledging additional external assistance to
Malawi.
2.3    Agricultural sector. Agriculture has been the backbone of Malawi's economy. Farms are
categorized as either "estate" or "smallholder". The estate sector has been the primary foreign
exchange earner in Malawi: although at the time of project design (1984) only about 4 percent of
Malawi's total land area was held under the estate sub-sector and the area devoted to estate production
was less than 10 percent of land suitable for cultivation, the estate sub-sector accounted for about 80
percent of the country's foreign exchange earnings with exports of tobacco, sugar, tea, coffee, and
macadamia nuts. The development of the estate sub-sector has been left to the private sector, with
very little Government assistance. In the early 1980s the prospects for traditional estate crops



- 2 -
worsened because of a weak world demand for tobacco and sugar. It became critical for Malawi to
diversify away from traditional crops to increase growth in exports and stabilize earnings. There was
then a need for Government to play a more active role in assisting the estate sub-sector address these
critical needs, particularly term credit and technical assistance.
2.4   Loan 2646 was the first IBRD operation to assist the estate sector. Prior to this project, the
Bank Group had funded 14 projects totalling US$121 million for smallholder agriculture. With the
exception of one Third Window loan of US$9.2 million, the financing had been made through IDA
credits. The Bank assigned priority to the rehabilitation, expansion and diversification of agricultural
estates, based on the recommendations of an agricultural diversification study conducted in 1984.
This study proposed: (i) a consistent export promotion strategy complemented by import substitution
where economically feasible; (ii) strengthening and focussing on adaptive research to help resolve
the technological constraints and increase efficiency in land and labor use; and (iii) improving the
administration of agricultural programs. In addition, it indicated that in order to improve the
efficiency of agricultural estates and to encourage diversification away from tobacco, tea and sugar,
there was a need to improve the mechanism for channelling credit to the estate sector and to increase
the amount of credit to the sector.
2.5   Industrial sector.  The industrial sector in Malawi is very small, accounting for about 12
percent of GDP. The World Bank's strategy in the industrial sector in Malawi was to encourage and
assist continued manufacturing expansion in Malawi, building on Malawi's agricultural bases. The
Bank's only industrial sector operation in Malawi, prior to Ln. 2646, had been an industrial
development finance operation to INDEBANK through the Government of Malawi (Ln. 1610) for
US$3 million. This loan was approved in July 1978 and closed in July 1983. Approximately
US$235,004 of the loan was cancelled due to some sub-projects being implemented at lower than
estimated cost. The objectives of this project were to provide financing for investments in productive
sectors and technical assistance for institution building of INDEBANK. This project was recognized
as having substantially met its objectives. However, at the time of the completion report, it was
noted that INDEBANK still had to overcome weaknesses in the area of project promotion and
evaluation of the economic impact of the projects it financed, and needed to strengthen its institutional
capabilities to be able to play a leading role in the development of Malawi's industrial sector.
2.6    During the supervision of Ln. 1610 in 1983 INDEBANK and the Government of Malawi
expressed their interest in a follow-up line of credit to continue financing for productive activities in
industry. Concurrent with the discussions with INDEBANK on follow-up Bank assistance to the
industrial sector, the Bank held discussions with the Government of Malawi on possible Bank
assistance to the Malawian agricultural sector. In response to this the Government of Malawi hired
consultants to prepare a proposal for the establishment of the Agricultural Development Bank
(AGRIBANK). The consultants, the Government of Malawi and the Bank agreed that AGRIBANK
was not a viable proposition. On the Bank's recommendation, the Government agreed to channel
Bank assistance to the agricultural sector through the existing institutions (INDEBANK, Commercial
Bank of Malawi and National Bank of Malawi). This was defined as a pilot arrangement to allow
assessment of potential demand and the performance of participating institutions.



3.    Project Objectives and Description
3.1    According to the President's Report, the project was expected: (i) to stimulate the efficient
expansion of Malawi's industrial, commercial, transportation and tourism sub-sectors by providing
term finance; (ii) to improve the utilization, efficiency and productivity of agricultural estates and
gradually encourage diversification into viable new crops;  (iii) to sustain and strengthen
INDEBANK's institutional capabilities to effectively promote efficient development in the
agricultural, industrial and commercial sectors. The three components of the project included: (i)
a US$3.0 million credit line to finance viable industrial, commercial, transport and tourism
investments; (ii) a US$4.5 million agricultural credit line to provide investment credit to estates;
and (iii) US$0.3 million in technical assistance to INDEBANK to strengthen its capability to
promote, appraise and monitor agricultural projects.
4.    Project Design and Organization
4.1   IBRD funds were borrowed by the Government of Malawi, through the Reserve Bank of
Malawi, at standard variable interest rate, repayable in 15 years including four years of grace.
4.2   The Government agreed to on-lend US$3.0 million to INDEBANK to finance industrial, and
commercial projects at the variable interest rate to be paid by Government. Repayment would be in
accordance with the aggregate of the amortization schedules applicable to sub-loans. The maximum
repayment period was 15 years including four years of grace. INDEBANK on-lent loan proceeds
at a variable rate that would be positive in real terms and adequate to cover reasonable administrative
expenses. INDEBANK's rate for industrial credit was 13 percent per annum.
4.3   The Government also agreed to on-lend, through the Reserve Bank of Malawi, US$4.5
million for agricultural projects to INDEBANK, the National Bank of Malawi (NBM), and the
Commercial Bank of Malawi (CBM) at a rate initially set at 10.5 percent per annum. These
institutions on-lent at rates initially ranging from 11.5 percent to 15 percent per annum. The
Government bore the foreign exchange risk for the agricultural component, which was deemed
appropriate in view of the Govermment's objective to expand credit availability and stimulate
development in the estate sub-sector.
4.4   The Government provided a grant of US$0.3 million to INDEBANK to help strengthen the
institution's capabilities to promote, appraise and monitor agricultural projects. Proceeds of this
component would finance the cost of employing a manager for the Agricultural Projects Department,
for a term of three years, and an experienced agricultural specialist. In view of a shortage of
Malawians with the required appropriate experience, INDEBANK was expected to recruit expatriates
to fill these positions. In addition, proceeds of the technical assistance component would finance the
cost of employing two suitably qualified Malawian counterparts.
4.5   The Reserve Bank of Malawi opened two spial accounts for each component with a bank
overseas. Funds were channeled from the loan account to these special accounts. Initially, RBM
managed both Special Accounts, although INDEBANK eventually assumed full responsibility for the
industrial Special Account, with RBM playing a minimal role.



-4-
5.    kmRementation
5.1    General. Implementation of this project was recognized as satisfactory and problem-free.
The project was rated p1" in 1987 and thereafter it was rated '2' until the closing date. Ihe project
closed on January 13, 1993, six months ahead of schedule. The Bank encouraged the Government
of Malawi to close the loan early, as there were funds available to the Govermment of Malawi at IDA
rate, under Cr. 2221.
5.2    As the only participating financial institution (PFI) in the industry component, INDEBANK,
for the most part, managed the industrial line of credit and the special account. RBM managed the
agricultural line of credit and the special account. A few problems were experienced due to of lack
of knowledge of Bank procedures. The two commercial banks, CBM and NBM, participated in the
agricultural line of credit with INDEBANK.
5.3   Imnlementation of the Industrial Component. In general, implementation of the industrial line
of credit was satisfactory. INDEBANK was the sole executing agent for the industrial credit line.
Seven sub-projects were financed under this credit line and a total of US$2,495,799 was disbursed.
Annex B, attached hereto, gives details on these sub-projects. Approximately US$504,201 (17
percent) was cancelled from the line of credit.
5.4    The sub-borrowers under this line of credit had to bear the foreign exchange risk, which
resulted in slow use of funds. The devaluation of the Malawian Kwacha in 1987 resulted in
outstanding debtor balances increasing. As a result of this, INDEBANK rescheduled most of the
loans. After the rescheduling of loans, repayments occurred as expected except for Concrete Tile
Industries and Viphya Plywood, both of which ended up accruing arrears. However, Concrete Tile
Industries managed to pay the arrears and the payments are now occurring as expected.
5.5    Viphya Plywood has been unable to make any repayments since the loan was extended.
INDEBANK restructured the loan and repayments are expected to commence in 1996. The company
has been experiencing problems and the main reason seem to be associated with understatement of
projected figures at the time of the feasibility study of the project. The company is presently under
a foreign management team and the shareholders, which include IFC, are considering restructuring
options, including privatization.
5.6   Implementation of the Agricultural Component.  National Bank of Malawi (NBM),
Commercial Bank of Malawi (CBM), and INDEBANK were executing agencies of this component
of the project. US$3,158,475, of the US$4.5M available for agriculture lending was disbursed, and
the remaining US$1,341,525 (30 percent) was cancelled. Ten sub-projects were financed under the
agricultural line of credit. Four of these estates diversified into coffee, of which one diversified into
both coffee and macadamia nuts. Three of the estates purchased irrigation equipment and the
remaining three rehabilitated the estates.
5.7    Three agricultural sub-projects were financed by INDEBANK, of which two have been taken
over by one owner. This company is performing well and is involved in a diversifying program.
The other sub-project had difficulty repaying the loan due to low tea prices. The loan was paid in
full under the Tea Industry Rescue Package. Under this scheme Press Corporation extended cheap



-5-
loans to estates affected by low tea prices and the outstanding debtor balances for these estates were
settled by Press Corporation.
5.8    NBM financed 4 sub-projects of which three have been fully repaid. The remaining sub-
project had difficulty meeting the repayments due to tea crop losses and the loan was rescheduled.
Repayments are currently occurring as expected.
5.9   CBM financed 3 sub-projects, of which 2 have been fully repaid and one was sold to General
Farming and was settled in full when it was being transferred to NBM.
5.10  The need to cancel such a large amount was not indicative of lack of interest by the estate
sector; in fact, this component was quickly committed. However, disbursements were not well
tracked either by RBM or by the World Bank. RBM monitored commitments and disbursements in
Malawi kwacha, while the Bank monitored in US dollars. While it appeared to RBM that the
component had been fully committed and disbursed, the devaluations of the Malawi kwacha during
this period meant that there actually was a large, unused balance in the agriculture component - about
US$1.8 million. Had this amount been identified earlier in the project life, it undoubtedly would
have been committed and disbursed. However, by the time it was identified as a commitment
problem, rather than just lagging disbursements, the Government was no longer interested in using
IBRD funds for this purpose.
5.11   A special accunt was opened in July 1986 and a balance of US$400,000 was maintained.
All disbursements for agricultural sub-projects were debited from this account. As with many
projects in Malawi, the special account was not audited regularly. Had it been, the problem with
under-commitments would probably have come to light sooner.
5.12   Technical Assistance Component. This component of the project (US$0.3 million) was
provided by the Government of Malawi to INDEBANK as a grant to help the institution strengthen
its capabilities to promote, appraise and monitor agricultural projects in order to expand its role in
agricultural lending. Actual amount disbursed under this component was US$352,006.
5.13  The recruitment of the Agricultural Credit Manager did not take place in 1986 as was agreed.
INDEBANK was only able to recruit an expatriate in November 1987 to manage the agricultural
credit department, who stayed for only one of the expected three years. An agreement was then
reached between the Bank and INDEBANK to engage consultants as necessary for agricultural
projects evaluation. Meantime, an agricultural projects officer was sent to the U.K. for training.
5.14 The expatriate had a minimal impact on INDEBANK. In the year that he spent with
INDEBANK, little training was accomplished. However, he prepared a draft manual for the
appraisal of agricultural projects which was used as a guideline in evaluating agricultural projects.
5.15   Near the end of the project, the Bank, Government and INDEBANK agreed to re-direct the
technical assistance to finance a strategic options study. This study led to the creation of a wholesale
commercial banking facility, the Banking and Financial Services Division in 1991. This division
contributed to the profitability of INDEBANK and in April 1993 the division became independent
and is currently a subsidiary of INDEBANK.



-6 -
6.    Project Results
6.1    The project objectives were: (i) to improve utilization, efficiency and productivity of
agricultural estates; (ii) to sustain and strengthening the institutional capabilities of INDEBANK; and
(iii) to stimulate the efficient expansion of industrial, commercial, transportation and tourism sub-
sectors. The project substantially achieved its objectives on the industrial and technical assistance
components, particularly the strengthening of INDEBANK's institutional capabilities.  The
reorientation of the technical assistance to develop commercial banking facilities was especially
effective.
6.2    However, the objectives in regards to agriculture cannot be viewed as having been achieved.
In part, this was because the objectives were very ambitious for a small pilot project: the agriculture
line of credit was only a very small fraction of the agricultural portfolio of the commercial banks in
Malawi, and there was no technical assistance aimed at promoting the developmental objectives.
Only 10 sub-projects were financed by the participating financial intermediaries (PFIs), of which six
had been fully repaid at the time of the PCR mission in August 1993 (repayment of the others is on
schedule). Some estates were able to improve efficiency and productivity during the project period,
primarily related to the installation of irrigation.
6.3    More importantly, however, the lack of success is attributable to inadequate linkages between
the project, and the sector work that was going on at the same time regarding agriculture
diversification, which identified a number of possible crops. This report, Malawi: Agricultural
Diversification, was published in November 1984, which meant that the findings of the report could
have been better incorporated into the design of Loan 2646. However, other than stating that an
important objective was to encourage diversification, and providing a small amount of term finance
for the estate sector, the project did nothing to facilitate the diversification process. The assumption
underlying the design of this component was that improvements in estate productivity, particularly
regarding tea and tobacco, would engender diversification away from those two products. No
technical assistance was provided under the project to assisting farmers to determine how to diversify
and what to diversify into. Most of the estates that attempted diversification replaced tea with coffee,
which did not achieve diversification. One or two estates attempted to diversify, planting coffee and
macadamia nuts instead of tea: however, it is evident that these estates did not have any information
about the markets of the crops they diversified into, nor were support services available to them. In
addition, the market for burley tobacco boomed during the 1986-92 period. How to achieve
diversification of the Malawian economy and specifically of agriculture remains a structural problem.
A draft Agricultural Sector Memorandum has been prepared; the key to unlocking Malawi's
diversification potential is considered to be that of providing an enabling environment for investment
by farmers, especially commercial smallholders and viable estates, and businesses (including agro-
processors) through the removal of policy obstacles and the improvement of institutional support to
ensure a private sector-led agricultural diversification.
6.4   INDEBANK Subloans. INDEBANK was the sole executing agency of the US$3.0 million
industrial line of credit, of which US$2,495,799 was disbursed and seven sub-projects were financed.
Of the agricultural line of credit INDEBANK disbursed K 2,401,886. The following table
summarizes INDEBANK subloans financed under Ln. 2646:



-7-
Sector        ~~Number             Disbured
Agriculture          3                   K 2,401,886
Industry             7                  USS 2,495,799
Agro-industry       3                 USS 1,802,946
6.5   Ten agricultural sub-projects were financed under the agricultural component of the project.
Actual amount disbursed was US$3,158,475 and the remaining US$1,341,525 was cancelled.
6.6    NBM Subloan. NBM participated in the agricultural component of the project. NBM has
been involved in agricultural lending for a long time, and more than 60% of its customers are
involved in agricultural activities. Of the US$4.5 million agricultural line of credit, NBM financed
four subloans, disbursing K3,474,117. As at June 1993 K2,834,117 had been repaid with only K
640,000 outstanding.
6.7    CBM Subloans. CBM participated in the agricultural component of the project, disbursing
K 2,222,787. Like NBM, CBM has a substantial portfolio in agriculture. Four sub-projects were
financed by CBM under the agricultural line of credit and all the loans have been fully repaid.
6.8   Technical Assistance. The technical assistance component was meant to help INDEBANK
strengthen its capabilities to promote, appraise and monitor agricultural projects in order to expand
its role in agricultural lending. However, two years into the implementation of the project, based on
a strategic planning exercise, the Bank and INDEBANK agreed to redirect these funds to establishing
a Banking and Financial Services Division and mobilizing local resources. A total amount of
US$352,005 was disbursed.
6.9   The TA contributed significantly in building capacity within INDEBANK. INDEBANK has
grown to a sound, profitable and well managed financial institution. INDEBANK's financial
performance has steadily improved during the past five years. Assets increased from K39 million
in 1988 to K162 million in 1992. Profits after tax increased from K1.4 million in 1988 to K3.4
million in 1992 and to K2.6 during the first half of 1993. As reflected in Attachments 4 and 5, the
return on average shareholders' funds increased from 17.4 percent in 1988 to 23.9 percent in 1991.
In 1992 the share capital increased by about 60 percent and the return on average shareholder's finds
was 16.4 percent. The return on total assets also increased from 3.5 percent in 1988 to 5.2 percent
in 1991. Assets in 1992 increased about 114 percent from 1991, the return on average total assets
was 2.1 percent in 1992. In 1991 INDEBANK started the Banking and Financial Services Division,
a deposit taking division. As at June 1993 the division had 120 depositors, most of whom have term
loans with INDEBANK.
6.10  The above success, however, does not obviate the need to review the role of the formal
financial institutions in supporting agriculture, and diversification in particular. Agriculture is the
cornerstone of the Malawian economy. Appropriate financial support is essential to its development
and diversification.



-8 -
7. Proect Sutaxabfitib
7.1   The agricultural component of this project was a small pilot project. In view of lack of the
diversification strategy, the impact of the project was negligible. However, the components
implemented by INDEBANK (industrial and technical assistance) achieved a much more sustainable
impact. INDEBANK was considerably strengthened by the technical assistance. The impact on the
financial sector has been significant. INDEBANK's market share of financial assets has been
increasing, at the expense of commercial banks' shares.
8. Bank Performance
8.1    Until 1989/90, the project was supervised by two Bank divisions, Agriculture and Industry.
As discussed above, the two divisions had different approaches to supervision, which eventually
contributed to the need to cancel 30 percent of the agriculture line of credit. This split in
responsibility was worsened at the time of the 1987/88 Bank reorganization, at which time the lead
task manager (for industry) moved outside the Southern Africa Department. This situation, in which
both implementing Bank staff were outside the responsible division, was clearly unsatisfactory in
terms of ensuring uniform and consistent implementation. In 1989/90, the responsible division,
AF6EE, took responsibility for all aspects of implementation. The split in responsibilities between
several divisions, who pursued different approaches to implementation and who clearly did not work
closely enough, resulted in incomplete use of project funds. In addition, it was confusing and time
consuming to the participating PFIs, particularly INDEBANK, the only PFI that participated on both
components.
8.2   The design of the project could have been significantly strengthening by providing a better
conceptual basis for the agriculture component, in terms of a well defined diversification strategy,
and related technical assistance to ensure support during the diversification process. The design of
the project also overestimated the ability of all involved parties (lNDEBANK, CBM and NBM) and
in particular, the Government and RBM, to work under Bank procedures. The subsequent 1989
Agriculture Marketing and Estate Development Project (Cr. 1960) has experienced similar problems,
and has achieved little toward diversification. These projects highlight the need for a comprehensive
approach to promoting diversification. The Agriculture Diversification Project currently under
preparation will look at both financial and non-financial constraints.
9. Borrower's Performance
9.1   The main parties involved in the implementation of Ln. 2646 included RBM, INDEBANK,
National Bank of Malawi and Commercial Bank of Malawi.
9.2    Government. The Reserve Bank of Malawi largely handled the project on behalf of the
Government. This was the first Bank project in which RBM played an implementing role. A number
of difficulties were encountered, in particular insufficient inowledge of Bank procedures, and change
in personnel. The Bank and RBM attempted to address these issues under Cr. 2221 with the
establishment of the Apex Unit.
9.3   INDEBANK. The performance of INDEBANK throughout the project was commendable.
The openness and willingness of management to address problems and more importantly, to think and



- 9 -
act strategically, was the key factor in the successful inplementation of this project, and the growth
and development of INDEBANK more generally. Competency and stability in key posts, including
the finance manager, has also been a factor in INDEBANK's success.
9.4    NBM  and CBM. The project had little impact on the commercial banks as it was a small
fraction of their agricultural portfolio. Due to the drought some tea estates were unable to repay the
sub-loans as expected. However, Press Corporation, the largest shareholder of NBM, fully repaid
the sub-loans of the affected sub-projects under the Tea Industry Rescue Package. Under this scheme
Press Corporation extended cheap loans to estates affected by low tea prices and the fully repaid their
outstanding loans.
9.5    The management of the two special accounts by different agents resulted in confusion. No
proper reconciliation of the accounts was maintained, to the extent that at some stage it was not clear
how much funds were still available under the agricultural component.
10.    Proect Relationship
10.1  The relationship between the Bank and the involved parties in Malawi was cordial throughout
the project cycle. The management of INDEBANK was very supportive and respected the advice
of the Bank.
1.    Project Documentation and Data
11.1  The Staff Appraisal and the President's reports, and the legal documents were well-prepared.
Problems arose after reorganization within the Bank, when the project was supervised by two
divisions. As a result of this some correspondence, reports and documents related to agricultural
component of the project were lost. In particular, documentation on the agricultural sub-projects
appear to have been lost, and this resulted in lack of detailed information on these sub-projects. All
disbursements in the industrial component were recorded by sub-projects and this eased the task of
analyzing the use of funds. However, this was not the case will some of the agricultural projects and
this presented some difficulty in reconciling the agricultural disbursements.



- 10-
pROJECT COMEPLEONREPR
MALAWI
INDUSMlAL AND AGRCULTURAL CR13DIT PROJECT
(Ln. 2646-MAD)
PART II - Project Review from Borrower's Perspective
1.    Comments from the Government were not received.



- 11 -
Attachment 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAWI
INDUSIRIAL AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Ln. 2646-MAD1
PART III - Statistical Profile
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Loan/         Title             Purpose        | Year of    Status
Credit   _                                      Approval
1610-    Investment and   Improve operations    1978        Closed
MAI       Development    of INDEBANK
___ ___ Bank
2221-    Financial Sector  Apex line of credit to  1991     Ongoing
MAI       and Enterprise   five institutions,
Development    including
beneficiaries of Ln.
_________           ~~2646
1966-    Agr. Marketing   Development of        1989        Ongoing
MAI       and Estate      marketing and large
Development    and small estates
2. Project Timetable
Date         Date          Date
Item                              Planned       Revised       Actual
- Identification                                              5/84
- Preparation
- Appraisal Mission                2/85                        3/85
- Loan Negotiations                10/85                       10/85
- Board Approval                                              12/19/85
- Loan Signature                                               4/14186
- Loan Effectiveness               1/86                        7/16/86
- Loan Closing                     6/30/93                     1/13/93
- Loan Completions                 12/31/89



- 12 -
Attachment 2
3. LoanCredit Dhkbummim
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
EY6  FY87 F  EY8    FY89 FY9   FY1 XE2E  FY93
Estimated:
Annual              1050  2000   1740  1390   940   320   180   180
Cumulative          1050  3050   4790  6180  7120  7440  7620  7800
Actual:
Annual               0    799    423   1762  1527  1439   56        0
Cumulative           0    799   1222  2984  4511  5950  6006  6006
Actual as % of
estimate (annual)    0    40       24    126   162   450    31       0
Actual as % of
estimate             0    26       25    48    63    80    79       77
(cumulative)
Date of Final Disb. - 7/21/92



- 13 -
Attachment 3
4. Project Costs and Flnancing
A. Poect Costs
Appraisal Estimate                  Actual
Foreign                           Foreign
Local Exchange                 Local    Exchange
Iem            Costs  CCosts    Tt             C         Costs
Line of Credit
Industrial    -      3.00       3.0                               2.6
Agricultural  1.80    2.70      4.5                               3.1
Technical
Assistance
Indebank     0.10    0.20       0.3                              0.3
TOTAL                           72                                 As
Comments:
B. Project Finandnng
Appraisal                            Actual
Foreign                           Foreign
Local        Exchange                  Local   Exchange
Costs        Costs        Total        Co       Costs     Total
IBRD loan           1.90        5.90          7.80                           6.0



- 14 -                                   Attachment 4
5.     Status of Covenants
Agreement - Section         Description                                             Status
Project - 3.02(i)           INDEBANK will annually review its interest
rates to assure that these rates are:
(a) positive in real terms; (b) in line                 In compliance
with overall interest rate structure in
Malawi; (c) adequate to enable INDEBANK to cover
its reasonable administrative expenses, make            Partial
adequate provisions and earn an adequate profit         compliance
margin; and (d) adequate to achieve the objectives      (interest rate
of the Project.                                          structure)
Project - 3.02(ii)          INDEBANK will annually review the level of its
administrative expenses with the Bank and               In compliance
implement such measures as may be agreed to reduce
the level of such administrative expenses.
Project - 3.01(b)(ii)       INDEBANK's audited accounts will be prepared
and presented in accordance with the World Bank's      In compliance
"Illustrative Form of Audit Report for Development
Finance Companies" and submitted to the Bank within
six months of the close of the financial year.
Project - 3.03(b)           INDEBANK will submit quarterly reports including
a summary of its operations, financial statements,     In compliance
resource position, statement of arrears, collection
ratios and notes on situation of projects in
difficulties.
Project - 3.08             INDEBANK will limit the total value of its equity
investments to a maximum of 120% of its net worth.     In compliance
Project - 3.03              INDEBANK will maintain a debt/equity ratio not
exceeding 5:1.                                         In compliance
Project - 2.06(i)           INDEBANK will calculate economic rates of return
for projects requiring financing of more than           In compliance
US$100,000 equivalent.



- 15 -                            Attachmnent 4 (cont.)
Project - 2.05(i)          NBM and CBM will calculate finanical rates of
return for all projects requiring financing of        In compliance
more than US$100,000 under the agricultural credit
component of Loan 2646-MAI.
Project - 2.05(ii)         NBM and CBM will not make agricultural sub-loans in
an amount exceeding the equivalent of US$250,000 to   In compliance
any one project or in an amount exceeding the
equivalent of us$500,000 to any one irrigation project.
Project - 3.03(b)          NBM and CBM will submit quarterly reports including
details of sub-loan approvals and commitments, and    In compliance
a summary analysis of the status of implementation
and performance of sub-projects financed under the loan.
Project - 3.03(a)(ii)      NBM and CBM will submit their annual audited accounts
within nine months of the close of their financial year.  In compliance
Project - 3.04(d)          The audited reports of NBM and CBM will include audits
of transactions relating to the financing of           In compliance
agricultural projects.
p:\Sizeka\covenant



- 16 -
Attachment 5
6.  Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Weeks
Stage of
Project Cycle                                      Staff Weeks
Through Appraisal                                      72.2
Appraisal through                                       18.6
Effectiveness
Supervision
FY86                            4.3
FY87                           13.3
FY88                            7.7
FY89                            9.2
FY90                            7.6
FY91                            8.0
FY92                            5.7
FY93                            4.9
FY94                            4.8
65.5
TOTAL                                                 156.3
B. Missions
Stage of           ?4onth/   No. of   Days in      Specialization       Performance         Type of
Project Cycle      Year      Persons  Field        Represented          Status              Problems
Through Appraisal
I               11/84    1         5            Finance
Appraisal through
Board Approval
I               02/85    3         19           Finance
II              05/85    2         19           Finance, Agriculture
Board Approval
through effectiveness
I               06/86    2         11           Finance
Supervision
I               02/87    3         16           Finance, General        1
II              06/88    3         16           Finance, Agriculture   2
III             07/89    2         13           Finance                 2
IV              11/89    1         s            Finance                 2
V               12/91    3         11           Finance                 2
VI              04/92    1         4            Finance                 2



- 17 -
Attachment 6
MALAWI
INDUSTRIAL AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
COMMERCIAL BANK OF MALAWI
Status of Sub-projects Financed under Ln. 2646
AGRICULTURAL SUB-PROJECTS
Press Farming
The loan was approved in December 1987 for K507,379 of which K566,728 was disbursed.
The loan was fully repaid in December 1991.
Chigonamikango Cotton Ginnerv
The loan was approved in March 1988 for K600,000, of which K637,408 was disbursed. The owner
of the ginnery died in 1992 and the ginnery was sold to ADMARC for an amount of K2.5 million.
In April 1993 the loan with CBM was fully repaid.
Bandanga Limited
The loan for K800,000 was transferred from NBM in November 1989. Following the purchase of
the company by General Farming Limited the account was settled in full with CBM in February 1992
and transferred back to NBM.



- 18 -
Attachment 7
MALAWI
INDUSTRIAL AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
NATIONAL BANK OF MALAWI
Status of Subproiects Financed under Ln. 2646
AGRICULTURAL SUB-PROJECTS
Namingomba Tea Estates Ltd
The loan was approved in October 1988 for K733,426. The loan was fully disbursed and as at June
1993 the loan had been fully repaid.
General Farming Company Ltd
The loan was approved in May 1988 for K576,691. The loan was fully disbursed and as at June
1993 the loan had been fuilly repaid.
Nchima Tea & Tung Estate Ltd
The loan was approved in March 1990 for K1,100,000, and the full amount was disbursed. As at
June 1993 the debtor amount outstanding was K640,000. Due to tea crop losses this loan was
rescheduled. There are no arrears.
I. Conforzi (Tea & Tobacco) Ltd
The loan was approved in December 1988 for K1,064,000 and was fully disbursed. As at June 1993
the loan had been fully repaid.



- 19 -
Attachment 8
MALAWI
INDUSTRIAL AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
INDEBANK
Status of Subprojects Financed under Ln. 2646
AGRICULTURAL SUB-PROJECTS
Sable Farming
Sable Farming bought over Impala Farming Company and Kawalazi Tea Estate, both financed under
Ln. 2646 through INDEBANK.
ImDala Farming ComDanv Ltd.
The loan was approved in August 1987 for K600,000 and was fully disbursed. As at March 1993,
outstanding debtor balance was K 300,000 with no arrears on record.
Kawalazi Tea Estate.
The loan was approved in August 1987 for K1,200,000 and was fully disbursed. As at January 1993,
outstanding debtor balance was K1,200,000. Repayments for this account will commence in 1994.
Zoa Tea Estates Limited
The loan was approved in September 1987 for K610,000 of which K601,886 was disbursed. The
loan was fully repaid under the Tea Industry Rescue Package. Under this scheme Press Corporation
extended cheap loans to estates affected by the low tea prices and the outstanding loans for these
estates were fully repaid by Press Corporation.
INDUSTRIAL SUBPROJECTS
Centraleaf (Malawi) Ltd
The loan was approved in March 29, 1990 for US$ 941,000 and a further US$ 300,000 was approved
in April 24, 1991. Repayments on both loans started in January 1993 and there are no arrears on
record. The company is currently performing well.



- 20 -
Attachment 8 (cont.)
Concrete Tile Industries
The loan was approved in March 24, 1988 for US$320,000, of which US$ 216,770 was disbursed.
The balance of US$ 103,230 was cancelled. As at June 1993, outstanding debtor balance was US$
45,590 with no arrears on record.
Jacaranda Developments Ltd
The loan was approved in January 1989 for US$95,000 of which $94,236.15 was disbursed. As of
January 1993, outstanding debtor balance US$ 62,126 with no arrears on record.
Universal Industries Ltd
The loan was approved in March 1988 for $302,328.45, of which $302,328.45 was disbursed. As
at January 1993, outstanding debtor balance was US$62,327 with no arrears on record.
Viphya Plywood and Allied Industries Ltd
The loan was approved in June 1986 for $350,000 and was fully disbursed. Repayments were
supposed to begin in January 1990. Due to the losses the company was experiencing, no payments
were made. However, INDEBANK continued and still continues to make repayments to IBRD. The
loan has since been rescheduled and repayments are supposed to commence in 1996. Both
INDEBANK and Viphya Plywood doubt that the company will be able to resume repayments in
1996. IFC, one of the shareholders, is currently considering restructuring options.
Leopard Match Limited
The loan was approved in August 1989 for $285,000 and was fully disbursed. The loan has been
fully repaid and the company is currently performing well.
Duke Products Limited
The loan was approved in September 1988 for $182,000 and was fully disbursed. As at January
1993, outstanding debtor balance was US$ 90,700 with no arrears on record. The company is
performing well and has benefitted from Cr. 2221 for an expansion program.



- 21 -
Attachment 9
MALAWI
INDUSTRIAL AND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT (Ln. 2646)
INDEBANK
FINANCED-SUBPROJECTS
Sub-proi.                IBRD         Disbursed
No.   Sub-project        Region       Nature       Subsector   Approval    Amount        6/30/93
A-1   Viphya Plywood    Northern    expansion   manufg.                        350,000     350,000
A-2   Universal Indus.  Southern    new            manufg.      04/07/87      300,000      302,328
A-3   Concrete Tile      Southern    new           manufg.      05/27/88       320,000     216,780
Leopard Match Ltd Southern    expansion   manufg.        02/06/89       285,000      284,835
A-5   Centraleaf         Central      expansion   processing  11/08/90    1,241,000   1.168,111
B-1   Duke Products      Southern    new           manufg.      04/28/87      182,000      180,301
B-2   Jacaranda Dev.    Southern    new            property                     95,000      94,236
AG-5  Kawalazi Tea Est. Northern    Diversify   agriculture 12/22/89           500,000     455,880
AG-6  Impala Farming    Southern    Irrigation  agriculture 10/20/88           500,000     225,300
AG-7  Zoa Tea Estate    Southern    Diversify                   05/18/90      250,000      233,366
COMMERCIAL BANK OF MALAWI
FINANCED-SUBPROJECTS
Sub-proi.                IBRD                     Disbursed
No.   Sub-project        Reqion       Nature       Subsector   Approval    Amount        6/30/93
AG-4  Press Farming      Southern    Diversify   agriculture 02/23/88    250,000         268,515
AG-10 Chigonamikango    Southern    Diversify   agriculture 03/28/88    235,000          235,388
Cotton Ginnery
AG-2  Bandanga Limited  Southern    Diversify   agriculture 06/07/90    344,000          302,054
NATIONAL BANK OF MALAWI
FINANCED-SUBPROJECTS
Sub-proi.                IBRD                     Disbursed
No.   Sub-project        Region       Nature       Subsector   Approval    Amount        6/30/93
AG-1  Namingomba Tea    Southern    irrigation  agriculture                 322,500      314,579
AG-3  General Farming   Southern    irrigation  agriculture 05/27/88    250,000          231,139
AG-8  Nchima Tea Est.   Southern    diversify   agriculture                 500,000      407,849
AG-9  I. Conforzi Ltd.  Southern    irrigation  agriculture                 500,000      391,520
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                                     352,005



MALAWI
INDEBANK
BALANCE SHEET
As of Dec. 31,                    1984             1985            1986            1987            1988             1989            1990            1991            1992
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash                                        929             418              528           3,839           6,412           1,408           1,117            2,443           4,761
Time deposits                                                                                                                                                            14,2021.03
Banker's Acceptance                                                                                                                                          I           14,221.0
Advance                                                                                                                                                     6,250          35,535
Marketable securities                     4,726           3,389           1,680            1,030           5,626           8,778           10,835          12,651          11,631
Receivables                                 443             736           1,462              661           1,067           1,186           2,801            3,019           3,786
Current maturities                        2,581           2,719           6,752            4,653           5,591           6,658            6,890           9,087          11,931
Taxation recoverable                        407             534              792              42               0                0               0               0                0
Accrued income                              589             759              738             828           1,042             881            1,083           1,555           4,800
Net accruied income                       9,675           8,555          11,952           11,053          19,738          18,911           22,726          37,905         108,402
Prepayments                                 149             171              374             290             365             264              185             807           1,520
Others
Total current assets                      4,324           8,726          12,326           11,343          20,103          19,175           22,911          38,712         109,922
Portfolio investments
Loans outstanding                        t5,922          20,513          22,629           23,696          26,290          31,585           40,351          48,440          67,202
Foreign exchange fluictuations
recoverable from borrowers
Lev c:
Curr.'nt maturities                       (2,551)         (2,719)         (6,752)         (4,653)         (5.591)          (6,658)         (6,890)         (9,087)        (11,931)
Loan loss provision                      (1,763)          (2,479)         (3,119)         (3,875)         (3.313)          (3,150)         (4,787)         (5,030)          (5,882)
Net loans outstanding                    11,578          15,31S           12,758          15,168          17,386          21,777           28,674          34,323          49,389
Equity investments:
Subsiaiaries                              4,624           4,848            5,400           6,133           1,327            1,526             307             302             302           N)
others                                      117              110             570             570             570              570             570           1,470           1,520          N)
Total equity investments                  4,741           4,958            5,970           6,703           1,897           2,096              877           1,772           1,822
Less:
Provision for possible loss                   0                0               0               0             (864)         (1,020)              0               0                0
Net equity investments                    4,741           4,958            5,970           6,703           1,033            1,076             877           1,772           1,822
Net portfolio investments                16,319          20,273           18,728          21,871          18,419          22,853           29,551          36,095          51,211
Fixed assets                                497              522             497             462             379              373             371             955            1,367
Other assets
TOTAL ASSETS                             26,640          29,521           31,551          33,676          38,901          42,401           52,833          75,762         162,500
rt
(3
0
rt
0
0
ct



Current liabilities
11,420         61,891
Demand deposits.                                                                                                                                                    12,134.0
Letters of Credit
Saving deposits
Short-term borrowings
Accounts payable and accrued expense   1,178            1,220           1,339           1,551           1,649          2,276           3,653           7,274           7,461
Liability to managed funds
Current maturities                       1,359          2,021           4,649           2,590          3,636           3,032           3,666           2,800           8,5
Income tax                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                       ~      ~~~~~~~~227  1,307  993  374  445
Other                                      270              0             300             390             683            820             980             975           1,573
Total current liabilities                2,807          3,241           6,288           4,531           6,195          7,435           9,292          22,843          92,023
Long-term debt:
Borrowing from governiment:                                                             1,291           3,055          5,858          10,150          15,926          32,591
IDA/IBRD                              2,304           2,279           2141213055881   5                                                              5963,9
ODAtBer                               2630           29,605          114226         10,877          10,587           8,637          12,533          12,577         15,042
others                                 6,663          9,605--                                                                      ---11-,226---
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - -                                        4 7__ _ __ _ _ _ _ _6 3_ _3__
Total borrowings from government         8,967         11,884          13,420          12,168          13,642         14,495          22,683          28,503          47,633
Loans:
Subordinated to other long-term debts
Unsubordinated
Bonds payable
Foreign currency borrowings                                                                                                                            01              0,0
Other debts                             11,250         11,250          11,250          13,150          14,810         14,810          10,810          10,810          10,810
Other- --       -- ----- debts  _ _  _  _ _                                                                                     58_443
Total long-term debt                    20,217         23,134          24,670          25,318          28,452         29,305          33,493          39,313          58,443
Less:
Current maturities                      (1,359)         (2,021)        (4,649)         (2,590)         (3,636)         (3,032)        (3,666)         (2,800)         (8,519)
Net long-term debt                      18,858         21,113          20,021          22,728          24,816         26,273          29,827          36,513          49,924
Shareholders' equity:
Share capital                            4,500          4,500           5,000           5,000           6,833          6,833          10,833          10,83      3     1407
Reserves                                   475             667            242             372           1,057           1, 86 0        2.881           5,573           3,146
Risk Capital                                                                          1,045.0
Retained earnings
Revaluation surplus
Grants received                                                                                                                                                                     I
Total shareholders' equity               4,975          5,167           5,242           6,417           7,890          8,693          13,714          16,406          20,553
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND
SHAREHOLDER'S EQUITY                    26,640         29,521          31,551          33,676          38,901         42,401          52,833          75,762         162,500
rt
53
rt
0
'0
rt



INCOME STATEMENT
INVESTMENT AND DEVELOPMENT BANK
1984            1985            1986            1987            1988            1989            1990            1991            1992
Interest income from:
Loans                                  1,917.0         2,269.0         2,854.0         3,266.0         3,768.0         4,054.0         5,295.0         6,971.0         9,983.0
Advances                                                                                                                                                  153.0        7,239.0
Short-term investments                   664.0           803.0           426.0           330.0           500.0           406.0           214.0           113.0           626.0
                          _   _
Total interest income                  2,581.0         3,072-0         3,280.0         3,596.0         4,268.0         4,460.0         5,509.0   0.0  7,237.0         17,848.0
Less: interest expense                 1,572.0         1,865.0         1,975.0         2,053.0         2,311.0         2,341.0         2,819.0         3,658.0        11,848.0
_ _ _ _ _ __ _  - - - - - -   : - -  - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - -                _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Net interest income                    1,009.0         1,207.0         1,305.0         1,543.0         1,957.0         2,119.0         2,690.0   0.0  3,579.0          6,000.0
Income from:
Dividends                              1,071.0         1,214.0         1,589.0         1,212.0         2,267.0         3,184.0         3,358.0         4,691.0         4,799.0
Fees and commisions                       21.0            54.0            82.0           164.0           198.0           219.0           235.0            324.0           301.0
Guarantee fees
Profit from sales of investments           6.0              5.0           20.0            20.0             99.0           162.0             8.0            17.0            14.0
Recovery of loans written off
Other sources                                                                                                             199.0             0.0           729.0            12.0
75.0           105.0          120.0            116.0           127.0           185.0           203.0           197.0           332.0
8.0           16.0            31.0            (40.0)          83.0           411.0            224.0            27.0           970.0
7.0          623.0
3.0
Total income                           2,190.0         2,601.0         3,147.0         3,015.0         4,731.0         6,479.0         6,718.0   0.0  9,564.0          12,428.0
Personnei expenses                       383.0           550.0           687.0           685.0           813.0            715.0           891.0        1,182.0         2,201.0
Other expenses                           376.0           603.0           578.0           541.0           666.0            823.0           926.0         1,758.0         1,739.0
Provisions for possible tosses           487.0           845.0           765.0           756.0           442.0             (8.0)          616.0          243.0            852.0
Provisions for depreciation, etc.        161.0           214.0           331.0            (80.0)          53.0           287.0           291.0           460.0         1,552.0
  -                                                                                                           _
Total operating expenses               1,407.0         2,212.0         2,361.0         1,902.0         1,974.0         1,817.0         2,724.0   0.0  3,643.0           6,344.0
Profit before tax                        783.0           389.0           786.0         1,113.0         2,757.0         4,662.0         3,994.0   0.0  5,921.0          6,084.0           1
Taxes                                    294.0            194.0          414.0            594.0        1,3870          3,040.0         2,369.0          1,993.0         2,713.0-
Net Profit                               489.0            195.0          372.0            519.0        1,370.0         1,622.0          1,625.0   0.0  3,928.0          3,371.0
Less: dividends                          270.0                            300.0          390.0           683.0            820.0           980.0           975.0         1,572.0
Retained earnings                        219.0           195.0            72.0            129.0          687.0            802.0           645.0   0.0  2,953.0          1,799.0          1
Ratios:
Ca) iAs 1k of average total assets:
(i)   Total intcrest income            9.7            10.4            10.4            10.7            11.0            10.5            10.4             9.6            11.0
(ii)  Net interest income              3.8             4.1             4.1             4.6             5.0             5.0             5.1             4.7             3.7
Ciii) Total operating expenses        5.3              7.5            7.5              5.6             5.1             4.3             5.2             4.8             3.9
Civ)  Net Proflit                      1.8             0.7             1.2             1.5             3.5             3.8             3.1             5.2             2.1
(b)  Interest expenses as 1 of
average borrowing outstanding         7.3             7.7             7.5             7.5             7.5             6.9             7.2              6.2             8.3
(c)  Interest income from loans as 1
of average total loans outstand       5.0             5.2             5.3             6.1             6.9             7.2              8.0             9.1            10.3
(d)  Net intermediation margin            (2.3)            2.4            (2.2)           (1.4)           (0.6)            0.3             0.8             2.9             2.0
(e)  Net profit as 1 of shareholders'
average equity during the year        9.8             3.8             7.1             8.1            17.4            18.7            11.8            23.9             16.4
ft
ct
0)
C)
0
Ct
'0
0















