Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9132
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2090-CO)
NOVEMBER 16, 1990
re and Energy Division
rtment III
a and the Caribbean Regional Office
restricted distribution and may be used by recipients oniy in the performance of
Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =   Peso (Col$)
US$1               =       Col$55.0 (1981)
Col$242.0 (1987)
Col$1              =       US$0.01818
Col$1 million      -       US$18,181
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)       =        3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)  =        0.62 (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)            2.20 pounds (lb)
1 ton              =       2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CNR              Colombian National Railways
COLPUERTOS       Colombian Port Authority
CONPES           Social and Economic Policy Committee of the Cabinet
DNP              Department of National Planning
ECOPETROL        Colombian Petroleum Agency
MOPT             Ministry of Public Works and Transport
PCR              Project Completion Report
SENA            Colombian National Training Center
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



M0  OrVICAL U   ONLY
ThE WORLD BANK
Washington, DC 20433
USA.
Mce d O,.cto-QafWal
Novdabor 16, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report - Colombia
Seventh Rai:wa' Proiect (Loan 2090-CO)
Attached, for informanton, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report - Colombia Seventh Railway Project (Loan 2090-CO)",
prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office. No audit
of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at
this time.
7;
Attachment
This document has a m*trcted distribution and may be used by swients only in the Pformnae
of their oficil duti Its contents may nat otherwise be dmlcked without Woti Bak 1utboriztion.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2090-CO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE
PREFACE                 ...................................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..................                               .            .iii
PART I:   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .............1
1.  Pro,ect Identity ......................................1
2.  Background ............................................                                            1
3.  Project Objectives and Description ....................                                           2
4.  Project Design and Organization .......................                                            3
5.  Project Implementation ................................                                           4
6.  Project Results .......................................                                            7
7.  Economic Evaluation ...................................                                          10
8.  Bank Performance ......................................                                          11
9.  Borrower Performance ..................................                                          11
10.  Project Relationship ..................................                                          12
11.  Consulting Services ...................................                                          12
12.  Lessons Learnt ........................................                                          13
PART II:   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE                                                     15
PART III:  STATISTICAL DATA                                                                               17
Tables                                                                                                 17
Table 1:  Related Bank Loans ...............................                                           17
Table 2:  Project Timetable ..............................                                             18
Table  3:   Estimated  and  Actual  Schedule  of  Disbursements ...                                    19
Table 4:  Project Implementation ...........................                                           20
Table 5:  Project Costs and Financing ......................                                           21
Table 6:  Project Results ..........................;...                                              22
Table  6A:         Principal  Indicators  ..........................                                   22
Table 6B:   Economic Impact ................................                                          24
Table 6-Cl: Income Statements ..............................                                          25
Table 6-C2: Sources and Application of Funds ...............                                          26
Table 6D:   Government Contributions .......................                                          28
Table 6E:   Studies ........................................                                          29
Table 7:  Status of Covenants ..............................                                          30
Table  8:   Use  of  Bank  Resources ............................   3                                   4
Map:  IBRD 3667R1
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in  'e performance
of their official duties. I:s contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2090-CO)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Seventh
Railway Project in Colombia, for which Loan 2090-CO in the amount of
US$77.0 million was approved on December 6, 1982. The loan was closed on
December 31, 1987, two years behind schedule. The total disbursement was
US$28.9 million, with US$48.1 million cancelled.
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure and Energy Operations
Division of the Latin America and the Caribbean Country Department III
(Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III). On May 22, 1990, the Bank
sent the Borrower Parts I and III with the request to prepare Part II. On
June 12, 1990, the Borrower informed the Bank, that it had no comments to
add to those already sent, which have been already incorporated to the
report.
Preparation of this PCR is based, inter alia, on the Staff
Appraisal Report, the Loan and Guarantee Agreements, Supervision Reports,
correspondence between the Bank and the borrower, and internal Bank
memoranda contained in the Project Files.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPOR-
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 2090-CO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiective.
1.       The objective of this project was the technical economic and
financial improvement of CN1 by improving its operations and management.
and comprised a Program of Action and investments to improve its
infrastructure (para. 3) and organization. The project was not impleented
adequately and was therefore not successful in meeting its objectives of
improving CNR (para. 6.01). While some of the investments foreseen were
made, most of the important investments remained unexecuted (para. 6.01).
It is significant. however, that in the momentum generated by the project
CNR reduced its staff substantially (para. 6.02). An unexpected bonus of
the project was that towards the end of its grossly inadequate
implementation, the Bank, on the suggestion of the Colombian Government
financed a study to define the role and orientation of the railway in the
light of the changing economic landscape of Colombia (para. 5.07). This
study recoomnded the adoption of a new railway policy, drastic
institutional reforms restructuring the railway systerw. and the creation of
a new enterprise, with substantial participation of-the private sector. to
vork as a commercially oriented entity (para. 1l.02). The Government
adopted these radical recoendations and is nowvin the process of
liquidating CR1.
Implementation and Results
2.       Frequent changes in top management, and government indecisiveness
in matters like project financing, tariff increases etc. prevented the
achievement of operational and financial targets under the project. agreed
during appraisal, and led to a progressive deterioration of CNR. The
project was only partially completed in 1987 instead of full completion in
1985. Although trafftc projections forecasting annual increases of 19Z
were clearly over-optisistic (paras. 6.06 and 8.02), the traffic carried by
CNR actually went down during the project period as a result of which most
of the operational targets were not achieved (Table 6.A). The loan closing
date was ext nded by 2 years, but delays and government failure to provide
local counterpart funds eventually caused the Bank to close the loan in
1988 when $28.9 million had been disbursed and a little over $48 million
cancelled.
Sustainability
3.        Although the overall project ERR was relatively low at 12%, due
to he poor implementation of the project, it is to be expected that
because of the major restructuring of the railway, following the project,
and at least in part instigated by the project, the reorganized railway
will continue to maintain an adequate level of       benefits.



- iv -
Findings and Lessons Learnt
4.       This project is a classic case of the failure of a railway rystem,
created in the years when railways had a monopoly, to adjust to the
emergence of competition from other transport modes, principally highways.
From the outset neither the government nor the borrower was willing to
recognize the fundamental need of CNR to adapt to a changed competitive
environment (para. 12.01). For its part the government repeatedly gave
assurances that it was willing to finance CNR's increasing deficits, but
failed to honour them, partly because of the lack of clear strategy and
partly because the Government was unwilling to face the po,litical cost of
dealing with a failed company.
5.       The lessons for the Bank (para. 12.04) to be learnt from this
project are
(i) (for Colombia) the Bank needs to follow up the Government's
actions for reorganization and restructuring of the railway system
in line with the economic needs of the country; the process of
restructuring of the railway has Already begun (para. 11.02) and
the Bank would do well to remain involved in it.
(ii)  (for other countries a;  _- -. as Colombia) the Bank should require
solid evidence that the government understands and supports this
restructuring by forcing the railway to function as a commercial
entity. The Bank should not support a project unless agreement
has been reached on an adjustment proc an proposed and tangible
actions have been initiated.
(iii) (for other countries) institutional changes are important both in
the way the railway company is managed and in the way the
Government regulates it; and
(iv) (for all countries) the government should strive for the
'professionalization' and continuity of management in public
sector enterprises in general and in the railway enterprises in
particular.



COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT (LOAN 2090-CO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPFCTTVE
1. Project Identity
Project Name: Seventh Railway Project
Loan No.: 2090-CO
RVP Unit: LA3IE
Country: Colombia
Sector: Transport
Subsector: Railways
2. Background
2.01     The Andes Mountains of Colombia present a formidable barrier to
communication among the main population centers in the country, which until
recent years constituted separate and almost self-sufficient regions. It
was not until the early 1950's that, under the drive toward integration and
modernization of the country the transport system of Colombia began to
evolve into a national network.
2.02     The Bank has played an important role in the development of
Colombia's transport system since 1949 when country strategy emphasized
capital intensive infrastructure projects as a vehicle for the selective
expansion and strengthening of the ttansport network. By 1980 when this
loan was appraised the Bank had lent about $474 million in 22 loans to the
sector, which financed the development of an integrated highway ne work,
the construction of the 670 km Atlantic Railway and strengthening of the
Railway System, improvement of the domestic aviation network, and more
recently (in the late 1970's) the construction of rural roads.
2.03     Bank sector strategy has focussed on promoting the economic role
for the different modes of transport, their complementarity on the
important trade routes, and on raising their revenue-earning capabiliti-s
to reduce the burden on the national exchequer. At the institutional level
the Bank'c interest has been in improved transport planning and emphasis on
the budgeting and programming functions by strengthening the financial and
personnel management systems of the transport agencies. Accordingly the
basic objectives of the sector work program have been:
a)  to enhance the dialogue with the Government in regard to the
monitoring of transport developments and thc evolution of
transport policies:
b) to provide continuing analysis of selected policy issues: and
c) to assist in project formulation.



3. Project Objectives and Description
3.01     Proiect Objectives:  Following the first three railway loans for
the construction of the Atlantic Railway, the rail network was integrated
through the creation of CNR and the standardization of the gauge to 914 mm.
(3 feet). Three subsequent loans in 1963, 1968 and 1972 contributed to the
rehabilitation of track and rolling stock and to the improvement of
managentent practices. However, implementation under these three loans was
slow and the financial results were short of expectations. In particular,
performance under the sixth loan was disappointing due to lack of
Government financial support, frequent changes in CNR management and a drop
in CNR's revenues and performance.  In fact, by early i979, CNR had reached
a stage when continuation of existing operations would have deteriorated
the service to a point where it would become necessary to close down the
entire railway network. An alternative course of action envisaged was to
take appropriate technical, operational and financial measures, including
an investment and action plan designed to improve railway operations.
Changes taking place at that time in the world energy situation enhanced
the railway's competitive position vis-a-vis roads in petroleum transport,
the pc ntial for exnloiting Colombia's coal deposits and the transport of
other bulk commodities over long distances.  The Governmett acknowledged
the increasing importance of the railway system. A Seventh Railway project
was considered advisable to upgrade CNR, particularly on the Atlantic
network, with the aim of improving the physical condition of the railway
infrastructure and its operations to enable CNR carry more traffic and with
judicious cost-based tariff increases, to eventually improve CNR's
finances.
3.02     Project Description:  The Seventh Railway Project was conceived as
an integrated program of technical, economic and financial improvements.
It comprised essential investments related to the most important sections
of the railway track, motive power and rolling stock, as well as a program
of institutional recovery defined in terms of operational and efficiency
goals which were considered within the capacity of CNR to achieve during
the project period.
3.03     The project comprised the first four years of the 1982-1985
investment plan, and was divided into groups:
Group I
-  Rehabilitation of about 428 kms of track on the Atlantic network.
-  Acquisition and installation of rail switches.
-  Acquisition of track maintenance equipment.
-  Acquisition nf four new locomnotives. spare parts. rehabilitation
of 139 locomotives. and the establishment of an appropriate
scrapping program for unserviceable locomotives.
-  Acquisition of 100 eondolas and spares and rehabilitation of 1410
wagons.
-  Improvement and reorzanization of the -workshops, acquisition of
machinery and tools. forklift trucks. cranes and rehabilitation of
freight-handling equipment.
-  Acquisition of an assortment of elementary signalling equipment
comprising, inter alia. level crossing barriers. warning panels,
etc.. for the Atlantic line.



-  Rehabilitation of telecommunications equipment and systems.
-  Studies in connection with tariffs, accounting and control.
traffic demand, operating cost reductions and the Bogota - Buena
Ventura and Saboya-Carare lines.
-  Training of professional and technical staff of CNR.
Group II
-  Rehabilitation of 83 kms of track on the Atlantic network.
-  Acquisition of four more locomotives and spare ports.
-  Acquisition of 100 gondolas and spare parts.
-  Acquisition of 7 level crossing barriers and 250 level crossing
warning panels.
-  Rehabilitation of telecommunications systems and equipment.
3.04      From the beginning of the appraisal process, the limited success
under preceding projects led to skepticism regarding the prospects of
success under the proposed Seventh Railway Project. This was in fact the
main cause for the conditionality accompanying the Seventh Loan, and the
development of the concept of the two-tranche loan. In order to avoid the
poor experience of the previous operations, the loan was divided into two
tranches corresponding to each investment group. Release of the second
tranche would be allowed only if CNR and the Government would have
performed satisfactorily in carrying out the first group investments and
the specific project conditionality.
3.05      The program of action laid down the operational and performance
targets to be achieved year to year during the implementation of the
project. Among the most important operational measurcs included in the
program of action were quantified targets for track rehabii±-ation,
improvements in locomotive and rolling stock performance, and fundamental
changes in the railways' operation, including introduction of unit trains
and improved intermodal coordination. On the institutional and financial
side, the program of action included inter-alia, a staff rationalization
program, the development of a new pension plan, and financial performance
targets.
3.06      Due to delays in reaching final agreement and in declaring loan
effectiveness (para 501) the project slipped by one year, from 1982-1985
to 1983-1986. This led to some reductions in the track rehabilitation
program (from 428 kms tc 364 kms in Group I and 83 kms to 78 kms in Group
II).
4. Project Design and Organization
4.01      The conceptual foundation for the project was clear and was
apparently shared by the Borrower and the Government. The project content
was however conventional, although its division into two groups
corresponding to the two tranches of the loan was an innovative approach
and reflected the World Bank's concern for the Borrower's performance. The
project was prepared in considerable detail, and the roles and
responsibilities of the three main participants i.e.. CNR, the Government
and the World Bank, were clearly defined, although it would appear from the
results achieved;that the Government's resistance to institutional reforms
was underestimated.



4.02     Coordination of work in connection with the implementation of the
project was entrusted to the Planning Officer of CNR who, in his capacity
as Project Officer, coordinated the work with the executing departments of
CNR, and with the different agencies of Government.  The Project Officer
was also responsible for the compilation of the perio'ic reports to the
Bank, which were prepared by CNR and were sent regularly to the Bank,
despite the lack-lustre implementation of the project (see paras. 5 to 6).
5. Project Implementation
5.01     Loan Effectiveness and Proje:t Start-Up.  Although the Project was
appraised in September 1980, and negotiations took place in May 1981, the
Colombian Government requested a delay in Board presentation because of
budgetary constraints and the lack of a clear financial plan to carry it
out. In the meantime, CNR's traffic and financial situation continued to
deteriorate and at the end of 1980 the project had to be re-appraised and
the loan documents amended. After a formal commitment from the Colombian
Government had been received to provide CNR with the necessary funds to
cover its accumulated deficits, its operating costs and a financing plan to
implement the railway's 1982-1986 investment plan, a loan of $77 million
was approved by the Bank's Board in February 1982. The financing plan
provided for counterpart funds mainly from the National Budget, and in part
through annual budgetary allocations from the the National Highway Fund.1
The Loan Agreement however was not signed until December 1982 as there was
a hiatus due to a change !n Government ac.ninistration (mid-1982) and a
railway strike. At the time of loan signature the Colombian Government
confirmed to the Bank, through a supplemental letter, that by February
1983, the Guai,ntor would:
(a)   Reach a solution to all accumulated cash deficits of the borrower
as of December 31, 1982, estimated at no less than the equivalint
of USS67 million;
(b)   Finalize arrangements to meet the financial requirements of the
Borrower for the year 1983; and
(c)   Prepare a financial plan coverinig the Borrower's financial
requirements for the years 1983 through 1986.
5.02     On February 15, 1983, with Resolution No. 6, the national Monetary
Counc I authorized the Central Bank to act as a financial agent for the
rai'rays to obtain, from Colombia's private banks, bridge loans for a six-
month period to cover CNR's 1982 accumulated deficits and these bridge
loans were to be repaid by CNR when it obtained the supplementary budget
allocations for CNR. With this action, the Bank considered that the
Government had fulfilled item (a) of the supplemental letter. Evidence for
items (b) and (c) was also provided in early 1983, when CCNPES approved
CNR's financing plan to meet CNR's financial requirements.
1/ The National Highway Fund or 'the Fondo Vial, transmits resources from
gasoline taxes and enables the railways to apply these funds towards
the maintenance, improvement and expansion of its network.



5.03     The loan became effective in June l933 and t e original investment
plan (lW8Z-1986) was updated to mid-1983 prices and ~eacheduled to cover
the period 1983-1988. The Loan and Guarantee Agreements, the Program of
Action, and the Supplemental Letters, were revised and updated in July
1983. Group I investments were to be implemented immediately and Group II
only if P. mid-term review in March 1985 indicated that the project targets
had been achieved and project performance had been positive. The project
was estimated to coet $176.7 million, with a foreign exchange component of
$110.2 million, of which the Ban!. loan of $77.0 million would finance most
of the imported hardware and technical assistance.
5.04      Implementation Schedule.  CNR had actually started execution of
its investments in 1982, with limited resources allowing it to reach only
332 of the annual investment level agreed at '.ppraisal. However, progress
was even poorer in 1963 and 1984. Investment levels were only 82 and 13X
respectively of the revised Investment Plan as amended in 1983. There were
two causes for the slow rate of investments. The predominant reason was
the lower-than-expected internal generation of funds and the Government's
inadequate contribution to local costs (paras. 6.07 and 6.10). The other
revson was delay in procurement of Bank-financed items. The lack of funds
paralyzed execution of the project. CNR cash crisis left no money to pay
for civil works related to the various project items, such as track works,
workshops and handling equipment, etc. As a result, the condition of the
ra-l infrastructure, motive power and rolling stock continued to
deteriorate (para. 6.02). As far as procurement is concerned, not only
were there holdups in the evaluation of bids by several ccmmittees and
subsequent approvals by the CNR Board, but tha evaluations were not always
correctly done.  The main dispute in procurement arose in a tender for
rails.  The Bank did not accept an award recommendation by CWIR in favor of
a local supplier who was not the lowest evaluated bidder and did not
clearly meet the technical requirements.  This led in 1984 to the
cancellation, at the request of CNR, of $3.2 million2 of the loan,
lelaying, in the meantime, the entire procurement process by well over a
year. As a result, by April 1985, when the mid-term review was done, only
$0.3 million out of $77.0 million of the loin had beer. disbursed against
$70.5 million forecast at appraisal and $52.5 million foreseen when the
1983 amendments were made.
5.05     Mid-Term Review:  The mid-term review of project implementation
indicated that progress in almost all areas was well below appraisal
expectations. The railways had implemented only a part of the project and
had failed to achieve virtually al.l the targets in the action program and
most of the loan covenants. A key factor was Government's failure to
provide CNR with the funds required to implement the project and to improve
its operations. Even the budgetary allocations to cover its past deficits
were delayed by 1-2 years. Frequent changes in CNR mana ,ement aggravated
the situation. As a result, CNR's performance deteriorated, the traffic
2/ The cancelled amount was later re-instated into the loan in July 1986,
on the request of CNR, after CNR agreed to place the order to the
lowest evaluated bidder.



carried by rail dropped and CNR's finances completely collapsed.  The mid-
term review, after listing all the failures in the implementation of the
project concluded on the somber note that unless the Government and the
railways showed evidence of a firm commitment to overcome the problems, the
Bank would withdraw from the project and cancel the Loan.
5.06     In the following months details of the proposed 'evidence" of firm
commitment were worked out between the Bank, CNR and the Colombian
Government. These included:
(i) satisfactory arrangements for the financing of CNR's accumulated
and projected deficits to meet CNR's expenditures in respect of
its operations and the project for the period 1986-1987, and
(ii) agreement inter-alia on an updated action program, a transport
plan, tariff adjustments, and a manpower plan. Accelerated
procurement procedures, the establishment of a project monitoring
committee and a Project Account to ensure counterpart funds for
the project were also agreed upon.
After a lengthy exchange of telexes and several Bank missions, the loan
agreement was revised on July 18, 1986, incorporating the above provisions
referred to in 'ii) above, and postponing the loan closing date by one year
to December 31, 1987. However, the amended loan agreement was not declared
effective until evidence satisfactory to the Bank was available that the
money required by CNR was actually secured to satisfy (i) above. The Bank
telex authorizing dirbursements was sent on November 1, 1986.
5.07     Termination of Project:  There was a flurry of loan disbursements
in 1987. A Bank mission visited Colombia in January 1987 reported little
progress in the project, particularly in the locally financed items a
decline in CNR traffic, further deterioration in CNR's financial situation,
and delays in GoveLnzment's cash contribution to CNR. The mission concluded
that with the aggravating situation of CNR, it would not be possible to
achieve even any of the revised targets, unless a substantial institutional
change was brought about in the organization and relationships of CNR. The
Bank agreed, upon the suggestion of the then Transport Minister to finance
a study of the future role and orientation of the railways in light of the
most recent developments.  This, in effect, turned out to be the most
significant spin-off from the project. Disbursem'jnts against contracts
already signed continued until the revised closing date, and for all
practical purposes the project came to a halt at the end of 1987. Needless
to say, the release of the second tranche of the project was not authorized
by the Bank.
5.08     Project Ccsts.  The estimated cost of the Seventh Railway Project
at appraisal was about US$176 million, and it was to be executed in the
years 1982-1985. The final cost in the years 1982-1987, with all the
amendments and extensions, was about $64.8 million, as shown in Table 5A
(Part III). The foreign-exchange cost was about $45.3 million as against
the appraisal estimate of $110.3 million. The Bank loan contributed about
$29 million o1 the foreign exchange costs. The local costs, which are the
best measure of the Government's contribution to the project totalled, in
six years, $29.4.million, which represents less than 45Z of the appraisal



estimate of $66.5 million for four years. Taking the average for each year
the Government contributed less than one third of its promised
contribution. This, coupled with the railway's accelerating losses and the
delayed and inadequate Government subsidies for meeting the operating
expenses, almost crippled the railway. Table 4 (Part III) shows that over
the extended period of the project:
(i)  only 372 of the vital track program was carried out.  This,
together with the reduced maintenance caused by lack of funds,
seriously undermined the carrying capacity of the railway;
(it) 782 of the expenditure proposed for the locomotive program was
incurred, but locomotive availability deteriorated due to poor
maintenance and frequent accidents;
(iii)  422 of the rolling stock investments were done but maintenance
deteriorated:
(iv)  almost insignificant proportions of the investments in the
vital areas of workshops (192), operations (12) and signalling
and telecommunications (18Z) resulted in serious deterioration
of operations and the quality of services.
5.09     Disbursements:  Table 3 (Part III) indicates the estimated and
actual schedule of disbursements. No disbursements took place in FY83 and
FY84 although the Special Accounts Fund of $10.1 million was opened in
1984. Disbursements started very slowly in FY85, about $8 million was
disbursed in FY86, $11 million in FY87, and the final $8 million in FY88.
When the loan was closed in 1988, $28.9 million had been disbursed and a
little over $48 million cancelled. The table shows that the course of
disbursements bears no resemblance tc the appraisal forecast, although it
compares more favorably with the standard profile of disbursements for
Colombia.
6. Project Results
6.01     Proiect Objectives:  Overall, the project was not implemented
adequately and was therefore not successful in meeting its objectives of
improving the operatiQns and finances of CNR. The railway's performance
deteriorated and the financial position grew worse instead of improving
(paras. 6.04-6.08). The study in regard to the role and institutional
reform of the railway, conducted at the final stage of the project, was an
unexpected bonus of the otherwise inadequately executed project, as the
analysis of the consul..ants and their suggestions provided useful guidance
for future planning. However, notwithstanding the rather optimistic
projections of traffic, here again, as in the case of the appraisal of this
project, the benefit to be derived from the work of the consultants will
depend upon the manner in which the Government utilizes and acts upon the
recommendations made.



6.02     Physical Results and Operations:  A statement of the principal
indicators of performance in comparison with the appraisal targets is given
in Table 6A (Part III). None of the important physical targets of the
projects were achieved, except reductions in railway staff, which were
reduced from 10,072 in 1981 to 7,734 in 1987, as against the target of
8,000 for 1987. Some equipment, track materials and four locomotives were
purchased with loan funds, with considerable delays and a considerable lack
of coordination. For instance the rails, locomotives and rolling stock
spare parts kept lying in the port for months because CNR did not have the
funds to pay for the port charges and import duties. As a result, the
track rehabilitation works were only partially carried out, and the
locomotive fleet further deteriorated, because all the spare parts were not
available. The four new locomotives were acquired but were rendered
inoperative by a succession of derailments, and remained out of commission
for some time as they had to undergo major repairs. The improvements to
the workshops, operations and signallingltelecommunications equipment,
although relatively minor in terms of cost, were hardly carried out. As a
result locomotive availability fell to below 35Z, freightcar availability
o 55Z, wagon turn-around time went up from 16 days at the start of the
project to 22 days when the project was closed, instead of improving to 11
days as forecast.
6.03     Freight traffic carried by CNR fell 16Z to 1.6 million tons during
the project period instead of going up to 3.6 million tons as forecast at
appraisal, and the financial position of CNR deteriorated. The main
reasons for this fall were the increasing competition of road transport,
and the deterioration of the railway services as a result of the delay in
initiating the investment plan. CNR failed to adjust to its changing role
in freight transport, which required a change of direction towards a more
commercially oriented railway, with a concentration in train-load
operations. In addition, the railway's policy of attempting to increase
traffic regardless of its revenue potential, only worsened its financial
situation, since such traffic, particularly coal, was not earning
sufficient to cover even its cash operating cost. On the other hand, the
delays and inadequate implementation of the project resulted in substantial
deterioration in the railway's infrastructure and operations, preventing
CNR from meeting the traffic demand forecast at appraisal.
6.04     Financial Ferformance.  Except for selected years, CNR has
suffered from endemic operating losses over the last two decades. The
reasons behind the poor financial performance have been numerous, the most
important being: (i) the continued loss of traffic to highway transport as
a result of poor quality of service; (ii) an inadequate tariff system that
does not permit full cost recovery completed with ineffective efforts to
reduce uneconomic services, and finally (iii) excessively high staff costs
arising from the pressures exerted by powerful labor unions.
6.05     As stated above, in order to overcome the railwavs' operational
and financial deterioration, Bank involvement in the subsector through its
last five loans had relied heavily on rehabilitating the infrastructure,
improving railway operations. and streamlining management procedures and
financial practices. However, the carrving out of the projects (including
the Seventh) depended on Government provision of subsidies to cover CNR's
operating deficits and equity contributions to cover local cost of its



-9-
investment program, given the poor cash generation capacity of the
railways.  As a result, the execution of the projects was vulnerable to
both the availability of resources of the National Budget, and the
priority, often changing, assigned to the railways by the successive
governments in office.  The Sixth Railway project failed to meet its
objectives, mainly because the project implementation period coincided with
an economic slow-down in Colombia, which prevented the Government from
providing the necessary financial support. This project, for which the
Government agreed at appraisal to provide 76Z of total investment funds
required, failed'mainly because of lack of consensus in the government, not
only on the role of the railway but also the measures required to realize
its fulfillment.  As a result,  Government financial contributions were
both late and insufficient, leading inevitabl/, to the failure of the
project.
6.06     CNR's financial statements, including appraisal and actual results
for the period 1981-1987, are presented in Tables 6C1 and 6C2 of Part III.
The main assumptions upon which the appraisal forecasts were made, were
that freight traffic (in ton-kms) would pick up and grow at an average
annual rate of 19Z between 1981 and 1986; tariffs would remain constant in
real terms during 1981 and 1982 and would then be increased by 102, also in
real terms, in 1983, 1984 and 1985; the number of staff would increase
slightly (7Z over the 6-year period) to strengthen the technical and
operational areas, but the average cost per employee would remain constant;
and the Government would support CNR financially by providing funds to
cover the accumulated cash deficit as of December 1982 and CNR operational
and investment needs during the remainder of the project period
(1983-1986).
6.07     Unfortunately, none of the assumptions for CNR's financial
recovery materialized. As a result, working and operating ratios remained
substantially above appraisal forecasts because CNR's operating losses
increased instead of diminishing, and the Government's transfer of funds
for the 1982 deficit and the project needs started flowing in over one year
late.
6.08     As shown in the Income Statements (Table 6C1), revenues, instead
of increasing by almost 200Z during 1981-1986, as forecast, remained at the
1981 level or below, in real terms. Further data provided by the Borrower
shows that the declining trend continued in 1987. This situation was the
result of CNR's inability to achieve forecast traffic levels and the
failure to increase tariffs as originally foreseen. Indeed, freight
traffic, after a slight pick-up in 1984 and 1985, dropped again in 1986 to
levels lower than those forecast for 1981 and equivalent to only 42Z of the
target originally established for 1986. Lack of adequate tariff
adjustments resulted in a gradual deterioration of the average revenue per
ton-km, such that by end 1986 it was 23Z lower than in 1981, and 41Z lower
that the average revenue per ton-km originally planned for 1986.
6.09     As regards working expenses, which were forecast to increase
slightly in line with the pick-up in traffic activity, these remained
roughly constant in real terms. This performance, however, cannot be
considered an achievement on CNR's side since: (a) the lower-than-expected
fuel and material cost was a result of the railway's lower level of
activity, and b) in order to maintain personnel costs under control



- 10 -
following several salary increases, CNR reduced considerably the number of
its staff (by attrition), creating imbalances in staff skills as the
skilled staff were reduced ad hoc whereas the administrative staff remained
at high levels.
6.10     Two determinant factors in the recovery of CNR's cash-flow
situation during the project period were expected to be: (a) improvement
of CNR's physical infrastructure in line with forecast demand levels in
order to increase revenue generation, and (b) adoption of new operational
and commercial practices, including establishment of block-train operations
and concentration on commodities with high revenue-earning potential. In
actual fact investments in the project were substantially delayed as a
result of the Government's failuxe to comply with the agreed financing
plan. Financing for the 1982 accumulated deficit was received in May 1984
and funds for CNR's 1983 operational and investment needs were
insufficient. Indeed, since only 8Z of investments planned for 1983 were
realized, CNR's carrying capacity, continued to deteriorate and operating
losses increased. These higher than-expected-losses, in turn, increased
the resources to be required from the Government the following year. The
delays in the Government's transfer of funds persisted throughout the
following three years and the end result was that, by end-1986, the
Government had been required to contribute or commit almost US$550 million
instead of the US$345 million forecast at appraisal (Table 6D). The
higher-than-expected Government transfers were mainly the result of higher
operating losses (US$205 million) and higher interest costs (about US$53
million) the latter resulting from CNR's continuing rolling-over of
commercial bank debts while the Government contributions came. In
addition, only 252 or US$46 million of planned investments (local and
foreign) materialized during that period. Although investments did pick up
during 1987, CNR was only able to use up 38Z of the Bank loan or US$28.9
million (para. 5.09).  Likewise the new commercial and operational plan was
not implemented properly and CNR, instead of attracting profitable traffic,
continued to carry commodities such as coal at a loss, and was unable to
reduce costs as planned as unit trains operations continued to be limited.
The great majority of the financial covenants of the Loan Agreement were
not complied with (Table 8).
7. Economic Re-evaluation
7.01     The general and subproject specific methodologies followed for the
economic re-evaluation are basically the same as the ones used at
appraisal. Also the benefits taken into account for the re-evaluation of
each subproject were essentially the same as the ones included in "he SAR,
namely:
(a) reduced track maintenance costs, reduction in derailments and
better speeds for track rehabilitation works and
(b) for the rehabilitation and acquisition of new equipment, motive
power and rolling stock, benefits arising from he difference
between the economic costs of road and rail tra.isport for the rail
traffic made possible by the investment.



7.02     The SAR indicated an overall economic ERR of 26Z with partial ERRs
of 18Z for track rehabilitation, 27% for new locomotive purchases, 42% for
parts for existing locos, 22Z for new wagoiis and 61S for major
rehabilitation.  The benefits of capacity increases were measured by
multiplying the difference between road and rail operating costs by the
volume of freight which would otherwise travel by road.  The investment in
track rehabilitation produced an unsatisfactory ERR of under 5, largely
due to the failure of traffic growth, on which the benefits depended, to
materialize.  For locomotives and loco spares (loss subject to economies of
scale than track) the ERR was fully satisfactory at over 19Z. For wagon
rehabilitation, the ERR was 19%.  The minor investments in workshops,
technical assistance etc. were not separately evaluated. Their costs were
included in the total project costs.  The overall project ERR on that basis
was 12%.  Details of the estimated and actual ERRs are given in Table 6
(B).
8. Bank Performance
8.01     At over 22 staff weeks in the field, for project preparation/
appraisal and 33 staffweeks in the field for supervision, the Bank made
extraordinary effort to assess the CNR situation and to ensure an efficient
project implementation in accordance with the program agreed with the
Borrower and Guarantor. A comprehensive and thorough analysis was made at
the mid-term review and the project and action program were adjusted to
accommodate the borrower's difficulties.
8.02     The questions that arise are, whether the agreements reached
between the Bank and the Borrower were reasonable and enforceable, and
whether the leverage inherent in the legal documents and the two-tranche
concept of the project were adequately exercised.  The agreements were, vy
and large, reasonable, although the traffic increases forecast (nearly 19Z
per year) were inordinately high, and the tariff increases foreseen, at
least in retrospect, were clearly over-optimistic.  The second part of the
question is more difficult.  The leverage inherent in the two-tranche
concept was actually exercised as the second part of the project was not
started when it became evident the first part had failed.  However, well
before the second part of the project was due to start, the first part had
already begun to unravel because of inadequate Government funds, poor
management, indecisiveness and inordinate delays and above all
institutional weaknesses, all features which can be loosely characterized
as inadequate Government and Borrower's commitment to the project.  The
legal agreements provided for withholding the second tranche of the loan
financing group II investments.  However, the project dragged its feet
almost from the start.  Indeed, the causes of the failure of the Railway
Project were not dissimilar to the reasons for the poor performance under
the 6th Railway Project a fundamental change in CNR's business prospects
brought about by road competition, lack of government leadership, frequent
changes in CNR management, and the inability to deal the high labour costs
and operational rigidities of CNR.  One wonders therefore whether'the 7th
Railway Project should have been undertaken at all.  In retrospect, at any
rate, the answer would appear to be in the negative.
9. Borrower Performance
9.01     The performance of the Borrower was poor because of:



- 12 -
(i)   inadequate financial support from the Government for its cash
needs and the project;
(ii)  frequent changes in the top management of CNR; and
(iii)  institutional weaknesses in the management of CNR particularly in
dealing with the labor unione and in failing to carry out reforms
agreed with the Bank.
During the years 1982 to 1987, in the space of five years, the General
Manager of the CNR was changed five times, often with accompanying changes
in senior management. The most important results of these changes were:
(i) lack of discipline in the operations of CNR in general, and poor
coordination in the work of the different departments in particular; and
(ii) serious delays in project implementation and the procurement of Bank-
financed goods and services.  In fact, the managers of CNR were engaged
full-time in finding funds for the payroll and routine expenditures of CNR
rather than in implementing the project and introducing the institutional
reforms agreed with the Bank and the Colombian Government.
10. Project Relationship
10.01    Review of project files and mission reports indicates that whereas
the relationship between the Bank and CNR was a close one, the Government
did not appear to have a clear strategy not only in that it did not honor
the commitments made by it for the provision of funds for carrying out
CNR's operations and the project, but also failed to ensure that CNR had a
reasonably c'>mpetent and stable management at a time when it was critical
for it to have one.
11. Consultants .
11.01    Among the consulting assignments carried out under this project
two were of relevance: (i) a study of financial and accounting systems and
(ii) the role of the railway and its future.  Both the studies were fairly
competently done. The former did basic work in connection with the
reorganization of the financial and accounting systems, including
compilation of manuals for the guidance of staff. Some of the
recommendations of this study have been implemented, but much remains to be
done as indicated in the auditors' reports repeatedly. The study for the
role of the railway made an in-depth review of the role of CNR in the
Colombian context, and discussed the various scenarios and the ways and
means to make this role more effective. During the final stages, a team of
four international specialists in railway administration joined in the task
and recommended that as there was no future for the railway in its present
form it should be liquidated and reformulated with a new structure and
relationship with the Government.
11.02    Following the consultants' review of the role of the railway and
the termination of the Bank project in 1987, the Colombian Government
proceeded to take legal action to liquidate CNR, retired large numbers of
staff, and formed two organizations: (i) FERROVIA, a state enterprise
under MOPT for the maintenance and rehabilitation of railway
infrastructure; and (ii) Sociedad de Transporte Ferroviario (STF), a
government subsidiary with 51Z state ownership, for rail operations, on a



- 13 -
commercial basis.   A third entity was created to manage a benefit fund for
taking care of the retirees and laid-off staff. These three bodies have
been charged with the responsibility of completing the transition by 1991.
11.03    A review of all the studies conducted during the implementation of
the project, including the work done "in-house" by CNR is given in Table
6D (part III).
12. Findings and Lessons Learnt
12.01    From the outset neither the Government nor the railway company
realized the need for the railway to adapt to a changed competitive
environment. More specifically, road transport in Colombia --as everywhere
else-- has improved radically, because of the highway network and
technological change in vehicles. The railway no longer has a monopoly, it
has to operate commercially in competition with other modes of transport.
In addition, the growing competition has eroded the need to regulate rail
rates and fares in order to protect users. Thus the technological change
requires institutional change. Yet, entrenched interests have resisted the
'structural adjustment" needed.
12.02    The Government's attitude to the railway has evolved, although
clearly from the lack of success in this project, it would appear that at
the time of negotiations the government did not have sufficient experience
in the restructuring of major public sector enterprises such as the
railways, and therefore tended to underestimate the political social and
fiscal pressures that affect such processes. Then again the benefit of
Lindsight points to the possible need for more decisive apriori action that
might have been required by the Bank from the Government before starting
the project, although clearly there are limitations to the extent such
action can be taken before project start-up. The Bank was at the time
strongly supporting Colombia's macro-economic program which was considered
cautious and prudent, at a time when many other Latin American economies
were getting deeply involved in unsustainable debt, and pressures to
maintain a high level of lending to Colombia were strong.
12.03    The Government reacted very slowly to the rapid deterioration of
CNR's operational and financial condition. It continued to partially
support the finances of the railway, but with increasing difficulty.
Uncertain as to where this support might lead, it did not make the full
financial commitment to investments necessary for the railway to be in a
strong physical and financial position, to take advantage of the
institutional changes that in the end were realized to be essential. Even
before the project started, the Government saw the symptoms of the
railway's decline, but failed to understand the extent of the drastic
remedies needed. A rational objective would have been to assist the
railway renew its assets, whilF at the same time looking for a better way
of managing their use. In brief, the Government did not attempt to change
either CNR's management structure or the institutional arrangement between
the Government and the railway. It was only toward the end of the project,
after the study for the role of the railway was done, that the Government
saw its way towards accomplishing a major shake-up of the railway (para.
11.02). Although there might be differences of opinion as to whether the
current Government proposals for the railway system are the most



- 14 -
appropriate, it is clear that the need for fundamental change has at last
been recognized and action has been initiated to reform the railway system,
both in regard to its organization and its institutional relationship with
the Government.
12.04    The lessons for the Bank are to:
(i) (for Colombia) the Bank needs to follow up the Government's
actions for reorganization and redefinition of the railway's role
as a selective commercial carrier in a competitive transport
market. The process of restructuring the railway has already
begun (para. 11.02) and the Bank would do well to remain involved
in it.
(ii) (for other countries as well as Colombia) the Bank should require
solid evidence that the Government understands and supports this
redefinition of the railway's role, by taking substantial action
to make the railway function as a commercial entity to play its
appropriate role in the economy of the country;
(iii) (for other countries) institutional changes are important, both in
the way the railway company is managed and in the way the
Government regulates it;
(iv) (for other countries) the Government should strive for
'professionalizations and continuity of management in public
enterprises in general and in the railways in particular.



- 15 -
PART II
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
CNR has informed the Bank that it has no further comments;
see Preface, second paragraph.



- 17 -
PART III
STATISTICAL DATA
Table 1:  Related Bank Loansl/
Title                 Leon N4o.        Yeot of        Original        Olsbureed         Co"mente
Approva          Aount
Railway Construction         00-0              19K           25.0             25.0           Closed 3/31/63
and Rohebilit.tlon
(Oovern.nt)
Railroad Extoncion           119-0              1955          15.9             15.9               3/31/64
(CP)
Atlantic RalUroad            267-0              1900           5.4              5.4              12/31/63
EquipIent
(CIa)
Railway Rehobilltation       343-0              1968          80.0             29.4           Closed 12/31/67
Cancelled 0.631
Fifth Railway                551-0              1908         18.3              12.4           Closed 12/31/72
Cancellod 6.87
Sixth Railway                926-0              1978         25.0              26.0           Closed 0/31/S0
1/  Source: IBRD Statement of Loans Vol II  (EMENA E LAC Regions),
July 31, 1989.



- 18 -
Table 2: Project Timetable
Item                          Date Planned              Actual Date
Identification                           ---                    4/23/79
Preparation                            1123/80                   3/4/80
Appraisal                              6/15/80                  10/3/80
Negotiations                             ---                   5/6-8/81
Board Approval                                                  12/6/82
Loan Signature                                                 12128/82
Loan Effectiveness                                              61Z7183
Loan Closing                          12131/85                 12/31/87
Loan Completion.                       6/30/86                  6/30/88



- 19 -
Table 3: Estimated and Actual Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year          Appraisal       Actual Total         Actual as Z of
and Quarter             Estimate        Disbursements    Avpraisal E,timate
1983
I September 1982           2.0              0                     0
I: December  1982           6.5              0                     0
III March      1983         12.5              0                     0
IV June       1983         21.5              0                     0
1984
I September 1983         31.5               0                     0
II December  1983          47.6              0                     0
III March      1984         52.5              0                     0
IV June       1984         58.5              0                     0
1985
I September 1984         65.3               0                     0
II December  1984          69.5             0.1*                  0.15
III March      '985         70.5             0.3*                  0.4
IV June       1985         71.5             0.5*                  0.7
1986
I September 1985          73.5             2.6*                  3.5
II December  1985          75.5             4.7*                  6.2
III March      1986         76.5             6.9*                  9.0
IV June       1986         77.0             8.7*                 11.3
1987
I September 1986                          10.1*                 13.1
II December  1986                          14.8                  19.2
III March      1987-                        18.8                  24.4
IV June       1987                         19.8                  25.7
1988
I September 1987                          23.0                  29.8
II December  1987                          24.8                  32.2
III March      1988                         27.1                  35.2
IV June       1988                         28.9                  37.5
* The initial disbursements were made from the Special Account of
$10.1 million pened in Colombia in 1984.
* Figures in USS million.



- 20 -
Table 4: Project Implementation
GROUP 1                       APPRAISAL ESTIHATE              ACS7JAL
Track rehabiliLation                      426 kms                     279 kms
Railswitches                              200                         200
Track maintenance equipment              various                      partially procured
4 new locomotives                           4                             4
Rehabilitation of locos                   139                            34
Spare parts procurement                                               partially done
Locomotive scrapping program                                          not done
New gondola care                         100                          not procured
Rehabilitation of wagons                 1410                         1030
Machinery & equipment for
workshops                             various                       not done
Forklift trenches                         16                          not procured
Cranes                                     6
Freight handling equipment              various
Signalling and tele-                    Various                       partially procured
communication equipment
Studies                             See Statement 6D
Training of professional and                                          partially done
technical staff of CNR
ROUP II
Track Rehabilitation                     83 kms                       not done
New locos and spares                       E                          not purchased
New gondolas and spares                 100
Signalling equipment
Level crossing barriers                ZS0
and warnIng panels
Rehabilitation of                                                     partially procured
telecommunications network          miscellaneous



- 21 -
Table 5: Project Costs and Financing
A. Comparison Between Appraisal ZEtimates and Actual Costs
----USS million-------------
EetImt-e  Coat*                      Actual Coetn            Actual. an X of Estimatoe
Local      Foreign       Totel      Local    Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign   Total
1. Track                Bt.U        30.5         6i.1       11.0        18.5       24.5       31        44        37
2. Motlvo Power          2.4        84.2         36.6         2.3       25.6       23.6      183        76        7S
3. Rolling Stock         5.6        13.0         20.6        4.7         8.9        e.6       64        26        42
4. Workshops             0.9         1.6          2.5        --          0.5        0.6        1        23        19
S. Op.rstlons            0.2         2.9          3.1         -          3.03       0.03       0         1         1
6. Signolo a
T9leco                O.i         7 1          7.2        0.2        J.4        0.6       175         6         C
7. Technical
Assistance            1.$         2.2          3.7        0.7        1 3         2.0       47       67        Ss
S. ContineCl-es         19.9        17.0         86.9        -                      -          -         -         -
9. TOTAL                66.4       110.3        176.7       19.4       48.4       64.t        29       41        37
B.    E2ect Financing
Source                                       P_onntd                Actusl
IBRD                                             7 7.0                 28.9
Cofinancing  institutions                          8.8                   8.8
UNDP                                               1.0                 --
CP$R and Government                              89.9                  27.1
TOTAL                                           176.7                  64.8



Table 6: Proiezt Results
A. Principal Indicators
Principal indicators of Actual Performanc  in coqperisen rith Appraial Target* I. Plr   of Action
APPRAISAL            REVISE               ACTUAL               CE(TS ON PUFIURAMCE
DIDICATIRS                      TARGET                TAREr1
1.1    Availability of diesel locomotives           *0.0                 66.0                U4.9           Non-Compliance
of of Iof total f lest
1.2    Availability of Freight care as I of         t7.0                 75.0               54.9            Non-Compliance
total fleet
1.3    Averbge net load per train (tons)           809.0                806 0              846.0            Net load of traizs and cars
sent up only because fewer
Average net load per car (tons)             8U.0                  82.3               88.0            care were available.
1.4    Wagon Turn-around tim  (days)                11.0                 16.0                22.0           Wagon turn-around tim_
incresed instead of reducing             NJ
1.6.1 Wooden tie replac me nt                  200,000.0            100,000.0           1S6000.0            Nen-Coqtlionce
per year            per yer              per yer
1.5.2  Concrete tie replacement                 30,000.0             30,000.0            6,500.0            Nbr-Compli;nce
per year           per yer              per year
1.6    Track RebAbilitatlon (km)                   160.0 km             180.0 km            00.0 km         Only partial rehabilitation of
per yer            per year             per yer            6o km  per yar was done.
1.7    Average staff                            11,03o .0             3,000.0             7,784.0           Although staff reductions wero
substantial, salary, training
and ether program were not
impletmted.
1.3    Working Ratio before noralilation            36.0                13t.0               179.0           Non-Compliance                   * 
after normalization             t2.0                              ---



wAPIUA.               AlMSC                                     cmCs m w mwf
DDICATGRS                       TARGET                TARGET
1.9    Operating Ratio
Defere nereslization                          94.0                140.0               131.0           Non-Complionce
After normlization                            90.0                 --
r: 10   Froigth Tariff Increoae (in roal
termo)                                      10-SX                lOI-5              Complied         Altbough tariff increases were
made as f*oreseen  financalI
position did not. improve ms
traffic declined and
operotioms deteriorated.
1.11   Implemontation of Staff Impreovmat          Jan/84                JON/37              Not-complied
1.12   Commencement of Training Plan               Jan/U4                Mar/97              Not-complied
1.13   Completion of Actuarial Studies             Dec/64                Jul/66              Jan/67
1.14   Implementation of Pension Plan              Dec/86                Dec/67              Partially
complied
1.16   Impl_ments tion of Disciplinary
Actienc                                     Jan/84                Apr/87             Not-compi led
1.17   Revaluation and Updoted Depreciation                                                                                                         l4
of fIscal oaset                            Dec/BC                Jon/Si              Not-complied                                            o cr
0 '4
1.     Revised targets wero ogroed with the Borrower after tho Mid-Term Review in the Amondeont dated July 10, 199.0
2.     Incresso in wagon turn-around time Is a clear indicator of deteriorating train operatloes.
m9/1012/59



- 24 -
Table 6: Project Results
B. Economic Impact
Component                      Cost            Weight                 ERR
US ($m)                                  2
Track                          24.5              38                   5
Locos/Spares                   28.6              44                  19
Wagon/Spares                    8.6              13                  17
Others                          3.1               5
(TA etc.)
TOTAL                          64.8.            100                  12



Table 6: Project Results
Cl. Actual ana Projected  Income Statements
1981              1982                  1963                1984                1996                196              1967
Apr.   Actul   Appr          Actuxl    Appr.   Actual     Ar         Actual   Appr.      Actual   Appr.      Actual   Actual
Operating Revnues
F- re i ;ht                     1,716    1,565     2,206      1,2FQ      2,794    1,472      3,841      1,269    4,623      1,331    6,410      1,326      1,138
Paesener                          117       232      109        IL         106      209         99        196       as        224        la      1in         169
Other                             13S       222      165        156        150      265        210        220      240        490      270        296        216
Total Operating Revs.             1,902 2, 009 270       1  1,101 T,       11       !,91  2,04C           171    T1           11       171        LI1       -1
Op.rating tspenso
2,646    2,860    2,738      2,997      2,833    2,726      2,906      2,756    2,944      2,506    2,974       2,440    2,468
Fwel                              236       203      306        161        352      216        440        222      491        224       563       23U        139
MateriaL.                         355       209      700        213        70       267        900        33       920        209       640       246        249
Other                             210       221      452        230        479      217        50        226      627        211       550        U1s       246
Working Costs                     1711      17FM     1      4,414  *,42    VW                  W=         VW         7                   71                  VW
Depreciation                      112       104 ,   135          79        500       60        500         57      510         50      .515         U         60
Operatin  Costs                   17111      7157    17111      17111      17114     715       17          7511      1        17171                         175-4
Operating Profit/(Losa)            (1,693)  (1,459)  (1,961)   (2,087)   (1,832)  (1,C40)   (1,004) (1,939)          ( 331)   (1,215)    312       (1,463)   (1,619)
Non Operating Revenes                 66      --        60        --          60      --          600-                 s0                  so        --
Non Operatin Exp- -e
L19;-!!M: nnr Pid Eaxp-s1,234    1, 64    1,262               1,545      1,276    1,714      1,304      1,974    1,334      1,937    1,369      1,977      1,977
Cooentinr Paid                    400       423      423        421        431      36"        440        a30      449        205       46       . .224      201
lterest                          900       635      263        age        334    1 040        445        042      485        328      445        465       06
Total Nen Operating Exp.           7M        7M 1,5               5!                I          171        F1         m        11       17         F=         7
Net Incexm/(Losx)                  (4,072)  (3,360)  (3,739)   (4,939)   (3,612)  (4,662)   (3,133)   (5,149)  (2,522)   (3,770)  (1,690)   (4,029)   (4,502)  u
Normalization                        310       01      367        64                  --          34        --       271        --        25         - 
Porsonnel
tiplrEmp,oyed                10,32B    10,16a    10,58       9,467     10,946    5,066   11,015      9,569       11,O00      6,310      11,050      6,097     N.A.
peasloner.                   11,620    11,621     12,120      12,356     12,620   13,0C1    11,170    16,583       11,720     13,366      14,270     13,774    13,044
Trff ic
-TUlen-ft (Sillion)               700       626         900        563      1,016       642    1,295        726       1,417        776       1,656        694       562
Pess-Ka (million)               *00       235        2B0         156        260       175      210       190          170        220         100        132        177
S  i f icant Ratios
Workon  Rntie                   176       167        170         225        143       176      112       212           99        157          90        179       201
lleretl e  Ratle                161       173        175         230        153       173      124       ns           107        1SO          3         161       LOq
Average Neveeme per
Tee-m  (C'l ")              2.91       2.48       2.45       2.27        2.70     2.29      2.37      1.75        3.26        1.71       2.26        1.91      2.0
Average Cost per
emplyee (CelI 3   IIIeto)   0.26       0.26       0.26       0.32        0.26     0.80      0.26      0.32        0.n         0.80       0.27        0.30       -



Table 6: Project Results
C2: Actual and Projected Sources and Application of Funds
(Figure  In  id 1901 Coll Millies)
1916          1992                  1983                 1194                  1966                 1996                1967
n. x     Appr      Actual                   - A Iual  Ar        Actual     pcr      Actual      Apvr    Actual       ActIl
Seurces of Funds
CNR InternlIly Generated Funds
4nventories                            60          -           44        19         62          10         1         *J         6* 6                  M. o.
CNRWs staff input for the project    157           -         133         49        170          U3       190         -         18
UOP Grant For T.A.                      -                      26        -          28
Subtotal                                 226         -          206        66        260          43        197        as        194        55
Loans
I0RD - 2090-CO                         289         -        1976         -         984           9       327        190          -      977
Ro". Existing Debts                     -          -            1              -                -        _                               240
Subtotal                                 269         -        2026         -         964           9       327        190          -      1117
Governe nt Contributions
Alroady Aproved
Pension.                              1261       1634        1276      1716       1304        1928      184        17         1i6"      1677
Fondo Vial                              -          -           -       1676         -         1742        -        1799         -       137
Debt Service                          1343        810         750        -         645        19S2       644         -         551        -
Operating Doficit                     1297        646        690        138        110         672         -        286         -       17U8
Investments                            949        244       1311         -         943          -        559         -               -   -
Rehab. Permanent Way                    -         400                    -                -                -                    -
Coesntias                              423         -         431         -         440          -        449         -         456        -
Subtotsl                                5263       3733        4867      J529       3442        6824       296       J970       2877      5447               -3
Total Sources                           6777       3733       6686       3697       4676        6376       3510      4248       2571      6419           a 
Additional Financial Assistance                                                                                                                          ° li
Deficit of the Year                    246       2604          -       1262         -          906         -        261         -        6
Cash Doficit Previous Vears             -        136          _        10 6        _          1967         -       21U          -        415
Total Accumulated Deficit                245       369           -       237          -         2393         -       2414         -       128
Tel2                             59-4      466         96*           0          7      27 
Total Sources Equal Yotl Woods   4       022       7701       Goal       6U34       4676    n 2e9   J 610   O667                2671      7912



C2: Actual and Projected Sources and Application Funds
(Figur le  i mid 1961 ColS hill ie)
1961           1962                 1963                  1964                  136                   1966               1967
n *. Ap      r     Actual       Appr      Actue I     Appr.      Actral     Appr.    Act  I       Ar.   Actue I         Actua I
Application of Funds                                                                                                                                     n e
Operations
Operating (Prof it)/Locs
before NOormalization               IUI1       2067        1632       1540       1004        1939        331       1216       (321)    1463
Loer: Normalizationn                   U67         -          863         -         U34          -         271         -         265        -
Non-Operating R-ve es60                      -           60         -          60          -          so         -           o
Dereclatie.                      135         79         5o0         6         500          57        610        50        515        as
Plus: Not Paying traffic                 -         49          -          27         -           75         -          67         -         46
Indemnity Paymeat                 - s                    -         133         -          43         -         108         -         -
Subtotal                                 1299      2067         669       1694        110        2000       (610)    1is         (1161)    1475
Inv*stmts
Local                                   746       236         947        120        956         121        662        129        s3         96
Foreign                                 960       336        2698        126       1219          70        ?11        169        S22     1126
Subtotal                                 1706        571       8643        24        2177         191       159n        a19       11        1222
Debt Service
Long-Term Foreign - Principal           432       431         291        264        113         155         97        147        207       397
- Interest          I11        261         264        132        411         1e?       448        232        43U       419
Local   - Principal           61         -          114         34        97          *1         79         -          09
- lItorest           17         -           60         66         34          a          20        -          10        -
Short-Term Local  - Principal           569       666          11         -          -         U9           -         149         -        269           - 
-Ilnter-et           65C       814         _          312         -          340         -         10         -         46           *   "
Subtotal                                 1343       1742        750        927        646        2724        644        619        721      1131           t  a
0   a
Social Benefits tc 
Fees;e                                 1262      1646        1276       1714       1304        1974      1I34        1937       1366     177 
Ctesntias                              423        421         411        tFi        440         393        449        295        45       224
Subtotal                                 1675      1966        1705       2062       1744        2367       1793       2212      12S      2101
Post Accumulated Debts                     -        1365          -       1065         -         1967         _        2153         -       1963
ToLal Applications                      6022       7701        6563       5934       4676        9269       3510        657      2571      7f12



- 28 -
Table 6: Project Results
D. Actual and Proiected Government Contributions
(in mid-1981 ColS million)
Appraisal Forecast          Actual
1. Already Approved                         _
1982                                5,263                    3,733
1983                                4,657                     3,529
1984                                3,442                    6,324
1985                                2,986                     3,970
1986                                2,377                    5,447
Subtotal                           18,725                   23,003
2. Additional Required
1982                                  245                    3,969
1983                                  -                      1,252
1984                                                           906
1985                                                            261
1986                                                            858
245                    7,246
Total  (1 + 2)                           18,970                    30,245
Total in USS equivalent 1/                   345                      550
(millions)
1/  Average exchange rate assumed for 1981 - Ccl$ 35   U 'JSS 1.



- 29 -
Table 6: ProJect Results
E. Studies
A. Prolect Studies
Purpose as defined at Appraisal                    Status           IM2act of Study
Bogota-Buenaventura line-economic
feasibility                                    Done                No Action
Saboya-Carare Bypass-line capacity study         Done
Signal and Telecom System assessment
study                                          Done             Not Implemented
Tariff structure                                 Done               Implemented
Cost Accounting, Financial Planning
Budgeting and Statistical reporting            Done       Inadequately Imcompleted
Transport Plan for CNR                            Done            Not Implemented
Preparation of Traffic demand model              Done             Not Implemented
Study for warp of reducing cost
(Workshops rationalization and way
and works)                                     Done             Not Implemented
Acturial studies                                 Done
Action Plan to rationalize Pacific
Division                                  Partially Done        Not Implemented
B. Studies decided during Proiect Implementation
Role and Future of Railway                       Done
These two studies ha
Formulation of strategies for relationship                    formed the basis for
between Government and Railways                            restructuring of the
Railway System.



- 30 -
T. STAIS OF COYUA,TS
Table 7
Page 1 of 4
Covenant                           Sub3ect                                      Status
Guarantee Agreemnt
See. 2.02                Provision of funds for the                 Inadequate compliance to non-compliance.
operations of CNN and for
implementing the project.
See a.02 (a)             Guarantor to take.  all steps to           Inadequote complinceo, porticularly 'n
enable borrower to perform the            regord to provision of funds and
obligations In Soeo. 4.00 and 4.06        competent/stable management for CNR.
of Loan Agreement and to carry out
the Program of Action.
Loon Agreement
3.01 (a)&(b)             The Borrower shell carry out the           Severe delays in project Implementation
project with due diligence and            becuse of inefficiencies In project
efficiency, and shall take all            mnageme nt and shortage of counterpart
actions as shall be necessary on its    funds.  Not complid.
part to carry out the Program of
Action and the Investment Plan.
3.01 (c)                 Agreemnt with customers before             Ltne not rehabilitated becauoe of lack of
rehabilitation of La Coro-iP-lenc.to.    funds.  Not compiled.
3.01 (d)                 An arrongement with cool shippers          Prodece requested rail capacity from the
before procurement of gondolas.           Borrower for coal export of 300,000
ton/year from Lenguozoque to Sta. Marts.
In addition, there was new coal traffic
of 60,000 tons/yeor from Zipaquira to
Copulco that started In 19ig.
3.01 (e)(i)              Arrangowents with producers of             The Borrower secured traffic for about
coffee, cotton, rice and fertilizer       100,000 tons/year of coffee, fertilizers
prior to rehabilitating Mexico-           cotton and rice on that line.
iuenos Aires llne.
3.01 (0)(i)              An arrongement with customers and          The rehabilltatlon of this line was
economic study before rehabilitating    econA-Cm lly justified based on the coal
La Caro-Chlquinquira.                     tronsvort, however works were not
undertaken.
3.01(f)                  Teut of Group I locomotives for one        Four locomotives under group I were
year before Group II locomot;ves are    t-sted, but later doaoged by
bought.                                   occidents/derailments.



_ 31 -
7. STAIA OF COVUWT
Table 7
Peso 2 of 4
Covenant                           SubJect                                       Status
1.01(t)                   Justification of need before               The potential cool traffic for gondola.
procwrem.nt of Group II gondolas.          of Group II Justified theIr acqulsition.
However, tho Sorroe.r would first require
to rohabilitate the lines end loceotives
under Oroup I of the project, which wee
not done.
8.01                     Employment of mechanical engineering    A consultant was hired, ond his report
coneultants to *asest the Borrower         wee used by the Borrower In the
In bid evaluation for Oroup I and II    locomotive bid evaluation.
locometives.
8.08                     Employment of dIesel-- lectrlcal            Consultants were hired In Mrech 1965.
locomotive coneultante to aseist the
Borrower In locomotive
reoabilitation and scrapping
pr"rog .
8.04                     Employment of consultants to assist         Consultentn were hired and started to
in the carrylg out of the studle        work with the Sorrower In February-Morch
under Port 0 and training under Part    1985.  A troining program (Part H) was
H.                                         prepared In 1I14, but Implementation did
not start because of the Borrower's lack
of funds.
;.05(a)                  Olve the lank the opportunity to            Study was not completed by consultants.
reviee and come_nt on term  of
reference for the two-phase study of
the Bogota-8uenaventura connection.
o.0s(b)                   If the Bogotaue-naventure study            Not compled.
shoew that i rail connect;on in not
justified, th- Borroe r should,
uithin 6 months, prepare a program
of action to eliminate losses on the
Pecific network.
a.0o                     Preparotion and start of a troining         The talning program Implementation was
progrom and generel improvemwnt of         hoaered by lock of funds.
the quality staff by March 1ot,
1907.
8.07                      In carrying out Port 6(2) of the           Port (o) was fulfilled In 1915, ond Part
project (rehabilitation of 139             (b) was fulfilled with Bank f;noncing In
locomotives), the lorrower shall           191.
place order for the acquisition of:
(a) Si leest 5OX of th- required
spare ports by March 81, 1994; and
(h) the remaining W5 of such parts
by December 81, 19M.



- 32 -
7. STAMUS OPF CO3YUWA
Table 7
Poge 8 of 4
Covonant                           Sub ect                                      Status
S. 0(a)                  Mid-term roviow by March 11, 19933         The oid-term rvvlew took place during
April 6-20, 1905.
1.06(b)                  Second In-depth roview by June 10,         Bank Milsion/Roview recoeoended cloeing
1997.                                     of project because of poor performance.
3.09(o)                  He Group I1 investmnto unlese the          Did not arise.
Sunk receive evidence that such
co_itments are economically and
technieally justifi ed.
3.09(b)                 iNo comitmnto In excess of                  Did not arise.
J42,000.000 including Oroup II
invoetments unless second In-depth
review shows satisfactory progress
of project.
3.18 (a)                 Establish and maintain Project             Partial compliance; accounts established
(b)snd(c)                Account In pesos for local                 but deposits into It were insufficient to
expenditures of the project.              cover required expenditures.
4.06(a)                  The Borrower shall, by March 80,           Substantial reductions wero made in staff
1937 take *al  such ection as shall       members but salary structure reform and
be feasible and necessary to Improve    recruiting policy reviews not done due to
the quailty of Its staff (prepare          lack of interest on the Covernment's end
and commence a specific manpower          CHR's parta
plan, carry out a study of its
salary structure and recruiting
policy, review ita salary
structure).
4.06(b)                  Implementation of Improved                 The Borrower conducted *sminars for
supervislon and dliciplinary actions    managerial and supervi:ory staff In order
by April let, 1967.                       to focus on the rehobilitation of the
railway, including stricter discliplinry
moesures alroedy b?ing implomnted, but
results schieved not perceptibli.
4.07                     Reduction in proceosing time for           Several actlons were token by CNR;
(o)and(b)                procurement documents and                  however, tho procurament process remained
appointment of staff members              inefficient, and procurme nt delays
rosponsible for procur-emnt by            endemc.
December a1, 1935.



- 33-
7. STATI  OF COYAMS
Table 7
Page 4 of 4
Covenant                           Subject                                       Status
4.03                      Appointment of competent and               Toea  not appointed.
experienced tem to he costing
sectlon of the Borrower by Sept. 30,
1964.
4.09(a)                   The Borrower shll take *11 such            Soervice deterlorotod conaiderably;
action to improve service on the           operstional loseso increased.
railways and to reduce or ollminato
operatlonol losses.
4.09(b)                   Introduction of a system for the           Nolthor wes a satisfactory system
calculatlon of normalization               developed, nor did the Government make
payments on the possenger servce           e4ther adequate or timely normalization
losses to be paid by the Governmnt         payments.
starting Sept. 30, 1984.
S.02(a)                  Audit of accounts, financiel                External auditors were appointed.
and(b)                    statements and Special Accoult.            However, there were considerablo delays
In the work and the submission of reports
and auditors rofrained from giving an
opinion because of numerous issues
requiring attention.
6.04                     Study and change of the structure           Studies started and completed late.
and lovel of the Borrower's tariffs
by June 1986.
6.06(o)                  Tariffs to provide the Borrower with    Despite tariff increores, ratios
revenue sufficient to wmet working         continued to be higher than forecast
and operating ratios of Progrom of         because of loss than expected traffic *nd
Action,                                    high operating expenses.
6.05(b)                  By January 1st, 1966 and every              Tariffs were increased as recomiended by
semester theroeftor incroose tariffs    the Bank.
by 9` In real terms.
S.07(a)                  Preparation of inventory of fixed           Invonto4y of fixed assets was not
assets by Docember 31, 1986.               prosvred.
5.07(b)                  Revoluation of fixed assets by June         Not done.
30, 1987 and every two years
thereafter.
S.08(a)                  Actuarial studies completed by July         Studies completed six months late.
31, 198.
6.08(b)                  Penokon schem  by December 31, 1987.    Not done.



U. USE OF BANK RESOtICES - MISSION DATA
MONTH/           NUMBER OF   DAYS IN        SPECIALIZATION            PENFAMAaCE RATING
~LACE OF PROJECT CYCLE            YEAR              PERSONS      FIELD        REPRESENTEDo/              STAfU5b/                   TYPES OF PUIISNM
Through Appraisal
Project identification        April It"          6            2          i(3), F, EC
Project preparation           Jan-Jun low         I            7          E, F, EC
Pro-appraisal                 Aug. 1960           a           14          E (2), F
Appraisal                     Sept. 19S0                      21          E, F, EC
(Negotiations)                May 1991            a           7           by Div. Chief (Proj), Lon Officer, Div. Chief (Country Pr.j)
Appraisal to Board Approval
Port appraisal sission        Dec. 1961           2            6          E, F
(Board approval)              Feb. 1962
Board Approval to Effoctiv-eoas
First supervision             March 1962          a            4          E, F, EC             1/2
Supervislon                   Nby 1962                                    E . E, F, EC         1/2
October 1982        1           7           E, F, EC            2/5  To el pedIto wtlos for loon o foctlivenme
March 1913          a           *           E, F, EC            1/2  lb fInencal * mmt m_t by Govt.
(Effectiveness)               Jn  193                                                                                                           cr
I.c



MONTI"/    NUMBER OF     DAYS IN           SPECIALIZATION      PERFOEMANCE RATING/
STACE OF PROJECT CYCLE            YEAR         PERSONS        FIELD          REPRESENTEDe/k      STATUSb/                        TYPES OF PROBUEMS
Supervision                   Sept. 1963         4            7          E, F(2), EC         1/2  Proj. *tarts slo11  becoms  of * aadeq"at. feed.
Oct. 196U          1            4          E                              *              0
Joa   19U4         8            S          E. F, EC            1/2                       a
May 194            3            4          E. F. EC            1/2        *
July 19P4          1            5          ED                       Review of trai-lnp cemee mt
Sept. 1964         2            6          E. F                2/4  Serlom  led of f*ed  for proj. imoplemi_tti.
Nov. 1984          1            2          F                   2/8  Feeds eveliability
April 1965         a           10          E. F, EC            2/4  Lack of 6vt.Porrew.r cmmitmsat to p-oject
June 196C          2            6          E. E                     Missiso discus" Mu  with Govermment
May 196            1            2          E
July 196           1            2          E                   5
March 19#7         2            a          E, F                4    No progr-s all *  r1 ed. Project closilg recos.
DOc. 1967          *            6          E, F., EC           4    Final misslee, lose cloeing
./  Engieer (E). Financial Analyst (F). Economist (Ec), Education Export (Ed)
b/  Statue/Performance Rating:  No problem to minor problems (1), moderato problems (2), mjor probeims (), grave prblem  (4)
SUMUARY OF MISSIONS:
Through appraisal:                   167 mandays
Appraisal toeoard approval:           10    C
ioard approval Lo effectivenees:      9
Supervision                          167
0
ae 



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                           n doonqsC  c, CP no  (   /N
/                                  drCJr~~~~~~~~~~otageno     ric¢           /
, )>,                       :                        \   , rv~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ E S A Ri
r' .i  >   ofl t°/          kChompanv
AVr-a ,  ES~                                                                                V ENEZUELA
T   .           . .: >t i . ~~8 A                         pmf   O
>                         <   2      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cocu co0  SANTANDER 
i|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- ,, a        *w , 
\ Cceno   o3uc;aangs   j   t¢@^SbOQ--.
'      ''             _f a~~~~~~rorncabermejo
g 'aN  T A N D, E R/  r                ARA   
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'C                         Puer;o'y,?- 
I          t                             Bbroolr;7      3          4        -9>4,           Belenc,o ci    oNE
t                              >            t     Chsumquir&               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bona
|   2)                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a,,joro  LpDoraci;R;r~~     Tna~
5   Q                             t   j/U °N^o za rs ( U x <D;>4! le 34 1nZ,a  r           8 A S A N A R E         
1   s                         tYotoso;ee~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~pet!,  3rt5+8   '   ao    x<~ 
[ ^   K    ~~~~~~~~~~~ t            .            rEs~~~~~~~~~~p,nal,>                                               0   -
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~al, Vor                                                          E               A              
.       oNevo                         ~COLOMBIA                                 \'
' .    oP°P rn                .           1\NAT I ONAL RA ILRC)ADS 
N A R   *              ||-                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAIN LINES
"' =CG   <         .,      r                                ____   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRANCh LINES
.    E D so                                                                                 SECONDARY LINES
'S  .                    |                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LINES CLOSED
\            '                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECTED LtNE
; 4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEPAR TM ENT Bo UNDA RI ES
IECUADOFR                                                   -                                        .INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIESi



