Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                           U (
Report No. 3262b-CO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COLOMBIA
cwf')                                   SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
January 27, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit         =  Peso (Col$)
US$1                  =  Col$ 55.0
(October 1981)
Col$ 1                = US$0.01818
Col$ 1 million        =  US$18,181
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
System of Weights and Measures
1 meter (m)           =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)      =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)       =  2.20 pounds (lb)
1 ton                 =  2,205 pounds
Abbreviations
CNR             Colombian National Railways
COLPUERTOS      Colombian Port Authority
CONPES          Social and Economic Policy Committee of the Cabinet
DAAC            Administrative Department of Civil Aeronautics
DNP             Department of National Planning
DRI             Integrated Rural Development
ECOPETROL       Colombian Petroleum Agency
FAN             National Aeronautics Fund
FNCV            National Rural Roads Fund
FONADE          Economic Development Fund
IDB             Inter-American Development Bank
IDEMA           Government Marketing Institution
MOPT            Ministry of Public Works and Transport
SENA            Colombian National Training Center



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
COLOMBIA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR * * .....              ........ .     .............    ............  1
A.   General ............. .. .  .................. **. ******.*.*............*.....  I
B.   The Transport System .*o..o.. .    ............. ...............                I
C.    Investments, Regulation, Planning and Coordination ......                      4
D.    Bank Involvement in the Transport Sector ........... . .....                   6
II.  THE RAILWAY SUBSECTOR .............  ..................                   .....       6
A.   Background .................................o .......... ............o          6
B.   Organization ............  ..... ........ ...............................       8
C.    Management, Staff and Training    ..........................                   8
D.   Railw~ay Facilities               ................................................  12
E.   Traffic ............. 0 ......14
F.   Operations ..                       ...............                            15
G.   Tariffs and Costs ....... . .........             .        ...... .....        15
H.    Budget, Accounting and Audit    ....... ................                      17
III. THE INVESTMENT PLAN AND THE PROJECT .................                                18
A.    CNR's Investment Plan (1982-1986) .......................                     18
B.  The Project and the Proposed Loan..                                             19
C.   Main Project Items ...... ........... . ........ ..                    .       20
D.   Cost Estimates ....0..  ............  ...                                      25
E.    Financing Plan....... ............ .....                                      25
F.    Project Implementation .. ...... .... . ............ ... .                    26
G.    Program of Action.           ... . .....            .....     .......         26
H.   Procurement   ...............  ...                                             26
I.   Disbursements .......... .              ..................... ....             28
J. Environment . ........28
IV.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION ..............................                     .             28
A.   General ................0.........                                             28
B. Traffic Forecast    ..28
C.   Costs ...........................  ...                                         30
D.    Benefits ... .....................................................            30
E.    Economic Return ....... ... ... .. .. ... . ..  ........ O-.... ...... .*. .*.  30
F.    Sensitivity Analysis and Risk ............*.........               .....      30
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Colombia in September 1980. The mission comprised Messrs. Rasheed (Financial
Analyst), Baigorria (Engineer) and Nordin (Economist). The report has been
edited by Miss Virginia Foster. An update mission visited Colombia in
November 1981.
This documot has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofcal duties. Its contens may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
V.   FINANCIAL EVALUATION  .................**e*e**********               31
A.   Financial Objectives    ..    ..      ....................      31
B.   Past Financial Performance .....    .........................   31
C.   Non-Remunerative Lines and Services ....      .................  33
D.   Forecast Financial Performance (1981-1986) .... ...........     35
E.   Sensitivity Analysis ...........*****************ee******       39
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ........................       40
TABLES
1.1  National and International Passenger and Freight Transport  ..       42
1.2   Colombian Road Network 1980 . .............. . ...............      43
1.3  National Highway Fund Revenues 1970-1980 ......................      44
1.4   Evolution and Composition of Regular Gasoline Prices
1971-1980        ....................                             45
1.5   Public Sector Investments in Transport 1972-1979  ...........       46
1.6  World Bank Group Involvement in Colombian Transport .........        47
2.1   Selected Operating Statistics 1970-1980 .....................       48
2.2   CNR's Motive Power and Rolling Stock Data ........... . ........    49
2.3   CNR - Freight Traffic for 1971-1980 ..........*................     50
3.1   The Investment Plan 1982-1986 (2 pages)    ...............         51-52
3.2  The 1982-1985 Project (2 pages )............................        53-54
3.3   Items to be Financed by the Proposed Loan .....     ..............  55
3.4   Track Rehabilitation Program 1981-1984         ......................  56
3.5   Condition of Track Sections Programed for Rehabilitation
(Before and After the Project) ..........      ..................  57
3.6  Locomotive Requirement and Availability - 1982-1986 ........         58
3.7  Gondola Requirement and Availability - 1982-1986 .............       59
3.8   Workshop Equipment and Tools Requirement - 1982-1985 ........       60
3.9   Technical Assistance and Training Program ...................       61
3.10  Project Implementation Schedule ............................        62
3.11  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ......... .............         63
4.1   Freight Traffic Projections 1982-1986 .......................       64
4.2   CNR's Passenger Traffic 1971-1985       ..........................  65
4.3  Economic Evaluation of Track Rehabilitation         .................  66
4.4   Economic Evaluation of Motive Power and Rolling Stock   .......     67
5.1   Revenues, Expenses and Net Income      .     .................      68
5.2   Summary Balance Sheets 1977-1979    ............................    69
5.3   Income Statements 1981-1986 (2 pages) .......................      70-71
5.4   Government Financial Assistance to CNR during 1982-1986 .i...       72
5.5   Sources and Applications of Funds Statements       ................  73
5.6   Forecast Balance Sheets 1982-1986 ........................ ...      74



- iii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
ANNEXES
1.   CNR's Operations Review  ......... .. . . . . . . . . . . . . ...........  ........ .  75
2.   Summary of the Plan to Increase CNR's Locomotive Availability.       77
3.   Technical Assistance and Training Program - Guidelines  .....        79
4.  Details of Financing Plan  ......  .. ...  . ...... ......... o. ...... .  82
5.   Details of the Commodity Forecasts for 1982-1986 ........... ..      83
6.   Economic Return Calculations ..........................              90
7.   Uneconomic Lines and Passenger Train Services Closed .........       96
8.  Methodology and Assumptions Used in the Financial
Forecast 1982-1986 ..'. .............. ... ........ .. ... ....    97
9.   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File ....      99
CHARTS
1.    Organization of MOPT......                                         100
2.    Organization of CNR .............. . ...  .. . .  ........         101
3.    Traffic Density Chart for 1986 ..... ..............        .       102
MAPS
1.    IBRD 3667R1 - Colombia National Railroads
2.    IBRD 15410  - Colombia Transportation Network






I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   General
1.01      The Andes Mountains in Colombia present formidable barriers to
communication among the main population centers in the country, which, until
recently, constituted separate and almost self-sufficient regions. It was
not until the early 1950s that,.under the drive toward integration and modern-
ization, the transport system began to evolve into a national network.
1.02      The Magdalena River had been the only transport route between the
central region and the Atlantic coast until, in the early 1960s, construction
and upgrading of the Western Road (Cartagena-Medellin-Cali-Pasto), the Eastern
Road (Santa Marta-Bucaramanga-Bogota-Neiva), and the two main transverse roads
that connect them in the central region were substantially completed. Since
1961, the Atlantic Railroad has provided a connection between the port of
Santa Marta and the two major urban centers of Bogota and Medellin. During
the last 25 years, the country's port capacity and air transport services
have also expanded considerably.
1.03      During the period 1950-1980, the transport sector's contribution to
GDP grew at an annual rate of 6.1%, which is larger than the annual growth
rate of 5.2% of total GDP for the same period. At the same time, the share of
the transport sector in GDP rose from 5.1% in 1950 to 9.4% in 1980.
1.04      The Colombian inter-urban transport system moved about 21.5 billion
ton-km in 1980, of which about 81% was moved by truck over the national highway
network (Table 1.1). Coastal shipping accounted for about 8%, river transport
about 5%, railways some 5% and aviation about 1%. Although agricultural output
dominates, manufactured goods are becoming an increasing share of Colombian
freight. Roads dominate passenger traffic, accounting for almost 71% of the
pass-km, while aviation's share is close to 27%; railways serve only about 2%
of the passenger traffic.
B.   The Transport System
(i) Railways
1.05      The railway subsector is discussed in Chapter II.
(ii)  Highways
1.06      Colombia has a road network totaling about 77,000 km (Table 1.2),
of which about 22,900 km constitute the national highway system, 40,400 km
are departmental roads and 11,200 km are feeder roads. The balance of about
2,300 km of roads are private, municipal or in the national territories.
About one-third (7,900 km) of the national system is paved, while only about
3% of the departmental roads are paved. All other roads are gravel or
unsurfaced. The road network is not well maintained. At least half of
the paved roads need asphalt overlays or strengthening in the next ten years
to preserve the pavement structure.



-2-
1.07      The construction and maintenance of the national highway network
are the responsibility of the Ministry of Public Works and Transportation (MOPT).
Following the reorganization of the Ministry implemented in May 1980 (Chart 1),
the Highway Directorate, under the jurisdiction of the Technical Secretary, is
in charge of the execution and supervision of highway and maintenance done
directly by MOPT. This work is carried out through MOPT's 26 districts of
public works located in each of the 23 Departments and in some of the national
territories.
1.08      The administration of departmental secondary and rural roads is
under the jurisdiction of the Secretariats of Public Works of the Departmental
Governments. These Secretariats have responsibility for planning, constructing
and maintaining secondary and rural roads within their Departments. The
Departments of Antioquia, Cundinamarca and Valle have relatively strong road
organizations, but are still heavily deficient on the maintenance side.  Most
of the other Departments have limited financial resources and, consequently,
have not developed adequate organizations to deal with their roads.
1.09      The National Rural Roads Fund (FNCV), which is responsible for
planning, constructing and maintaining rural roads in all regions of the
country, rightly does not want to develop into another labor-heavy bureaucracy.
Therefore, there is reason for delegating, in the long run, maintenance
responsibilities of FNCV roads to the Departments as they acquire proper
capabilities.
1.10      The National Highway Fund (Fondo Vial Nacional) was created in 1966
for the purpose of channeling all resources devoted to the highway subsector.
The Fund, which has no staff of its own, is administered by MOPT. Its main
source of income is the gasoline tax, which, since 1976, has accounted for
over 70% of the Fund's revenues (Table 1.3). During the 1970s, about 30%
of national highway expenditures were for maintenance, 50% for construction
and 20% for other expenses. Rehabilitation has emerged as a significant
category, constituting about 14% of the Highway Fund expenses in 1980.
1.11      The Government has been increasing gasoline prices gradually since
August 1975. The price structure for regular, low octane gasoline appears
in Table 1.4. It reflects taxes accruing to the National Highway Fund as well
as other taxes, transportation costs (which go to the Colombian Petroleum
Agency, ECOPETROL) and distribution margins. After the most recent increase
in December 1981, prices have reached a level of Col$ 64 (about US$1.12) per
gallon for high octane gasoline (87 octane) and Col$ 55 (about US$0.96) per
gallon for regular gasoline (72 octane) and diesel fuel. This increase has
brought domestic prices to the international c.i.f. Barranquilla level.



-3
(iii) Inland Waterways
1.12      The traditional importance of inland waterway shipping has decreased
because of the development of road and rail transport. The Magdalena and
Cauca Rivers, together with the man-made Canal del Dique which connects the
port of Cartagena with the Magdalena River, constitute a major transport
system, totaling 1,366 km of navigable waterways, which accounts for almost
all inland shipping. The Magdalena River is quite dependable in all seasons
to Gamarra (about 470 km from the Barranquilla river-sea terminal); beyond
there to Salgar (930 km from Barranquilla), only seasonal navigation is
possible. Other river systems (Amazonas, Orinoco, Atrato), although very
extensive, serve only intraregional transportation of small magnitude.
1.13      Bulk goods, especially petroleum, fertilizer products and cement,
constitute the main freight movement, but there is still competition for
this traffic from other modes. Total traffic in 1979 was 1.5 million tons, of
which 85% consisted of petroleum products. Passenger traffic on the rivers is
negligible. Freight transport services are mostly in private hands while the
administration and maintenance of the river and most ports are under the
jurisdiction of MOPT's Directorate responsible for inland waterways. Inland
shipping has complemented rail traffic to some extent, particularly for goods
originating from and destined to the ports of Cartagena and Barranquilla.
Transshipments to both rail and road can be effected at a number of river
ports further upstream; however, the comparative advantage of road transport
relative to the combined river-rail or river-road movements makes these
combinations viable for just a few products.
(iv) Ports
1.14      The principal seaports of Colombia are Cartagena, Barranquilla and
Santa Marta on the Atlantic coast, and Buenaventura and Tumaco on the Pacific
coast. They are administered by the Colombian Port Authority (COLPUERTOS),
which is an autonomous Government agency. For about a decade, this agency has
been improving transit storage and cargo-handling facilities with financing
from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). About 3 million tons per year
move through the ports; of this total, more than 50% is handled by Buenaventura.
In all ports, except Tumaco, the volume of inbound traffic is more than that
of outbound traffic, and only Buenaventura has significant cabotage traffic
other than oil, which is transported mainly from Tumaco to Cartagena via
the Panama Canal.
1.15      One bottleneck to evacuating goods from the ports is the inland
transportation system. At times, neither the railways (Santa Marta and
Buenaventura have rail services) nor the trucking industry has been able
to handle the volumes available to them. More coordination among modes
of transport and improved information from COLPUERTOS to the transport
services are also needed. Lack of bulk inland storage facilities by IDEMA--
the owner of most of the grains imported in bulk--is another cause of port



-4-
congestion. The structure of port charges, in particular low demurrage
charges, also tends to increase freight congestion. Low labor productivity
and inefficient cargo handling practices also contribute to high cost and
port congestion. Finally, the use of containers in an efficient intermodal
system would help to alleviate port congestion and has been studied by
consultants, financed by UNDP with the Bank as Executing Agency.  The
recommendation to provide container facilities in Colombian ports is being
reviewed in connection with the preparation of a proposed port project.
(v) Aviation
1.16      The aviation subsector developed very early in Colombia as a result
of the major problems to surface transportation caused by the topography. Air
transport is now a major passenger transport mode for both international and
intercity travel. Domestic freight tonnage has decreased in recent years
although, in terms of ton-km, its volume has remained stable. International
freight traffic, however, has been gaining importance. There are three major
national airlines and eleven foreign airlines providing international services,
and there are ten additional regularly scheduled domestic carriers. Since 1968,
aviation has been governed by the Administrative Department of Civil Aeronautics
(DAAC), which .is directly responsible to the President of the Republic. DAAC
is supported by the National Aeronautics Fund (FAN).
1.17      There are some 70 airports whose standards vary widely.  In general,
those in the western half of the country are better developed than those in
the east. At present, seven of the airports in mainland Colombia and one
additional on the Caribbean Island of San Andres are equipped to handle
international flights. In view of technological improvements in the aviation
field and the inherent difficulties of surface transport, aviation is most
likely to maintain an increasing role in the country, especially in passenger
transport among major urban centers and in services to the more remote areas
of the Colombian Amazonas. A new airport at Medellin and improvements to
Bogota and Cartagena airports are being implemented under a Bank-financed
aviation project (Loan 1624-CO).
C.   Investments, Regulation, Planning and Coordination
1.18      The effort to complete the basic transport network has required a
considerable share of the country's total investments. Transport represented
about half of public investments in the late 1950s. In the 1960s, when the
trunk highway system and the Atlantic Railways were being completed, that
share rose to more than 60%. More recently, however, the transport infrastruc-
ture share of total public investments has been declining; in the late 1960s,
it was about 35%, and, since 1970, it has been about 25%.
1.19      In 1980, about Col$ 19,195 million (about US$430 million) were
invested in the transportation sector (Table 1.5). Of this amount, about 86%
was for highways and road transport (including national highways and depart-
mental and feeder roads), 7% for ports and inland navigation, 5% for airports
and 2% for rail transport. The continuous decline in railway investments
partly explains the decreased operating performance of the Colombian
National Railways (CNR).



- 5 -
1.20      The financing of the transport sector is arranged through a combina-
tion of (a) National Funds, e.g., the National Highway Fund and the National
Aeronautics Funid which are supplied by tax revenues, Government contributions
and foreign assistance; and (b) general revenues collected by the transport
entities from their customers, e.g., CNR and COLPUERTOS. The transport sector
institutions follow a policy of cost recovery, and their pricing policies are
generally adequate. However, CNR has had to resort to Government contributions
to finance its operating deficits because of management difficulties and
operational inefficiencies, in particular lack of motive power. Existing
cross-subsidies, e.g., between import and export tariffs in the ports and
between freight and passenger tariffs on the railways, are not of major
significance. Subsidization of road transport over other modes was implicit
in the past but has been virtually eliminated through gasoline and diesel fuel
price increases (para 1.11). The taxes on CNR's purchases of diesel fuel
contribute to the financing of the National Highway Fund, but, until recently,
CNR did not receive any support from this Fund. In December 1981, a proposal
to finance CNR's maintenance, improvement and extension from the Fund was
approved by Congress and is expected to improve the situation of the railways.
1.21      The transport system developed in a relatively short period of time
in response to-overwhelming demands by the rest of the economy and not as the
result of a deliberate sector planning effort. The responsibility for trans-
port policy was distributed among Ministries, regional and local governments
and decentralized agencies, each of which played an important role in creating
the rules and regulations governing its own activities. Consequently, there
was little coordination among modes and a lack of regional planning. Until
1966, when, by Decree 3160, an attempt was made to tie in the various entities
in charge of transportation with the Ministry of Public Works (MOP), no frame-
work allowing central planning and policy formulation existed. Ministerial
control remained limited, and the lack of coordination persisted.
1.22      More recently, however, there has been considerable strengthening of
sector institutions, with the establishment of central control of the sector
under the Ministry of P-ublic Works and Transport (MOPT). This strengthening
has been made possible through the restructuring of MOPT in 1976 and its
reorganization in 1980, with the creation of a Sectoral Planning Office and
a National Transport Council respectively (Chart 1). The National Planning
Department (DNP) also maintains an overall coordinating role and has a trans-
port section in its infrastructure division. The Sectoral Planning Offices of
MOPT are responsible for carrying out intermodal planning and coordination.
In addition, budgets and investment programs for all modes except pipelines
and aviation require MOPT approval. The National Transport Plan, prepared by
the Sectoral Planning Office in 1980, defines the role and goals of each mode
and outlines investment programs and their financing for each component of the
sector. It also establishes guidelines for the distribution of responsibilities
for planning, construction and maintenance of the transport network among
national and regional agencies.
1.23       Future revisions of the Plan would place increased emphasis on:
(a) sector objectives within the framework of the National Economic Policy,
(b) maintenance of infrastructure and equipment, (c) intermodal coordination,
(d) transport safety, (e) transport pricing, and (f) energy considerations.



-6
The Secretariat of the National Transport Council (MOPT's Sectoral Planning
Office) would take the initiative of meeting regularly with the representatives
of all autonomous institutions related to the transport sector in order to
prepare sector policies and programs to be analyzed by the National Transport
Council and later incorporated into the National Transport Plan. The long-term
goal would be to integrate the programs of the different transport modes into
a more comprehensive transport sector framework suitable, in the future, for a
global transport sector project.
1.24      The present administration's development strategy combines expansion of
the economic infrastructure, designed to integrate regional markets, with a return
to export-led growth and increased emphasis on improving allocative efficiency.
The renewed emphasis on transport infrastructure, combined with efforts to
accelerate growth in less developed regions of the country, seems appropriate
at this stage of Colombia's development. Transport costs are high and dis-
courage interregional and external trade. With these costs lowered, transport
services made more reliable, and incentives provided for investment in areas
with growth potential, a substantial boost could be given to interregional and
external trade and to overall economic growth and employment generation.
D.   Bank Involvement in the Transport Sector
1.25      The Bank has played an important role in the development of Colombia's
transport sector. -Its involvement dates back to 1949, when a transport sector
mission reported the transport system to be in exceptionally bad condition.
Since 1950, the Bank has lent about US$474 million 1/ in 22 loans to the sector
(Table 1.6). These investments accelerated the construction of an integrated
highway network and, more recently, have contributed to the rehabilitation and
maintenance of the network and to the development of an improved highway
organization. They have also contributed to the construction of over 670 km
of main line on the Atlantic railroad from La Dorada to Fundacion, as well as
the rehabilitation of others. Five of the Bank-financed railway projects have
been reviewed by the Operations Evaluation Department. 2/ In general, it was
found that the construction of the Atlantic line was the single most important
transport investment financed by the Bank in Colombia and that it contributed
to the economic and social integration of the country. The domestic aviation
project is helping to improve basic aviation infrastructure and to improve
sector efficiency and planning. Bank participation in rural road construction
has been through rural development projects, which also included other activ-
ities in the agricultural sector.
II. THE RAILWAY SUBSECTOR
A. Background
2.01      CNR received US$113.7 million in six loans from the Bank over the
past three decades; major improvements took place during the implementation of
1/ - Including an IFC operation.
2/   Bank Operations in Colombia, SecM73-314 of 1972, Bank Operations in
Colombia, an Evaluation, Report No. Z-18 of 1972, and Project Performance
Audit Report - Fifth Railway Project, SecM75-446 of 1975.



-7-
these loans. Prior to 1950, the railway network was owned by national and
departmental railroads and private companies. By 1963, the network had been
consolidated through the creation of CNR and integrated by standardizing the
track gauge to 914 mm. The Bank loans helped in (a) construction and equipping
of the Atlantic Line, which is the backbone of the network linking the central
highlands and the capital, Bogota, with the important port of Santa Marta;
(b) dieselization and modernization of the railway; and (c) technical assistance
to build up CNR. The Bank's association with CNR, therefore, has been a fruitful
one despite some setbacks in the railway performance as described in the following.
2.02      Progress was excellent in the early period of the Sixth Railway Loan
(1973-1974). Th,e locomotive and wagon availability was either on, or better
than, the target. The financial performance was substantially better than
the plan of action targets (para 5.02). The number of derailments declined.
Procurement was progressing well. Freight traffic increased by about 11%
during 1973-1974 as compared with 1.4% between 1968 and 1972. The management
consultants, hired under the technical assistance program of the project,
completed their studies, and the implementation of their recommendations
was initiated satisfactorily. In short, CNR was well on the way to becoming
a strong and viable entity. The improving trend, however, was affected by
unforeseen circumstances in 1975. The network was severed by line washouts.
The economy slowed, and balance-of-payment difficulties adversely affected
imports, reducing the railways' long-haul traffic of bulk commodities such
as wheat and fertilizer. While total tonnage dropped and revenues shrunk,
costs increased substantially. The unfavorable balance-of-payments situation
and a fund shortage forced the Government to curtail investments in the
railway; financial support was discontinued. The lack of revenues and finan-
cial support meant that maintenance of railway plant and ordering of spare
parts, necessary for efficient and economic operations, was not carried out.
Furthermore, mechanical deficiencies in new locomotives, inappropriate practices
of locomotive utilization at high altitudes (e.g., mismatching of locomotives)
and inadequate repairs and maintenance due to shortages of funds caused locomo-
tive availability to decline to 27% in November 1981. Frequent changes of CNR's
top management affected the quality of performance and contributed to the flight
of good middle-managers. This high turnover of management and supervisors severely
constrained the institution's performance. Poor coordination between the
railway and the ports of Santa Marta and Buenaventura caused long wagon-waiting
time (11-12 days) at the ports, reducing the railway's traffic-carrying
capacity. As a result, several users switched to other modes of transportation,
causing a decline in railway traffic. Another shortcoming was the fact that
the railway was unable to collect demurrage charges from shippers who claimed
that they were not responsible for delays in returning wagons to CNR.
2.03      By early 1979, CNR had reached a stage at which a continuation
of existing operations would have deteriorated the service to a point that,
eventually, it would have been necessary to close down the entire railway
network. An alternative course was to take appropriate technical, opera-
tional and financial measures to remedy the immediate problems, followed
by a well conceived investment and action plan designed to improve railway
operations. In view of recent changes in the world energy situation, including
rising petroleum prices which have enhanced the railway's competitive position
vis-a-vis roads, and the potential for exploiting Colombia's coal deposits



-8-
which are among the largest in the world, as well as changes in traffic
composition and patterns, the future role of the railway has changed. The
Government has acknowledged this fact in the National Transportation Plan and
has decided to upgrade the railway, particularly on the Atlantic network.
This commitment to support the railway is critical since, without aid, the
railway would decline to an inoperable level which would eventually lead to
its abandonment. The Government has since been providing substantial funds
to the railway (para 5.08) and is exploring the possibility of constructing
a bypass between Saboya and Carare as an alternative route to the difficult
section of the Atlantic Line between Facatativa and Puerto Salgar (Map
IBRD 3667R1). Engineering and economic feasibility studies of the bypass
are being carried out by CNR with Government financing: over Col$ 150 million
has been given to CNR, about Col$ 90 million as a Government grant and over
Col$ 60 million as a loan from FONADE.
2.04      Colombia needs a good railway system which would provide economic
transport of bulk commodities over long hauls. However, the railway deterio-
ration has reached a critical level. In view of these developments and the
Government's request for Bank support, the proposed Seventh Railway Project
addresses the most critical areas.  This project has the firm commitment of
the Government.
B.  Organization
2.05      CNR is an autonomous Government enterprise headed by a five-member
Board of Directors with the Minister of Public Works and Transport, ex-officio,
as chairman. The other members are appointed by the President of Colombia
and are from banking, industry, commerce and agriculture. The Board convenes
bi-weekly. All major decisions, including tariff increases, are made by the
Board. The General Manager of the railway is also appointed by the President.
Decisions regarding the construction of new lines or abandonment of the
existing lines and changes in personnel service conditions rest with the
Government. The railway is presently organized into five Divisions.: Pacifico
(Cali), Antioquia (Medellin), Central (Bogota), Santander (Bucaramanga) and
Magdalena (Santa Marta). Each Division is headed by a Division Manager.
2.06      Over the years, favorable changes have taken place in the organiza-
tion. The Operations Department was created in 1968. In 1972, the Operations
Department was split into the Technical Department and the Operations Department.
In 1974, based on consultants' (Coopers and Lybrand) recommendations, three new
positions were created - the Deputy General Manager, the Commercial Manager (to
control the marketing aspects of CNR), and the Coordinator of the Planning
Unit. The Deputy General Manager directly controls the Division Managers and
maintains a functional relationship with the Departmental Managers at head-
quarters. The present organization is shown in Chart 2.
C.   Management, Staff and Training
2.07      Management below the General Manager level is generally weak.
Beginning in 1975 with the decline of the railway, many inexperienced profes-
sionals were hired from outside the railway because a number of qualified and
experienced railway engineers and technicians left CNR for better paying jobs
in private industries and other Latin American railways. The continuity of



- 9 -
career railway supervisors therefore deteriorated. During 1976-1979, the
Commercial Manager was changed six times; the Technical Manager, four times;
the Financial Manager, six times; and the Administrative Manager, four times.
The General Manager was changed four times in the last six years. The Deputy
General Manager, who should be a career railway expert, was changed twice.
CNR's management improvement was also a central issue in the last appraisal in
1972. The Government had recognized the need for strengthening of CNR's
management, but very little was done to circumvent the frequent staff turnover.
Management improvements and institutional reforms are important goals of the
proposed project. In order to eliminate the weaknesses, special conditions
are being included in the project concerning salary increases, maintaining
continuity of employment and proper training programs (items (a) to (d) in
paragraph 2.09).
2.08      Although total staff decreased from 12,400 in 1976 to 10,328 in
1981, there is still an excess of employees in the administrative area. At
the same time, there is a shortage of technicians and skilled workers in track
maintenance and workshop areas. In addition to spare parts, the railway
urgently needs experienced mechanics to work in the shops so that the locomo-
tives can be rehabilitated, their availability can be improved and the
railway can carry higher traffic. In order to rectify the imbalance of staff,
CNR needs to take immediate action to hire experienced railway mechanics.
Furthermore, CNR has agreed to prepare a plan for local and foreign training
of the railway staff. Railway professionals should either be sent to already
well established training centers in Latin American railways or should be
trained in Colombia by qualified consultants (para 3.13). The present salary
structure for intermediate and senior management is not competitive with that
of the private sector nor with some of the public sector. Recruiting policies
are inadequate. Staff morale is low because of these factors. Also, because
assuming responsibility is discouraged, challenging and interesting positions
for middle management do not exist. Organizational and personnel reforms and
a recruiting campaign must be implemented for CNR operations to be successful.
For unskilled workers, there is an excellent vocational training center, SENA
(Colombian National Training Center), which trains technicians and tradesmen each
year from all over Latin America.  In the past, CNR's charter has permitted
only the recruitment and subsequent training of unskilled laborers. Because
it cannot hire skilled workers such as diesel mechanics directly from outside,
an association with SENA would be desirable. Cumbersome procurement procedures
have represented barriers to improving maintenance and repair performance
for locomotives and rolling stock and for the maintenance of the track. The
internal procurement procedures are slow and outdated and they involve unnecessary
steps, e.g., (a) too much time is required to process the purchase requisitions;
(b) too many people are engaged in approving them; and (c) the amounts which
can be authorized without the Railway Board approval are too low. Moreover,
CNR has used both private and public procurement procedures. The intermingling
of the two has caused considerable confusion. CNR's Board abrogated the use
of public procedures in February 1981; thus, much of the difficulty has been
reduced, and further improvements are expected.
2.09      During appraisal, the above-stated problems and deficiencies were
discussed at length with CNR, and the urgent need to find solutions was empha-
sized. The railway management, since then, has been working effectively on



- 10 -
these problems and has taken positive steps toward their solution. This
trend is expected to continue. The following paragraphs contain specific
details of institutional and operational shortcomings which CNR must correct
in order to operate efficiently. During negotiations, agreement was reached
with CNR on the program and timing for the achievement of such objectives as
discussed below.
(a) Revising Salary Structure and Maintaining Job Continuity. CNR's
existing salary structure for professionals and senior managers needs to be
revised to bring it to a level competitive with that of the private sector so
that CNR can attract and retain qualified and experienced staff. The railway's
recruiting policy also needs improvement. Unnecessary and frequent changes
in top and middle management (para 2.07) have deteriorated the performance
efficiency of the scarce human resources at the professional level in CNR.
While it is recognized that various factors which affect the staffing patterns
are beyond the control of the railway, the improvement in job continuity
should result in savings in staff costs and time. In view of the growing
powers of the Railway Union, it is necessary for the railway to have a strong
General Manager with reasonable job continuity and the backing of the Government.
During the course of Bank lending to CNR, this is the first time that all
agencies of the Government have committed themselves to working toward getting
CNR's operations back at an efficient level. CNR should hire a qualified
specialist, familiar with labor laws in the country and the constraints
arising from the strong Railway Union, to carry out a detailed study on salary
structure and recruiting policies. At the end of his study, the specialist
should recommend necessary actions to be taken to increase salaries and improve
the recruiting policy. During negotiations, agreement was reached that CNR,
by January 1, 1983, would carry out a study of its salary structure and
recruiting policy, on terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and, taking
into consideration the resulting recommendations, revise its salary structure
and recruiting policy to attract and retain competent and experienced staff.
(b) Hiring Mechanics. CNR badly needs to hire additional qualified
mechanics to undertake emergency locomotive repairs. CNR should discuss
with the Railway Union the hiring of trained mechanics directly from SENA.
Under the existing Union agreement, trained mechanics have the privilege of
being promoted to locomotive engineers' positions, which command higher
salaries. As a result of this privilege, CNR's workshops are losing trained
and valuable personnel, which is a drawback in the workshop rehabilitation
program. This practice should be discontinued; CNR should discuss this issue
with the Union and reach an agreement to adopt measures which would provide
incentives to skilled mechanics to stay on the jobs for which they have been
trained. During negotiations, agreement was therefore reached that, by
October 1, 1982, CNR would take all necessary steps to enable the railways to
employ and retain, as required, experienced mechanics for the rehabilitation
of its motive power and rolling stock.
(c) Enforcing Disciplinary Action. Careless operations and human errors
cause costly accidents and derailments. CNR's Industrial Security Department
has done little to enforce disciplinary measures contained in the railway
manuals and thereby reduce accidents. Locomotive drivers do not always
observe speed limits, particularly at sharp curves and on slopes. Most of
the speed recorders in the locomotives are broken and out of service, and no



- 11 -
disciplinary action is taken against the locomotive engineers who are respon-
sible for their good operating condition. CNR needs to discuss and agree with
the Railway Union that appropriate disciplinary actions will be exercised
strictly. A similar problem was identified by the Bank during the last
appraisal in 1972, but the railway did not resolve it. The present General
Manager has promised to take rigorous disciplinary measures against careless
operations. He also plans to strengthen inspection and supervision for the
purpose of detecting faulty and irresponsible performance. During negotiations,
agreement was reached that, by October 1, 1982, CNR would design and commence
to carry out a program to improve supervision of railway employees and to take
and enforce disciplinary actions against employees who have not observed, or
acted in accordance with, the regulations applicable to the personnel of the
railways.
(d) Preparing 1982-1984 Manpower Plan. CNR needs to have a specific man-
power plan for three years, 1982-1984, and an indicative one for 1985-1986. The
total manpower for the railway is presently adequate, but the distribution between
"operation" and "administration" is distorted. Workshops and track maintenance
and operational areas are understaffed, and administration (a non-productive
area) is overstaffed. CNR, while restricted by Union agreement from disposing
of excess employees, will be able to reduce the administrative staff by
attrition and by other permitted measures. It also plans to carry out a study
for preparing short- and long-term manpower plans and to submit it to the Bank
for agreement. During negotiations, agreement was reached that, by October 1,
1982, CNR would prepare and commence to carry out a specific manpower plan for
1982-1984, and prepare an indicative plan for 1985-1986, with emphasis on job
content and professional fulfillment for qualified career managers, profession-
als and technicians of the railways; reduction of administrative staff and
increase of technical staff.
(e) Introducing a Training Program. CNR's mechanics and technicians
need comprehensive vocational training, while the professionals and engineers
need technical and administrative training either from foreign consultants or
by visiting other railway training centers in Latin America. Such train-
ing would help CNR staff to provide reliable, economic and efficient railway
service. CNR is currently preparing plans to strengthen the railway training
center in Colombia by hiring qualified trainers and required equipment. CNR
should also study the possibility of using SENA's training facilities. During
negotiations, CNR agreed to prepare and commence to carry out, by October 1,
1982, a program for local and foreign training of its staff.
(f) Improving Procurement Procedures. CNR has improved its procurement
practices by adopting private sector procedures (para 2.08). However, the
procedure within the railway still needs further improvements. It was, there-
fore, agreed during negotiations that CNR shall, by October 1, 1982:
- take all measures necessary to reduce its procurement
processing time; and
- appoint a staff member to assume full responsibility
for the timely execution of procurement of goods.



- 12 -
(g) Introducing an Adequate Pension Plan. The Government has accepted
the Bank's suggestion to hire an actuarial firm to study and make recommendations
on a practical pension plan which would be acceptable to the Government
(para 5.13). CNR has been instructed by the Minister of Public Works and
Transport to hire such an actuarial firm immediately. During negotiations,
agreement was reached that CNR shall:
- by December 31, 1983, carry out actuarial studies, with the
assistance of actuarial experts, for the establishment of a
pension scheme and afford the Bank an opportunity to review and
comment on the recommendations resulting from such studies; and
- by January 1, 1985, establish an adequate pension scheme
taking into account such recommendations and comments.
D.   Railway Facilities
(i) Permanent Way
2.10      CNR's network consists of 3,403 km, of which 2,822 km are in operation.
The 491 km not in operation are mostly on the Pacific network (Antioquia and
Pacific Divisions), including the Itagui (near Medellin)-La Felisa line which was
washed out in 1975 and on which traffic has been suspended ever since. All tracks
are single line, narrow gauge of 914 mm. Some sections in mountainous areas have
gradients of more than 3%. About 62% of the track is laid with 75 lb rail and the
rest 70 lb, 60 lb and 55 lb rail; 35% of the rail is less than 20 years old, 28%
is between 20 and 30 years old, and 37% is more than 30 years old. All track
renewal is now made with 75 lb rail, which is adequate for the 16-ton maximum axle
load presently used. Sleepers are of local soft wood, mostly untreated, with a
relatively short life in tropical areas, a factor which has contributed to
increased derailments. Only 29% of the total sleepers are in good condition.
During the last five years, more than 50% of the planned renewal of 434 km of
track was made with soft wooden sleepers of substandard quality, and only part
of them were chemically treated. Out of a program of 253,000 prestressed
concrete sleepers, only 3,700 were procured between 1973 and 1979. Most of the
network has only uncrushed river stone ballast or no ballast at all.
2.11      The general condition of the track, except for a few sections on
the Atlantic Line, is poor. Neglected and delayed maintenance, combined
with difficult terrain, poor soil conditions, human errors and severe sea-
sonal rainfall have caused an unacceptable number of derailments (Table 2.1).
Although the total number of derailments was reduced from 7,116 in 1970 to
2,863 in 1980, it is still high and unsatisfactory. Out of 3,117 derail-
ments in 1979, 43% were attributable to bad track conditions, 24% to poor
rolling stock, 8% to faulty operations and 25% to unidentified causes (presum-
ably human error and lack of supervision). Funds for supplying track materials
and making payments to contractors became scarce, and the track maintenance
works suffered. The proposed project concentrates heavily on the rehabilitation
of track on the Atlantic network, with hard wood and concrete sleepers and
crushed stone ballast (paras 3.03 and 3.06).
(ii) Motive Power and Rolling Stock
2.12      CNR's network is fully dieselized; this dieselization was the main
target of the Bank's Fifth Railway Loan (551-CO). The total fleet consists



- 13 -
of 169 locomotives, out of which 63 are between 16 and 20 years old (Table 2.2).
Fifteen locomotives, beyond repair, are being scrapped this year, and eight
new locomotives with more powerful diesel engines will be purchased. These
purchases are in line with future transportation demands. There is also a
need to engage consultants to prepare and implement a locomotive scrapping
program from the remaining fleet, specifically the GE U-lOBs (para 3.13). In
the meantime, some of the GE U-1OB locomotives, which are not working well at
high altitude sections of the Atlantic network between Facatativa and Bagazal,
will be moved to the low land plain, and the new locomotives will be commis-
sioned to this difficult section (para 3.07).
2.13      There are 5,121 freight cars and 273 passenger coaches in stock
(Table 2.2). Freight cars and passenger coaches are adequate for the foresee-
able traffic up to 1986, with the exception of gondolas which are needed to
cope with present and future coal, limestone, iron and steel, timber, asphalt
and other mineral traffic. In view of increased demand to haul petroleum
products between La Dorada and Neiva, CNR has converted 350 flat cars to tank
cars with financing from the user of the line, ECOPETROL.
(iii)  Workshops
2.14      CNR's major workshops for diesel locomotives are at Facatativa
(Bogota), Bello (Medellin) and Chipichape (Cali). Smaller workshops at
Barrancabermeja, Puerto Salgar, Bucaramanga, Santa Marta, Grecia and Flandes
take care of minor repairs. Although CNR has been providing the workshops
with modern equipment partly financed by Bank loans, there has been a marked
deterioration in locomotive availability during the past four years, leading
to a progressively declining rate of utilization of locomotives. Severe
accidents, overloading of GE U-1OB locomotives, and lack of spare parts and well
trained operating personnel are claimed to be the main causes of this situation,
which is being corrected through:
(a)  reduction of overloading by using three locomotives of the same
type together (e.g., GE U-lOBs) on the steep gradient section between
Facatativa and Bagazal in the short run;
(b)  purchase of locomotive spare parts with funds from a loan from
the Banco de Cafeteros;
(c)  filling of vacancies with qualified personnel; and
(d)  exercise of stricter supervision.
The proposed project includes purchasing of necessary shop machinery and tools
to support the future repair and maintenance workload.
(iv)   Signaling and Telecommunications
2.15      CNR's signaling system is rudimentary and mainly concentrated
in sidings and marshaling yards. It consists of signal indicators on the
crossing points and warning boards on some sections of the main line. The
telecommunications in CNR are carried out through selective aerial lines
and telegraph, vulnerable to climatic conditions and subject to frequent



- 14 -
interruptions, especially on the Facatativa-Bagazal section. Traffic is
dependent upon train orders, and all trains have to stop at each station
for confirmation or new orders. The existing facilities need improvement,
especially in equipment and spare parts. The proposed project includes
the purchase of signals and necessary equipment.
E.   Traffic
2.16      Past freight and passenger traffic development is shown below
(see also Table 2.3).
Year                       1971   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980
Freight Traffic
Tons (thousand)       2,653  2,899  2,439  2,411  2,519  2,682  2,394  1,935
Ton-km (million       1,150  1,329  1,139  1,159  1,215  1,232  1,105    862
Average haul (km)       433    458    467    480    482    459    462    445
Passenger Traffic
Pass (thousand)       3,161  4,552  5,099  4,081  2,967  2,569  2,456  2,215
Pass-km (million)       281    482    523    511    392    342    322    315
Average journey (km)    89    106    102    125    132    133    131    142
2.17      During the period 1971-1974, railway traffic measured in ton-km
increased by 5% annually; thereafter, because of several factors mentioned in
paragraphs 2.02 to 2.04, it suffered a setback. Although traffic started to
increase again in 1977 and 1978, the substantial deterioration in locomotive
availability (para 2.02 and Table 2.1) has not allowed CNR to handle the
traffic on offer and regain the traffic it requires to be financially viable,
as evidenced by the steep decline in traffic since 1978. The analysis carried
out by MOPT (para 4.04) in connection with the National Transport Plan also
demonstrates a large unsatisfied demand for railway services, in particular
for low value bulk commodities over long distances.
2.18      The most important commodities during 1980, in terms of ton-km,
were coffee 15%, fertilizer 13%, coal 6%, crude oil 9% and wheat 8%. Coffee
and fertilizer have increased their shares over the past ten years while
wheat has dropped from a previous 12% share. Coal and crude oil, however,
have increased from shares of less than 1% each ten years ago.
2.19      Traffic is concentrated in the Atlantic corridor between Santa Marta
and Bogota/Medellin. This corridor constitutes 1,287 km, or 48%, of CNR's
network and carries over 70% of the total railway traffic. The rest of the
network, particularly the Pacific Division, has a doubtful future unless
significant new traffic develops. This possibility will be examined in the
context of the proposed Bogota-Buenaventura Connection Study (paras 3.13(a)
and 5.10).
2.20      Passenger traffic increased steadily from 1971 to 1975 by an average
12% per year, even after the freight traffic had started to decline. Since
1975, however, passenger traffic has been clut in half, partly as a result of
improved bus services and partly because CNR was forced to divert its scarce



- 15 -
motive power to the more profitable freight traffic. Several passenger
services primarily over short distances have been canceled, raising the length
of the average journey by some 40% since 1975 to about 140 km in 1980.
F.   Operations
2.21      Table 2.1 gives a summary of CNR's operating statistics for the
years 1970-1980. An evaluation of CNR's operational performance during the
previous project is discussed in Annex 1. During 1973-1974, CNR improved car
turnaround time from 16.7 days in 1972 to 13.1 days in 1974; the diesel
locomotive-km/day from 156 to 206 (32% increase); freight car availability
from 77.9% to 81.7%; locomotive availability from 86.1% to 86.9%; and traffic
units per employee from 137,000 to 158,000 (15% increase). After 1974,
railway operational performance deteriorated (paras 2.02 and 2.03). Currently,
the locomotive availability is extremely low at 30% (latest available information
showed that locomotive availability had declined even further to a low 27% in
late November 1981), and derailments are rising because of a lack of sufficient
maintenance of track, caused by scarcity of funds. The 65-km section between
Facatativa and Bagazal, which is at an elevation of 2,700 m above sea level,
has a 3.8% gradient and many sharp curves and is the bottleneck of the Atlantic
Line. In the past, CNR allowed mismatching of locomotives in multiple units,
resulting in overheating of diesel engines. As a temporary solution, today's
practice is the utilization of three locomotives of the same power in multiple
units (trios) for-about three hours per run with a total carrying capacity
limited to 375 tons. Furthermore, CNR has also reduced the locomotive engi-
neers' idle time pay resulting from derailments. This action should reduce
derailments in the future.
G.   Tariffs and Costs
2.22      Unlike other Latin American railways, CNR does not depend upon the
Government for approving tariff increases. The Railway Board makes the final
decision after a request has been forwarded to it by CNR's management. CNR
,has been increasing tariffs practically every year, but not quite enough to
absorb inflationary cost increases. The following table demonstrates cumula-
tive increases in the consumer prices and in freight and passenger tariffs
for an eleven-year period, 1969-1980.
Average Increase
Consumer Price Levels              Tariff Levels
Year           (1969 base= 100)            Freight      Passenger
(1969 base=100)
1969               100                       100           100
1970               107                       104           105
1971               119                       111           107
1972               135                       113           115
1973               168                       130           127
1974               203                       173           148
1975               252                       193           181
1976               303                       233           238
1977               383                       320           341
1978               475                       418           393
1979               587                       519           448
1980               737                       696           546



- 16 -
Additional tariff increases of 23% for freight and 36% for passenger would
have been required in 1979 to bridge the gap between costs and revenues.
During 1980, freight tariffs were raised by about 34% against an inflation
of about 26%.
2.23      CNR's financial viability is influenced by the adequacy of its
tariff structure and level. CNR's existing tariff structure is based upon
studies carried out by foreign consultants in 1965. The basic formula recom-
mended in those studies was composed of the fixed cost and the variable cost
in relation to the length of haul, load of the wagon and gradients. The
formula does not, however, differentiate between the costs and the tariffs by
type of commodity. Tariffs for each freight commodity and for each type of
passenger service should be restructured to ensure that the revenues, at the
minimum, reflect variable costs. Further, the ultimate aim of the tariff
policy should be:
(a)  to enable CNR to earn sufficient revenues to absorb all costs
on each service and make a fair return on net revalued fixed
assets;
(b)  to encourage  efficient and productive railway operations
which reduce costs; and
(c)  to represent the true cost of railway services in order to
give balanced consideration to the rapidly growing energy
deficit in Colombia with an objective of encouraging shippers to
use the most economic mode of transport.
The preceding points are in line with the Government's policy on transporta-
tion. During negotiations, agreement was reached that CNR, with the
help of consultants, would, by June 30, 1983:
(a)  strengthen its Costing Section by appointing a capable team under
a qualified manager;
(b)  prepare terms of reference for consultants who would carry out
a study for improving the tariff structure and levels, taking into
consideration, among other things, the variable costs of carrying
individual commodities based on revalued fixed assets and inter-
modal competition with the trucking industry;
(c)  introduce changes after the tariff study is completed and as
recommended by the consultants;
(d)  review and maintain, each year thereafter, the adequacy of the
tariff structure and level; and
(e)  give the Bank an opportunity to review and comment on the terms
of reference for the said tariff study prior to its initiation
and, thereafter, on the recommendations resulting from such
study.



- 17 -
2.24      CNR  carried out a study of revenues and costs for 1979 freight
and passenger operations. The results were as follows:
Total operating costs    Revenues
------(1979 Million Pesos)-------
Freight Service                2,343.0            1,906.6
Passenger Service                288.4              190.0
Total                          2,631.4            2,096.6
Freight revenues of Col$ 1.73/net ton-km covered 82% of the total freight
service cost of Col$ 2.12/net ton-km, and passenger revenues of Col$ 0.59/
pass-km covered only 66% of the total passenger service costs of Col$ 0.89/
pass-km. Staff costs, which constitute about 70% of CNR's total operating
costs, have increased rapidly as a result of substantial increases in social
benefits as well as salary increases. The cost of fuel has been increasing
much faster than the general price index. 1/
H.   Budget, Accounting and Audit
(i) Budget
2.25      CNR prepares annual operating and investment budgets and submits
them to DNP and MOPT by September of each year. These budgets indicate the
cash contribution needed from the Government for investments and to cover cash
deficits comprising debt service charges, pensions and social benefits. After
the budget is analyzed and approved by the Government, with or without modifi-
cations, it becomes part of the National Budget. Government funds are then
programed to be released to CNR at regular intervals. During the year, CNR
may also submit an additional request for specific funding, which is examined
by the Government, and approved figures are then included in the supplementary
budget for that year. CNR's budgetary system and its presentation, however,
need some improvements. Such improvements would be achieved through the
consulting services included in the proposed project (para 3.13).
(ii) Accounting
2.26      CNR's accounting system follows basically the same structure as
that of commercial railway networks in the US and Canada. It is not quite
suitable for cost accounting purposes, however, and there is some need to
implement a fully integrated cost and financial accounting system. The account-
ing information that would result from integration would provide reliable,
detailed and cost-oriented data for railway traffic costing. CNR also needs
to strengthen the internal control system. Another accounting function which
needs updating and improving is the mechanical processing of financial and
statistical records. CNR does have computer facilities available, but the
reporting system is not functioning efficiently and needs guidance from
experts in this field. These requirements would be accomplished through the
technical assistance program included in the proposed loan (para 3.13).
1/   The fuel cost has gone up by 750% as compared with 233% general price
index during 1975 to 1979.



- 18 -
CNR's inventory control system is inefficient; obsolete and excessive quanti-
ties of slow-moving items remain in the stock. The railway management is
presently engaged in disposing of the obsolete stock and scrap material as
soon as possible and plans to improve the inventory control system.
(iii) Audit
2.27      CNR's accounts are audited by Government auditors (Contraloria
General de la Republica) and are published each month. However, the Government
auditors do not issue their independent comments on the state of affairs of
the railway's accounts and finances. At the Bank's suggestion, the Railway
Board approved, in 1978, the hiring of private independent auditors who
would carry out a proper performance audit, prepare annual audited financial
statements, present their opinion and comments, and help the railway improve
its financial operations. CNR then hired a Colombian auditing firm which
audited the 1976 and 1977 accounts; however, since its services were found
unsatisfactory, CNR canceled its contract. CNR has now selected another
qualified audit firm. These auditors, apart from regular auditing work,
would also help CNR to strengthen its internal audit and control and to carry
out a revaluation of fixed assets (para 5.05).
III. THE INVESTMENT PLAN AND THE PROJECT
A.   CNR's Investment Plan (1982-1986)
3.01      CNR and its consultants have prepared a Five-Year Investment Plan
(1982-1986). Since this Plan was rather ambitious, it was reduced consider-
ably, after discussion with the Bank, to a size compatible with expected
improvements in CNR's operations (Table 3.1). Because of complexities, the
Plan has been divided into Group I, to be implemented forthwith, and Group II,
,to be implemented only if a 1983 mid-term review indicates that the project
targets have been achieved (para 5.17(c)). The total cost of the Plan is
about Col$ 15.9 billion, or US$249.78 million equivalent (Group I, US$219.96
million, and Group II, US$29.82 million) with a foreign exchange component of
Col$ 7.6 billion (US$127.62 million).
3.02      The Investment Plan concentrates on the rehabilitation of the
Atlantic Network between Bogota and Santa Marta, Grecia and Medellin and
of a few specific lines where transport demand has increased substantially
(para 4.06) and where derailments are frequent. The total track rehabilitation
would be for 927 km in five years. Total investment related to permanent way,
including infrastructure works, track rehabilitation, switches, track mainte-
nance equipment and bridges, accounts for 59% of the Plan. Other important
items are: (a) purchase of eight diesel locomotives and related spare parts
(7%); (b) rehabilitation of 139 locomotives and improvement in the level
of spare part inventories (14%); (c) purchase of 200 gondolas (6%); (d) rehab-
ilitation of rolling stock (5%); (e) workshop equipment (1%); (f) freight
handling equipment (2%); (g) signaling and telecommunications (4%/); and
(h) training and consulting services (2%).



- 19 -
B.   The Project and the Proposed Loan
3.03      The proposed project is an integrated program of technical, economic
and financial improvements. Any changes in one area would have an adverse
effect on other areas of the program. The proposed project consists of the
first four years (1982-1985) of the Investment Plan as well as a Program of
Action (para 3.18). Table 3.2 shows how the project has been divided into
Groups I and II. Track rehabilitation items in Group II would be carried out:
(a) for Mexico--Buenos Aires (55 km), only if long term contractual agreements
have been reached with ECOPETROL for the use of the line; and (b) for La Caro-
Chiquinquira (28 km), only if the study, being prepared by CNR, proves that it
is more feasible to load the railway cars with coal in Chiquinquira than to
haul it by truck to the railway point (La Caro), and that long term contractual
arrangements with Prodeco, satisfactory to the Bank, have been entered into.
Procurement of four locomotives, one hundred gondolas and components of
signaling and telecommunications, indicated in Group II, would be contingent
upon: (a) the results of the project performance in the mid-term review in
1983 (para 5.17); and (b) the results of tests on the first batch of four
locomotives included in Group I, which are to be purchased immediately and are
to be delivered in Colombia by late 1983.  At least a year would be allowed
to carry out tests on the difficult section of Facatativa-Bagazal to obtain
operating experience on these four locomotives before the next four are ordered.
In accordance with- present expectations, it is reasonably certain that the
delivery of the second batch of locomotives would take place in late 1985.
Similarly, the 100 cars in Group II would be procured only after the mid-term
review shows satisfactory behavior of coal traffic in the Lenguazaque area.
During negotiations, agreement was reached that no commitments shall be made
for Group II investments unless the mid-term review (para 5.17(c)) shows,
to the satisfaction of the Government, CNR and the Bank, that such commitments
are economically and technically justified.
3.04      The project is focused upon the investments and actions most urgently
needed to produce safer, more reliable and faster service for carrying existing
and potential traffic. These actions include institutional reforms; training
programs for skilled workers, mechanics and professionals; improvements in
workshop performance to increase much needed locomotive availability; implemen-
tation of strict disciplinary measures; elimination of weaknesses in existing
procurement procedures and the achievement of financial viability. The invest-
ments would be made on: (a) the most important sections of the railway track
(improvements would include technological changes, in particular prestressed
concrete and treated hardwood sleepers, welded rails, screw spikes, base plates,
crushed stone ballast, signal and telecommunications, intended to reduce
derailments and track maintenance costs and increase the average train speed);
(b) purchase of eight new locomotives and 200 gondolas and better maintenance
of motive power and rolling stock by providing adequate spare parts and
rationalization of workshops; and (c) technical training for the operational
staff and more discipline in train operations. Future capital expenditure
related to the construction of the Saboya-Carare bypass is, however, not
included in CNR's proposed project; unless the results of technical and
economic feasibility studies of the bypass are satisfactory, no investment
should be made on the construction of the bypass. Therefore, in order to
ensure that such future investments are economically and technically justified,



- 20 -
agreement was reached during negotiations that, unless the Bank agrees otherwise,
no investments would be made by CNR before December 31, 1985 which are not
included in the Investment Plan for the years 1982-1985. The total project
cost (both Groups I and II), including physical and price contingencies, is
estimated at US$176.76 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of
US$110.28 million. The cost estimates of Groups I and II are shown in detail
in Table 3.2 and are summarized-in total in the following.
Project                    Proposed Loan
Local    Foreign    Total          Amount    % of Loan
---------------------(In US$ million)-----------------
Permanent Way              35.82      30.28      66.10         18.85       24.5
Motive Power                2.43      34.15      36.58         21.40       27.8
Rolling Stock               5.58      14.97      20.55         13.90       18.0
Workshops                   0.89       1.63       2.52          1.63        2.1
Freight Handling
Equipment              0.18       2.94       3.12          1.85       2.4
Signaling and
Telecommunications    0.12        7.13       7.25          5.05       6.5
Training and
Consulting Services   1.53        2.22       3.75          1.22       1.6
Total                 46.55      93.32    139.87          63.90      82.9
Contingencies -
Physical               2.25       2.42       4.67          1.97       2.6
Price                 17.68      14.54      32.22         11.13      14.5
Total                 66.48    110.28    176.76          77.00      100.0
The above table also gives a summary of the proposed Bank loan of US$77.0 mil-
lion, which is 70% of the foreign exchange cost of the project. The equipment
and services which would be financed by the loan are shown in Table 3.3 and
include rails, rail fittings, switches, track maintenance equipment, eight
diesel locomotives, locomotive and wagon spare parts, 200 gondolas, workshop
and freight handling equipment, signaling and telecommunications parts and
equipment, and training and consulting services. The cost estimates have been
based on October 1981 prices. The physical and price contingencies taken
together represent about 26% of the base cost estimates.
C.   Main Project Items
3.05      The main items to be procured through the proposed project are:
(i)  Permanent Way
3.06      The track rehabilitation program in the project covers a total of
511 km, of which 363 km or 71% would be on the main lines in the Atlantic



- 21 -
Corridor (Table 3.4). The remaining 148 km would be on specific branch lines
with identified new traffic (para 4.06). The program would comprise concrete
and pretteated wooden sleepers, crushed ballast, materials for drainage struc-
tures and new 75-lb rails and fittings (Table 3.5). A total of 200 switches,
two ballast crushers, material and parts for the reinforcement of the existing
bridges, track maintenance and equipment would also be covered under this item.
(ii) Motive Power
3.07      Lack of tractive power is one of the major constraints preventing
CNR from servicing traffic demand. The locomotive availability through 1980
was extremely low at 30%; at the end of 1981, it had declined further to 27%.
If improvements are not made in the motive power availability, it will not be
possible to increase the traffic, which is crucial to the success of the
railway. From the existing fleet of 169 locomotives, there are 88 GE U-IOB
type locomotives which are experiencing serious mechanical problems and,
therefore, lack of power, particularly at the difficult and high gradient
section of the Atlantic Region's main line between Bogota and Puerto Salgar.
The main problem lies in the Caterpillar D 398 diesel engines, which overheat
when exposed to sustained heavy loading at high altitudes.  At this steep
gradient and difficult terrain, specifically between Facatativa and Bagazal
(65 km), the diesel engine fails to give a sufficient margin of power for
acceptable and reliable service. Further aggravating this problem was CNR's
mismatching of locomotives in multiple units at the high gradient sections.
As a consequence of this mismatching, the more powerful locomotive of the
trio was overloaded and gradually failed to perform.
3.08      While the temporary solution to the GE U-LOB locomotives is to
derate (reduce the horsepower) the D 398 diesel engine and use a group of
three matched units (trio), which CNR' is presently doing, the long-range
solution would be to buy higher horsepower locomotives to meet the local
conditions. The new locomotives would release some of the existing GE U-lOBs
to be used in the low gradient sections where derating of diesel engines is
not required.   The proposed project includes the purchase of eight new, more
powerful diesel locomotives to operate efficiently on the Facatativa and
Bagazal section (Table 3.6). The careful selection of the right type of
locomotive is important for the success of the rehabilitation program, and
the past mistakes of selecting unsuitable motive power must be avoided. The
Bank would therefore hire an expert to review the technical specifications.
During negotiations, it was agreed that CNR would employ mechanical engineering
experts, whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
are satisfactory to the Bank, to evaluate the tenders. The standard procedures
of ICB would be applied in procurement of locomotives. The total cost of these
eight new locomotives and the related spare parts (20% of the base cost) is
estimated to be about US$14.0 million, including price contingencies.
3.09      In addition to the purchase of eight new locomotives, the existing
locomotive fleet needs a program of rehabilitation. CNR, with the assistance
of consultants, has prepared a program for rationalizing the locomotive repair
works in the workshops. Each workshop was inspected and assessed for adequacy
of facilities, equipment and tooling, based on the future workload. The main
workshops would be Facatativa, Bello, Santa Marta and Chipichape, and would
concentrate on major locomotive overhauls with specialized working teams;
light repairs would be carried out at the running sheds. During 1982-1986,
139 locomotives would be rehabilitated. Of these, 49 would be rehabilitated
using funds from a loan from the Federacion de Cafeteros, and the remaining 90



- 22 -
would be rehabilitated with funds from the proposed loan from the Bank and
contributions from the Government (Annex 2). The spares needed for repairing
the 90 locomotives are estimated to cost about US$11.0 million, of which about
US$5.1 million (in constant prices) are for spares from the original supplier
of locomotives and would not be financed by the proposed loan. Since the
timely procurement of locomotive spare parts is crucial to the improvement of
locomotive availability, it was agreed during negotiations that the placing of
orders for locomotive spare parts to be procured with funds from the Government
and from the Federacion de Cafeteros would be a condition for loan effectiveness.
In addition, there is a need to reconstitute the stock for spares, which is
totally depleted; the cost would be about US$6.5 million, of which about
one-half would be reserved procurement. It is contemplated that the spare
parts financed by the Federacion de Cafeteros would be available in Colombia
by the end of 1982 and the spare parts financed by the Bank and the Government
would be available starting early-1983. The project, therefore, includes a
program to improve the locomotive availability systematically. This program
is based on the purchase of much needed locomotive spare parts, hiring of
experienced railway retired mechanics to help CNR catch up with the backlog of
locomotive rehabilitation, taking strict disciplinary measures against careless
and irresponsible operators, introducing a comprehensive training program,
strengthening workshop facilities and their operations and preparing and
implementing a suitable manpower plan. With the described actions, the
locomotive availability should increase from a low of 27% in November 1981 to
80% in 1986 (Table 3.6). However, in order to release locomotives to haul
freight, it would be necessary to limit passenger trains, particularly in
1982. During negotiations, therefore, CNR, agreed to give priority, during
1982-1986, to the utilization of locomotives for moving freight traffic.
Any remaining capacity of locomotives would be used for passenger services.
In addition, the locomotive rehabilitation program includes the services of two
mechanical experts to start carrying it out. By the time of the mid-term review,
the experts would have completed a review of the adequacy of the locomotive fleet,
which would include a decision on whether various locomotives could be rebuilt
economically and which would have to be scrapped based on their overall condition
(14 of the GEU-1OB and one of the GEU-8B type are beyond repair and are in the
process of being scrapped). On the basis of the experts' findings with respect
to the condition of the fleet, it is possible that the project scope may be
modified to include additional locomotives.
(iii) Rolling Stock
3.10      The project includes the purchase of 100 new gondolas in Group I and
another 100 in Group II to help meet the traffic demands for coal and general
freight. The present system of using box cars, because of the shortage of
gondolas for hauling coal, is time-consuming, expensive, and destructive. The
roof of the metal box car is removed, and the coal is loaded from the top.
This practice should be discontinued, and the right type of wagons (gondolas)
should be used (Annex 6, para 9). The project also includes the purchase of
spares for the rehabilitation of 1,410 wagons; 1,030 wagons will be rehabili-
tated with funds from Fondo Cafeteros (Colombia) and 380 wagons with funds
from the Government and the Bank. As agreed during negotiations, the 100
gondolas in Group I (Table 3.7) would be acquired after CNR signs a contract
with Prodeco for carrying coal from Lenguazaque to Santa Marta Port.
Depending on the development of this traffic, a decision regarding the
acquisition of the additional 100 gondolas in Group II would be taken at



- 23 -
the mid-term review in September 1983. The improvement in wagon turnaround
time is crucial to the carrying capacity of the railway. CNR must take all
necessary actions to reduce this time. The project anticipates that the
turnaround time would improve from an average of 18.9 days in 1981 to 11 days
in 1985.  The measures that would be taken to effect this improvement are as
follows:
(a)  to promote proper coordination with the Port Authority (COLPUERTOS)
and agree that no more than 48 hours would be allowed in unloading
operations of the wagon in ports;
(b)  to enforce strict demurrage charges on a graduated scale basis by
penalizing the users with higher charges as the delay increases;
(c)  to reject the traffic at the point of origin if the user has not
released the wagons in time at destination points;
(d)  to prepare and adhere to a suitable transport plan and an aggressive
commercial plan;
(e)  to improve yard operations;
(f)  to carry out tight supervision; and
(g)  to introduce through train operations.
(iv) Workshop Machinery
3.11      The shop machinery and tools would be purchased to cope with the
repairs and maintenance of the increasing number of wagons and locomotives
and to replace outdated and uneconomic equipment (Table 3.8). The workshops
would be completely reorganized to improve their performance (Annex 2).
(v) Freight Handling Equipment
3.12      Under the proposed project, part of the existing freight handling
equipment would be rehabilitated, and 16 new forklift trucks and six cranes
would be purchased to alleviate inefficiencies in loading and unloading
operations in main stations and yards.
(vi) Signaling and Telecommunications
3.13      The project includes the installation of 136 speed panels, 244 speed
restriction warning panels, 384 point hand locks on rail switches, 408 light
signals, 68 signal boxes, 14 level crossing barriers and 500 level crossing
warning panels distributed in the following sections of the track: Bogota-
Bagazal, Bagazal-Mexico, Mexico-Grecia and Bogota-La Caro. It would also
include the rehabilitation of the existing telecommunication system and equip-
ment on the Atlantic line.
(vii) Consulting Services and Training
3.14      This item is subdivided into two parts (Table 3.9).  The first part,
consulting services, includes studies to be carried out as follows:



- 24 -
(a)  Bogota-Buenaventura connection.  This study would include, as a
first phase, traffic forecast and its modal distribution, preliminary
cost estimates and economic feasibility study. If the results are
encouraging, a detailed cost study would be carried out as a second
phase (para 5.10);
(b)  signaling and telecommunications.  This study would assess CNR's
requirements for improving the existing rudimentary system of
signals and telecommunications, particularly on main lines (Annex 3);
(c)  line capacity analysis.  This study would analyze future traffic
through the Saboya-Carare bypass and complete the basic review of
railway modernization; it might provide the basis for a possible
Eighth Railway Project, comprising the construction of the bypass
and the modernization of the railway network (Annex 3);
(d)  tariff structure, cost accounting, financial planning, accounting
and internal control, inventory control and statistical reporting.
This study would concentrate on restructuring of cost-oriented
tariffs, strengthening the Costing Section so that it becomes an
important tool for management decisions. The study would also
include improvements in accounting, financial planning, budgeting,
internal auditing and statistical reporting by updating the mechanical
processing through computer facilities (paras 2.25 and 2.26);
(e)  traffic demand model.  This study would establish rail traffic
demand.and result in long-term transport forecasts for passengers
and cargo broken down by commodity and by line; and
(f)  reduction of operating costs.  This study would assist CNR to
introduce a new transport plan for an efficient utilization of
locomotives and wagons, to revise demurrage charges, to improve
wagon turnaround time and yard operations, and to introduce
through train services.
The second part relates to training of the railway's professional and technical
staff (para 2.08). The purpose of the training would be to enhance the tech-
nical skills and operating capabilities of CTR staff, to handle increasing
traffic efficiently, to provide reliable and satisfactory service to the users
and to optimize the use of improved railway facilities. Expatriate locomotive
experts in diesel and electrical motors would be engaged to ensure that the
rehabilitation program for 139 locomotives is carried out properly as well as
to study and develop a scrapping program for those locomotives, specifically
the GE U-lOBs, which would be uneconomical to rehabilitate. The training
would prepare the railway staff to understand the basic need for, and to
implement, institutional and administrative reforms. Draft terms of reference
are being prepared in the Bank, based on discussions held with CNR during
appraisal and on the guidelines shown in Annex 3. During negotiations,
agreement was reached that CNR would employ consultants for the above-mentioned
studies and training program in accordance with terms and conditions acceptable
to the Bank.



- 25 -
D.   Cost Estimates
3.15      Project costs for CNR are based on October 1981 price levels.  Physical
contingencies have been applied at 5% on total excluding rails, switches, locomo-
tives and wagons. Price contingencies have been applied on foreign costs at 8%
for 1982 and 7% annually thereafter; on local costs at 25% for 1982, 23% for
1983, 22% for 1984, 20% for 1985, and 18% for 1986. The cost of consulting
services is estimated to be US$11,000 per man-month for expatriate staff and
an average of US$2,600 per man-month for local staff including foreign and
local travel and local subsistence. A total of 148 man-months are required
for foreign consultants and 368 man-months for local consultants. The total
cost of consulting services is about US$3.8 million excluding contingencies
(US$1.1 million for training and US$2.7 million for technical assistance).
E.   Financing Plan
3.16      The details of the proposed financing plan for the project are
given in the cash flow statement in Chapter V. A summary in current values
is given in the following:
1982     1983       1984   1985      Total    %
------------------(US$ Million)--------------
Application of Funds
Proposed Investments:
Local                    16.6      23.1       26..8    -        66.5
Foreign                  21.6      53.8       27.0    7.8      110.2
Total                    38.2      76.9       53.8    7.8      176.7
Sources of Funds
IBRD Loan                    6.5      40.9       21.8    7.8       77.0    43
Federacion Cafeteros          7.6      1.2         -      -         8.8      5
UNDP Technical Assistance    -         0.5        0.5     -         1.0      1
Government Contribution    20.0       31.1       28.4     -        79.5    45
CNR's Contribution            4.1      3.2        3.1     -        10.4      6
Total                        38.2     76.9       53.8    7.8      176.7   100
These amounts include physical and price contingencies.  The terms and conditions
regarding interest rate, amortization period, grace period and service charges
are presented in Annex 4. The Bank would finance 43% of the project cost, and
the Government would contribute 45% of the cost. UNDP would provide US$1.0 mil-
lion representing part of the technical assistance in 1983 and 1984. CNR would
provide materials in stock and hand labor throughout the implementation of the
project. The financing plan was finalized with the Government when the Loan
Documents were amended in December 1981.



- 26 -
F.   Project Implementation
3.17      CNR would be responsible for the implementation of the project.
The project execution and procurement would be in accordance with the Project
Implementation Schedule (Table 3.10). The success of the execution of the
project and the achievement of the Action Program targets would be specially
examined by the Bank, CNR and the Government in late 1983 (para 5.17). The
continuation of the disbursement of the Bank loan beyond this date would
depend upon the progress achieved by then. Considering the relative complexity
of the proposed Seventh Railway Project, given the proposed institutional,
financial and technical aspects, and in order to minimize the risk, frequent
and intensive monitoring of the implementation of the project through Bank
supervision is crucial. At least four supervision missions per year are
considered necessary. Because of the Bank's frequent missions in the last
five years, the railway performance has not been as bad as it could have been.
The targets in the proposed Program of Action are prepared and would be
reviewed every six months so that a rigid control is exercised over the
performance of CNR. It is proposed that the release of loan funds be related
to the achievement of targets. CNR would also prepare quarterly reports on
the progress of the project and forward them in order to reach the Bank during
the month following the end of the quarter. These reports would describe the
performance of the railway on various aspects of the Program of Action,
providing a full explanation for any deviation from the targets.  The reports
would include information on matters related to procurements, disbursements,
tariff increases, locomotive and wagon availability improvements, workshop
performance, traffic trends, reduction of non-remunerative services and
institutional improvements including establishment of a pension plan, a
manpower plan and training.
3.18      Another important aspect of the assessment of the success in the
implementation of the project is its general evaluation at the conclusion of the
project. This evaluation should be reflected in the Project Completion Report.
During negotiations, therefore, assurances were obtained that, not later than six
months after project completion, CNR would prepare a Completion Report, satisfac-
tory to the Bank, describing the implementation of the project, the achievement
of financial and physical goals and the lessons learned from past experience.
G.   Program of Action
3.19      During negotiations, CNR agreed to carry out the necessary measures
to reach or exceed the goals listed on the following page. The goals are
considered realistic and within the capacity of the railway; CNR has attained
most of them previously.
H.   Procurement
3.20      All items to be acquired with the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan
would be subject to international competitive bidding (ICB), in accordance
with Bank guidelines. Local bidders would be granted a margin of preference
by adding 15%, or the relevant prevailing level of custom duties, whichever
is lower, to the c.i.f. value of the foreign bid. The principal items to be
purchased under ICB would be locomotives, freight cars, rails, switches,
workshop machinery, forklift trucks, signal and telecommunication equipment
and some of the spare parts for locomotives and wagons. Civil works contracts
would be awarded by CNR in accordance with the country's procurement procedures
and would not be eligible for Bank financing.



Summarty Description of the Program of Action 1982-1986
The main features of the Program of Action are the:
Achievement of quantitative targets in accordance with the tabie given below
1979 -        90         19 81                    1957                      198        __             19Q54                    1985                      1986
JUNE        DISCEMBER      JUNE         DECEMBER    JU            DECEMBER      TUE         DEFBER    JUNE            DECEMBER
1.1    Availability of diesel locomotives as a                 58:          32          30               36              39          48             53         58              64        67             73         76             80
% of total fleet
1,2    Availability of freIght cars as a % of                               75          75                77             78          79             80        81               82        84             85         8h             87
total fleet
301        322          N/A              305           305          307            307        308             308        309           309        309            309
1.3    Average net load per train (tons)
29.5        30.3        30.5             32.8           32.8         32.8           32.8      32.9             32.9      33.0           33.0       33.0           33.0
Average net load per car (tons)
15.6        18.2       N/A               16.5           16.0         15.5           15.0      14.5             13.5      13.0           12.0       11.5           11.0
1.4    Wagons tornar.ond tine (daya)
1.5    Procurement of Ties
N/A        N/A        N/A          100,000        101,700      120,000        134,700   130,000         124,900   160,000         162,257   160,000         162,480
1.5.1  Wooden treated ties
N/A        N/A        N/A           15,000         18,400       24,000         26,000    26,000          32,500    12,000          13,000    12,000          13,000
1.5.2  Concrete ties
N/A        N/A         -                 70            71           90             92         90              98       100            108        100            108
1.6   Track Rehabilitation (kn)
1.7    Average Staff
1.71   Adminiatration                                           N/A        N/A         N/A            2,027          1,987        1,952          1,922      1,887           1,857     1,822          1,792      1,757          1,727
- Administration                                         N/A        N/A         N/A              123            123          123            123        123            123        123            123        123            123
- Engineers Operations                                   N/A        N/A         N/A            2,150          2,110        2,075          2,045     2,010           1,980      1,945          1,915      1,880          1,850
1.7.2  Operations:                                               N/A        N/A        N/A             1,813         1,813        1,968          1,968      2,011           2,011     2,011          2,011      2,011          2,011
- Workshops                                              N/A         N/A        N/A            2,938          2,938        3,088          3,088     3,238           3,238      3,288          3,288      3,338          3,338
- Way and works                                          N/A        N/A         N/A            3,285          3,285        3,285          3,285     3,305           3,305      3,355          3,355      3,370          3,370
- Transportation                                         N/A        N/A         N/A              422            422          444            444       466             466        466            466        466            466
- Telecommunications                                     N/A        N/A         N/A            8,458          8,458        8,785          8,785     9,020           9,020      9,120          9,120      9,185          9,185
Sbtotal Operations
10.345       10,392     10,328           10,608         10,568       10,86          10,830    11,030          11,000    11,065          11,035    11,065          11,035
Total Average Staf f                                      _           _
1.8    Beoifc  Normalizotion
1.8.1  Working Ratio (7)                                                               175                   170                         143                        112                       96                         86
1.8.2  Operating Ratio (2)                                                             181                   175                         159                        124                      107                         94      I
1.9    After Normalization
1.9.1  Working Ratio  (%)                                                               _                    148                         127                        104                       91                         82
1.9.2  Operating Ratio (5)                                                                                   153                         142                        115                      101                         90
1.10   Freight tariff increase (in rsal tenon) %                                                                                       1O(J.a.)                  l(Jan.)                  10(Jan.)
1.11  ITplensotation of Staff Improvement Pla                                                                                     January 1, 1983
1.12   Commencement of Training Program                                                                October 1, 1982
1.13   Conpletion of Acturial Studien                                                                                             December 31, 1983
1.14   Implentation of Pension Plan                                                                                                                         January 1,1985
1.15   Imple-entation of Improved
Procuremeot Procodnres                                                                       October 1, 1982
1.16   Impl-mentation of Disciplinary Acti.on                                                          October 1, 1982
1.17   Revaloation and Updated Depreciation
of Fixod Ass.t.                                                                                                         December 31, 1983
Actual: 1979.1981
Forecast:  1982-1986
Souro: ITALCONSULT, CNR mud Mission
January 1982



- 28 -
I.   Disbursements
3.21      Disbursements would be made on the basis of CIF costs, (a) 100%
of the foreign expenditures for imported equipment and materials or
(b) 100% of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equipment and mate-
rials if local bidders are successful; and (c) 100% of foreign expenditures
for technical assistance and training. Disbursements would be fully docu-
mented. An estimated schedule of disbursements is given in Table 3.11.
J.   Environment
3.22      No negative impact on the environment is anticipated from this project.
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
4.01      Colombia today has a basic railway network that should be capable of
handling the type of traffic for which railway transport is clearly more cost
effective than competing modes, i.e., low value bulk commodities over long
distances. Over the last five years, however, CNR's performance has been
weak, and the system has been allowed to run down to such an extent that the
vital role it could and should play in the economy of Colombia is questioned.
Nevertheless, in the long term, this role is likely to be strengthened with
future increases in coal traffic and possible increases in other traffic as a
result of the development of container transport by rail. The soaring energy
costs also indicate an increased role for the railway, which is generally more
energy-efficient than highway transport. The task now is to reverse the
deterioration of the railway and to set proper objectives.
4.02      Already the demand for railway transport, as documented by the
National Transport Plan and through customer surveys, far exceeds the amount
that CNR can handle, and the project would address this problem. Through its
emphasis on rehabilitation of track, motive power and rolling stock as well as
on the limited new procurement of locomotives and wagons, the project not only
would reduce the cost of transporting existing traffic but also would enable
the railway to carry traffic presently transported by more costly modes, or
not transported at all. Details of the commodity demand forecasts are given
in Annex 5.
4.03      An economic evaluation has been carried out for each of the track
sections to be rehabilitated, as well as for the rehabilitation of motive
power and rolling stock and the acquisition of new locomotives and wagons.
Details of the economic evaluation are given in Annex 6.
B.   Traffic Forecast
4.04      The traffic forecasts are based on a countrywide study of some
40 major commodities by origin and destination and modal distribution carried
out by MOPT. Railway demand has been assessed commodity by commodity, with
the estimation of relevant factors influencing modal choices. These data have
been complemented by a survey among CNR customers concerning their production



- 29 -
plans and transport needs. Annex 5 gives the resulting potential demand
forecast for railway transport for 1981-1985. The average growth rate is
about 10% per year during the period, due to substantial traffic increases in
cement, coal, iron and steel, petroleum, fertilizer, rice and coffee. The
long term average annual growth rate in potential rail traffic demand beyond
1985 is estimated at 4%.
4.05      Since the project would not enable CNR to handle the potential
traffic demand for railway services, the economic evaluation has been based on
CNR's expected carrying capacity as a result of the proposed project (Table 4.1).
Passenger traffic, although benefiting incidentally from the rehabilitation
under the project, is comparatively insignificant and declining (Table 4.2)
and has therefore not been included in the evaluation. The project would
enable CNR to increase its carrying capacity substantially. It has not been
considered prudent, for institutional reasons, to increase the project further
to satisfy the potential demand for railway services. To reach even the
reduced level would be a considerable achievement for CNR and would require
strong institutional measures (para 2.09). This wQuld have to be accompanied
by aggressive marketing efforts to assure customers of the dependability of
CNR's services and to regain lost traffic.
4.06      Most of the commodity forecasts are detailed in Annex 5.  There are,
however, three major new traffic developments that have been considered
separately and that primarily affect three lines of the network. First, the
Bogota-La Caro-Belencito line has a potential for carrying new traffic, mostly
cement, amounting to almost one million tons a year by the mid-1980s. Second,
the Bogota-La Caro-Chiquinquira line either may handle over 600,000 tons of
coal per year by the mid-1980s, from the Lenguazaque area via Bogota to Santa
Marta, or may transport the entire traffic between Bogota and Santa Marta if
the Saboya-Carare bypass is constructed. The evaluation has been based on the
lower traffic alternative, i.e., the coal traffic. Finally, the La Dorada-
Neiva line may receive about 250,000 tons per year of new petroleum traffic
presently moving by road. CNR and its potential customers are negotiating
formal agreements on minimum long-term annual tonnages to be hauled, the
tariffs to be charged including price adjustment formulas, and the customers'
financial participation in the investments required. For the Bogota-La Caro-
Chiquinquira line, the alternative of hauling coal by truck for transshipment
to rail at La Caro would also be considered. During negotiations, agreement
was reached with CNR that long-term contractual agreements would be reached
with potential customers, satisfactory to the Bank, prior to rehabilitating
the above-mentioned three lines. CNR would also provide evidence, satisfactory
to the Bank, that it is more feasible to load the railway cars with coal in
Chiquinquira than to haul such coal to La Caro.
4.07      CNR's potential for new traffic as a result of possible increases in
container traffic from the maritime ports to inland destinations is under
study in connection with an ongoing port modernization study financed by UNDP
and carried out by consultants (Lyon Associates, Ltd. (USA)/Economist
Intelligence Unit, Ltd (UK)/Consultoria y Sistemas Ltda. (Colombia)) with the
Bank acting as Executing Agency. No major impact of container traffic is
expected before 1985, however, and the resulting investment requirements would
be considered either as part of a possible port project or in the context of a
next railway project. Another potential long-term traffic, also not considered,
consists of new coal movements that are being identified in the context of a



- 30 -
National Energy Study commissioned by DNP and presently being carried out by
local and foreign consultants. The preceding possible developments could
significantly boost CNR's role in the transport sector and would be taken into
account in the proposed Bogota-Buenaventura corridor study (paras 3.13 and 5.10).
C.   Costs
4.08      The investment base costs were adjusted by excluding taxes and
price contingencies to obtain the economic costs for the analysis. The
signaling and telecommunications investment costs were distributed over
the respective lines to be rehabilitated. Costs of spare parts for rehabili-
tation of locomotives and wagons are distributed over the years during which
the rehabilitation would be carried out. The cost of rehabilitation also
includes workshop costs, particularly for new equipment in the Investment
Plan.
D.   Benefits
4.09      The benefits of track rehabilitation considered in the evaluation
are, primarily, reduced track maintenance costs and reduced wear and tear on
motive power and rolling stock (Annex 6). Other important benefits are the
expected reduction in derailments and, to a lesser extent, the savings as a
result of possibly increased train speeds.
4.10      For the rehabilitation, as well as the acquisition of new equipment,
motive power and rolling stock, the benefits consist of the difference between
the economic costs of road and rail transport for the additional rail traffic
made possible by the investment. For the purposes of this evaluation and to
avoid double counting, the benefits have been distributed over the investment
items according to an allocation system (Annex 6).
E.  Economic Return
4.11      The economic returns for the various track sections to be rehabil-
itated are given in Table 4.3 and range from 13% to 32%. The economic
returns for rehabilitation and acquisition of motive power and rolling stock
are given in Table 4.4 and range from 22% to 61%. The components of the
project that have been quantified for the economic evaluation constitute 86%
of CNR's 1982-1986 program and yield an overall rate of return of 26%. With
Colombia's opportunity cost of capital being 11%, the project is thus well
justified in economic terms.
F.   Sensitivity Analysis and Risk
4.12      A standard sensitivity analysis was carried out for variations in
costs and benefits, and the results are given in9Tables 4.3 and 4.4. Insti-
tutional problems may delay the pace at which CNR recovers lost ground,
especially when alternative transport arrangements have been made. This
possibility is provided for in the project by requiring a mid-term review
before the latter half of the new locomotives and wagons are procured. The



- 31 -
justification f'or the rehabilitation of La Caro-Belencito, La Caro-Chiquinquira
and Mexico-La Dorada-Buenos Aires rests upon the development of new cement,
coal and oil traffic respectively. The specific risks involved are being
addressed by requiring, prior to the start of rehabilitation works, agreements
between CNR and its customers on the terms of such traffic (para 4.06).
4.13      The project provides CNR with the physical means to enable it
to meet its role in the economy of the country (para 2.03). The carrying
capacity is expected to grow at an average rate of 17% per year until 1986.
This growth rate is high, but CNR appears, more than most other railways, to
have lost traffic because of its sheer inability to carry the traffic offered
to it. There are, actually, a few examples in Latin America which demonstrate
the feasibility of even higher growth rates (e.g., a 34% increase in 1980 over
1979 for FEPASA in Brazil). Furthermore, the traffic increases forecast
during the project period may appear high in percentage terms but mainly
because the base on which they are calculated is low as a result of the lowest
locomotive availability in the history of CNR (30% in mid-1980 and 27% in
November 1981). The analysis indicates that ample traffic is available for
CNR and that every effort should be made to enable CNR to transport it. The
traffic forecast does not imply a massive transfer of traffic from roads to
rail but rather that a larger share, about 13%, of Colombia's overall total
traffic growth would go by rail than has been the case in the past. Whether
CNR will be able to achieve its targets is the major risk element of the
project, and it depends upon several institutional measures addressed in
paragraph 2.09. Because of the fast traffic growth between 1982 and 1985, CNR
needs to concentrate on rapid implementation of institutional measures. The
project, properly implemented and with strong emphasis on the operations of
CNR, would simply enable CNR to carry about the same absolute volume of
traffic in 1985 (the end of the project) that it carried in 1973, representing
a railway share in 1985 of 5.0% of estimated total traffic (the railway share
in 1973 was 7.2%).
V. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A.   Financial Objectives
5.01      One of CNR's principal objectives is to achieve financial viability
by improving efficiency in operations, carrying more traffic with lower
operating costs and implementing realistic cost-based tariffs. CNR's revenues
should be able to cover total operating expenses, debt service charges and a
fair contribution to the capital needs of the railway through adequate depre-
ciation reserves provided on revalued fixed assets.
B.   Past Financial Performance
5.02      CNR's financial performance was good compared to appraisal
targets during the first two years (1973-1974) of the last project.  It
achieved the following working and operating ratios:



- 32 -
Actual         Appraisal Target
1973 - Working Ratio               97.8               106.2
- Operating Ratio            110.2               122.3
1974 - Working Ratio               90.7               102.3
- Operating Ratio             98.8               117.5
In 1974, the operating ratio not only was better than the target, but also
was less than 100. Government contributions to CNR were adequate and were
made in a timely way. Since 1975, for reasons stated in paragraphs 2.02 and
2.03, the financial situation has deteriorated.
5.03      The revenues and costs for the years 1973-1980 are shown in Table 5.1
and summarized below in US dollar equivalent:
-----------------------(in 000 US$)---------------------------
1973   1974    1975      1976      1977    1978      1979      1980
Operating Revenues       26,792  32,240  28,748   31,450   41,221  49,450   49,217   48,807
Working Expenses         26,204  29,252  31,568   43,801   49,373  55,615   59,877   77,805
Working Revenue/(Loss)       588   2,988  (2,820) (12,351)  (8,152) (6,165) (10,660) (28,998)
Depreciation               3,318   2,619   2,532    2,402    2,383   2,140   1,902         1,915
Net Operating Revenue/
(Loss)                 (2,730)    369  (5,352) (14,753) (10,535) (8,305) (12,562) (30,913)
Non-Operating Revenues       798     627      577    3,717    1,056       509       235    1,535
Interest Charges          5,506  14,276  16,377   11,922   12,296  14,190   12,093   18,675
Net Losses                7,438  13,280  21,150   22,958   21,775  21,986   24,420   48,053
Traffic (in millions)
Freight (ton-km)         1,331   1,329   1,138    1,159    1,215   1,232    1,105          862
Passenger (pass-km)        427     482      523       511      392      342      322       315
Total Staff Employed    11,408  11,662  12,002   12,107   11,345  10,980   10,345   10,392
Operating Ratios:
Actual                 110       99     119       147       126     117      125        163
Target                 122      118     111       104        99     N/A      N/A        N/A
While revenues increased by 82% from 1973 to 1980, working costs increased by
197% for the same period. Apart from inadequate tariff increases, staff costs,
which form about 75% of the working costs, increased considerably as a result of
higher social benefits and the hiring of additional staff. Pensions and
indemnities (cesantias) to retired staff, as a percentage of basic salaries,
increased from 8% in 1969 to about 25% in 1980 because of the strong bargaining
power of the Railway Union. Moreover, fuel costs have also risen and, since
1978, have increased considerably as a result of the Government's efforts
to bring local petroleum prices in line with international price levels.
The operating ratio in 1980 was 163, compared to 99 in 1974. The main reason
for this deterioration is the fact that revenue-earning freight traffic has
declined drastically from 1.3 billion ton-km in 1974 to 862 million ton-km in
1980.  This reduction in traffic reflects directly the declining locomotive
availability from about 87% in 1974 to 32% in 1980. By contrast, the drastic
decline in traffic and locomotive availability during the past two years
caused only a slight decline in operating revenues, mainly due to continuous
increases in tariffs (during the last two years) which increased yearly by an
average of 30% and which more than compensated for inflationary cost increases,
which averaged about 25% per year.



- 33 -
5.04      CNR produced a net operating profit of about US$0.4 million in 1974,
but, thereafter, the position reversed and the railway started suffering
losses which reached US$30.9 million in 1980. Interest charges also more than
tripled during this period because of increased investment borrowing (Sixth
Railway Project) and because of additional local loans when Government contri-
butions fell short of railway needs.
5.05      The revaluation of fixed assets has not been carried out, except
for a partial revaluation in 1972. The adjustment due to fluctuation
of the exchange rate of the Colombian peso is, however, taken into account
for purchases financed in foreign currencies. The depreciation cost, there-
fore, represents mostly the historical capital cost and is not sufficient to
meet the replacement cost of the assets. The depreciation in the preceding
tabulation shows a continuous decline in US dollars since 1973 because of
greater devaluation of the Colombian peso than the depreciation cost increases.
CNR's balance sheets for 1977-1980 are shown in Table 5.2. CNR agreed to
have its fixed assets revalued in 1973 as per Section 5.07 of the previous
Loan Agreement. In 1975, CNR was contemplating, although with some delay,
carrying out this revaluation, but the more serious economic and technical
problems encountered kept it from doing so. Since CNR has now appointed
a private audit firm, it is an opportune time to carry out the revaluation
with the help of the auditors. During negotiations, agreement was reached
with CNR that the fixed assets would be inventoried and revalued by December 31,
1983 and at least every two years thereafter and that a full report prepared
by the auditors would be furnished to the Bank.
5.06      The debt equity ratio was high during 1977-1980.  During implementa-
tion of the Sixth Railway Project, CNR agreed not to incur debts if the net
revenues were less than 125% of the debt service requirement. CNR could not
comply with this covenant since the need for funds was growing during 1975-1980
and the Government contribution was shrinking. CNR, therefore, had to borrow
from local banks either to refinance existing loans or to pay off local
contractors and similar other obligations. Most of these loans were taken
with the Government's guarantee.
5.07      Except for 1973 and 1974, the cash flow position of CNR remained
poor. The working capital was never sufficient, and the outstanding payments
to local suppliers, staff bonuses and indemnities were paid by obtaining
loans from local commercial banks.
5.08      In order to relieve the railway from serious financial difficulties,
the Government, in line with its policy to upgrade the railway (para 2.03),
started providing funds in large quantities to CNR in 1979 to meet the urgent
maintenance program and to cover cash deficits consisting of debt payments,
pensions and indemnities and other needs. In 1979, the Government's total
allocation was about US$57.0 million (more than CNR's total revenues), and,
in 1980, similar funds were allocated.
C.   Non-Remunerative Lines and Services
5.09      CNR made good progress in reducing the number of stations and
station employees as was agreed during the last appraisal in 1972-1973. CNR
not only met the targets on these reductions, but exceeded the targets in many
cases. In addition, CNR closed several branch lines and passenger train



- 34 -
services (Annex 7). In spite of such actions, several non-remunerative lines
and services still remain. A study of revenue and cost analyses indicated
that the entire Pacific network is operating under heavy losses and that the
following branch lines on the remainder of the network are non-remunerative:
1. Bogota-Belencito
2.  Bogota-Chiquinquira
3. Facatativa-Espinal
4. Mexico-Buenos Aires
Because of the development of new traffic prospects, Lines 1, 2 and 4 will
not be closed at this time (para 4.06). Presently Line 3 provides the only
alternative route to the traffic between Bogota and Santa Marta if the
treacherous section of the main line, Bogota-Puerto Salgar, breaks down.
Therefore, the closure of Line 3 will be deferred until the construction of
the proposed Saboya-Carare bypass (para 2.04). The number of stations and
staff will, however, be kept at a minimum level.
5.10      Regarding the Pacific network, the low density traffic is evidence
that the network is not financially viable (Table 5.3, Page 2). However, the
consultants have indicated that a new railway line between Armenia and Ibague
linking the Pacific network with the rest of CNR's network might make the former
economically justified. They also state that sharp increases in fuel costs, the
possible development of container traffic, and modern techniques of constructing
tunnels with a possibility of cheaper costs should be given full consideration.
Accepting the consultants' recommendation, the study would be carried out in two
phases (para 3.13(a)). The first phase would determine preliminary cost estimates
and provide an economic feasibility study. If results are encouraging, the
second phase, including borings and detailed cost estimates, would be carried
out. If either phase of the study does not justify the connection, appropriate
action would be needed to phase out the railway operations on the Pacific network.
During negotiations, it was therefore agreed with CNR, that:
(a) the terms of reference for the two-phase connection study would be
agreed with the Bank before it is launched, and, thereafter,
the recommendations following from such study; and
(b) if either phase of the study indicates that the connection
is not justified, the Government and CNR would prepare, within
six months of the completion of the study, a time-phased program
of action, satisfactory to the Bank, to eliminate the losses on
the Pacific network by increasing tariffs, enforcing demurrage
charges, implementing cost reduction programs and closing lines.
5.11      CNR has recently calculated the revenues and costs of each passenger
train service. The results indicate that, of 11 services on the Atlantic Line,
only four cover variable costs through revenues, and, of five services on the
Pacific network, only one covers variable costs. CNR and the Government should
correct the situation by first increasing fares to the extent possible and then
closing the services which remain unremunerative wherever an alternative mode of
transport, such as bus service, is available. For the remaining unremunerative
services, if the Government decides to keep them operating, it should provide
subsidies to CNR under a normalization scheme in such a manner that each
service would be budgeted at the beginning of the year and the Government's



- 35 -
contribution predetermined accordingly. The normalization paymeuts should
create an incentive to the railway to improve efficiency and performance and
to reduce costs. Any savings achieved from efficiencies would be retained by
the railway, but any losses suffered from inefficiencies would be borne by the
railway. The normalization payments should be made only on services which are
potentially economic in order to reduce the waste element in the Government
subsidy.  During negotiations, the Government and CNR agreed that:
(a)  CNR would take action to improve railway service, increase passenger
fares and reduce or eliminate operational losses, including but
not limited to reducing services progressively on low-density
traffic lines;
(b)  CNR would introduce a system for calculation of normalization
payments on the passenger service losses to be paid by the
Guarantor starting September 30, 1982; and
(c)  the Government would provide  normalization payments to CNR
on non-remunerative passenger services. The first payment for
the year 1982 would be made on September 30, 1982, and subse-
quent payments would be made on a regular basis throughout
the year for each year thereafter.
D. Forecast Financial Performance (1981-1986)
5.12      CNR's financial viability can be achieved by introducing a proper
relationship between tariffs and costs for each freight commodity and for each
type of passenger service. However, CNR must improve its locomotive avail-
ability, the quality and reliability of service and reduce costs by improving
the performance efficiency so that its public image is improved and a greater
incentive is created among shippers to patronize rail services. The Government
is fully in favor of a policy which would allow the railway to increase revenues,
eliminate operating deficits and gradually reduce Government subsidies.
5.13      A financial forecast for 1981-1986 1/ has been prepared based on
the above criteria, the investment plan, traffic forecasts, debt service
charges and the financing plan. Further details on the methodology and
assumptions used in this forecast are described in Annex 8; two important
assumptions are as follows:
(a)  Three tariff increases of 10%, in real terms, are to be introduced
for January 1983, January 1984, and January 1985; it is assumed that
inflationary cost increases would be covered through regular tariff
increases.
(b)  Pension and indemnity (cesantia) payments to retired employees
are excluded from the forecast expenses since they do not relate to
current or future railway operations; it would be the Government's
obligation to meet such expenses. An estimate of the future pension
obligations is, however, included in the forecast.
CNR does not have an adequate pension plan. For a long period, the Govern-
ment has been paying over 80% of the current cost of pensions and indemnities
through the National Budget. The balance is CNR's obligation, but, since CNR
1/   1981 actual figures are not yet available.



- 36 -
is unable to make these payments because of recurring operating deficits, the
responsibility is shifted to the Government. This situation is unsatisfactory,
and an institutional reform must be introduced. Ideally, CNR should implement
a contributory pension scheme carefully studied and recommended by actuarians.
There is, however, a strong resistance to the contributory scheme from the
Railway Union, which insists that CNR, like all other public employers in the
country, must pay the total cost of pensions and benefits. Undoubtedly, this
issue is very complex; nevertheless, it must be resolved, and CNR is presently
studying a possible solution. Details of agreements reached on the pension
plan during negotiations are spelled out in paragraph 2.09(g).
5.14      The forecast income statement is shown in Table 5.3 and is summarized
as follows.
Estimate                      Forecast
1981      1982      1983      1984     1985    1986
-----------------(in 1981 Col$ million)------------
Operating Revenues             1,968     2,470    3,081    4,150    4,952   5,763
Working Expenses               3,449     4,196    4,414    4,654    4,773   4,928
Working Revenues/(Loss)       (1,481)   (1,726)  (1,333)    (504)        179     835
Depreciation                     112        135      500       500       510     515
Net Operating
Revenues/(Loss)            (1,593)   (1,861)  (1,833)  (1,004)        (333)    320
Government normalization
payments on passenger
train losses                   310       367       383       334      271      265
Working Ratio
- before normalization         175       170       143       112       96       86
- after normalization          151       148       127       104       91       82
Operating Ratio
- before normalization         181        175      159       124       107      94
- after normalization          156       153       142       115      101       90
Pension Payments               1,234      1,252    1,275    1,304    1,334   1,368
Indemnity (Cesantia) Payments  400          423      431       440      449      458
The Income Statement is prepared separately for the total network and for the
Pacific network. The forecast is prepared in mid-1981 constant Colombian pesos
(Table 5.3, pages 1 and 2). The working and operating ratios before normaliza-
tion are included in the Program of Action. The forecast indicates that CNR
would gradually improve its financial performance by fulfilling obligations
included in the Program of Action. The improvements are considered realistic
and within the reach of CNR. The operating revenues are expected to grow by
Col$ 3,795 million (or about US$70 million) in the 1981-1986 period, while the
operating costs are expected to rise by Col$ 1,882 million (or US$34 million),
thus a net gain of US$36 million. The working and operating ratios would
improve from 175 and 181 in 1981 to 86 and 94 in 1986 (before normalization).
Because of the revaluation, the depreciation charges are increased considerably
from Col$ 112 million in 1981 to Col$ 500 million in 1983.
5.15      Success of the project depends upon CNR's improvements in railway
performance and achieving of the targets specified in the Program of Action.
Success of the project also depends very much upon the Government's adequate and
timely provision of funds to CNR. A statement has been prepared showing the



- 37 -
financial obligations of the Government to CNR during 1982-1986 (Table 5.4).
These obligations are broken down by types of subsidies and current budgetary
allocations. The Government's financial contributions would be high in the
next few years, but they are necessary. However, as revenues would grow, the
Government's financial contribution would decline from an estimated US$102 mil-
lion in 1982 to about US$48 million in 1986. Without the proposed investment
plan, the Government would still be obligated to keep paying 70% to 80% of its
estimated annual contribution to CNR because the debt service charges on CNR's
existing loans would continue to occur and the pension indemnity payments to
retired employees would continue to fall due each year. The railway's operating
deficit would not diminish; it might even increase in the absence of the rehabili-
tation and maintenance program. The railway would continue to deteriorate,
revenues would decrease, costs would increase and the deficit would get worse,
resulting in a heavier burden on public funds. If the railway is closed down,
the Government would have the burden of finding jobs for about 10,300 employees
of the railway in addition to paying pensions to 11,600 employees already retired.
On the other hand, if Government support for the next five years is given as
planned, the railway should be able to recapture the lost traffic, eliminate its
operating deficit by 1986, and contribute to the payment of debt service charges.
The Government subsidy for operating deficit should be eliminated in 1985.-
5.16      The cash flow forecasts for 1982-1986 are given in Table 5.5 and are
summarized on the top of page 38 following. During the five years, the Government
would provide 75% of total funds needed. The annual financial burden of the Govern-
ment is estimated to be US$102 million, US$92 million, US$69 million, US$59 million,
and US$48 million for the years 1982, 1983, 1984, 1985, and 1986 respectively.
CNR is expected to generate net revenues and depreciation of about US$9.3 mil-
lion in 1985, which should be applied toward the payment of the debt service
charges. The Bank loan would provide 43% of the total cost of the project
(1982-1985), or 70% of the foreign component.
5.17      In order to achieve the objectives stated in the foregoing paragraphs,
agreement was reached with the Government and CNR during negotiations that:
(a)  the Government would provide sufficient funds to CNR in a timely
fashion to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying
on of the operations of CNR, including the implementation of the
project as planned;
(b)  the Government would create a Quadripartite Committee comprising
MOPT, DNP, Hacienda and CNR to monitor the railway progress and the
timely availability of required funds to the railway;
(c)  the Bank, the Government and CNR would, by September 30, 1983,
or upon commitment by the Bank (by way of irrevocable or qualified
agreements to reimburse) and withdrawal by CNR of 40% of the
proceeds of the loan, whichever occurs first, carry out an
in-depth review, satisfactory to the Bank, of the progress
made by CNR, the achievement of the targets set forth in the
Program of Action and the status of the flow of funds from the
Government to CNR. No commitments shall be made for Group II
investments unless the review shows that such commitments are
economically and technically justified;



- 38 -
Estimate                                                Total
1981      1982      1983    1984    1985    1986  1982-1986  %
---------------------(in 1981 Col$ Million)----------------
Application of Funds
Operating Loss
Less Depreciation       1,426      1,299       890      110      -        -    2,299      9
Normalization for
Passenger Services         -         367       383     334      271      265   1,620      6
Investments                 636      1,902    3,544   2,177   1,593   1,185  10,401    38
Debt Payments             1,309      1,343 1/   750       645     644      712   4,103    15
Pension & Indemnity
(Cesantia Payments)    1,634       1,675    1,706   1,744   1,783   1,826   8,734    32
Total                5,005      6,586    7,273   5,010   4,291   3,997  27,157   100
Sources of Funds
Operating Surplus Plus
Depreciation               -          -         -        -      510   1,160   1,670       6
Loans:
IBRD - Proposed            -        339      1,976     984      327       -    3,626    13
Federacion Cafeteros      250       389         51       -       -        -      440      2
Other Commercial Banks   130         -          -        -       -        -        -      -
CNR's Internally Gener-
ated Funds                 -         68         45      53       17        6     189      1
Labor Input                -        157        133      170     180      189     829      3
Sale of Fixed Assets   1,063         -          -       -        -        -       -       -
UNDP Grant for
Technical Assistance       -         -          28       27      -        -       55      -
Government Contribution  3,562 2/ 5,633        5,040   3,776   3,257   2,642  20,348    75
Total                5,005    6,586       7,273   5,010   4,291   3,997  27,157   100
1/   Includes about Col$ 200 million payable in January 1982.
2/   Of which Col$ 1,052 million are still outstanding and yet to be transferred to CNR.
(d) CNR would increase tariffs in real terms by 10% in January 1983,
by 10% in January 1984 and by another 10% in January 1985, in
addition to regular tariff increases in January of each year to
cover inflationary cost increases and to achieve the working and
operating ratios as specified in the Program of Action; and
(e) CNR's revenues would cover, from 1987, itS total operating costs
and debt service charges (interest and amortizaton).
5.18      The forecast balance sheets are shown in Table 5.6.  The current ratio is
expected to improve from 1.0 in 1981 to 1.60 in 1986.  The debt/equity ratio, which
is expected to improve from 65/35 in 1981 to 37/63 in 1986, should be rigidly
monitored to avoid the repetition of non-compliance with the debt limitation covenant
(para 5.06). Agreement was, therefore, reached with CNR, during negotiations, that:



- 39 -
unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, CNR would not incur any debt,
other than that provided for in the Financing Plan (para 3.15),
if the net revenues of CNR for the fiscal year or the 12 consecutive
months immediately before the date of incurrence, whichever is
greater, would be less than 125% of the maximum debt service pay-
ments of any succeeding fiscal year on total debts of the railway,
including the debt to be incurred.
E. Sensitivity Analysis
5.19      The objective of the sensitivity analysis is to test whether CNR
produces operating income sufficient to meet the capital expenditures,
operating expenditures and debt payments under more pessimistic assumptions.
Main risk elements for CNR are traffic not materializing as forecast, tariffs
not increasing as anticipated, or capital and operating costs occurring higher
than estimated, particularly staff salaries and pension costs.
5.20      A sensitivity analysis of the financial forecast was performed
taking into consideration tariffs, traffic and costs. The effect on the
operating ratios was found to be as follows:
1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
Forecast Operating Ratios                   175    159    124    107       94
(Before Normalization)
(a) If 10% tariff increases in
real terms in January 1983,
1984 and 1985 do not materialize        175    174    148    139    123
(b) If freight traffic growth is:
(i) 50% lower than forecast             193    185    154    137    126
(ii) 25% lower than forecast             184    171    138    120    108
(c) If freight traffic:
(i) materializes a year ahead
of the forecast                    157    133    115       94      87
(ii) falls 10% below the forecast        191    174    136    117    103
(d) If operating expenses are:
(i) 20% higher than assumed            210    191    149    128    113
(ii) 10% higher than assumed             193    175    137    117    104
(e) Combination of (a) & (d,ii)             193    191    183    153    135
(f) Combination of (a), (b,i) & (d,i)    232    24M1    220    212    195
(g) Combination of (a), (b,ii) & (d,ii)  202    205    180    171    154
(h) Combination of (a), (c,i) & (d,i)    187    173    165    147    137
(i) Combination of (a), (c,ii) & (d,ii)  210    208    178    167    148



- 40 -
The financial performance of CNR is sensitive to traffic as well as cost
increases. The operating ratio would deteriorate to 126 in 1986 against
the forecast of 94 if traffic growth is reduced by 50%. Should freight
traffic fall below 10% of the forecast, the operating ratio would increase to
103. The operating ratio would increase to 113 in 1986 if costs increase by
20%. The conclusion is that careful control should be exercised during the
supervision of the loan in achieving planned traffic increases. CNR should
also ensure that tariff increases are adequate to cover cost increases. The
financial obligations of the Government to CNR would also increase should
traffic fall below the forecast and/or costs be higher than expected.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with CNR and the Government
on the following:
CNR to:
(a) revise the salary structure, hire former railway mechanics,
enforce disciplinary action, prepare a manpower plan, introduce
a training program, improve procurement procedures and intro-
duce an adequate pension plan (para 2.09(a) to (g));
(b) strengthen its Costing Section, restructure tariffs and
continue to make improvements in the tariff levels (para 2.23);
(c) seek Bank's approval on additional investments prior to their
occurrence (para 3.04);
(d) seek specialized technical assistance for evaluation of tenders
for the eight new locomotives (para 3.08);
(e) place orders for locomotive spare parts, not financed by the
Bank, as a condition for loan effectiveness (para 3.09);
(f) give priority to the utilization of locomotives for moving freight
traffic (para 3.09);
(g) place order for 100 gondolas in Group I only after signing a contract
with the users of coal traffic (para 3.10);
(h) employ consultants in accordance with terms of reference and other
conditions acceptable to the Bank (para 3.14);
(i) prepare a Completion Report not later than six months after
project completion (para 3.18);
(j) implement the Program of Action in accordance with agreed
targets (para 3.19);
(k) not incur any investments on the La Caro-Belencito, La Caro-
Chiquinquira and Mexico-Buenos Aires lines unless satisfactory
agreements have been reached with its potential customers
(para 4.06);



- 41 -
(1)  complete the inventory and revaluation of fixed assets by
December 31, 1983 (para 5.05);
(m)  agree with the Bank on terms of reference for the corridor study
of the connecting of the Atlantic and Pacific systems; if the study
is not satisfactory, phase out the Pacific network except those
lines where operating losses can be eliminated (para 5.10);
(n)  introduce a program to increase fares, to discontinue unremuner-
ative services and to implement the normalization payments on
passenger service losses to be paid by the Government, all from
September 1982 (para 5.11);
(o)  review, by September 30, 1983, with the Bank and the Government, the
railway's progress in project implementation; no commitment shall
be made for Group II investments unless the mid-term review is
satisfactory (para 5.17(c));
(p)  increase tariffs in real terms by 10% in January 1983, by 10% in
January 1984 and another 10% in January 1985 (para 5.17(d));
(q)  cover through its earnings, from 1987, total operating costs and debt
service charges (para 5.17(e)); and
(r)  observe debt limitation covenant (para 5.18).
The Government to:
(a)  provide normalization payments to CNR on passenger service losses
starting September 30, 1982 for the year 1982 and on a regular basis
throughout the year for each year thereafter (para 5.11);
(b)  provide all funds as needed by CNR to carry on its operations and
the project (para 5.17(a));
(c)  create a Quadripartite Committee comprising MOPT, DNP, Hacienda and
CNR to monitor the railway progress and the availability of required
funds to CNR (para 5.17(b)); and
(d)  participate with CNR and the Bank, by September 30, 1983, in an in-
depth review of CNR's progress in executing the project and achieving
the targets in the Program of Action and the status of flow of funds
from the Government to CNR; no commitment shall be made for Group II
investments unless the mid-term review is satisfactory (para 5.17(c)).
6.02      The project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$77.0 mil-
lion to CNR. The amortization period would be 17 years, including a grace
period of four years.
January 27, 1982



COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
National and International Freight and Passenger Transport (1970-1979)
International Freight
National Freight Transport                      Transport             National Passenger Transport    International
Ton/km (millions)                       Ton (thousands)               Pass/km (millions)            Passenger
Coastal                       1/                                                        Transport
Year    Road      Rail   River  Shipping Air  Subtotal    Sea-  Air Subtotal    Road  Rail River Air   Subtotal  Pass (thousand)
1970   10,285   1,173   1,545       786    85   13,874    2,599   20   2,619    7,637   249   1   2,067    9,954             467
1971   10,879   1,150   1,319       843    79   14,270    2,709   25   2,734    8,055   281   7   1,953   10,296             524
1972   11,726   1,198   1,451   2,116   121   16,612    2,652   28   2,680    8,114   398   4   2,273   10,789               596
1973   12,559   1,331   2,003   2,482   124   18,499    3,068   31   3,099    9,223   427   4   2,539   12,193               685       1
1974   13,316   1,329   2,585   3,240   152   20,622    3,227   46   3,273    9,735   482   4   2,702   12,923               815
1975   13,824   1,139   2,400   2,398   144   19,905    2,864   48   2,912   10,179   523   4   2,870   13,576               891
1976   14,461   1,159   1,609   2,535   136   19,900    2,696   51   2,747   10,199   511   5   3,181   13,896               966
1977   15,158   1,215,   1,820   2,650   185   21,028    3,500   71   3,571   10,709   392   4   3,649   14,754   1,041
1978   16,507   1,232   1,402   2,195   267   21,603    3,808   93   3,900  11,244   342   4   4,048   15,638   1,140
1979   17,332   1,105   1,166   1,584   268   21,455    4,689   89   4,778   11,807   322   4   4,488   16,621   1,265
- Excludes freight handled in private ports.
Source: MOPT
August 1981



COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Colombian Road Network (1980)
(Estimated Length, km.)
Primary               S                                          Total
Paved   Unpaved    Total       Paved   Unpaved    Total        Paved    Unpaved    Total
National           7,900    2,600    10,500                12,400    12,400       7,900    15,000    22,900
Departmental         --       --         --        900    39,500    40,400          900    39,500    40,400
FNCV                --        --        --         --      11,400    11,400         --      11,400    11,400
Private                          .                          2,300     2,300         --       2,300      2,300
TOTAL           7,900    2,600    10,500         900    65,600    66,500        8,800    68,200    77,000
Source:  MOPT
August 1981
I-3



COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
National Highway Fund Revenues (1970-1980)
(Thousands of Col$)
1970           1971          1972           1973           1974           1975           1976            1977           1978           1979            1980
Gasoline Tax                          767,382        932.700      1,200,400      1,188,927      1,207,394      1,654,494      2,614,785      3,351,971      4,708,407        8,095,292      10,754,012
Government Contribution               313,641        280,249        101,870         94,759         55,013        684,251.       178,017        920,786        629,293       1,915,701        2,684,425
IBRD Projects                          53,739        200,686        163,828         93,958         22,426         19,996            230           --             -               3,276         133,429
IDB Projects                           60,970        131,841        179,963        143,601        128,737         23,657         35,526         38,364        188,646           23,171         161,761
FONADE Contracts                         -              -             1,303         18,292         28,317         29,136         15,602           -              -                -               --
HS Goverment Donation
for lnter-American Highway             --             -              -             1,580            253           -             3,014           --             -                -
Own P.esources                         47,737         49,800         98,795         67,068         78,229        111,848        117,845        161,442        182,883         216,935          563,045
Previous Balance Carry-over           125,140         45,886           -           278,325        266,459         43,583           -            25,284         26,517           48,042       1,826,554
Dutch Government Credit                  --             -              __             __             -              __          111,642           -                       -                    __
Subtotal                          1,368,609      1,641,162     1,746,159      1,886,510      1,786,828      2,566,965      3,076,661       4,497,847      5,735,746      10,302,417      16,123,226
Unappropriated Revenues            - 186,0h 4        315,643        400,139        295,129        888,759        158,103        6              197,434        883,369 _        (33,045)      1,110.897
TOTAL                             1,554,653      1,956,805      2,146,298      2,181,639      2,675,587     2,725,068       3,687,229      4,695,281      6,619,115      10,269,372       17,234,123    g.
National Highway Fund Expenditures (1970-1980)
(Thousands of ColS)
1970           1971          1972           1973           1974           1975           1976           1977            1978           1979            1980
Studies and Technical Services         26,759         27,301         27,921         55,837         85,123         60,508        119,261         93,951         49,809           68,393         242,972
Bridges                                67,062         86,475         72,850         84,844         86,124        132,688        100,841         85,166         97,265          183,033         279,330
Trunk Highways (North-South)          461,577        492,101        500,724        486,828        482,047        410,160        696,871        899,611        708,554         850,603        1,690,018
Trunk Highways (East-West)            132,236        187,630        214,446        288,018        367,134        368,829        379,506        483,661      1,024,510       1,031,619        3,043,257
Other Highways                        107,608        103,273        131,953        153,646        196,508        233,148        164,515        326,552        590,445         660,049          976,099
Access to Cities                       21,052         47,992         57,982         57,936        107,868         23,918         53,232        252,645        269,476          265,564         408,356
Pavioig Program                       133,023        220,526        277,295        178,680        107,782        223,348        414,182        245,622        416,360          581,569       1,259,216
Hydraulic Works                        42,118         44,740         65,552         78,671        123,868        162,732        277,416        231,360        216,816          419,905         526,318
Rehabilitation                           -              _              _-             -              _              -            92,792        216,938        383,980          958,791       2,362,502
Highway Maintenance                   425,788        515,210        561,354        538,984        780,225        871,887        966,112      1,352,351-    2,354,794        3,935,009        4,698,335
Other Expenditures                     13,930         62,865         32,117          8,129         56,246         39,564        249,141        156,689         73,433         433,126          332,170
Subtotal                         1,4:1,153       1,788,114     1,942,194      1,932,173      2,492,925      2,526,782      3,513,869       4,344,546      6,185,442       9,387,751       15,818,573   :
Contribution to Natioal 
Peeder Roads Fund                   123,500        168,691        204,104       249,466        l              198,286         173,360        350,735        433,673          881,621       1,415,550  tr4
TOTAL                            1,554,653       1,956,805      2,146,298     2,181,639      2,675,587      2,725,068       3,687,229      4,695,281      6,619,115      10,269,372       17,234,123
1/ Difference between appropriated revenuesand actual expenditures normally financed with subsequent year's budgetary. appropriations.
Source: MOPT
A".gt.% 19131



COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Evolution and Composition of Regular Gasoline Prices (1971-1980)
(Col$ per gallon)
Refinery                    Taxes                          Transportation             Distribution
Price       Highway       Sales     Departmental               and              Wholesale   Retail    Price
Fund                                          Handling
Jtlne      1971      1.31           1.44        kO.16   '     0.'04                 0.13                 0.16       0.18        3.42
January    1975      1.31           1.44        0.16          0.04                  0.13                 0.21       0.18        3.47
January    1976      1.77           1.96        0.28          .0.04                 0.48                 0.32       0.30        5.15
January    1977      3.03           3.39        0.60          0.04                  2.06                 0.46       0.42       10.00
January    1978      3.46           3.88        0.73          0.04                  2.82                 0.50       0.57       12.00
0Qtober    1978      5.06           5.69        0.92          0.04                  3.04                 0.60       0.65       16.00
March       1979     5.06            5.69        1.30          0.04                 6.41                 0.75       0.75       20.00
July        1979     5.06           5.69         1.84         0.04                 11.65                 0.85       0.87       26.00
May         1980     8.07           9.10        2.48          0.04                 12.05                 0.98       1.28       34.00
ctober    1980    11.00           12.42        2.87          0.04                 14.97                  1.16      1.54       44.00
December   1981      N/A           . N/A        N/A           N/A                   N/A                  N/A        N/A        55.00
Source:  MOPT, Planning Office
January 1982



COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAItWAY PROJECT
Public Sector Investments in Transport (1972-1980).
(millions of current Col$)
1/                          ~~~~~~~Inland
Year    Roads- I/                Rail       M         Water       ()       Airports                Seaports   ()Total                Jj
1972      2,576.7    (81.7)        289.4    C 9.1)        65.6    (2.1)         172.5    C 5.5)         50.9    (1.6)       3,155.1    (100)
1973      2,746.8    (81.1)        299.2    ( 8.8)         78.7    (2.3)        211.0    ( 6.2)         49.5    (1.5)       3,385.2    (100)
1974      3,363.2    (73.6)        343.8    ( 7.5)       123.9    (2.7)         660.1    (14.5)         77.0    (1.7)       4,568.0    (100)
1975      3,335.7    (68.9)        540.      (11.2)      162.7    (3.4)         651.9    (13.5)        153.8    (3.2)       4,844.6    (100)  ~-
1976      4,752.2    (80.1)        465.2    ( 7.8)       277.4    (4.7)         169.1    ( 2.8.)       271.8    (4.6)       5,935.7    (100)
1977      6,016.3    (83.2)        382.3    C 5.3)       231.4    (3.2)         433.6    ( 8.0)       169.7    (2.3)        7,233.3    (100)
1978      6,439.7    (83.1)        271.7    C 3.5)       216.8    (2.8)         506.0    C 6.5)       315.1    (4.1)        7,749.3    (100)
1979      9,482.4    (78.2)         79.9    (0.6)        420.0    (3.5)      1,531.3    (12.6)        619.7    (5.1)       12,133. 3   (100)
1980     L6,460.1    (85.8)        467.7    (2.4)        747.7    (3.9)      1,039.8    (5.4)         480.0    (2.5)       19,195.3    (100)
1/ Includes national highways, departmental and rural roads.
Source: MOPT
August 1981
Hn



- 47 -                           TABLE 1.6
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
World Bank Group Involvement in Colombian Transport
Highways
Loan   43-CO       1951       US$  16.50       First Highway Project
Loan   84-CO       1953       US$  14.35       Second Highway Project
Loan  144-CO        1956      US$  16.50       Third Highway Project
Credit 05-CO)      1961       US$  19.50)      Fourth Highway Project
Loan  295-CO)                 US$  19.50)
Loan  550-CO       1968       US$  17.20       Fifth Highway Project
Loan  680-CO       1970       US$  32.00       Sixth Highway Project
Loan 1471-CO       1977       US$  90.00       Seventh Highway Project
Loan 1966-CO       1981       US$  33.00       Rural Roads Project
US$ 258.55
Rural Roads Components of Agriculture Projects
Loan  739-CO       1971       US$   3.80       Caqueta I Project
Loan  849-CO       1972       US$   1.60       Second Atlantico Project
Loan 1118--CO       1975      US$   5.90       Caqueta II Project
Loan 1163-CO       1975       US$   5.10       Cordoba II Project
Loan 1352-CO       1976       US$   3.50       Integrated Rural Dev. Project
US$  19.90
Railways
Loan   68-CO        1952      US$  25.00       First Railway Project
Loan  119-CO        1955      US$  15.90       Second Railway Project
Loan  267-CO        1960      US$   5.40       Third Railway Project
Loan  343-CO        1963      US$  30.00       Fourth Railway Project
Loan  551-CO        1968      US$  18.30       Fifth Railway Project
Loan  926-Co        1973      US$  25.00       Sixth Railway Project
US$ 119.60
Aviation
Loan 1624-CO        1978      US$  61.00       Domestic Aviation Project
Pipelines
IFC-R76-66         1976       US$  13.00       Loan to PROMIGAS, S.A.
US$   2.00      Equity in PROMIGAS, S.A.
US$  15.00
TOTAL                      US$ 474.05
Source: IBRD, Transport Sector Survey, 1979
September 1980



-48 -
COLOM3IA                                                                 TABLE 2.1
SEVEOITH RAILWAY PROJECT
Selected Operating statistics 1970-1980
limIt       1970        1971        1972        1973        1974        1975        1976        1977        1978         1979        1980
I.    System
Total Route                               km       3,431       3,431       3,431       3,403       3,403       3,403       3,403        3,403       3,403       3,403       3,403
On Operation                              km       3,353       3,353       3,353       3,232       3,232       3,138        2,767       2,912       2,912       2,912       2,822
Out of Operation                          km          78          78          78         171          171         265         636         491         491         491         501
Total Staff                               N       11,526      11,654      11,516      11,408      11,662      12,002      12,107      11,345       10,980      10,345      10,392
II.   Traffic
Passengers Carried                     million         2.95        3.16        4.27         4.20       4.56         5.10        4.08        2.97        2.57        2.46        2.21
Paesenger km                           million       248         281         398         427         482          523         511         392         342         322         315
Average Journey                           km          84          89          93         102         106          102         125         132         133         131         142
Total Net Tons                         million         3.06        3.04         3.07        3.06        3.38        2.92        2.99        2.88        2.96        2.60        2.12
Net Paying Tons                        million          2.78        2.65        2.73        2.76        2.90        2.44        2.41        2.52        2.68        2.39        1.93
Net Not Paying Tons                    million         0.29        0.39         0.34        0.30        0.48        0.48        0.58        0.36        0.28        0.21        0.19
Total Net Ton-km                       million     1,239       1,215       1,248       1,368       1,291       1,206        1,221       1,254       1,261       1,128         888
Net Paying Ton-km                      million     1,173       1,150       1,198       1,331       1,329       1,138       1,159        1,215       1,232       1,105         862
Net Not Paying Ton-km                  million        66          65          50          37           62          68          65          39          29          23          26
Total Gross Too-km                     million    2,416        2,409       2,418       2,640       2,234       2,366        2,379       2,358       2,313       2,055       1,678
Freight Gruo. Ton-km                   million    2,190        2,159       2,124       2,315       2,413       2,028        2,047       2,088       2,088       1,854       1,497
Passenger Grons Too-km                 million       226         250         2'5         325         321          338         332         270         224         201         181
Average Hsol                              km         642         433         439         482          458         467         480         482         459         462         445
Total Freight Car-km                   million         70.41       69.89       64.81       70.13       75.74       63.23       63.49       64.20       63.59       55.83       46.96
Loaded Freight Car-km                  million        47.14       46.28        44.18       47.43       50.53       42.99       43.51       42.33       42.86       38.24       29.91
Enpty Freight Car-km                   million        23.27        23.61       20.63       22.70       25.20       20.24       19.98       21.87       20.73       17.59       17.05
III. Traffic Density
Passenger-km per Route km               (000)         70.4         79.6       113.^       126.8       144.8       161.8       184.3       134.2       117.1       109.2       111.6
Freight Net Ton-km per Route km         (000)        349.8       342.9        357.3      411.8       411.2        362.6       417.2       417.2       423.1       403.5       305.1
IV.   Operations
Total Train-km                         million          8.39        7.61        6.49        6.98        7.38        6.99        6.92        6.27        f.76        5.31        4.1
Train-km, Possn.2isrs                  million          1.92        2.16        2.40        2.57        2.69        2.70        2.69        2.23        1.82        1.56        1.26
Train-ki, Freight                      million          6.47        5.45        4.09        4.41        4.69        4.29        4.23        4.04        3.94        3.75        2.85
V.    Operating Efficiency (Freight)
Irons  Tom-km/Train-km                    t          338.5       396.1        519.1       524.9       514.5       472.4       484.0       516.6       529.3       494.0       525.2
Net Ton-km/Train-km                        t         181.3        211.0       293.0       301.8       283.0       281.0       288.6       310.2       319.1       300.8       311.2
Net Ton-km/Car-km                          t           24.9        26.2        28.3        28.8        27.5        28.0        28.1        29.6        29.4        29.5        28.8
Car Turnaround Tine                      days          14.2        15.8        16.7        16.2        13.1        13.0        14.3        15.9        15.3        16.6        18.9
Average Speed                           km/h           20.8        20.3        19.7        19.4        17.1        18.1        18.1        17.6        17.2        17.4        18.2
Loco, ki/day 1/                                      231.9       222.5        193.7       216.4       223.9       215.7       219.7       225.4       243.7       251.6       293.7
Traffic Umits/Employee                  (000)        123.3        122.8       138.5       154.1       155.3       138.3       137.6       141.6       143.3       138.0       113.1
VT.   Availability
Diesel Locomotives                        2           85.2         85.4        86.1        86.2        86.9        83.2        80.5        73.8        68.1        57.9        32.0
Freight Corn                              %           83.9         85.7        81.7        80.2        77.9        67.7        73.4        75.4        77.8        74.8        70.3
VIT. Derailments
Total Number/Year                                  7,116       5,969       4,368       5,471       3,614       3,122       3,306        3,228      3,510        3,117       2,863
Total Hours/Loot                                  25,759      18,263      14,584      21,589      13,526      12,172      11,114       9,587      10,003        n.a.         n.e.
Hours Lost/Derailment                                  3.62         3.06        3.34        3.95        3.74        3.90        3.36        2.97        2.84    n.a.         n.a.
Nmeimle0 s5gi3e  kun\tst                          fl,YS        3,4b62         1,02     10,240       0,132       0,203       6,236       5,652       6,31t       4,100        3.562
Derailments/Yillion Train-km                         848          784         673         784         490         447         477         515         609         587         696
1/ Average per locomotive in service.
Source: CNR
October 1981



- 49 -
Table 2.2
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
CNR's Motive Power and Rolling Stock 1981
Y E A R S I N S E R V I C E
H.P.       TOTAL       0-5        6-10      11-15      16-20      21-25      26-30      31-35      36-40
LOCOMOTIVES
GE-U-6-B                     750          8                                           8
GE-U-8-B I/                  850          8                                           8
GM-GA-8-B                    850          2                                            2
GE-U-10-B 2!                1050         88                    28         60
ALCO-C.B.C.                 1200          5                                           5
GE-U-12-C                   1300         18                                                     18
GE-U-13-C                   1400          6                                           6
GlH-GR-12-C                 1425         24                                          24
GE-U-20-C                   2050         10                                          10
Total                              169                    28         60         63         18
RAIL CARS
40 Seater                                23                                                     19                     4
4( Seater (Trailers)                     24                                                     24
Total                               47                                                     43                     4
PASSENGER COACHES
Coaches                                 207         13         78                               34                    82
Sleepings                                13                    12                                1
Restaurant                               21          2                     8                     4                     7
Bar                                       1                     1
Baggage                                  31          2                    11                                          18
Total                              273         17         91         19                    39                   107
FREIGHT CARS (CNR)
Box Cars                               2197                   794       1343         50          9                     1
Cattle Cars                             202                                         184         18
Gondolas                                914         38        150        625           6        93          2
Flat Cars                               780                   120        271        367                                          22
Tank Cars                               385        126         17        242
Fruit Cars                              250                                                                          250
Refrigerated Cars                        11                                          11
Hopper Cars                             382          23       108        217          34
Total                             5121 3/    187        1189       2698        652        120          2        251         22
PRIVATELY OWNED TANK CARS
Fuel                                    199                              190           9
Propane Gas                                2                                           2
Honey                                     24                               24
Total                              225                              214         11
1/ 1 in process to be phased out in 1981.
2/ 14 in process to be phased out in 1981.
3/ 1734 cars out of service of which 250 will be scrapped.
Source: ITALCONSULT and CNR
October 1981



COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
CNR's Freight Traffic 1971-1980
Year   Agricultural Products         Livestock                  Timber                 minerals           Manufactured Goods      Petroleum Products        Other Products               Total
Ton      Ton-km          Ton      Ton-km         Ton       h-ks          Tn       Ton-km         TohoTsnndos(million)~X    thousnd)Tllon-k)                                o       o-'
(thousand) (million)     (thousand) (millEon)    (thousand) (million)    (thousand) (million)    (thousand) (million)    (thousand) (miilion)   (thousand) (million)    (thousand)(mion
1971    821.8     440.1         119.0       25.1         30.3         7.1       349.1      125.0         964.1      465.2        341.2      78.7          16.9       5.8        2,653.2   1,150.5
1972    900.2     479.3         115.5       23.9          24.2        5.7       306.6      105.1         970.3      466.5        376.9     194.3          54.        1.9        2,730.8   1,198.5
1973    913.6     537.6         116.3       26.7         30.7         7.3       273.7      108.7       1,059.8      543.2        329.0       92.2          4.9       1.8        2,759.7   1,330.8
1974    917.8     510.0          86.2        15.1        39.2        10.1        295.0      122.9      1,169.8      557.6        357.6      101.1          4.5       1.7        2,899.3   1,329.2
1975    846.4     492.7          79.4       13.4         29.7         7.8        260.4      109.7        876.4      410.9        318.4       93.5          4.3       1.3        2,438.5   1,138.5
1976    819.5     473.1          78.8        13.2         34.8        8.6        287.0      144.7         845.8     413.5         311.0       89.7         34.6      14.2        2,411.4   1,156.9
1977    784.0     421.0          57.3         9.8         33.5        6.0        375.4      199.7         926.4      483.3        316.9       87.8         24.9       7.6        2,518.5   1,215.4
1978    803.0     401.3          62.0        11.4         46.7       10.6        444.1      266.3         872.5      396.8        429.8      135.0         24.2       7.5        2,682.4   1,232.0
1979    675.0     334.0          43.7         7.3         23.7        6.7        383.9      226.8         817.7      386.5        428.5      138.2         21.0       6.0        2,393.6    1,105.4
1980   576.4      279.2          38.7         7.6         18.5        5.2        245.5      128.2        661.2      320.2         378.6      117.0        15.6        4.1        1,934.5     861.5
Source: CNR
October 1981



COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Tho 1982-1986 InvestRent Pl*0
1902                           1983                           1-984                          1985                            1964                                oa    aodtoe   9210
Col Pe..0  ('0003              Cl FS.  ('000)                  Co3   Po (1040)               Col Pe    ('000)                Col Pesos ( 000)                Col P      ('000)                 S   (000)
CR0OUP I                                    Local    Foreign    Total       Local    Foreign,   Total      _ocal    Foreign    Total       Local      orcijn        Total    Loca1    For-ign    Total    LOCal    FoI eign    Total       Local    Foreign    Total
1. Pec.ano..    wa
1.1IolacgcoctoI                           43.1       -         43.1      43.1      46.3       89.4      43.1       22.9       06.0      43.1       16.0      59.1      43.1        7.6      50.7      215.3       92.8     308.3       3.92      1.69       5.61
1.2844  Track    ob     io              3303.0     191.7     529.7      351.8     372.9      924.47   4422. 3     238.39    66 0.8     697.91    34.79   1.042 8      6ac 680.8  292.9     973.7   2.690.8   1,440.7   4,131.3       48.92      26.19      75.01
1.3 230 Soitche.                           -         -         -         10.8      36.9       47.7      10.8       36.5      47.3        1.6        5.0       6.6       2.2        6.6       B.8       25.4      85.0      110.4      0.46       1.55       2.01
1.4 BclOgeta                             39.4        -        39.4       39.4      16.5       55.9      39,4        -        39.4       39.3   ,   _         39.3      39.4        -        39.4      196.9      16.5      213.4       3.58      0.30       3.88
1.5 Buildings                            26.9                 26.9       26.9       -,        26.9      26.9        _         26.9      76.9       _         26        26.9                 2 26.9    134.5       -        134.5       2.45       _         2.45
1.6 Rahobjlitatiof  at Oqalpaoot         31.7      103.1     134.8       15.7     118.6      134.3       -          -                                                                                  47.4     221.7      269.1      0.06       4.03       4.89
1.7 Maiotooo-o  Eqoip.eot                            .    -               -       191.0      191.8-                            -- -                                     --                         ____         191.9      191.8      -          3.49       3.49
1.7 HabnlonancelEguipme                       ne 479.1  294.6  773.9  687.7   783.0   1,4707       2           97.7 7J40.2   8000.           365.9   0,174.7      792.4      307.1   1,099.5   3,310,5 2,048.3   5,359.0         60.19      37.25     97.44
2. Motive 4owo
214Llc-ntj-o  0Sp-r  Pacto              -         -         -          ..      327.2      327.2       -          -         -          -          -                   .          --                           327.2      322.2       -5.95                59
2.2 Rolhobitottia  139 Lo..... ti-       43.2      454.1     497.3       37.5     383 2      420 72      27.1       -         27.1      30.9        -       30.9       29.1        -        29.1      167.8     837.3   1,005.1        3.05     15.22      18.27
2.3 Spa_es to  Stock                       -         -         -         12.9     166.4      179.3      12.9      166.4     179.3        -          -         _         -          _                   25.8     332.8      358.6      0.47       6.05       6.52
2.4 8 Loomotive -LFnes                          4-                                  3.9       53.9       -                                                                                                       53.9   253.9            _       0.98       0.98
SObototl                             432        5.1      47.          0.4     930.7      90 1.1     40.0      166.4     206.4       30.9        -          9       29.1        -         91       136 15.             ,4.          .2       28.20      31.72
3.  Rallloo Stac4
3.1 100 Gondolao 6 Spare Parts             -                   -          -       302.5      302.5        -           -          -          -                 -         -                               -       302.5      302.5       -         0.50      5.50
3.2 Raoblltoti   at 1410 Carl        135.4   -123.0       220.4      05. 3 9.8.  101.4              85.8        - 85.8                _   _    __307.0                                                      218.6      525.6       5.50      3.97       9.35
3 S Rhbjjjt.tl     f135.4                                                                                                                                                                                     5 ~ 0.  9.  9.  58 -8.              0.  21.1  828.1  5.8 9.47  15.05
4. Workshoo
4.1 COolysent and Tooln                   16.2      35.9       52.1      24.3       53.9      78.2       _40.                                                                                                     89.8     130.3       0.74      1.63       2.37
4.2 Hodiicietion of Enisting
4.2sM. lilotltea                       3.f-                 3.E48                          48 t-                           -                    -          -                                        8.0        -         8.0       0.t5        -        0.13
SabtastallatiOS                      19.0       35.9       35.3      29.1      53.9      83.0        -          _-_                  -         ~                    _ .                  -         48.5      89.8      138.3       .89       1.63      2.52
S. Troospocctlton
5.0 Fra-ght Handliny Equipre=t             - L                  -         _       101.9    101.9              -          _       _       _         _          _            _       _         _                  101.9      101.9       -         1.85       1.95
5.2 Rehabjlitatioo Freight                                                                                                                                                                              9.7      60.0       69.7      0.18       1.09       1.27
Osedling  4quip=ent                                                4.8     131.9    136.7         49        30.0         9        -         -          -                             - -        9.7      161.9       716       0.18       2.94        12
SOblotal                   -         -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-       -        -O        _
6. j    _____________                                                                                                                                                     ---6.8                                  304.0      310.8      0.12       5.53       5.65
6.  SlOodillo 6 Teleoao      $tl                                   776        2.7      156.1     158.8       2.7       71,7       74.4 -o8                                                                           30n0C n1
lOlOarto &             *quipntaL       1.4                       7 37.6  2.2  156.1    158.8         2.7       7.7       74.4 76.2- - 2.7  0.12                                                                                              5.53       5.65
7. T                      6                    4.8       8.6       13.4      35.0       44.8      79.8      28.0       24.3      52.3        -                              _ _        - _                 67.8      77.7      145.5      1.23       1.41       2.64
7.1 YoOhohcal Aoointance          259       357        57        105        162        -          -         -                    -         -         16.7      46.7       61.4      0.30       0.81       1.11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~16.  _L. 7 61.  0-(  081  .1
7.2 Trainieg                               2.7       8.8       11.5       8.3      25-4    113.5          .          .       68.5_                            -              -                         84.5     122.4      206.9      1.53       2.22      2.75
SobtotaL                     ~~~~     ~~~~~7.  17.4  24.9  4W3.3      70.2    113.5        33.7       34.8      68.5        -         -          -
Total                                    686.0   1,001.4               190368.    2       ,523.9 3427.7  7        600.6   1,310.2      839.7      365.9   1,205.6    8           307.0   1,128.6   3,960.6   4.798,9   0,759.5       72.01      87.2      109.25
8. Phyaicol Con-tingencies  /                 33.6       36.3      69.9      43.1       72.8    115.9       40.3       18.7       59.0      42.0       17.0      o9.b      41.0       15.2      56.2      200.0     160.8      360.8       3.64      2.92       6.56
9. Price Cootiageaclen  b/                   143.9       72.3     216.2     435.6      488.9    924.5      622.4      209.6     832.0   t.066.9       208.4   1,275.3   1,405.9      254.6   1,660.5   3,674.7   1,233.8   4,908.5       39.44      14.71      54.15
TOT4L. GROU7 1             7863.5   1,110.0   1,975.5   1,502.5   3,085.6   4,468.1                     2         828.9   2,201.2   1.948.6       592.1   2,545.7   2,268.4      076.9   2.845,3   7,835.3   6.193.5  14.028.    115.09    104.87
Hote: US01   3 55.0 ColS Panes
a/ 5% excluding rails, n          Jlechen. .oconto-l-s and wagene-
1982    1983    1980    1985    1986                                                                                                                                                                                                               teS
b/ Lc.l %         25       23      22       20      18
Fordni  b       8        7       7       7        7
SuEnee: CNR, COnIt.nt.. .ed Mi..Ln Esti-t*s
OItgb,r 1981



COL019LA
SEVERNH RAILWAY PROJECT
Th. 1982-1986 I-vo.tmst Plan
1982                           1983                           1984                            1985                             1986                                Toto1 Enpendit.r.. 1982- 1986,
Co1  Pesos ('000)              Col Pesos ('800)               Col Pesos ('000)                Cl Pesos (000                                ('000)               Col Peso- ,(000)                  ISS ('000)
LoeIt    For-ign    Totl       Loe       FrRoreign Total       LoCaa For.ign    Total         Local    F           oreign   Total o ..I  F ig.    Tot L1                                        Local    Foreign    Tor-l
GROUP 11
1.  Pernen.nt Ifv
1.1  55 km TrWck RehabllitStion
(NsoicD-uesno.  Aires) */        56.0       82.8     138.8        -         -          -       104.1      149.7     253.8        _          _        _            _                            160.1       232.5      392.6      2.91       4.23      7.14
1,2  28 IeQ Tr.ck Rbh4bllitatiOn
(La Car-hqiqia)-                                        -         -         -104                           57.3     157.7        -          -        -                                                                                         4           8
S.btotal                      56.0      82.8      138.8        -         -         -        2         207.0      411.5                                                                      2 _  - _  - _ 60.5  289.8  550.3  4.74      5.27      10.01
2.  Motive P050r
2.1  4 Loronotiv"  & Sp1r0   Pa                                            -          -                              -          -_                 327.2    327.2          -          _         _                   327.2      327.2        -        5.95       5.95
3. Rolling Stork
3.1  100 Gondolas & sperm Parts                       _          _         _                                       302.5      302.5       -          -        -            -          -         _          _        302.5      302.5        -        5.50       5.50
4.  &ionolllno 6 T.leco.n_iatiod-               -                    _                                                  88.2       88.2                  -                                                                88.2      88.2        -        1.60       1.60
Tota1                                      56.0      02 8      138,8       _          _         _        204,5     597.7      802.2       _        327.2    327 2          _          -         _        260.5    1.007.?   i,268.2        4.74     18.32      23.i6
5.  Physical Contingeo..es b/                   3.1       3.3       604         _         _         _          3.6        2.1       5.7        -         -         -           -          -         -          6.7         5.4      12.1       0.12      0.10       0.22
6   price Co.tingencies e/                     11.8       6.0       17.8        -         -         -        172.7     203.7      376.4        -       177.6    177.6          -          _         _        184.5       387.3     571.8       2.21      4.33       6.54
--                                               --~-   517 1,0.    182.  7.07  22.75      29.82
IOTAL   GROUP II                               70.9      92 1      163.0                   _ _               380.8      803.5   1.184 3     _      504.8                                                      5 -        400.4 1   852. 1 7      07
GRASS TOTAL. (GROUP I + GROUP m .,
BRedo Cost Estiate                      742.0   1,084.2   1,826.2       903.8   2,523.9   3,427.t      914.1   1,198.3   2,112.4       839.7      693.1  1,532.8        821.5     307.1   1,128.6   4,221.1    5,806.6  10,027.7        76.75    105.56    182.31
Conting .n. is
phyaical b/                          36.7       39.6       76.3      43.1      72.8      115.9      43.9       20.8      64,7       42.0      17.8      59.8         41.0      15.2       56.2     206.7       166.2      372.9      3.76       3.02      6.78
Prie .                              155.7       78.3     234.0      435.6     408.9      924.5     795.1      413.3   1,208.4   1,066.9      386.0  1,452.9       1,405.9     254.6   1,660.5   3,859.2    1,621.1   5,480.3        41.65      19.04     60.69
GRAND TOTAL                                   934 4   1,202.1   2,136.3   1,382.5   3,085.         68.    1,753.1   1,632.4       8       1.948.6   1.096,9  3.045,)       2,268.4     576.9   2,845.3   8,287.0    7,503.9  15,880.9    122.16    127.62    249.78
Nots: USI - 55.0 Col Psose
A/ Invesnte for 1981 elil bs mad. from CNR'. smterll  en hnd ,
h/ 57  :e*ledieg rails.,  itbhees. lotootivee *nd wgons.
1982    1982    1984    0985    1986                                                                                                                                                                                                                  50
L ..ocl 7            25      25      22      20       18
For.ign %         8        P       7       7        7
Noerea:  CNR, Consltntst,  i56i00 Estimte.
OCtober 1981



COLOMBIA
SEVENTII RAIIWAY PROJECT
The 1982-1985 Projc-t
1982                              1983                               1984                              1985                                         total Croject .962-lOla
Col Pesos ('000)                  Cal Pesos ('000)                   Cl Pe                             Cl ('000)  '000)                     Cal Pesos ('000)                      US$ ('000)
GROUP I                                           Loca        r           ot        Local      Foeg        Total       L            _r        Total       Local    FPreigo    Total            Lacol    FPreign       Total       Local      Foag         Total
1.  Pee.a.e.   Uay
1.1 lofro-tractare                            43.1         -         43.1        43.1       46.3        89.4        43.1       22.9        66.0         -          -           _          129.3        69.2      198.5        2.35        1.26        3.61
1.2 428 km Track Rehsbilitartia              338.0      191.7       529.7       551.8      372.9       924.7      422.3       238.3       660.6         -           -          -        1,312.1       802.9   2,115.0        23.86       14.60       38.46
1.3 280 Switches                               -           -          -          10.8       36.9        47.7        10.8       36.5        47.5         -          -           -           21.6        73.4       95.0        0.39         1.33       1.72
1.4 Brid,ges                                  39.4         -         39.4        39.4       16.5        55.9        39.4        -          39.4         -          -           -          118.2        16.5      134.7        2.15        0.30        2.40
1.5 Buildings                                 26.9         -         26.9        26.9        -          26.9        26.9        -          26.9         -          -           -           80.7         -         80.7        1.47         -          1.47
1.6 Rehhbilitation  af Eqsip=ert              31.7      103.1       134.8        15.7      118.6       134.3         -          -           -           -          _           _           47.4      221.7       269.1        0.86        4.03        4.89
1.7 Maietenasce Equipme-t                      -          _           -           -        191.8       191.8         -          -           -           -          _           -       _ -             91.8      191.8          -         3.49        3.49
Subtotal                                479.1       294.8      773,9       687.7       783.0   1,470.7        542.5      297.7       840.2                                         3,709.3    1,375.5    3,084.8         31.08       25.01      56.09
2.  MaCi-v Pase.r
2.1 4 Laca...oti-s 8 Spare Parts               -           -          -           -        327.2       327.2         -          -           -           -                      -            -         327.2      327.2          -         5.95        5.95
2.2 Rehabililtti-o  130 Lacomotivos           43.2      454.1       497.3        37.5      383.2       420.7        27.1        -          27.1         -           -          -          107.8      837.3       945.1         1.96      15.22       17.18
2.3 Spares far Stack                           -           -          -          12.9      166.4       179.3        12.9      166.4       179.3                                            25.8       332.8      358.6        0.47        6.05        6.52
2.4 8 Locomotikv  Egites                       -           -        _-            -         53.9        53.9         -          -           -           -           -          -            -          53.9       53.9          -         0.98        0.98
Subtotal                                 43.2       454.1      497.3        50.4       930.7      981.1        40.0       166.4      206.4         -                                 133.6    1,551.2    1,684.8          2.43       28.20      30.63
3. Rolling Stack
3.1 108 Goodalas & Spare Parts                 -           -          -           -        302.5       302.5         -          -           _-                                              -         302.5      302.5          -         5.50        5.50
3.2 Rehabilitation af 1410 Cars              135.4      123.0       238.4        85.8       93.6       181.4        85.8        _          85.8         -           -          -          307.0       218.6      525.6        5.58        3.97        9.5
Subtotat                                135.4       123.0      238.4        85.8       398.1      483.9        85.8         -         85.8         -           -           -         307.0       521.1       828.1        5.58        9.47      15.05
4.  Warkshops
4.1 Equipmeet asd Toals                       16.2        35.9       52.1        24.3       5. 9        78.2         -          -           -           - -   -                            40.5        89.8      130.3        0.74        1.63        2.37
4.2 Modificlation af Esistiog
Isstallati..s                          3.2         -          3.2         4.8        -           4.8                                                                                8.0         -           8 .       0.15           -        0.15
Sbtotal                                 19.4        35.9        55.3       29.1        53.9     . 85.0         -           -           -          -           -           -          48.5        89.8       138.3        0.89        1.63        2.52
5.  Troosportatias
5.1 Freight Handliog Equipoont                 -           -          -           -        101.9       101.9                                                                                -         101.9       101.9         -         1.85        1.85
5.2 Rehabilitatio- Freight
Hasiling Equpment                         _           _           -          4.8        30.80      34.8         4.9        30.0       34.9         -          -            -           9.7        60.0        69.7        0.19        1.09        1.2/
Sbtuoa!a                                                                     4.8       131.9      136.3         4.9        30.0       34.9         -           --9.7                             161.9       171.6        0.18        2.94        3.12
6.  Signaling & Telecommusications
6.1 Parts 4 Oqoipoest                          14         76.2       77.6         2.7      056.1       458.8         2.7       7.          744       __             --6.8                             304.0      310.8        0.12        3.33        3. 63
Subrotal                                   1.4       76.2        77.6        2.7       156.1      158.8         2.7        71.7       74.4         -           -           -            6.8      304.0       310.8        0.12        5.53        5.65
7.  Techoical Assistance 6 Tra-inin
7.1 Tec-hical Assistance                       4.8         8.6       13.4        35.0       44.8        79.8        28.0       24.3        52.3         -           _          -           67.8        77.7       145.5        1.23       1.41        2.64
7.2 Tr-iolog                                   2.7         8.8       01. 5        8.3       25.4         33.7        3.7       18.5        16.          -                                   6.7        44.7        61.4       0.30        0.82        1.01
Subtotal                                   7.5       17.4        24.9       43.3        70.2      113.5        33.7        34.8       68.5         -           =           -          84.5       122.4       206.9        1.53        2.22        3.75
Total                                        686.0   1,001.4    1,697.4         903.8    2,923.9    3,427.7        709.6      600.6    1,310.2          _           -          -        2,299.4    4,125.9    6,425.3        41.81       75.80      116.81
8.  Physical Cootisgeocies a/                      33.6       36.3        69.9        43.1       72.8       115.9       40.3        18.7        59.0         -          -           -          117.0       127.8      244.8        2.13        2.32        4.45
9.  Price Cntitngencie-   b/                      143.9       72.3       216.2      435.6       488.9      924.5       622.4       209.6       832.0         -          -           -       :,201.9        770.8    1,972.7       15.47       10.21       25.68
TOTAL GROUP I                                863.5    1,110.0    1.973.5    1,382.5    3,885.6   4,468.1    1,372.3           828.9    2,282.2          -         _             -       2,618.3    5,324.5    8,647.8        59.41       87.53      146.94
Nate:  ls$l - 55.0 Call Pesas
a/ 5%  -cuding rails, saitches, locomtovies and wagons.
1982     1983     1984    1985       1986                                                                                                                                                                                                 t in,
b/ L-ocal           25        23       22       20        18
Foreign           8         7        7        7        7
Soarce:  CNR, Cosoltacts, a-d Mission Estimates
Octaboc 1981



COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
The 1982-1985 Project
1982                           1983                           1984                             1985                                  Total ProJect 1982-1985
Col  Pesos ('000)              Col Pesos ('000)               Col Peso.   '000)                C.l Pee.. ('000) Col                 P.... (P00)                   U8$ ('000)
Local    Foreign    Total      L-e1    F.oreig.    Total       Lo .       oIr       Total      Local    Forig    Tota           Local    Foreign    Total       Local    Fore.ig      Total
GROUP TI
1.  Perreneot Way
1.1 05 ka Track R.h.btlit.tio.
(Oieeico-ceno.  Airea) !/         56.0      82.8      138.8       -          -          -       104.1      149.7     253.8                                       1 _  _  160.1  232.5  392.6      2.91       4.23       7.14
1.2 28 km Track Rehabilitatioc
(La Caro-Chiqulseqoire)            -         -          -                    -          -       100.4      57.3      157.7                                       100 -4    .57.       157.7      .1.831      1.04       2.87
S.btotal                      56.0       82.8      138.8       -          -         -        204.5     207.0      411 5        -         -         -          260.5     289.8      550.3       4,74       5.27      10.01
2.  Motive power
2.1  4 Locomotiv-s & Sp.re Parts            -           -           -         -                                       -          -                  327.2    327.2           -       327.2      327.2        -        5.95       5.95
3. lollico Stock
3.1  180 Gondolas & Spere Parts             _                                                                       302.5      302.5        -         -         -                    302.5      302.5        -        5.50       5.50
4.  SlcmslllOR & Telecosecomications             -         -          -                                                  88 2       88.2        -                   -                     88.2       88.2        -         1.60       1.60
Total                                      56 0        2 8     138          -         -          -        204 5     597 7      802.2                327 2    327 2        260.5   1,007 7   1,6.2           4.74     18.32      23.06
5.  Physical Cooti.ge.cies b/                   3 1        3 3        6 4       -                               3.6       2 1        5 7        _-                  -            6.7       5.4       12.1       0.12       0.10      0.22
6   price Contingemcies c/                     11.8        6,0      17 8        -          -         -        172 7     203.7      376.4        -       177.6    177.6         184.5     387.3      571.8       2.21       4.33       6.54
TOTAL GROUP II                                 7.9        92 1      163 0       -          _                  380 8     803.5   1,184 3         -       504.8    504,8         451.7   i          1,852         7.07      22.75      29.82
GRANS TOTAL (GROUP I + GROUP' II):
Basic Coat Estieate                      742.0   1,084 2   1,826.2       903 8   2,523.9   3,427 7      914 1   1,198 3   2,112.4          -       327.2    327 2      2,559.9   5,133.6   7,693.5        46.55     93.32    139.87
Contingencies.
physical b/                           36 7      39 6       76 3      43.1       72 8      115 9      43 9       20.8      64.7        -          -        -          123.7      133.2      256.9      2.25       2.42       4.67
price E/                             155 7      78 3      234 0     435.6      488.9     924.5      795.1     413.3   1,208.4         -        177.6    177.6      1,386.4   1,158.1   2,544.4       17.68      14.54      32.22
GRAND TOTAL                                   934 4   1          2      5  1,382 5   3           4          1,753.1   1,632.4   3,385.5         -       504.6    504.8      4,070.0   6,424.9  10,494.9        66.48    110.28    176.76
Note: US$l - 55.0 Col Peso-
a/ Inveetsemta for 1981 ill be oade from CNR'. materials om hed
b/ 57% eclodinR rails, sitches, locomotives *nd wagons.
1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
, Local ..          25       23       22      20       18
Foreign %         8        7       7        7       7                                                                                                                                                                                 r
Sorce,  CNR, Coosultanta, Mission Estimtes
October 1981



- 55 -                                               TABLE 3.3
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Items to be Financed by the Bank Loan
Col Pesos ('000)                                                  US$ ('000)
1982       1983       1984       1985       Total              1982       1983       1984       1985       Total
GROUP I
Rails & fitLings (less material
o--hand) for the 428 km to be
rehabilitated.                                  77.18     347.31     209.14         -        633.63             1.40       6.31       3.80         -         11.51
200 Switches                                         -        36.84       36.46        -         73.30              -          0.67       0.66        -           1.33
Track maintenance eqoipment                          -       191.81         -          -        191.81              -          3.49        -          -           3.49
Foor locomotives & spare parts                       -       327.20         -          -        327.20              -          5.95        -          -           5.95
Spare parts for Loco.motives                      129.48     194.21         -          -        323.69             2.35        3.53        -          -           5.88
Loc-motice spare pa.cts for stocks                   -        99.80       99.80        -        199.60              -          1.81       1.81        -           3.62
100 go.ndolas                                        -       302.50         -          -        302.50              -         5.50         -          -           5.50
Spares for freight c ars                           63.80      95.66         -                   159.46             1.16        1.74        -          -          2.90
Workshop equipment                                 35.97      53.94         -          -         89.91             0.65        0.98        -          -           1.63
Freight handling equipment                           -       101.90         -          -        101.90              -          1.85        -          -           1.85
Signaling & telecommunications                       -       123.38       61.69        -        185.07              -          2.24       1.12        -           3.36
Technical assistansc  & training                   17.40      39.00       10.50        -         66.90             0.32        0.71       0.19        -           1.22
Subtotal                                          323.83  1,913.55      417.59         -      2,654.97             5.88      34.78        7.8          -        48.24
Contige-ncies:  Physi_al                           14.74      62.15       25.30        -        102.19             0.27        1.13       0.46        -           1.86
Pri_e                    -       23.59    371.03       147.67        -        542.29             0.37        5.02       1.74        -           7.13
SUBTOTAI GROUP 1                                  362.16  2,346.73      590.56         -      3,299.45             6.52      40.93        9.78        _         57.23
GROUP 11
Rails & fittings lless material
on-hand) for:
55 km - Mesico-Buen-s Aires                     -          -        88.21         -         88.21              -          -         1.60         -          1.60
28 km - La Caro-Chiquinquira                    -          -        50.59         -         50.59              -          -         0.92         -          0.92
Foor locomotives & spare parts                       -           -          -       327.20      327.20              -           -          -         5.95         5.95
100 goncolas & spare parts                            -          -       302.50        -        302.50               -          -         5.50        -           5.50
Signal 4 telecomnonications                           -          -        93.19        -          93.19              -          -         1.69         -          1.69
Subtotal,                                             -          =       534.49    327.20       861.69               -          -         9.71       5.95        15.66
Contingencies:  Physical                              -                    6.25        -           6.25              -0.1                              -          0.11
Price                               -          -       183.32     177.56      360.88               -          -         2.16        1.84        4.00
SUBTOTAL GROUP II                                     -          -       724.06    504.76   3,228.82                 -          -         11.98      7.79        19. 77
SUBTOTAL GROUP I + GROUP 11                       323.83  1,913.55       952.08    327.20   3,516.66                5.88      34.78      17.29        5.95       63.90
Contingencies Group I + Group II:
Physical                          14.74      62.15      31.55         -        108.44             0.27       1.13       0.57        -           1.97
Price                            23.59      371.03    330.99      177.56      903.17              0.37       5.02       3.90       1.84        11.13
GRAND TOTAL                                       362.16  2,346.73  1,314.62        504.76   4,528.27               6.52      40.93      21.76       7.79        77-00
Note: US$1 = 55.0 Col Pesos
Source: CNR. Co-noltants, and Mission Estimates
October 1981



- 56 -                           TABLE 3.4
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Track Rehabilitation Program 1982--1984
1982         1983         1984         1982-1984
---------------- TRACK K  -.---------------.
LINES
GROUP I:
1. MAIN LINE
1.1 Facatativa - Bagazal
km (48-106)                 59           -                          59
1.2 Patio Barrancabermeja
(4 km)                       4           -                           4
1.3 Bagazal - Mexico
km (150-202)                 -          53            -             53
(106-150)                -           -           45              45
1.4 Mexico-Grecia
km (202-220); (270-296)    -            45            -             45
(220-264)                -           -           45              45
1.5  Patio Grecia (4 km)          -           4            -               4
1.6 Grecia-Garcia Cadena
km (397-408)                 -          11            -             11
1.7 Medellin-Grecia
km (328-371); (380-394)   58             -            -             58
(424-436); (445-453);
(457-476)                -          39            -              39
Subtotal             121         152            90            363
2. SECONDARY LINES
2.1 La Caro - Belencito
km (120-150)                 -          30            -             30
(150-184)                -           -           35              35
Subtotal               -          30           35              65
Total I              121         182          125             428
GROUP II:
2. SECONDARY LINES
2.1 Mexico - Buenos Aires
km (146-152); (165-177)   20             -            -             20
(111-145)                -           _           35              35
2.2 La Caro - Chiquinquira:
km (68-80)  (95-110)         -           -           28             28
Total II              20           0           63              83
GRAND TOTAL (I + II)            141         182          188            511
Source: CNR, Consultants and Mission
October 1981



COLOMBTA
SSEVElI RAILWAY PROJECT
Condition of Trak Sections Lo be Rehabllitatrd Sef-r  and After the Project
Pre....t Condition                                                                                     Steheoled Trac.k
Section Lnoeht          Baila            Si.P eAesPaeii                                      Ballast                  SN., Deril-seta (19795
Rail                                                                                      TolIl-                        Deril-          Rails                                                               Schedule
Wear                Co-                 Co-    Ban-                                       Leg   OpeRa-                  carte    Spead Weight       Sleeper                                        Speed    of
~~                   Rmttjias  ~~~~~~~km   Wleicht   A..    mg        tiga     )imk      tier  DIaLE-       SI-        Tod           -5:s nk.  Ogt2k ti...  flh-   T-      -  l   aka  kaLL. AkIhA    .Jg..       F-eten.ie  Type         Boll-Li  km/h    Ovcotool
,Aoatativa-Ragaa..S  (i5 be)      48-106    59    30    75 ASCE   Weedee    Bad            Spiirs     Bad    980%    Sfushed &          Pair     197    79    1i    i5    357    5.49           lB    So  -il    Treated   Snr-           B.a-        Crushd
Rie  Btone                                                                     oheege       wo.d       spShen      platen       tee.       40      1982
1aeem.o.hebt,ja Yard                           4    40    iS           Wooden    Bad    Spikes    Bad   Noee    Perth                   Bad                                                   Teed   Seed 75    Treamd   Screw               --       Cruhed   Yard    1982
lb,         eod         sPiher                 stoe
5gaea-Ilteni-  (98 he)            106-i50    45    30    75            Wnedee    Bad    Spihee    Bad   BNe.    Cruhed &                Pair       97    i9    10    28       204     7.08      15    No rail    Treated    See-          Bee-        C-nhed    40         1984
RIEt SLo...                                                                     change       wood       spikes      plane      steer
150-20R     53    30    75           guode-     Bad    Bpibes    Bad   BNe.    crehed &               Poir                                                   13    Be rait    Treand   irre             Bas-        Crushed    403       1983
RIver Scones                                                                    charge       .oed       spikes      plates     neon
5leino--irrl  (127 be)            202-220    18    30    75            Wuedtr    Bad    Spiken        Bad   BNe.    Crushed &           Pate       37    19       9      7      72    0.57      15    SN. rail    T-eted        eSe-       Bee-       Cruhed    40         1993
Rive  Bt.n.n                                                                    chege       reed        spikes      plates     stare
220-264    45    40    75            Weedee    Bed       Spihep     Bed   Boar    Croahed &           Pair                                                    15    B. rail    Treated   Snte           B.s-        Cruhed      40       i984
Rice  Beerc                                                                      harge       wood       apihen      p la ten    stoe
270-296    27    40       75         Wlnde-     Sad    Spikrn       Bad   BNe.    River Btens         Poir                                                    15    N. rail      T-eatd   Snte          Base-       Crushd      40       1993
thange      wond        spikes     plates      atote
08te1o.. reia                                  4    40    60           Woeden    Bad    Spihen        Bad   BNe.    catch               Bad                                                   Yard   Seed 75    Treaced   Scre               --       C-nhed   Yard        1983
lb.         e..od       spikes                  te.e
SteaaraCade-  (146k.h) 397-408        11    h0    75           wooden      Bad     Spikes    Bad   BNe-   River St..e.    Bad              30    72    40        3      97    0.6k      20    So rail    Treatd   lora             Bas-       Crnshed      35/55  1983
& Earth                                                                         charge       wood       spikes      platea     stone
MSdellin--irel  1192 he)          328-371    43    30    75            Weodee    Red    Spikes    Bad   No.c    Crorhnd 4               Fair    392   145    44   518   1099    5.06    15    Ne rail    Treated   Scre                   Bas-        Croakd       40      1982
Rive  It..en                                                                    change       wod        epike       plates     stone
380-394     15    30    75            en.der    Bad    Spikee       Bad   oNr-    Crused&             Par15    Rn raI                                                            Treated   Bores        Ban-        Cruhed       40      1982
cIIe  sctne                                                                     charge       wood       spikes      plat..    stone
424-436    12    30    75            Wooden    Bad    Spike-        Bad   None    Cruhed 4            Pair                                                    13    Ba rail    Tr-atod   BSrn           Bas-        Cruhed       40      1983
RIver Store                                                                     ekarge       wod        spikee      plates       ston
445-453      8    30    75           Rcedeo    Bad    Spikes    Bad   BNn.          C-ahad B4          Fair                                                   15    N. rail    Tr-atd   Stre            Bas-        Crushed      40      1983
Bive  St..r.                                                                    change       ned        spikes      plates     stone
457-474     19    30    75           Weadre    Bad       Spikes    Bad   N.er       Cruhed            Pair                                                    10    No rail    Tcaatsd   Erre           Bas-        Croakd       40      1983
Rive  SLe.e.                                                                    charge       w.d        spikes      plates      to.e
Bec-da;r Li.ra
Lk C__e-8'eeci te (228 kv')    120-150    30    40    40               Wooden      Bad    Spikes    Bad   BNe.    Earth                 Bad        98    45       7      9    157    0.69    15    N. rail    C.s.r-te    SR                 --       Cruhed       30s     1983
150-184     35    40    40           wnodne     Bed      Spikes    Bad   INn..    E-rth               Bad                                                           Ne rai       Concrer       SR                   Cruhed       35      i984
Charge                                         ston
ler-ueoAiree              146-152       7    25    55          W.dooe      Bad    Spikes      Bad   Boor      Rive               Pair     108    40      ii     1 8    169    0.95      70    75  /        Co...r-te    InSR-                 C-nhed    48         1982
(1 77  In1/                                                                                              rses-                                                                                                                          store
165-177     15    25    55           Wuoden     Bad    Spiken    Bad   N...    Rive                   Pair                                                   70     75 2/        Con-rt        SR          -        Crushed     48       1982
Stones                                                                                                                          ster
111-145    35    25    AS5           Weodeo    Bad       Spikes     Bud   BNe.    Stee                Pair                                                   70     75           Concrte    SR             -        Crushed    h0        1984
LA Car-Chigoinquira                i8-BR       13    30    55          Wnedee    Bad       Bpikor    Bud   Suet       Earth             Sad        37    13       7    15       72    0.37      18    Ne rail      Treated   Scre         Bas-        Cruhed       40      1984
(126k.h) I/ '                                                                                                                                                                                                       i.       P-           t.
95-118     15    30    55           Wood-o    Bad       Spikes    Bad   Bore       Earth             BaR                                                     10    So rail    T-eard   Scre            Bas-        Crohed       40      1990
okhnge      wood        rpikes      plate      rt..e
17  Incnded i  PartB.
N-Ir  75 lb r-il sod fsctning P- -r-otre  eleepe-  it stock.
5Surc:  CNRi and Coonulcant-t
kluhor, 1981



COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Locomotive Requirements and Availability
Actual (1972-1979)                               Forecast (1982-1986)
1972   1973   1974   1978   1979                   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
1. Freight traffic, mil
ton km                    1248   1368   1391   1261   1128                     925   1086   1395   1617   1908
2. Average load per train
tons                       305    310    297    320    301                     305    307    308    309    309
3. Freight train km in
mil (1):(2)               4.09   4.41   4.69   3.94   3.75                    3.02   3.54   4.53   5.24   6.18
4. Pass. traffic mil pass
km                         398    427    482    342    322                     180    280    250    210    170
5. Pass. per train equiv.    166    166    179    188    206                      250    250    250    250    250
6. Pass. train km (4):(5)   2.40   2.57   2.69   1.82   1.56                     0.72   1.12   1.00   0.84   0.68
7. Total train km (3)+(6)   6.49   6.98   7.38   5.76   5.31                     3.74   4.66   5.53   6.08   6.86             1
8. Loco. km in mil (7)x 1.4 9.08   9.77  10.33   8.06   7.43                     5.24   6.53   7.74   8.51   9.61             U,
9. Loco. km per loco. (000)   79       79     82     89      92                    90      90     93      94     95
10. Loco. for traffic (8):(9) 115    124    126       91      81                    58      73     84      91    102
11. Loco. in yards              12     12      12     12      17                     2       4     10      13     15
12. Locos. for maint.works                                                           1       2      6       9     11
13. Locos. under or
awaiting repairs            19     22      31     66      71                    93     71      58     43      32
14. Total locos. required      146    158    169    169    169                     154    150    158    152    160
15. AvailabilitY
Cl00- (13) :14              86     86     86      68     58                     39     53      64     73      80
16. Locos. in stock            146    146    158    169    169                     154    154    154    158    158
17. Locos. to be scrapped        -      2       3      -       -                     -       -      -       -      2 1/
18. Loco. to be purchased        -     14      14      -       -                     -       -      4       -      4
19. Loco. needed in fleet      146    158    169    169    169                     154    150    158    156    160
1/ 2 locomotives to be scrapped (tentative); this situation would be reviewed in 1983.
Source:  CtR, Consultants and Mission
January 19$2



- 59 -
TABLE 3.7
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Gondolas Requirements and Availability 1982-1986
1982     1983      1984      1985      1986
1.  Traffic(tons '000)1/                         410       600       748       832      932
2.  Total tons per day  (000) 2/               1,138    1,667    2,078    2,310    2,590
3.  Average net load per gondola (tons)           35        35        35        35        35
4.  Gondolas per day (2):(3)                       33       48        60        66        74
5.  Turnaround time (days)                        16        15        14        13        12
6.  Gondolas needed for traffic (4)x(5)          528       720       840       858       889
7.  Availability                                  78        80        82        85        87
8.  Total gondolas needed (6):(7)                677       900    1,025    1,009    1,022
9.  Gondolas in fleet                            914       914       914       914       914
10. Gondolas in fleet in service                  714      730       766       806       846
11. Theoretical gondolas requirements
(8)-(10)                                    (-37)      170       259      203       176
12. Gondolas under repair                         200      184       148       108        68
13. Actual gondola requirements (1l)-(12)          -         -       111        95       108
1/ Considers a coefficient of 1.4 for unbalanced traffic, 60% loaded and 40% empty
gondolas.
2/ 360 working days.
Source: CNR, Consultants and Mission
January 1982



- 60 -
TABLE 3.8
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Workshop Equipment and Tools Requirements (1982-1985)
Item                                         Quantity      Estimated Cost (US$)
Wheel lathe                                       1              750,000
Axle lathe                                        1             182,000
Jib crane 7 tons                                  2               77,000
Jib crane 5 tons                                  3             102,000
Forklift 3 1/2 tons                               1               36,000
Furnace for electric motors                       l               41,000
Electric motors testing bench                     1               18,000
Testing bench for speed recorders                 1               41,000
Electro-hydraulic jacks 15 tons                   4               31,000
Testing equipment for injectors                   1               23,000
Swing crane                                       1                3,000
Water jet cleaning equipment                      2               23,000
Air compressor                                    3               41,000
Tool sets for diesel engines                     22               62,000
Tool sets for diesel electric                   14                40,000
Tool sets for air brakes                        14                40,000
Tool sets for diesel traction                   15                42,000
Tool sets for general use                     several             77,500
Total                         1,630,000
Source; CNR, Consultants, Mission Estimates
October 1981



COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
(Excluding Price Contingencies)
Technical Assistance and Training Program
1982        1983       1984              Man-Months                  1982              1983               1984           1982-1984
Local   Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign Local  Foreign  Local a/  Foreign_ -   Total
------------------- Cost (Col Pesos Million) ------------
1.  TEChNICAL. ASSISTANCE!
1.1   Feasibility Study of Bogota-Buenaventura
connection.
Phase I:   Traffic forecasts model distri-
hution preliminary cost
estimates, economic feasibility
study.                                           -                      81        10        91       -        -      25.5       4.6      -       2.1      25.5          6.7         32.2
Phase II:   Detailed cost estimates.                                                103        5       108        -        -        -        -    26.9        2.5     25.9          2.5          29.4.
1.2   Signal and Telecommunication Studies.                                                40        20        60       -         -       1.0      6.2     1.1      6.2       2.1         12.4          14.5
1.3   Line capacity analysis                                                                24       12        36       -         -       0.9      7.4      -         -       0.9          7.4           8.3
1.4   Cost accounting, tariff structuring,
accounting and financial planning,
operating statistics.                                                                24       49        73       0.5      3.6      0.5     16.7       -       9.9      1.0         30.2          31.2
1.5   Traffic demand model.                                                                 24       12        36      0,3       3.6      0.5      3.7      -         -       0.8          7.3           8.1
1.6   Reduction of operating costs.                                                         72       18        90      4.0       1.4      6.6      6.2      -        3.6     10.6         11.2          21.8
Subtotal                                                             368      126       494       4.8      8.6    35.0       44.8   28.0      24.3     67.8         77.7         145.5
2. TRAINING
2.1    Operational training programs in local
and foreign training centers.                                                                                   2.7      5.0      8.3    15.5       5.7     10.5     16.7         31.0          47.7
2.2    Workshops technical assistant and
training  c/                                                                         -       22        22        -       3.8       -       9.9       -        -        -          13.7          47.7
Subtotal                                                               -       22         22      2.7      8.8       8.3     25.4     5.7     10.5     16.7         44.7          61.4
Total                                                                368      148       516       7.5    17.4    43.3    70.2   33.7          34.8      84.5       122.4         206.9
a! From US$575 to US$6,000/man month.
b/ US$11, 000/man-month.
c/ Includes the preparation of a locomotive scrapping program.
Source:  ITALCONSULT, CNR and Mission
January 1982



- 62
CGIGIA                                                                                    TABLE 3.10
SEVTE  RAIIIAY PRO3JCT
Probet Iapl_nrctio  Sebkdle
'ever                                                          1982                                                 1983                                               1984                             1985
J-n Feb Mar Apr MHy JG Jul Ang Sep Oct Nov Den  Jn Feb Man Ape MY Joe Jo1 Aeg Sep Oct N'ov De  Jan Feb Nan Apr  y JG Jul Aeg Sep Oet Nov Den    0c   D.e
it-
1  FvR14ANENT WAY
I .  Inframtroeture
- nok
1.2 511 km Track Rehbilitation
- bidding
- enpply of tatei-i
- nok 1/
1.3 200 Beitehes
- bidding
- ouFply of  te-ini
- Vprk
1.4 Bridge.
- bidding
- eepply of rt-eial
- enek 1/
1.5 Beildioge
- voek
1.6 Rehabilitation of eq.ipen-t
- bidding
- eupply of u-teri-l
107 Maineenen  equiprent
- bidding
- delivery
2. MOTIVE POARO
2.1 8 lono-tive   nd spare Fente
- bidding
- delirery                                                                                                                                       T RI AL
2.2 Rnb.bilit-ai-n of 90 lotnoeivee
bidding
- *upply of veneiel
- Meek
2.3 Rebhbilit-tiin of 49 lonononinro
- nenk 2/
2.4 Spare for etoeke
- bidding
- delivery
2.5 8 leeeeetive engines
- poohbe..
- delivery
3. ROLLING STOCK
3.1 2G0 gndel.e *nd spare petnc
- bidding
- delivery
3.2 Rehbkilitnti.n  of 1,410 freight earn
- bidding for mteial
-pply of  tariAl
4. WORKSHOPS
4.1 Eqeipenent ad Tools
bidding fon matiri.l
delivery
4.2 Scndifinsnion of neisting insallianie
5. TRANSPORTATION
5.1 Freight hendling eqnip-ect
bidding
= dnlirnry
6  SIGNALLING AND TEL2c0GIIHICATIONS
6.1 P-tis  nd nqnipennt
- eerie (ecenalling)
- bidding
- delivery
- inenallenien
7. TROCNICAL ASSISTANCE fAND TRAINING
7.1 Tochkicel Assisntene
- mlnatioo                                                    _____
- Work
7.2 Training
- Wrk program.
1T .e.ck eerik  to atart  J-neany 1982 nitb CHR'a maetials in stok.
2( Mtnenials al1n-dy -nqns..d mith feds firo  dednraci   NSie..n.l dn Coftieron.
3/ wonks ti stitn Jenoary 198t nith CNR/s nacanials
S-nce   ITALCONSULT, CNR *nd the mission
itt.bcn 1981



- 63 -                                TABLE 3.11
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(Millions US$)
IBRD
Fiscal
Year                        Quarterly Disbursement           Cumulative Disbursement
1983
I    September 1982                   2.0                               2.0
II   December 1982                    4.5                               6.5
III  March 1983                       6.0                              12.5
IV   June 1983                        9.0                              21.5
1984
I    September 1983                  10.0                              31.5
II   December 1983                   16.0                              47.6
III  March 1984                       5.0                              52.5
IV   June 1984                        6.0                              58.5
1985
I    September 1984                   7.0                              65.5
II   December 1984                    4.0                              69.5
III  March 1985                       1.0                              70.5
IV   June 1985                        1.0                              71.5
1986
I    September 1985                   2.0                              73.5
II   December 1985                    2.0                              75.5
III  March 1986                       1.0                              76.5
IV   June 1986                        0.5                              77.0
Source: Mission Estimates
January 1982



COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Traffic Forecast Related to CNR' Expected Carrying Capacity 1982-1986
1982               1983                1984                   1985                 1986
ton    ton-km      ton    ton-km        ton    ton-km        ton    ton-km        ton    ton-km
('000)  (million)  ('000)  (million)   ('000)  (million)   ('000)  (million)   ('000)  (million)
Agricultural Products      570      277       620       300        775       376        846       411         990       481
Livestock                   30        5        30         5         30         5          30        5          30         5
Timber                      20        6        25         7         25         7          25        7          25         7
Mineral Products           320       180      370       213        510       285         560      321         705       408
Manufactured Products      650      300       800       365      1,040       462      1,150       505       1,374       585
Petroleum Products         360      126       400       140        431       154        455       162         480      166
Other Products              20        6        20         6         20         6          20        6          20         6
1,970      900    2,265    1,036        2,831    1,295       3,086    1,417       3,624    1,658
Source:  Mission Estimates
October 1981



- 65 -                                   TABLE 4.2
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
CNR's Passenger Traffic 1971-1986
Average
Passenger               Passenger-km            Journey
(thousand)                 (million)               (km)
Actual
1971                3,161                        281                89
1972                4,262                        398                93
1973                4,206                        427               102
1974                4,552                        482               106
1975                5,099                        523               102
1976                4,081                        511               125
1977                2,967                        392               132
1978                2,569                        342               133
1979                2,456                        322               131
1980                2,215                        315               142
Forecast
1982                2,140                        300               140
1983                2,000                        280               140
1984                1,785                        250               140
1985                1,500                        210               140
1986                1,215                        170               140
Source: CNR and Mission Estimates
October 1981



- 66 -
TABLE 4.3
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of Track Rehabilitation
Economic Return (%)
Rehabili-   Economic Cost                            20% Decrease
tation      of Investmentl               10% Cost    in Traffic
Section               Start        (Col$ million)  Base Case  Increase        Benefits
Facatativa-Bagazal             1982               177.5         32         28           30
Bagazal-Mexico                 1983               295.0         25         22            24
Mexico-Grecia                  1983               381.0         16         14            15
Grecia-Garcia Cadena           1983                39.3         15         13            14
Medellin-Grecia                1982               389.6         17         15            16
La Caro-Chiquinquira           1984               133.8         13         12            12
La Caro-Belencito              1983               246.7         17         15            16
Mexico-Dorada-Buenos Aires   1982                 338.1         13         12            12
2,001.0         18         16            17
1/ August 1980 prices.
SDCe.  tzwswLtamts avi tission Estimates
December 1981



- 67 -
TABLE 4.4
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of Motive Power and Rolling Stock
Economic Return (,)
Economic Cost
of Investment 1/                10% Cost    10% Decrease
Item                  (Col$ million)    Base Case   Increase    in Benefits
Rehabilitation of Locomotives         679.5         42              39           22
New Locomotives                       591.7         27              24           22
Rehabilitation of Wagons              288.8         61             56            55
New Wagons                            508.7         22             21             19
TOTAL                    2,068.7         35             33            26
1/ August 1980 prices.
Source: Consultants and Mission Estimates
December 1981



COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Revenues. Expenses and Net Incone
(Millions Pesos)
1973                   1974                    1975                    1976                    1977             1978          1979           1980
Appraisal              Appraisal               Appraisal               Appraisal               Appraisal
Forecast    Actual    -Forecast    Actual      Forecast   Actual       Forecast    Actual      Forecast 1/ Actual       Actual      Actual          Actual
Operating Revenues:
Freight  Coemercial (including L(L)                          466.0       519.9       495.9       689.9       520.6      659.9        547.2      807.1        564.3    1,168.1      1,545.0      1,721.1        1,850.6
- Mon-llevenue (GOvermoent paid)                      26.0        25.6        26.0       57.2         25.0       73.5        25.0        98.3        25.0       104.2        75.4         71.2           98.6
Passenger and gxpress                                         65.3        66.9        70.9        98.8        70.7      117.5         76.0      150.3         76.0      165.6        166.6        178.9          248.3
Miscellaneous * (storage, rent,deourrage., water & light)      22.5       25.9         23.0       38.3        26.0       46.0         28.5       44.9         32.0       83.9        154.0        125.4          101.3
Tariff Increase                                                                       65.2         _         145.0        -          242.6        -         354.7         -             -            -
Total (a)                                    579.8      638.3        681.0      874.2        787.5      896.5       919.3    1,100.6      1,052.0    1,521.8      1,941.0      2,096.6        2,298.8
Opertting E uaensss:
Road Maintenance                                              166.5      179.6       186.0       225.0       203.8      304.5        223.9      458.9        245.4      540.6        634.4        730.4        1,080.4
Equipment Maintenance                                         126.3      100.3       149.6       120.8       168.3      156.5        185.8      239.0        207.0      291.0        349 .0       388.7          553.6
sales and Trasportation                                      247.8       258.9       283.4      307.9        312.2      378.2       342.3       624.2       376.3       757.1        888.0      i,082.3        1,462.4
General                                                       80.4        85.5        86.4       139.8        93.3      145.9        100.8      210.1        109.0      234.2        312.2        348.5     ,, 568.2
Total WortheR Rxpenses                                  621.0       624.3       705.4      793.3        777.6      985.1       852.8    1,532.2        937.7    1,822.9      2,183.6       2,549.9        3.664.6     o'
D Preciation                                                  93.0        79.3       104.0        70.8       113.0       78.7       118.0        84.4       120.0        87.8         83.7         81.4           90.2
Reduction of losses in uneconomic lines                        5.0         -           9.0                    14.0        -           16.0        -          16.0         -             -            -  -           -
Total (b)                                    709.0      703.6        800.4      864.1       876.6    1,063.8        954.8    1,616.6      1,041.7    1,910.7      2,267.3      2,631.3        3,754.8
Net Operating Revenue/(Loss) c- (a - b)                     (129.2)      (65.3)     (119.4)      10.1        (89.i)    (167.3)      (35.5)    (516.0)        10.3      (388.9)      (326.3)      (534.7)     (1,456.0)
onopert                (net) (sale of scrap and land-
Profit only)                       19.0       18.5        19.0        17.1        15.0       18.3         10.0      129.7         10.0       38.9         19.7          9.7           72.3
Net Revenue/(Loss) (d)                                      (110.2)      (46.8)     (100.4)      27.2        (74.1)    (149.0)      (25.5)    (386.3)        20.3      (350.0)     (306.6)      (525.0)      (1,383.7)
Interest                                                         87.5       131.0        97.5      387.0        129.9      510.6       143.6      416.7        143.8       454.2       556.6        515.1          879.6
Net Income/(Deficitl                                           (197.8)    (177.8)      (197.9)    (359.8)      (204.0)    (659.6)     (169.1)      803.0      (123.5)    (804.2)      (863.2)    (1,040.1)      (2,263.3)
Breakdown of Work,_nLExpenses
Personel                                                     423.5      435.9       487.6       553.9       538.8       687.9       591.0    1,070.0        650.1    1,314.4      1,524.8      1,780.6        2,908.8
Fuel.                                                         28.4       28.2         32.2       35.9        36..5       44.5        40.6       69.3         47.0        86.2        98.7        115.3          173.2
Material                                                      97.2       82.8        108.7      105.2       120.3       130.6       133.2       203.1       147.5       215.6       289.5        338.1          336.2
other                                                         71.9       77.5         76.9       98.3        82,0       122.1        88.0      189.8         93.0   -.e0d.7         270.6        315.9          246.4
Significant Raties
Working Ratio                                                106.2       97.8        102.3       90.7        97.0       109.9        91.0       139.2        07.6       119.7       112.0        121.6    ,    159.4
operating Ratio                                              122.3      110.2        117.5       98.8       111.3       118.7       103.9      146.9         99.0       125.5       117.0        125.5          163.3
Times Interest E'5ned                                             -           -           -          -            -          0.3         -           -           0.1         -            -            -  .
Debt Coverage                                                     _          _            _                      0.1         -           0.2         -           0.4         -            -
Return o  et Fid Asset                                                                               -           -           -           -          -            0.2         -
1/ This appraisal forecast was shown in the App-isal Report but the operating ratio was not shown in the Loan Document.
Source; CNR
December 1981



- 69 -
TABLE 5.2
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Summary Balance Sheets
(Million Pesos)
1977              1978               1979                1980
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash                                        91.0              148.5              241.9              183.4
Inventories                                887.0              801.7              739.5              955.5
Other                                      397.2              549.9              687.6              941.2
Total                                 1,375.5            1,500.1            1,669.0            2,080.1
Fixed Assets
Gross Fixed Assets 1/                    5,083.5            5,177.2            5,250.9            5,445.7
Less Accumulated Depreciation             (917.1)             993.4            1,072.8            1,156.2
Net Fixed Assets                      4,166.4            4,183.8           4,178.1             4,289.5
Miscellaneous Assets                          740.6              890.2              900.5            1,081.6
TOTAL ASSETS                                   6,282.5            6,574.1            6,747.6            7,449.8
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
Current Liabilities                         1,235.6            1,424.4            1,657.1            2,426.6
Long-Term Debts                             3,727.9            3,811.5            3,213.6            3,447.2
Capital and Surplus                         5,218.7            6,094.3            7,534.4            8,690.9
Less Accumulated Deficits                  (4,047.5)          (4,912.7)          (5,944.5)          (7,445.8)
Net Capital                              1,172,2            1,181.6            1,589.9            1,245.1
Reserve for Social Benefits -
(cesantias, pensions, vacations, etc)      147.8              156.6              287.0              330.9
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL                  6,282.5            6,574.1            6,747.6            7,449.8
RATIOS
Current Assets/Current Liabilities             1.1                1.1                1.0               0.9
Current Assets less Inventories/
Current Liabilities                         0.4                0.5                0.6               0.5
Debt/Equity                                   76/24              77/23              67/33             73/27
1/ Includes foreign exchange rate adjustment in book values of those fixed assets which
were purcahsed from external financing.
Source: CNR
December 1981



-70 -                                   TABLE 5.3
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Forecast Income Statements
Total Network
(In Mid-1981 Col$ Millions)
Estimate                           Forecast              _
1981       1982        1983        1984        1885       1986
OPERATING REVENUES
FREIGHT                      1716.00    2206.26    2793.57    3841.23    4623.39    5409.72
PASSENGER                     117.00      109.20     107.50       98.70       88.40      83.20
OTHER                         135.00      155.00.    180.00      210.00      240.00     270.00
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUES         1968.00    2470.46    3081.07    4149.93    4951.79    5762.92
GOVERNMENT NORMALIZATION PAYMENT
ON PASSENGER SERVICES           310.00     367.00      383.00      334.00      271.00      265.00
TOTAL REVENUES                   2278.00    2837.46    3464.07    4483.93    5222.79    6027.92
OPERATING EXPENSES
PERSONNEL                   2646.00    2738.00    2833.00    2906.00    2944.00    2974.00
FUEL & LUBRICATION           238.00      306.00      352.24      440.30      481.78     563.72
MATERIAL                      355.00     700.00      750.00      800.00      820.00     840.00
OTHER                         210.00     452.00      479.00      508.00      527.00     550.00
WORKING COSTS                    3449.00    4196.00    4414.24    4654.30    4772.78    4927.72
OEPRECIATION                      112.00      135.00     500.00      500.00      510.00      515.00
OPERATING COSTS                  3561.00    4331.00    4914.24    5154.30    5282.78    5442.72
NET OPERATING REVENUES/(LOSS)
BEFORE NORMALIZATION          -1593.00   -1860.54   -1833.17   -1004.37    -330.99        320.20
AFTER NORMALIZATION           -1283.00   -1493.54   -1450.17    -670.37        -59.99     585.20
NON-OPERATING REVENUES             55.00       60.00      60.00       60.00       60.00       60.00
PENSION PAYMENTS                 1234.00    1252.00    1275.00    1304.00    1334.00    1368.00
SOCIAL BENEFITS-
CESANTIA PAYMENTS               400.00     423.00      431.00      440.00      449.00     458.00
INTEREST                          900.00     263.00      334.00      445.00      468.00     445.00
NET INCOME/(LOSS)
BEFORE NORMALIZATION          -4072.00   -3738.54   -3813.17   -3133.37   -2521.99   -1890.80
AFTER NORMALIZATION           -3762.00   -3371.54   -3430.17   -2799.37   -2250.99   -1625.80
AVERAGE NUMBER OF
STAFF EMPLOYED              10328.00   10588.00   10845.00   11015.00   11050.00   11050.00
PENSIONERS                  11620.00   12120.00   12620.00   13170.00   13720.00   14270.00
CESANTIA RECIPIENTS          1350.00    1400.00    1400.00    1450.00    1450.00    1450.00
TRAFFIC
NET TON-KM (MILLIONS)         700.00     900.00    1036.00    1295.00    1417.00    1658.00
PASS-KM (MILLIONS)            300.00     280.00      250.00      210.00      170.00     160.00
SIGNIFICANT RATIOS
BEFORE NORMALIZATION
WORKING RATIO                   1.75        1.70       1.43        1.12        0.96       0.86
OPERATING RATIO                 1.81        1.75       1.59        1.24        1.07       0.94
AFTER NORMALIZATION
WORKING RATIO                   1.51        1.48       1.27        1.04        0.91       0.82
OPERATING RATIO                 1.56        1.53        1.42       1.15        1.01       0.90
1/ A TARIFF INCREASE OF 10% IN REAL TERMS IN EACH
YEAR OF 1983, 1984 AND 1985 WAS ASSUMED.
SOURCE; CNR, CONSULTANTS AND MISSION ESTIMATES
DECEMBER 1981



- 71 -                                     TABLE 5.3
Page 2 of 2
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Forecast Income Statements
Pacific Network
(In Mid 1981 Col$ Millions)
1981           1982            1983            1984            1985            1986
Operating Revenues
Freight                         227             270             312             378             453             491
Passenger                        72              72              69              65              36              -
Other                            36              42              48              54              59              66
Total Operating Revenues            335            384             429             497             548             557
Government Normalization
Payment on Passenger
Services                         41              55              56              48              37              -
Total Revenues                      376            439             485             545             585             557
Operating Expenses
Personnel                       457             461             465             469             475             479
Fuel & Lubricants                46              56              58              64              70              76
Material                     -   90             140             145             150             152             154
Other                            19              21              22              23              24              25
Working Costs                       612            678             690             706             721             734
Depreciation                         14              17             63              63              65              68
Operating Costs                     626            695             753             769             786             802
Net Operating Revenues/(Loss)
Before Normalization            (291)          (311)           (324)           (272)           (238)           (245)
After Normalization             (250)           (256)          (268)           (224)           (201)           (245)
Traffic
Net ton-km (millions)             80              95            100             110             120             130
Pass-km (millions)               80              80              70              60              30              -
Significant Ratios
Before Normalization
Working Ratio                183             177             161             142             131             132
Operating Ratio              187             181             175             155             143             144
After Normalization
Working Ratio                163             154             142             130             123             N/A
Operating Ratio              166             158             155             141             134             N/A
Source: CNR and Mission Estimates
November 1981



- 72 -
TABLE 5.4
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Government Financial Assistance to CNR During 1982-1986
(In Mid-1981 Col$ Millions)
1982       1983        1984       1985        1986
Type of Subsidies
INVESTMENT PLAN                                949.2      1311.3      942.9       558.6
DEBT SERVICE
LOCAL                                      730.7       175.1      120.9       99.3
FOREIGN                                    612.5      574.4       524.3      545.1       550.5
TOTAL                                     1343.2      749.5       645.2      644.4       550.5
PENSION PAYMENTS                              1252.0      1275.0     1304.0      1334.0     1368.0
CESANTIA PAYMENTS                              423.0       431.0      440.0       449.0      458.0
NORMALIZATION FOR
PASSENGER SERVICES                         367.0      383.0       334.0       271.0      265.0
OPERATING DEFICIT                             1298.5       890.2       110.4
TOTAL                                         5632.9      5040.0     3776.5      3257.0     2641.5
USS EOUIVALENT MILLION
AT COL$ 55 = US$1                           102.4        91.6       68.7        59.2       48.0
CURRENT BUDGETARY ALLOCATION COVERED BY
GENERAL GOVERNMENT
PENSION BUDGET                            1252.0      1275.0     1304.0      1334.0     1368.0
MINISTRY OF FINANCE BUDGET
FOREIGN DEBT SERVICE                       612.5      574.4       524.3      545.1       550.5
INVESTMENT                                  359.7
THE HIGHWAY FUND 1/                           2107.0      2171.0     2265.0      2393.0     2500.0
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS
AND TRANSPORT BUDGET                       1301.7      1019.6
SURPLUS FUNDS AVAILABLE FOR
FUTURE INVESTMENT NEEDS                                           -316.8    -1015.1    -1777.0
TOTAL                                         5632.9      5040.0     3776.5      3257.0     2641.5
1/ A recent law enacted in December 1981 transfers 10% of the Fondo Vial (Highway
Fund) funds to CNR. The amounts shown above represent CNR's, the Government's,
and mission estimates.
SOURCE; CNR AND MISSION ESTIMATES
DECEMBER 1981



73                                              TABLE 5.5
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Forecast Sources and Applications of Funds Statements
(In Mid-1981 Col$ Millions)
ItiAtO                              rorecwt
1981        1912        1983        1984        i985        1986
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
OPERATIONS
OPERATING (REVENUE)/LOSS
BEFORE NORMALIZATION               1593.0      186Q.5       1833.2      1004.4       331.0      -320.2
NON-OPERATING REVENUES                 S5.0         60.0        60.0        60.0        60.0        60.0
DEPRECIATION                           112.0       135.0       500.0       500.0       510.0       515.0
SUB rOTAL                                1426.0      165E.5      1273.2       444.4      -239.0      -895.2
INVESTMENT
LOCAL                                 636.0       778.7       946.9        958.0       881.7       862.5
FOREIGN                                           1123.8     2596.7       1219.1       710.9       322.3
SUBTOTAL                                  636.0      1902.5      3543.6      2177.1      1592.6      1184.8
DEBT SERVICE CHARGES
LONG-TERM-FOREIGN-PRINCIPAL           525.0       431.6        290.8       112.8        97.6       206.9
-INTEREST          232.0        180,9       283.6       411.5       447.5       434.9
LOCAL  -PRINCIPAL          386.0        60.9        113.8        87.1        78.9        69.2
-INTEREST           166.0        16.8        50.3        33.8        20.4        10.2
SHORT-TERM-LOCAL -PRINCIPAL                       588.0         11.0
-INTEREST                        G5.0
SUB TOTAL                                1309.0      1343.2       749.5       645.2       644.4       721.2
PENSIONS & BENEFITS
PENSION  PAYMENTS                     1234.0      1252.0      1275.0      1304.0      1334.0      1368.0
CESANTIA PAYMENTS                     400.0       423.0        431.0       440.0       449.0       458.0
SUB TOTAL                                1634.0      1675.0      1706.0      1744.0      1783.0      1826.0
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                       5005.0      6586.2      7272.3      5010.7      3781.0      2836.8
SOURCES OF FUNDS
CNR INTERNALLY GENERATED FUNDS
INVENTORIES                                       66.3         44.9        52.8        17.3         6.2
CNRS STAFF INPUT
FOR THE PROUECT                                157.2        132.8       170.3       179.5       189.1
UNDP GRANT FOR
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                          27.5        27.5
SALE OF LAND                           1063.0
SUB TOTAL                                1063.0       225.5       205.2       250.6       196.8        195.3
LOANS
FEDERACION CAFETEROS                  250.0        389.2        51.4
IBRD - PROPOSED LOAN                              338.6       1975.7       983.6       327.2
BARREO POPIJLAR                         130.0
SUB TOTAL                                 380.0       727.8      2027.1       983.6       327.2
GOVERNMENT CONTRIBUTION
INVESTMENT PLAN                       626.0       949.2       1311.3       942.9       558.6
DEBT SERVICE CHARGES                  650.0       1343.2       749.5       645.2       644.4       550.5
PENSION                              1234.0       1252.6      1275.0      1304.0      1334.0      1368.0
CESANTIA PAYMENTS                                 423.0       431.0       440.0       449.0       458.0
NORMALIZATION FOR PASSENGER
SERVICE LOSSES                                 367.0       383.0       334.0        271.0       265.0
OPERATING DEFICIT                    1052.0 2/  1298.5         890.2       110.4
SUB TOTAL                                3562.0      5632.9      5040.0      3776.5      3257.0      2641.5
TOTAL SOURCES                            S005.0      6586.2      7272.3      5010.7      3781.0      2836.8
1/ INCLUDES ABOUT COLS 200 MILLION PAYABLE IN UANUARY 1982
2/ NOT YET TRANSFERRED TO CNR
SOURCE; CNR. CONSULTANTS AND MISSION ESTIMATES
DECEMBER 1981



COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Forecast Balance Sheets 1981-1986
(In Mid 1981 Col$ Millions)
Six Months      Estimate       _____    Forecast
1981           1981           1982           1983           1984         _ 1985         =1986_
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash & Banks                        231.1          237.0          257.1  -        320.6          431.8           51.5           599.5
Inventories                       1,048.1        1,241.5        1,173.2        1,191.3         1,168.8        1,184.2        1,178.0
Accounts Receivable                 697.1          717.6           765.7          955.1        1,286.5        1,535.1         1,786.5
Other Current Assets                841.3          851.1          870.0           875.0          880.0          885.0           890.0
Subtotal                             2,817.6         3,04 7.2       3,066.0        3,342.0        3,767.1        4,358.3         4,454.0
Fixed Assets
Gross Fixed Assets                5,476.5        5,789.5        7,667.1       11,059.1        13,250.9       14,672.4       15,857.2
Less Accumulated Depreciation   1,210.7          1,266.7        1                 9141  1,901.7  20           2,911.7       _3_426.7
Net Fixed Assets                     4,265.8         4,522.8          265                .4      10,849.2       11,760.7        12,430.5
Other Assets                         1,144.8         1,044.8       1,306.7         1,7379         1,885.8          3968            515.7
Total Assets                         8,228.          8,614.8       10,638.1       14,227.3       16,502.1       17,515.8        17,400.2
LIABILITIES & CAPITAL
Current Liabilities                  3,001.9         3,100.5        2,948.0        2,982.0        3,051.0         2,950.0        2,810.0
Long Term Debts                       3,298.8        3,338.8        2,986.1        4,597.6        5,381.3         5,532.0        5,255.9
Other                                   396.4          310.9          315.0          315.0           315.0          315.0          315.0
Total Liabilities                    6,697.1         6,750.2        6,249.1        7,894.6        8,747.3         8,797.0        8,380.9
Capital and Reserves                 9,218.4        10,593.4       14,551.3       17,885.2       19,917.7        21,391.7       22,207.2
Less Accumulated Deficits             7,687.3          728.8       10,162.3       11,552.5        2162.9         12,672.9       13,187.9
Net Capital                           1,531.1        1,864.6        4    .0        6,332.7                         87188             9. 3
Total Liabilities & Capital          8,228.2         8,614.8       10,638.1       i4227.3        16,502.1        1ia15.8        17C4O0.2
Current Assets/Current Liabilities                     1.0            1.0            1.1             1.2            1.5            1.6
Current Assets Less Inventories/
Current Liabilities                                o.6             0.6            0.7            0.8             1.0            1.2
Debt/Equity                                           65/35          40/60          42/58           41/59          39/61          37/63
Source: CNR and Mission Estimates
November 1981



- 75 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
CNR's Operations Review
1.        Operating statistics from 1970 to 1980 are set out in Table 2.1 of
the report. The main points that may be noted are:
(a) Passenger numbers increased up to 5.10 million in 1975 and
then started to decline, down to 2.21 million in 1980;
passenger-km also increased through 1970-1975, but decreased
about 40% to 1980 with an increase in the average journey
from 102 km to 142 km. These decreases are due to the
discontinuance of a number of services.
(b) Freight tons remained level during 1970-1973, increased over
10% in 1974, and then decreased a total of about 37% by 1980;
however, net ton-km increased over 12% during 1970-1974, but
decrea~sed 26% in the period 1974-1980; the average haul increased
0.6% (442 to 445 km) during 1970-1980. The decrease in freight
traffic is caused by the slowdown of the economy in Colombia
and a decline in locomotive availability.
(c) On freight operations, the average net ton-km/car-km increased
16% during 1970-1980, and the average net ton-km/train-km
increased 72% since 1970. The total freight train-km decreased
144% in the same period; the average car turnaround improved
from 14.2 days in 1970 to 13.0 days in 1975 and then declined
to 18.9 days in 1980. Freight car availability decreased 13.6%
in 1970-1980, one of the reasons being the delays in unloading
CNR's cars in Santa Marta and Buenaventura ports due to the
inefficiency of the Port Authority's personnel and to the poor
coordination between the two interested parties. As a result,
CNR's freight cars had to wait 11 to 12 days to be unloaded,
with the subsequent Port Authority's refusal to pay demurrages.
Coffee producers used CNR's cars for storage in the ports,
affecting car availability. MOPT is aiming at establishing
port regulations which would help to improve the railway car
turnaround time. CNR, at present, does not allow coffee to be
loaded inland while there are cars with coffee waiting to be
unloaded in the ports.
(d) Locomotive availability improved from 85.2% in 1970 to 86.9%
in 1974, but then started to decline as a result of technical
problems with the Spanish GE locomotives, failure to enforce
disciplinary actions, insufficient supply of spares and inade-
quate maintenance program, reaching 57.9% in 1979 (and a low of
28% in 1981). Locomotive km/day (average per locomotive in
service) increased 26% since 1970.



- 76 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
(e) The operational targets set in the Plan of Action for CNR under
Loan 926-CO were achieved in 1974-1975 and surpassed in some
cases, but, from then to the end of 1980, performance declined
because of (i) the slowdown in investment in 1976-1978; (ii)
institutional problems; (iii) deterioration of the track
aggravated by heavy rainfalls and (iv) the marked decline of
locomotive availability from 1977. In 1969, CNR began to
receive from Spain 60 GE U1OB diesel locomotives; the diesel
engine of these locomotives (D 398) soon showed turbocharger
and piston failures as a result of overheating. The manufac-
turers introduced some modifications in these components, but,
after a period, monoblocks and some other vital parts of the
engines failed also. A second lot of 28 GE U1OB locomotives
with modifications to the diesel version D 398 arrived in
1972-1973, but, after a year in service, they also began to
show failures. Further investigations were made with Bank
assistance, and it was found out that the diesel engines
purchased did not have the power requested by CNR in the
original technical specifications. Some of the locomotives
that were used coupled in trios were of different types (e.g.,
different engine efficiency and wheel diameters). The result
was that the best of the three locomotives was always overloaded
and went out of order within a short while on the most difficult
terrain between Facatativa and Bagazal (2,700 m above the sea
level). Locomotives therefore started deteriorating rapidly.
This situation led CNR to an abnormal need for spare parts and
to the utilization of locomotives without an adequate maintenance
program.
December 1981



- 77 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Summary of the Plan to Increase CNR-s Locomotive Availability
1.        The limited availability of locomotives, as a consequence of the
lack of spare parts, the use of hand labor and the damages frequently suffered
by locomotives in service, represents the main constraint to CNR's transport
capacity.
2.        CNR, with the assistance of consultants, has elaborated a plan for
the reorganization of the workshops and has studied the present condition of
the locomotive fleet with recommendations for normalization of the maintenance
schedules. The plan takes into account the availability of spare parts during
1981 and subsequent years. The timely arrival of these spares in the workshops
is crucial for meeting the targets set.
3.        The plan consists of two phases.  The first focuses on the most
urgent heavy repairs for the greatest number of locomotives on a short-term
basis, which would require reorganization of the present staff in the workshops
and maintenance sheds and improvement of the facilities, equipment and tools.
The second phase mainly refers to the Corzo (Facatativa) workshop, which is
to be restructured with emphasis on specialization to enable it to deal with
specific locomotive repair in order to increase productivity and improve staff
working conditions. The same rationale would be applied to the other diesel
locomotive repair workshops. All jobs were scheduled on the basis of man-hours
needed and workshop equipment available; allowance has been given for locomo-
tive light damages and minor accident repairs.
4.        In the period 1982-1986, it is expected that 139 locomotives would
be overhauled, i.e., 21 in 1982, 28 in 1983, 28 in 1984, 32 in 1985 and 30 in
1986. It is assumed that, in the period 1981-June 1982, the spares avail-
able would be those procured with funds from the "cafeteros" loan and, during
July 1982-July 1986, would be those purchased with funds from the Government
and the Bank. The plan envisages that the heavy locomotive repairs would be
normal at the end of 1986.
5.        The reorganization of the Corzo workshop has been designed to ensure:
-    normalization of the locomotive backlog:
-    completion of light and heavy repairs on schedule;
-    general improvement of vocational level and staff utilization;
-    improvement in the quantity and quality of work;
-    reduction of special equipment for certain repairs;
-    rational distribution of materials and stock in stores;



- 78 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
systematic work control;
establishment of work schedules for repairs and for locomotives
remaining in the workshops;
continuity of the works; and
-    provision of future possibilities for development and for
increasing productivity.
6.        Repair time would be substantially reduced if new or reconditioned
assemblies are available and a defined program of work distribution within the
various sections of the workshops is adopted. Other actions should also be
taken, such as the purchase of eight new locomotive engines; the utilization
of the local Caterpillar workshop to repair locomotive engines; and the
hiring of experienced mechanics to carry out locomotive repairs.
7.        A detailed annex on the plan has been prepared and placed in the
project file.
October 1981



- 79 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Training Program - Guidelines
1.   Consulting Services
(a) The Bogota - Buenaventura Corridor
The Atlantic and Pacific railway networks are no longer linked;
the line between Itagui (near Medellin) and La Felisa was washed out in 1975
during severe rainy seasons. Preliminary studies made by CNR indicated that
reconnecting Itagui with La Felisa would not be economically justified.
Some years ago, CNR started the construction of a railway link between Armenia
and Ibague (about 110 km) in order to have a more direct and shorter route
between Buenaventura, Cali and Bogota. About 50 km of infrastructure and
some bridges and tunnels were built, but, because of lack of funds, works
were interrupted.  Some studies were carried out later by MOPT's Planning
Office, and recommendations were made favoring the construction of a highway
instead of a railway in this corridor. CNR's consultants, Italconsult,
do not agree with this recommendation. They recommend that, in view of
new techniques to construct tunnels at a much reduced cost, rapidly increasing
energy costs in Colombia and the fact that only about 60 km of new railway
line would have to be built, a more detailed study should be carried out.
Buenaventura port handles twice the traffic of Santa Marta port and, with
proposed containerization, the traffic is likely to increase further. The
major part of this traffic goes to Bogota.
The time has come for CNR and the Government to take a final decision
on the future of the Pacific network, and the consultants' recommendation
has been accepted on the base that the study would be carried out in two
phases as follows: (i) the first phase would be an economic feasibility study
based on preliminary cost estimates and (ii) the second phase would include
borings and detailed cost estimates, if the results of the first phase are
encouraging.
(b) Line Capacity Analysis
If the feasibility studies actually being carried out by CNR on the
proposed Saboya-Carare bypass are satisfactory, it would be necessary to study
the line capacity of the Atlantic corridor in relation to the expected increase
in traffic through the bypass. The study would provide all information needed
for the preparation of an efficient transport planning and would also identify
the present bottlenecks to be eliminated, as well as the line capacity limita-
tions related to the specific characteristics of the fixed installations and
motive power.



- 80 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
(c) Signaling and Telecommunications
CNR's signaling is rudimentary and mainly concentrated in sidings
and marshaling yards. It consists of signal indicators on the crossing
points and warning boards on some sections of the main line. In order to
prevent accidents, the railway is adopting adequate warning signals
and barriers at level crossings with main roads, and implementing a policy
for the elimination of some railway crossings. CNR, in an attempt to reduce
derailments, has also started a program for the installation of speed restric-
tion warning panels on the Bogota-Facatativa-Bagazal-Puerto Salgar section,
which would be extended to the whole railway network. Telecommunications on
the railway also need improvements. To complete the basic studies for the
modernization of the railway and to cope with the future traffic demands, it
is necessary to study carefully the signaling and telecommunication systems to
be adopted, in relation to CNR's operational characteristics.
(d) Tariff Structure, Cost Accounting, Financial Planning, Accounting
and Internal Control, Inventory Control and Statistical Reporting
The present tariff structure of CNR is based on studies carried out
by foreign consultants, but the coefficients used in the cost equations are
still the same as those established in 1965. A revision is required in these
coefficients. The tariff structure should be cost-based for each type of
freight commodity and each type of passenger service, showing the variable
costs and the minimum tariffs to be established. The ultimate aims of the
tariff policy should be to:
-    earn sufficient revenues to cover all costs and make a
fair return on net fixed assets;
-    provide depreciation reserves based on revalued fixed assets; and
-    encourage efficient and productive railway operations. The con-
sultants will carry out a detailed cost analysis, establish revised
cost-based tariffs for freight and passenger traffic, prepare and
complete a costing manual to be followed by CNR, and help CNR to
strengthen the existing costing section with a competent costing
manager. Consultants will concentrate on the establishment of
cost-oriented accounting codes and a fully integrated cost-accounting
system.
The existing financial planning and budgetary control system is
weak and needs considerable improvement. Consultants should help CNR to
improve these areas with a focus on management by objective and responsible
accounting. The annual budgets should be properly classified into capital
and revenue expenditures, subsidies, pensions and debt service charges,
and help the Government to understand the financial needs of CNR.



- 81 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
The consultants should review the existing inventory control system
and help CNR to improve it. The minimum and maximum levels and purchasing
limits should be established, and obsolete and slow-moving stock should be
disposed of. A system of ordering of spares for locomotives and wagons should
be streamlined.
The present financial, operating and statistical reporting system
is adequate, but needs further improvements, especially in preparing .
significant information on time and in helping management to make important
and timely decisions. The consultants should develop, with the help of
CNR's computer facilities, a comprehensive management information system to
provide the management with accurate and timely statistical, operational and
financial data.
2.   Training
CNR is preparing a detailed program to train its personnel locally
and abroad. The Colombian National Training Center (SENA), which is a well-
known vocational training center, would give CNR's technicians and tradesmen
the opportunity to be trained in areas such as diesel-electric mechanics,
workshop machine operation - areas in which the railway is lacking skilled
personnel. In addition, CNR would systematically send its staff to take
advanced courses at the universities or local training centers in fields
such as planning, programing, engineering, accounting and finance. CNR is
also making preliminary contacts with well established railway training
centers in Latin America where the railway professionals will have the chance
to be instructed in all railway operations. It is also considered advantageous
that CNR's engineers would visit other railways in Latin America with similar
topographical and environmental conditions. The staff would be able to learn
how other railways have implemented new techniques, exchange ideas with their
colleagues and improve their own operations. To ensure that the rehabilita-
tion of 139 locomotives is carried out properly, expatriate locomotive experts
in diesel and electric motors would be engaged. These experts would also
develop a scrapping program for those locomotives which would be uneconomical
to repair.
March 1981



- 82 -
ANNEX 4
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Details of the Financing Plan for the Project
CNR's cash flow and financing plan are shown in Table 5.5 of the
report. The investment figures include physical and price contingencies.
The sources of funds for the Project (1982-1985) in US$ are as follows:
Current US$ million
1.  IBRD                                                    77.0
2.  Federacion Cafeteros of Colombia                         8.8
3.  UNDP Technical Assistance                                1.0
4.  Government Contribution                                 79.5
5. CNR's Own Contribution (material in stock
and staff costs in the implementation
of the Project)                                         10.4
TOTAL                                          176.7
The terms and conditions of financing are as follows:
IBRD
IBRD will finance US$77.0 million at 11.6% interest rate and 0.75%
commitment charges on undisbursed amounts for a period of 17 years including
a tour-year grace period.
Federacion Cafeteros
This loan has already been received by CNR with the Government's
guarantee for a sum of US$8.8 million at a 20% interest rate for a period of
five years including a one-year grace period. CNR will pay the debt service
charges partly by cash and partly by carrying Federacion Cafeteros' freight.
The annual installment is agreed at Col$ 30 million for interest and amor-
tization.
UNDP Technical Assistance
UNDP will grant free funds of US$1.0 million, of which US$0.5 million
are for 1982 and 1983.
December 1981



- 83 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Details of the Commodity Forecasts for 1982-1986
1.        The assumed overall future development of the various commodities
used by the Consultants in estimating potential railway traffic demand is
consistent with the Bank's estimates, but slightly on the low side for several
commodities. Railway demand has been assessed commodity by commodity, taking
into account all relevant factors influencing modal choices, such as line haul
costs, collection, transshipment and distribution costs. Whenever the railways
have not been able to provide direct service to the customers either at the
origin or the destination point, a transshipment and local collection and/or
distribution cost ranging from Col$ 80 to Col$ 250 per ton was added to the
line haul cost before a comparison with the road alternative was made, to
determine modal distribution. Inventory costs and damages to cargo are more
difficult to assess when comparing competing modes, but the railways already
carry traffic that is typically of lower value and less subject to damages.
Furthermore, interviews with customers suggest that it is not the longer
transport time by-railway that would cause them to transfer to road transport,
but, rather, the unavailability of timely railway services and the unpredic-
tability and unreliability of the transport times. The individual commodity
demand forecasts given below therefore assume that a reliable railway service
is available. No consideration has been given to the potential for cost
reductions that exists with a better utilization of the railway infrastructure
and the accompanying possible further attraction of traffic to the railway
mode.
Rice
2.        Total production of rice in 1980 was 1.8 million tons.  Until 1975,
the railway share of rice transport was increasing and reached 13.2% in that
year. By 1979, it had dropped to 4%, only because of CNR's inability to haul.
The railway share is assumed to be back to 10% by 1986 and to stay at that
level, although the Rice Grower's Association maintains the share should be
higher in view of possible increases in exports. The Bank estimates rice
exports to reach 300,000 tons by 1985. Railway traffic takes place from the
production areas of Tolima and Huila to the consumption centers of Bogota,
Medellin, Santander and the Atlantic regions. Rail exports normally pass
through the port of Santa Marta. Occasional exports via Buenaventura have
also taken place. Average haul is about 550 km.
Corn
3.        Production and import of corn in 1980 totaled 950,000 tons.  The
railway transport is related more to imports than to production. Imports,
around 10% of total consumption, are required to make up the deficit between
production and consumption. The railway share of corn transport has fluctuated
between 6% and 16%, and demand is forecast to average around 10% based on



- 84 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
average past performance. Annual consumption growth is forecast at 1%.
Railway traffic takes place from the Atlantic port of Santa Marta, which has
convenient transshipment facilities, to the consumption regions of Bogota,
Medellin, and Neiva. Average haul is about 550 km.
Wheat
4.        Production and import of wheat in 1980 totaled 547,000 tons.  The
railway share of wheat transport has always been very high and was 63% in 1977
before it dropped to 29% in 1979, only because of CNR's inability to handle
the traffic on offer and IDEMA's decision to sell directly to truckers in the
ports. The railway traffic in bulk is related to imports, which, in 1979,
were about 501,500 tons. Starting 1981, the Government has allowed private
millers to import directly, and IDEMA has reversed its above-mentioned decision.
The demand for railway traffic is forecast to be at least 55%. Railway traffic
takes place from Santa Marta to Bogota, La Caro, Tunja and Bucaramanga and
from Buenaventura to Cali and Zarzal. Average haul is about 600 km.
Bananas
5.        Total production of bananas  in 1979 was 3.0 million tons.  The Bank
estimates banana exports to reach some 750,000 tons by 1985. The railway share
of banana transport is modest and has fluctuated between 1.5% and 2%. It is
forecast to stay at 1.5%. Railway traffic is concentrated to the south of
Santa Marta. Average haul is 70 km.
Coffee
6.        Total production of coffee in 1980 was 732,000 tons.  Until 1975 when
CNR's services started to deteriorate, the share of traffic was above 50% and
increasing. In 1979, however, it had dropped to 31% because of CNR's low
carrying capacity and inability to provide sufficient freight cars. The
National Coffee Federation is expressing a clear preference for rail traffic
and is frustrated over CNR's poor performance. Coffee production is expected
to grow at 3.5% annually, and the demand for railway traffic is expected to be
well above 40%. Coffee is transported by rail from Medellin and Ibague to
Santa Marta and from Cartago, Armenia and Cali to Buenaventura. Average haul
is about 500 km.
Cotton
7.        Total production of cotton in 1980 was 321,000 tons.  The average
railway share of traffic has been just over 10%, and the demand is expected to
remain around 10% based on a stable past performance. Railway traffic takes
place from Tolima, Huila and the Atlantic regions to Medellin. Average haul
is about 575 km.



- 85 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3
Barley
8.        Production and import of oats and barley in 1980 totaled 200,000 tons.
The railway share of traffic has been high, around 40%, but largely related to
imports. The imports are expected to decline, and the demand for railway
traffic is forecast at 20% by 1986. Railway traffic takes place from the
Atlantic ports to the consumption regions of Valle, Cundinamarca, Risaralda
and Antioquia. Average haul is 600 km.
Livestock
9.        Total production in 1980 was 600,000 tons.  The railway share has been
declining steadily since 1973, when it was 17%, to 4% in 1979. It is expected
that the demand will go down to 3%. Railway traffic is limited to a short
haul from Barranca to Dorada. Average haul is 160 km.
Timber
10.       Railway transport is very modest in comparison with total production.
In 1980, 14,700 tons of exports moved by rail. Total production is estimated to
grow by 5%. Railway traffic takes place on the Carare-Bogota lines and in the
Pacific region. Average haul is about 300 km.
Salt
11.       Total production of salt in 1980 was 620,000 tons.  The average railway
share of salt transport has been stable just above 10% and is expected to stay
there. The railway carries salt for human consumption with origin in Zipaquira
and Betania to many destinations. Average haul is about 450 km.
Coal
12.       Total production of coal in 1980 was 5.3 million tons.  The railway
share of coal transport increased from 1% in 1974 to 4.7% in 1978 but fell
back in 1979 because of CNR's lack of equipment to provide an efficient service,
primarily lack of locomotives to move loaded wagQns but also lack of gondolas.
Coal is the traffic that is potentially most promising for CNR since substan-
tial production increases are forecast by the Government and road transport
is clearly not suitable. However, for the time being, the viability of mining
the coal deposits affecting CNR is not determined, and the demand is therefore
set at the proven deposits of the Lenguazaque area. This results in a forecast
demand of some 600,000 tons of export via Santa Marta by 1986. Average haul
is about 750 km.
Other Minerals
13.       Railway transport demand for other minerals such as limestone, sand,
gypsum, volcanic rock, and bauxite, based on natural growth, was increased as a
consequence of the request of the Cemento Diamante firm of Apulo, which needs
to transport more than 400,000 tons/year of these raw materials for its cement
factories in expansion. This traffic will involve the Bucaramanga-Garcia
Cadena-Dorada-Buenos Aires-Espinal-Apulo line. Average haul is about 300 km.



- 86 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4
Sugar
14.       Total production of sugar in 1980 was 1.3 million tons.  The Bank
estimates a growth rate of 3% per year and exports reaching 300,000 tons by
1983, with increase in sugar prices. The railway's share of sugar traffic
dropped from 19% in 1975 to 8% in 1979 because of CNR's difficulties. This
product is transported directly from the users' railway sidings and could
have a significantly higher railway share if the Pacific lines, which serve
the production areas, were linked with the rest of the railway network which
serves the consumption areas. This not being the case, the demand forecast
was limited to 12% of production based on average past performance. The
railway traffic takes place to the port of Buenaventura. A smaller part
is transshipped to rail in Ibague with destinations Bogota, Neiva and
Bucaramanga. Average haul is about 230 km.
Molasses
15.       Total production of molasses in 1980 was 200,000 tons with a railway
share of 44%. This traffic is centered in the Pacific region and forecast
demand is set at 40%. Average haul is about 200 km.
Fertilizer
16.       Production and import of fertilizer in 1979 totaled 800,000 tons.
The railway share of fertilizer transport was stable above 40% until 1975, but
dropped to 28% in 1979. Production and import of fertilizer in Cartagena and
Barranquilla are related to the growth of agricultural activities and have
grown by 4% per year in the past. This growth is expected to continue until
1985 and to decline to 3% thereafter. Railway traffic demand is forecast
to increase from 30% to 50% by 1985 according to recent negotiations with
the producers. Railway transport takes place from Puerto Capulco after trans-
shipment from barge to Bucaramanga, Medellin, Neiva and Ibague, but will
change to be transshipped from road to rail at Cienaga. Average haul will be
about 750 km.
Cement
17.       Total production of cement in 1979 was about 4.3 million tons.  The
railway share of cement traffic has been around 2-3% but is expected to
increase dramatically because of new factories under construction in Belencito
and Nobsa. Some of this traffic has already started, and, if CNR can provide
adequate services, there is a future potential for some 6,000 tons/day of
cement traffic in bulk. By 1986, railway traffic demand is expected to be
around 800,000 tons as against 65,000 tons in 1979. The railway will haul
this new traffic to Bogota where distribution centers are being planned.
Railway traffic in the rest of the country is expected to be diverted progres-
sively to roads. Average haul is about 220 km.



- 87 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5
Paper
18.       Produtction and import of paper in 1979 totaled 494,000 tons.  Imports
accounted for 180,000 tons.  The railway share of paper transport has been
declining slowly from 23% in 1970 and is expected to reach 12% by 1986. Railway
transport takes place from the ports to the consumption areas, i.e., from
Santa Marta to Bucaramanga, Medellin and Bogota and from Buenaventura to
Cali. Average haul is about 750 km.
Iron and Steel
19.       Production and import of iron and steel in 1979 totaled 1.0 million
tons. The railway share of traffic was low, around 15%, until 1975 and has since
dropped to 5% in 1979. The steel factory in Belencito is expanding. The road
to Bogota is already congested with heavy vehicles, and road transport costs,
about Col$ 4 per ton-km, are about twice as high as the railway costs. There is
therefore a potential demand for railway traffic that could boost the railway
transport to 45% by 1985. This would, however, require a change in the
marketing channels and the construction of a distribution center on CNR land
in Bogota. Although this could be a long-term goal, the forecast demand for
railway transport is only 15% by 1986, the increase accounted for largely by
new sponge iron traffic from Santa Marta. The traditional traffic will
continue to follow the present Santa Marta-Bogota and Buenaventura-Cali routes.
Average haul is about 700 km.
Other Manufactured Products
20.       For railway transport of these commodities which are primarily non-
flat steel products for the construction industry, scrap iron, beverages, auto
spare parts, textiles, tubes and other non specified manufactured products,
the indices for domestic industrial production, published by the Banco de la
Republica, were used as a reference. Forecasts of industrial production taken
from "Plan de Integracion Nacional 1979-1982" show 7% growth until 1985 and
6% thereafter. The railway share of transport in the past decade followed
production expansion with an elasticity coefficient of 0.3. Based on actual
past performance, it was estimated that the demand for railway transport
could be set at 300,000 tons in 1980, growing at 2% a year thereafter. Railway
transport takes place from the ports and Medellin to the consumption areas of
the country. Average haul is about 550 km.
Oil and Oil Products
21.       The forecasts of production, import and consumption of oil products
are very uncertain. New oil field explorations are under way throughout the
country. Forecasts are available only up to 1985, and conservative.' Past
increasing trends are not taken into account, and no significant increase in
consumption is envisaged. Future railway transport of oil products is forecast
to be stable, in absolute terms, except for asphalt, for which a slight increase
is envisaged. As for crude oil, transport demand for rail services is much
higher than CNR can handle, and CNR has been requested to provide additional



- 88 -
ANNEX 5
Page 6
capacity. In 1980, some 207,000 tons were hauled, but this figure could easily
double. Crude oil is hauled from Neiva to refineries in La Dorada and Barranca.
A new pipeline from Neiva to La Dorada is being studied but it is an uncertain
proposition that would, in any event, not be operational before 1986. Oil
products are hauled from these refineries to the consumption centers of Bogota
and Medellin.
Summary
22.       The aggregate demand forecast for transportation of the above
commodities during 1982-1986 is given in the attached table and shows a large
unsatisfied potential demand for railway services in 1982. The potential
demand for railway services then grows to 1986 by some 9.3% per year in terms
of ton-km, or 10.2% in terms of tons, because of substantial new traffic and
increases in cement, coal, iron and steel, fertilizer and rice traffic.
Assuming these commodities had a more modest development of some 7% per year,
the overall potential demand for railway services would grow by 5% per year in
terms of ton-km and 4.8% in terms of tons. The long-term trend beyond 1986 is
assumed to be 4% per year. To capture an appropriate share of the traffic
would require marketing efforts on the part of CNR and assurances of a depend-
able and efficient railway operation. The traffic forecast, provided in
Table 4.1 of the report and used for the economic and financial evaluation of
the project, amounts, in reality, to an ability forecast for CNR to haul
traffic as a result of the project. A comparison of .CNR's carrying capacity
(Table 4.1) with the estimated demand for rail services indicates that CNR is
expected to haul some 44% of the demand in 1982, increasing to some 60% in
1986. It has not been considered prudent, for institutional reasons, to
increase the project further to satisfy the estimated demand at a faster
rate.
January 1982



COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Potential Traffic Demand for Railway Services 1982-1986
1982                       1983                         1984                        1985                        1986
Ton         Ton-Km         Ton          Ton-Km         Ton          Ton-Km          Ton         Ton-Km          Ton          Ton-Km
(thousand)    (million)    (thousand)    (million)    (thousand)    (million)    (thousand)    (million)    (thousand)    (million)
Agricultural Products           1,140            606        1,232            654        1,326            703        1,379            738         1,447            768
Rice                            233           128           255            141          281           154           307            169          337            186
Corn                             88            44            89            45            90            45            91             46           92             46
Wheat                           342           205           359           215           375           225           392            235          408            245
Bananas                          46              3           47              3           48              3           49              3           50              3
Coffee                          323            162          377            188          433           217           448            224          464            232
Cotton                           40            23            42             24           44             26           47             27            48            28
Barley                           68            41            63             38           55             33           45             34            46            28
Livestock                          30              5           32              5           33              5            34             5            35              6
Timber                             41             19           43             19           44             20           45             20            47             21
Mineral Products                  812            403          946            473        1,046            524        1,149            576         1,260            629
Salt                             62            28            64             29           66             30           68             31            70            32
Coal                            300           240           400           300           465           340           530            380          600            420           1
Other                           450            135          482            144          515            154          551            165           589           177           0
Manufactured Products           1,129            593        1,450            707        1,762            830        2,007            925         2,213         1,018
Sugar                           153             35          162             37          171             39          180             41           189            43
Molasses                         64             13           67             13           71             14           74             15            78             16
Fertilizer                      290           217           334           250           383           288           441            331          507            380
Cement                          135             30          360             79          550            121          700            154          800            176
Paper                            74             56           79            60            86             64           92             69            98             74
Iron and Steel                  107             74          137             96          183            128          195            137          210            147
Other                           306            168          312            172          318            175          324            178           331           182
Petroleum Products              730           291           732           291           733           291           735            292           737           292
Fuel Oil                        100             20          100             20          100             20          100             20           100            20
Gasoline and Fasoil             100             33          100             33          100             33          100             33           100            33
Crude Oil                       500           230           500           230           500           230           500            230          500            230          Q z
Other                            30              8           32              8           33              8           35              9            37             9
Other Products                     25              7           26              8           27              8            28             8            29              9
Total                           3,907         1,924         4,461          2,157        4,971          2,381        5,377          2,564         5,768         2,742
Source: CNR, Consultants and Mission Estimates
October 1981



- 90 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Economic Return Calculation
General
1.        The economic analysis has been carried out on the basis of the
traffic forecast given in Table 4.1 of the report. In view of the low level
of passenger traffic, which is expected to decline further, the evaluation is
based on freight traffic only. The unsatisfied potential transport demand by
rail is ample, and CNR could service it at a lower cost compared to that of
competing modes if it had the means to handle the traffic. An economic
evaluation was carried out separately for the major project components, i.e.,
(a) line rehabilitation, (b) rehabilitation of locomotives, (c) purchase of
locomotives (d) rehabilitation of wagons and (e) purchase of wagons.
Project Costs
2.        The investment costs used for the economic analysis exclude taxes,
duties and price contingencies.
3.        Rehabilitation of Lines.  The analysis was carried out for each of
the following sections to be started during the project period:
Facatativa-Bagazal
Bagazal-Mexico
Mexico-Grecia
Grecia-Garcia Cadena
La Caro-Chiquinquira
La Caro-Belencito
Medellin-Grecia
Mexico-Dorada-Buenos Aires
The investment costs for signaling and telecommunications have been distributed
over the respective lines to be rehabilitated.
4.        Rehabilitation of Locomotives.  For the purpose of the economic
evaluation, the cost of spare parts has been distributed over the years when
the rehabilitation will actually be carried out. The investment costs also
include a number of workshop costs, in particular depreciation of new workshops
equipment, which is listed separately as investment in workshops in the
Investment Plan.
5.        Purchase of Locomotives.  The economic evaluation considers 1983 as
the purchase year with benefits starting to accrue in 1984 when the locomotives
will be available.



- 91 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2
6.        Rehabilitation of Wagons.  The economic costs have been calculated
along the same principles as mentioned above, under locomotive rehabilitation.
Project Benefits
7.        The following benefits of line rehabilitation expressed in August
1980 prices have been considered:
(a) Reduction in maintenance costs of the rehabilitated lines. This
represents the most important type of benefit (about 80%). To
compute the benefits of the rehabilitation, it has been assumed
that, without the project, the lines would have to be kept at least
in the conditions of today, which would require frequent, not-
programed and costly extraordinary maintenance works such as those
which CNR is obliged to perform at present. On the basis of
CNR experience, the costs of such works have been estimated at
Col$ 1.3 million per km per annum. The "with the project" situation
would, on the other hand, require just the systematic maintenance of
the line, estimated at some Col$ 180,000 per km per annum, plus
Col$ 3.1 million per km every four years. Whenever rails are not
changed during the rehabilitation project period, an additional
cost of Col$ 1.5 million per km is considered in the 15th year.
(b) Reduction in maintenance costs for motive power and rolling stock.
The rehabilitation of the lines would produce savings in the mainte-
nance costs of, primarily, wheels and wheel flanges. This reduced
wear has been estimated as follows. Average annual mileage per
locomotive is assumed to be 75,000 km. Annual maintenance cost of
locomotive bogies is Col$ 300,000. Line rehabilitation is assumed
to reduce these costs by Col$ 100,000, yielding a saving of
100,000 T 75,000 = Col$ 1.33 per locomotive-km. The same type
of benefit for wagons with a cost reduction of Col$ 5,000 (20%)
and 20,000 km per wagon yields a saving of Col$ 0.25 per wagon-km.
(c) Reduction in the number of derailments. It has been assumed that
derailments would decline appreciably in the sections to be rehab-
ilitated. It has been estimated that, on average, each derailment
causes the interruption of the line for some five hours, involves
one locomotive and 10 wagons, and takes place 50 to 100 km away from
the nearest workshop. As a whole, the cost of each derailment has
been estimated at Col$ 50,000.
(d) Increase in the average train speed. This can be expected as a
result of the rehabilitation project; in the economic analysis, it
has been estimated that the average train speed would increase from
25 km/h to 35 km/h. Locomotives were assumed to operate on the
lines for one-third of their lives; an increase in speed would permit
the provision of the same service with a smaller fleet, and the
saving in interest on invested capital has been estimated as follows.
Value of a locomotive is assumed to be Col$ 15 million. Interest
costs at 10% are Col$ 1.5 million per year. Average annual mileage



- 92 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3
per locomotive in the fleet is assumed to be 75,000 km. Interest
per km is Col$ 20. Interest saved is thus 20 (35 - 25) i 35 =
Col$ 5.7 per locomotive-km. Regarding wagons, the same type of
benefit has been estimated at Col$ 0.28 per wagon-km. Savings in
train personnel cost (five people per train) have been estimated at
Col$ 2.2 per train-km.
8.        The analysis for motive power as well as for rolling stock has
been carried out separately for rehabilitation and new purchases. Through
these investments, CNR will be able to reverse the declining traffic trend
and recapture lost traffic. The economic gross benefit of this traffic
is the marginal road transport cost which is avoided by the improved rail
service. These benefits, estimated at Col$ 3.6 per ton-km, can be attributed
to the various railway investments in the following way: 30% lines,
22.5% locomotives, 32.5% wagons and 15% others. Subsequently, maintenance
and operating costs of the motive power and rolling stock have been
deducted to arrive at the net benefit. The gross benefit of a rehabilitated
locomotive, estimated to haul 265 ton-km per locomotive-km, is 265 x 3.6
x 22.5% = Col$ 215 per locomotive-km. The expected 60% to 70% higher per-
formance of the new locomotives yields a gross benefit of about Col$ 350
per locomotive-km. In a similar way, the gross benefit of a new and
a rehabilitated wagon is estimated at Col$ 25 per wagon-km.
Economic Return
9.        Samples of the results of the economic analysis are shown in the
computer printouts attached. The results are summarized in Tables 4.3 and
4.4 of the report. The above-mentioned components of the investment plan
constitute 86% of CNR's 1982-1986 program and yield an overall economic
return of 26%. The project is thus well justified. A sensitivity analysis
has been carried out for variations in the costs and benefits. The results
are shown in Tables 4.3 and 4.4 of the report.
January 1982



93   -                                     ~~~~~~~ANNEX  6
COLOMBIA                                                         Page 4
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of Track Rehabilitation l4exico-Grecia
YEAR         c  I         c  2          C  3             I        82
I   0.00          0.00         0.00         (0.00         0. "0
2      179.80          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
3      201.40          0.00         8.10          8.0          0.70
4- 5         0.00         0.00         15.80       114.40          1.30
6        0.00        138.50        15.80       114.40          1.30                                  0--    A T A       T A B L E---
7        0.00       133.30         15.80       114.40          1.30            25 YEARS,    3 COST STREAMS,           SBENEFIT STREAMS.
8l- 8        0.00         0.00         15.80       114.40)         1.30
-10  0.00  139.50  15.80     114.40          1.30          YEAR    TOTAL COST    TOTAL SENEFIT   NET BENEFIT
11        U. 00       133.30        13.80       114.40          1.30-- ----- ------- ------
12-13         0.0GO        0.00         15.6a0c     114.40          1.30              1           0.00               0.00             0.00
14         ). 00      135.50        1S.80O      114.40          1.30              2         178.80                0.00         -179.G0
15        0.00        t33.3')       15.60       114.40          1.30              3        209.50               81.30          -148.20
1s        0.00          0.00        15.80       114.40          1.30              4          l5.80             120.00           104.20
17       ()7.c10       0).00        19.8')      114.40          1.30             5           15.80             128.80           113.00
18       84.50        138.50        15.80       114.40          1.30              8         155.30             129.80           -23.70
1a        C.00        133.30        15.80       114.40          1.30              7    ~    44.10              108-18.30
20)-Z1        O.             . 00       15.8E0      114.40          1.30              8          15.60             132.20           11G.40
22         ). 00      130.50         15F.60      114.40          1.30             8          13.90             136.50           120.70
23        ('0)        133. 30       15.00        114.40          1.30            10         155.30             137.30           -17.40
24         0. 00        0.00         25.80       114.40          .2.0            11         145.10             1:39.50           -9.00
25     -207.20          0. 0')      13. 40       114.40          1 .30           1 2         1.0140.40                          124.801
13          15.80             141.20           125.40
YEAR  8                4         B  5                                       14          155.30             142.00           -13.30
15         148.10             142.901           -'3.z0
1- 2         33   0.00                  0.00
16          5.80             143.80           1280.00
20   --   1.30   0-     1.90                      -                           --            -                   -      -             
4        O. 40         2.20          1.70                                       1           3.0142                               01
183       213.80              44.80           -75. 70
1.00         5.90         6.30
19 8        49.10             14,0-4.10
-1.    ~        13.10o        8.90                                                                                      --        -     --  - --
270-21          15.8014.)300
7         1.10         0.40         7/.G8045 S                                                                                  :01
23         i33.30             14.0-9.40
8         1.10         S.80l        0i.0 GO191                                                                 459               32
--           1       -        1        1.0             -      -                   24           15.7.0             145.80-30.120
t0 .40            8.2')        12.G60                                                                    159              101
It  1.40  S. SO  13.80                                    ~~~ ~~~~25    014                1 45.80          237.30
12          .-          8 30         14.40                                                                                            - --
13                                                                           *.0 1.00---RATE OF RETURN *15.750 *- 0.050 PERCENT**...
14   1230         8~~~ ~ ~~.2,0  15.80
S. "IO  I G .10Note:    C  1   -    investment  Costs
25  -            10~~~~~~~~~j0 ~~C  2   -    Periodic  Maintenance
111        0. 2. 50                 17. 00                                     C  3   -    Routine  Maintenance
I./          GO0        9.'iO 1)I7. 130                                        B  1         Track  Maintenance  Savings
I 0ll        i~         9. 70       1 O.6                                      B  2   -   Derailment  Cost  Savings
3')              6.10         1.0                                       B  3    -   Train  Crew  Savings
B 4  -  Rolling Stock Maintenance Savings
*  -'-'-I'S  V V         1~~~~3. 0)   10.50o                                     B  5    -   Line  Capacity  Benefits
Ye-ars 1-25: 1982-2007
December 1981



- 94 -
ANNEX 6
COLOMBIA                             Page 5
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of New Locomotives
-D R T      T AB L E-----
25 YEARS,    3 COST STREAMS,          1 BENEFIT STREAMS.
YEAR        C  1   --   C  2    -C  3------  B----I
1        0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
2      295.80         0.00         0.00         0.00
3      295.80         6.10        43.20       129.G0
4-17        0.00         12.20       eG.40       259.20
18      176.00        12.20        8G.40       259.20
19-24        0.00         12.20       8.40        259 .20
25     -250.50        12.20        8G.40       259.20
YEAR   lTOTAL COST   TOTAL BENEFIT   NET BENEFIT
..... . . i- - -  ......  -.---           OO----- ------ -- - - - - -  --   --- --- -- .o--- -
2        2S5.80               0.00         -295.80  -- -
3        345.10             129.G0         -215.50
4 1-7-      --90.80.--          259.20 -IO.
la        274.G0             259.20           -15.40-
19-24            8,60           2259.20          160.80
- _Z.5   ~ -t1 1.S0 -259.-- -.----411
E XEC RR
!GO
***WATE  F REURs     o6.Sv3  {-   * 0r0 PERCENT*****
NOTE: C 1-Investment Costs; C 2-Maintenance Costs; C 3- Operating Costs;
B 1-Avoided Road Transport Costs
Years 1-25: 1982-2007
December 1981



- 95 -
ANNEX 6
COLOMBIA                               Page 6
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of Rehabilitation of Wagons
--D A T A          T A B L E-
- 25 YEARSr-F-   3-COST STREAMS,  --  BENEFtT-STREAMS.
YEAR         C  1         C  2          C  3         B  1
I~       0. 00         O.  00_      0.00o        0_. 00
p~~ 144,a)         6S         - 0F -- 95027
3     --144. 40----  ---B.'5O        .s~~~~9.0 0
p. -25  -    .1Q00    -  12.9S    -     I .50  -    91.50
'I'R   TOTsAL cO- -TOTAL- BENEFIT---- NET- LENEFIT--
1           0. 00              0.00             Q. 00
2        ldr4u 144.40          0.00          --144.40
3         151.70              95.70           -56.00
4-25          '4 40              191 .50          177.10
EXEC RR
GO     --                                  -
*****RATE OF RETURN         61.250 +f-    0.050 PERCENT*****
NOTE:  C 1 -  Investment Costs
C 2 - Maintenance Costs
C 3 - Operating Costs
B 1 - Avoided Road Transport Costs
Years 1-25 : 1982-2007
December 1981



-96                              ANNEX 7
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Uneconomic Lines and Passenger Train Services Closed
Branch Lines
1.  Cartago       -  Pereira                (33 km)         Pacific Network
2.  Pereira       - Manizales               (78 km)         Pacific Network
3.  Pereira       -  Armenia                (60 km)         Pacific Network
4.  Suarez        -  Popayan                (94 km)         Pacific Network
5.  La Felisa     -  Itagui (Medellin)   (130 km)           Pacific Network
6.  Chiquinquira  -  Barbosa                (67 km)         Central Division
Passenger Services 1/
1.  Cali          -  Armenia (suspended)                    Pacific Network
2.  Cali          -  Buenaventura                           Pacific Network
3.  Cali          -  Tulua                                  Pacific Network
4.  Bogota        -  Chiquinquira                           Central Division
5.  Bucaramanga   -  Barrancabermeja                        Central Division
6.  Bogota        -  Girardot                               Central Division
1/ In addition the frequency of a number of existing services had been reduced.
Source: CNR
February 1981



- 97 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Methodology and Assumptions Made in Forecasting CNR's Revenues and Expenses
1.   Operating Revenues
Average tariffs/revenues (freight and passenger tariffs) for the
six months of 1981 were used as the base for 1981 revenue projections. No
increase, in real terms, was assumed for the second half of 1981 and for 1982.
For 1983, 1984 and 1985, an increase of 10% per year, in real terms, has been
assumed. For other operating revenues, the increase reflects the historic
pattern between these revenues and the freight revenues.
2.   Government Normalization Payment on Passenger Services
This represents the difference between variable expenses for
passenger services and the passenger revenues collected by CNR.
3.   Operating Expenses
(a) Personnel Expenses
Average salaries paid per worker during the first six months of
1981 were used as the base for 1981 personnel expenses. An increase of 1%,
in real terms, in salaries was assumed for 1982 and thereafter. The average
number of staff employed for 1982 and thereafter is the result of a staff
requirement analysis prepared by CNR and reflected in the action plan.
(b) Fuel and Lubricants
The average expenses per train-km and ton-km for the first six
months of 1981 were used as the base for 1981 fuel and lubricant expenses.
An increase of 3%, in real terms, in fuel cost increases was assumed for 1982
and thereafter. A factor of 3% in efficiency in train operations - composi-
tion of trains - was assumed for 1982 and thereafter.
(c) Materials
In order to achieve the rolling-stock availability and permanent
way maintenance levels shown in the action plan, the consultants, as well as
CNR staff, have forecast an increase of 100%, in real terms, over the historic
pattern for material expenses. This will allow CNR to carry out arrear and
preventive maintenance instead of emergency maintenance.
(d) Other Expenses
For other operating expenses, the increase reflects the historic
pattern between these expenses and all other working expenses.



98 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2
4.   Depreciation
The average depreciation on the historical value of fixed assets
for the first six months of 1981 was used as the base for the 1981 forecast.
A 20% increase was assumed for 1982. By the end of 1983, according to the
action plan, CNR will have revalued its fixed assets used in railway operations
and will institute a more realistic depreciation. The consultants and CNR
staff have estimated that at least Col$ 500 million will be the charge for
depreciaiton in 1983, representing about 4% of the estimated value of the
revalued fixed assets.
5.   Pension Payments
A forecast of yearly average number of pensioners was prepared by
CNR. The average pension paid in the first six months of 1981 was used as
the base of the forecast. It should be noted that pension payments do not
increase at the same rate as prices in the economy as a whole. The historic
pattern shows that pension payments increased by about 10% to 15% less than
inflation. The forecast assumes that yearly average pension payments increased
by about 90% of the inflation in Colombia.
6.   Cesantia Payments
A forecast of yearly average number of cesantia recipients was
prepared by CNR. The average cesantia paid in the first six months of 1981
was used as the base of the forecast. Cesantia payments are based on the
average monthly salary plus other benefits of the staff. An increase of 2%
in real terms in the average cesantia payment was assumed for 1982 and there-
after.
7.   Interest on Loans
This corresponds to actual interest payable by CNR on obtained and
still outstanding loans and a forecast of interest payable on loans to be
obtained.
December 1981



- 99 -
ANNEX 9
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.   Consultants' Report on the Preparation of the Seventh Railway Project
2.   Details of the Final Investment Plan
3.   Track Renovation Program
4.   Report on Spanish GE Diesel Locomotives
5.   Details of Consulting Services
6.   Traffic Forecast and Analysis of Costs, Benefits and Economic Returns
7.   Financial Forecast
8.   Financing Plan and Terms and Conditions of the Proposed Loans
9.   Plan to Increase Locomotive Availability
October 1981



MINISTER10 DE OBRAS PUBLICAS Y TRANSPORTE
014 GAN ISWUS OESCENTPALIZAOOS                                                                      ORGANIGD4NAM
j             | rY. .^>o^f54;2 ^ r                                           ----=-=--  bSEMINTROTIO
I  r  .co- | F _.s ;~~~~~~~~~~SEr ]| x TARIA*oqc xCttr-|@*D5| DE .O|
1sA00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~%ECO  DE                                                                                   'OM E]ob_l
tt4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                                                         COM1.9.'Ei RCA Y . . . E....C....E_                   C)
| 4 2v.,. iu | fCEMI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NIT A
I- 13  d. J- 1 9
P2,H[3    tCaEs                                                                                                                                                                          l 
6 UDIICC0   d| C- D---  tco                       U-DRC1N|          |D5li O            
Pc-oY ol     0[; LrO.     J. C......DC .^. _  |  , _



COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
CNR Organization Chart
nstry of
Ministry of
Public Works
I BOA1]
|General|
Mana er|
Secretary                        Planning
General
-  -Legalj
Deputy
General
Manager
Finance                     F-Commercial                                  Technical j            Administration and
I                                                            l { Industrial Relations
Accountin                    Transportation                                 'Way and                        I
Treasur                         Freight                                      Works                     Personnel
Planning &_  Passenger                                                      Workshops              Industrial Securit
Financial                       Marketing                                  Signalling               Administration
Anial ~and                                                                                             Development
Telecommu-
nications_$
Property
Accounting 
Central Division        Pacific Division |     Antioguia Division    |Magdalena Division         Santander Division
Source: CNR
October 1980






COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Trafl   Dnjity_0rt _                lr9S6&T...
S. ARTA
bitt  in                                            CaasaO oSAMARI
OSSSS $40ADENA*                                        naao      AtAA6
alan  in                              STOaS      lit~~~~~~~~~~~~~NIU    ll
MIDELII ~~i
IA 44aan                                               0
MEXIC~ ~ ~~~~~~~~Crn                      4%
I    A    l                   tl sS,
UATAGI~ ~ ~~~~~~sSt    4                                        ~t.                                 4*Saat   0
ZARZAL                                                    RUIN S  AIiRES*                                                                   4EtftIS
CALI ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 444    4*Sa?nsa..SL                                                                                                         0
Stat.  ~  ~        ~        ~        18tTAFICDESTYo  CHAR    (inatois






IBRD  3667R1
ECEMB . 
0
S . AMERICAX                                                                                                        -      
Santa Marta              
J  g  -    barranqc a  Xct                       , inaga/
. > >X  _<ANICO  '  ;  )  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AAIO'a
artagena               Fundacian2       , / 
= ..  , C (   SAP \
/=  )           M \> IvIAGDALENA '         (
0<                  ! a 4 (AoOO ''CIompan
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
AA1 /\^e  'x,    :    XJ                          } \S UC R Es                              I VENEZUELA
r                                   ft                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NORTE
) CORDOBA                            CPI)
amarra
-F* ,                                                          K \  O %    /   re   X,  f  Capulc(  SANTANDERI
N    LJ-     'otld '~ook'o 00)                                                *                0^act ff eo^luT-d eby 'o'
the repet to. whicht- -hatthed.
r                        b.-hsod-rooho-  so thiO ottP
:                              is ro ip ott t:.ziCGad>'eno t-.Bucaraman9a  p\ od she pad of the
PI,  14u;:p~ ~ ~~'             oldReksd oehltet n
Gaa    Bucaranmanga~_   _-,alp- bossohhod5t-
A N      0 0 U I A                    Ehrrancabermela                )
>,  '~ ~~~~I                        ____       S -A N T A '\ .  - /7>,;R     
A,Grei  'erlo
:  ' -. , ,  Berrio  i
EI Medelihn    -'                                       '
BoIami~~~~~~~alo~~~~a                    Pa~Iz del
' O j                                                                          0TiaBoiombaolsa ol  tE
X   C HO C  0    I /A     X    C    At'' Lz  0Tunjo .qna  ,Zu-e
tR                                 CA"-y'                   a       LaCaro              Bonza
RISARALD      - '                             a ih'-                    *t Alr
/   V A L L E 9ali  /' l_o Fe-                           f
,,j,/  T$antaCdta           0     /S              n8gnani
/ .                         a ''  gu4Ne va(                   COLOMBIA-                            --a Ca-
lh  II Pal    reiamCGOT
;   ,    ~~~  C A U C  A,  ,       ?      ,     '       X                                                                   J~~~~' -
g    X ~~~~~lsnoPopryn                                      NTINL   AIRAD 
VALLE  ~~CI'IN&A/        ei
''.             N             U         I S AnJ AUT
d.Ignaii
, ^  ,K '                             :        P  _ S                               --  ~  -- - MAIN LINES
N~~~~~~~~~r A R IaAmUET
7  0tumaca  ~~~~~~~~~~.9~'bo`rdea  -r
Tumac  A L L                                              -E-   BRANCH LINES
: ,. El Disisoa> . - -~ -- SECONDARY LINES
Sf   \-,  ./N                                           CO        LINES CLOSED
N                                                                                        PROJECTED LINE
/    . .-5      15      150    20    25 ag so                      RIVERS
-       >      % PUTUMAYo           ~~~~~KILOMETERS                        --  -       DE PARTMENT BOUNDARIES
E- CUADO R    \ C                              ,, .                                     *-'-* INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES






50i           'Inc       15       200        250,      20
C 0OLOM B I A                                                                KLMT
2QD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
TRANSPORTATION1 NETWORK
-Pa"id roads
~~~ MONT dotrioto~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0,l
-----Uhnp.aved roads
-         Rol loads                -BRXQL
-   RaIlroad da,Coat,anedI                                      I-                         RF,
o    tof,rnaoaoal airports
* Paved avoorft                                               srrr                        R. S-, 1
* Unpaved aohports                                       a           ..,'Grr            Fdrr,,     V ALLEOUPRO 
Seaports                                        CAur,,                                       KhI
1.Roar ports
-Noav,gable rivers
Ta-                       Ottsor rivers  -,~ 
tV"ations above 1400 meters-
Department boondories                                                   *--*0                                                               i-aCe,
*---lndne,notleocrl bw  aarres
Srrra-Irrr Sri o  RrrrroC.dh                     R-
N A M A~~~~~-                                                         ,,  1                           Err ~rr
PANAMA                      terruEter                                                                                             VENE"EEL
7~~~~~~~~ I
Srrrvrr,rCEO5
/  Clrar.rda4                                                     ,o     I       t    N ~~~~~~~~       ~~~~~~~~~~CARACAS  O.pr,arrhrrTrOL
r                                                                            tir7rrV'~~~~~~~'~~ ~~  ~~OOI50~~dk0
SAN                                     - -OVdr-p
N  ra,.rr  a,,,  a'            Brr,ra,rrberr.,          I~~~~~~~~~~-
soRt    C                  LiOrr,r4          Argalarrr                               /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SAN                  '      -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S. 
41)500                 I                                    Cr,aaraarr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R
Pscaf       Ocen   I-s                                                  -          I          
4. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~.
T,                     sr,     rok Ir               
-a-
Ia Kr,                                                                                  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0    00 40K
ECUADORaUa.                                                           a,4a,
~~~  /  ?$,rr,r   I~~~~~~~~~~                              w       &       0



