Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                LE
Report No. P-3192-Co
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
COLOMBIAN NATIONAL RAILWAYS
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR THE
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
January 27, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Peso - Col$
Average Calendar 1980                              Average Calendar 1981
US$1  = Col$47.280                                  US$1  = Col$54.414
Col$1 = US$0.02115                                  Col$1 = US$0.01838
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                   =  3.281 feet (ft)
1 square kilometer (km2)      =  0.386 square mile (mi2)
1 cubic meter (m3)            =  35.315 cubic feet (ft3)
= 264.2 gallons (gal)
1 kilogram (kg)               =  2.206 pounds (lb)
1 ton (t; metric; 1,000 kg)  =  1.00 short tons (sh. tons)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CNR                Colombian National Railways
COLPUERTOS         Colombian Port Authority
CONPES             Social and Economic Policy Committe of the Cabinet
DAAC               Administrative Department of Civil Aeronautics
DNP                Department of National Planning
DRI                Integrated Rural Development
ECOPETROL          Colombian Petroleum Agency
FAN                National Aeronautics Fund
FNCV               National Rural Roads Fund
FONADE             Economic Development Fund
FVN                National Highway Fund
IDB                Inter-American Development Bank
IDEMA              Government Marketing Institution
MOPT               Ministry of Public Works and Transportation
PAN                National Nutrition Program
PIN                National Integration Plan
SENA               Colombian National Training Center
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Colombian National Railways (CNR)
Guarantor:         Republic of Colombia
Amount:            US$77 million equivalent
Terms:             Repayment in seventeen years, including four years of grace
at 11.6% interest per annum.
Project
Description:       The project would support the Government's objective of
improving the country's transport infrastructure as well as
of lowering transport costs by promoting efficiency in the
national railway.  The project comprises the first four years
of CNR's Five-Year Rehabilitation Program (1982-86),
including action targets to strengthen its overall
performance. The project has been divided into two tranches,
with most items under the second tranche dependent upon
potential traffic. The firpt tranche or Group I of the
project consists of: (a) rehabilitation of about 428 km of
track; (b) acquisition of fouir, high-horsepower, diesel
locomotives, and related spare parts and 100 wagons;         (c)
rehabilitation of 139 diesel locomotives, 1,410 freight cars
and reconstitution of the stock of locomotive spares;
(d) rehabilitation and upgrading of workshop;
(e) rehabilitation of freight-handling equipment and purchase
of forklift trucks, cranes and parts and equipment for
signalling and telecommunications; and (f) technical
assistance to study: (i) Bogota-Buenaventura Corridor;
(ii) line capacity; (iii) signalling and telecommunications;
(iv) tariff structure, cost accounting, financial planning,
inventory control and statistical reporting; (v) locomotive
repair and scrapping program; (vi) a traffic demand model;
(vii) reduction of operating costs, and (viii) training of
CNR's technical staff. The second tranche or Group II of the
project comprises: (a) rehabilitation of another 83 km of
track; (b) purchase of 4 additional locomotives and 100
wagons including related spare parts; and (c) signalling and
telecommunications equipment. In view of CNR's checkered
past peformance the project faces somewhat higher risks than
are usual in projects of this type. However, the
Government's strong commitment to rehabilitate and strengthen
CNR, the appointment of a General Manager of proven
competence to head CNR and close supervision by the Bank,
should ensure the successful attainment of project
objectives.
IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                               Local      Foreign      Total
--(US$ million equivalent)-
Permanent Way                              35.8         30.3        66.1
Motive Power                                2.4         34.2        36.6
Rolling Stock                               5.6         14.9        20.5
Workshops                                   0.9          1.6         2.5
Freight Handling Equipment                  0.2          2.9         3.1
Signalling and Telecommunications           0.1          7.2         7.3
Training and Consulting Services            1.5          2.2         3.7
Sub-total                          46.5         93.3       139.8
Contingencies
Physical                                    2.3          2.4         4.7
Price                                      17.6         14.5        32.2
Total Project Cost                 66.4        110.2       176.7
Financing Plan:
Proposed IBRD loan                           -          77.0        77.0
Credit from the Colombian
Coffee Federation                         1.9          6.9         8.8
UNDP Technical Assistance                    -           1.0         1.0
Government Contribution                    57.4         22.0        79.5
CNR's Cash Generation                       7.1          3.3        10.4
Total                              66.4        110.2       176.7
Estimated Disbursements:         FY83          FY84        FY85        FY86
-------(US$ million equivalent)…------
Annual                        21.5          37.0        13.0         5.5
Cumulative                    21.5          58.5        71.5        77.0
Rate of Return: 26%
Appraisal Report: Report No. 3262b-CO, January 27, 1982



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE COLOMBIAN NATIONAL RAILWAYS
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR THE SEVENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Colombian National Railways, with the guarantee of the Republic of
Colombia, for the equivalent of US$77 million to help finance the Seventh
Railway Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including four
years of grace, with interest at 11.6% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An Economic Report on Colombia (3556-CO) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in September 1981. This section on the economy reflects
the major findings of this report. Country data sheets are presented in
Annex 1.
Background
3.        The Colombian economy has become more resilient to external shocks
as a result of the structural changes that have occurred over the past 30
years. Rapid economic growth has resulted in a substantial structural trans-
formation of the country from a predominantly rural and self-contained eco-
nomy to a more diversified urban, industrial, services and open economy.
Colombia has reached a point where population pressure on land no longer
increases much, if at all. Public sector investment and output now play a
greater role, primarily as a result of increased activity on the part of
decentralized agencies and public enterprises. Also, greater emphasis on
foreign trade has allowed the external sector to grow with non-coffee
exports, particularly exports of manufactured goods, expanding rapidly and
the range of products sold abroad widening considerably. The growing urban-
industrial-services oriented economic activity and a rapid expansion of sur-
plus labor in rural areas attracted by higher wages and better services in
the cities has given rise to rapid rural-urban migration. This phenomenon,
together with the increased participation of women in the labor force, has
been instrumental in reducing poverty and improving income and distribution
over time. Financial and capital markets have evolved pari-passu with the
growing needs of the economy, and Colombia has become an active participant
in international capital markets.
1/   Substantially unchanged from report for the Upper Magdalena Pilot
Watershed Management Project (No. P-3106-CO, November 24, 1981).



-2-
4.        Real GDP per capita rose by 2.4% p.a. on average during the 1950-80
period, with each succeeding decade registering greater gains in per capita
income. This was the result of lower population growth, combined with more
rapid GDP growth. Population growth, which had remained in the 3.0% to 3.5%
range during the 1950s and early 1960s, declined dramatically after 1965 as a
consequence of a sharp fall in the fertility rate. Greater economic and edu-
cational opportunities for women, rapid rural-urban migration, rising per
capita income and increased effectiveness of family planning programs contri-
buted to the decline in fertility. Colombia's population is currently grow-
ing at an annual rate of 2.1%. As a result of the high proportion of women
now entering childbearing years, this rate of population growth is likely to
continue until the early 1990s.
5.        The combination of rising per capita income and expanded public
services has brought about a significant improvement in the welfare of the
poorest, in both absolute and relative terms. As a result of increased sani-
tation control, improved diets and better health care, the crude death rate
fell by about 50% and life expectancy rose from 48 years in the early 1950s
to 63 years currently. The child mortality rate declined from 20 per thou-
sand in the early 1960s to 8 per thousand in the late 1970s. Infant morta-
lity, one of the best indicators of welfare, fell to 65 per thousand in the
later 1970s, from about 124 per thousand in the early 1950s. School enroll-
ment ratios have increased substantially at all grade levels since 1960s, and
by the late 1970s, 91% of urban children aged 7 to 14 were enrolled in
school. The poorest income groups have experienced the greatest increases in
electricity and water services in recent years and have benefitted more than
the average of the population from services of the national health system.
In spite of this progress, Colombia remains largely under-developed, with a
relatively small modern sector superimposed on a broad, traditional and eco-
nomically poor base. Development has been concentrated in relatively few
areas of the country, public services are still not available to many of the
rural and urban populations and unemployment and underemployment are rela-
tively high. The coverage of health care and water supply requires conti-
nuous improvement and adequate housing is not available to a substantial pro-
portion of the population. Rapid migration to the large and medium-sized
cities has created urban development problems, with attendant social diffi-
culties. Moreover, in spite of the steady increase in per capita income over
the past 30 years, substantial efforts are still required to improve and ext-
end the benefits of development to the poorest income groups.
6.        In large part, the achievements of the past thirty years were the
results of government efforts to stimulate the productive sectors, provide
the required economic and social infrastructure and establish an effective
institutional base in the economy. In the 1950s and early 1960s, development
policy favored import substitution supported by high tariff protection and
the provision of economic infrastructure by the public sector. It was during
this period that the country's major communication and transportation net-
works were developed and the transformation to a semi-industrial economic
structure began in earnest. By the mid-1960s, the prospects for further
import substitution were substantially diminished and the country was
confronted with great economic uncertainty, arising from the fact that
economic activity and the balance of payments were heavily influenced by
developments in the world coffee market. In order to ease this constraint,
during 1967 the authorities adopted an outward-looking development strategy,
expanding and diversifying exports and, among the export markets, increas-



-3-
ingly tapping the Andean Group countries. Export promotion policies, includ-
ing frequent exchange rate devaluations, export tax rebates and other export
incentives were introduced and the authorities began lowering tariffs some-
what and freeing capital markets from controls as means of raising efficiency
and increasing the competitiveness of Colombian goods in external markets.
These measures were highly successful in relieving the foreign exchange con-
straint and stimulating growth and employment. However, by mid-1970s the
economy was once again experiencing difficulties caused primarily by the
world recession and by excessive Central Bank financing of domestic budget
deficits.
Recent Economic Development
7.        In late 1974, the Government introduced a wide range of fiscal and
monetary policies designed to correct the structural and policy weaknesses
prevailing in the economy at that time. Before these reforms were fully
effective, the economy was subjected to strong inflationary pressures arising
from a sharp increase in world coffee prices. The increased receipts from
coffee exports, together with some official surrender of foreign exchange
from illegal exports, caused a turnabout in the balance of payments. Incomes
rose rapidly and stimulated aggregate demand; inflation accelerated. Econo-
mic growth also accelerated and unemployment fell substantially, both in
rural and urban areas. Largely as a consequence of increased coffee tax
revenues, the public finances generated surpluses averaging about 7% of GDP
during the 1976-79 period, and by the end of 1979, net official international
reserves had risen to about US$4.1 billion, equivalent to nearly 12 months
imports of goods and non-factor services.
8.        While beneficial in many respects, the foreign exchange boom has
had a somewhat negative impact on the evolution of the Colombian economy,
largely as a consequence of the need for measures to stabilize the economy.
Public investment was curbed, thereby delaying some badly needed additions to
economic and social infrastructure. The rate of currency devaluation was
slowed and the conversion of export receipts into pesos was delayed to mode-
rate the growth of domestic demand, with adverse effects on export expansion
and diversification. Also, the Government was compelled to maintain high
reserve requirements and expand controls over credit thereby reducing, in
real terms, the financing available to the private sector via the official
capital market.
9.        The stabilization measures were virtually unchanged from early 1977
through 1979 but were partially successful in restraining aggregate demand
growth; thus relatively high inflation persisted. In response to the
increasing stabilizing effects on aggregate demand and the troublesome finan-
cial market distortions caused by inflation and the extended period of mone-
tary restraint, the authorities began in late 1979 to adjust the stabiliza-
tion program. The rate of peso devaluation was advanced to increase export
incentives and reduce borrowing abroad, and in early 1980, credit restraints
were relaxed by lowering reserve requirements. At the same time, interest
rates on time deposits captured by commercial banks and development finance
companies -- and on the lending therefrom -- were freed from controls. To
offset the inflationary effects of these measures the authorities further
liberalized import payments and adopted the policy, supported by the emission
of new short-term certificates, of not expanding the subsidized selective
credit operations of the Central Bank in excess of the resources captured



-4-
from private savings for this purpose. The authorities also increased the
surveillance and control of the illegal export trade. The effects of the
above measures were not immediately noticeable. Real GDP growth declined to
4% in 1980, unemployment started to creep up, and inflationary pressures con-
tinued.
10.       In 1981, manufacturing activity has remained sluggish, hemmed in by
the slow growth in aggregate consumer demand, and limited by power shortages
during most of the year. Coffee exports have fallen as a result of reduced
world demand and declining prices while non-coffee export growth has weaken-
ed. On a more positive note, construction activity, which had fallen sharply
in 1979-80, began to recuperate toward the end of the year. In response to
favorable price incentives, petroleum production is estimated to have
increased by over 5% in 1981. Agricultural output has registered some gains
despite decreases in the area planted resulting from a prolonged drought.
Both public and private investment have expanded rapidly. Real GDP growth is
estimated to have reached 3-4% in 1981. Inflation continued to be a problem
in 1981, however, with consumer prices increasing by about 27% for the year.
Despite world coffee prices at relatively low levels for most of the year,
Colombia's balance of payments continued to remain strong, with net official
reserves maintained at about one year of imports of goods and non-factor
services.
Development Strategy
11.       Achievement in this decade of the Government's objectives of
increased productivity and maximum economic growth, increased employment,
improved distribution of income and greater welfare for all Colombians will
require a major effort to remove from the economy the constraints of inade-
quate economic and social infrastructure and insufficient demand. Infras-
tructure needs are most pressing in the energy, transportation, and agricul-
ture sector.
12.       The Government's strategy for accomplishing its development objec-
tives are set forth in the recently formulated Plan de Integracion Nacional
(PIN). This strategy continues the previous emphasis on export promotion as
a means of supplementing domestic demand and assuring balance of payments
stability, and on policy measures, including further import liberalization,
designed to increase economic efficiency and raise institutional capacity.
It proposes a large increase in public investment, giving high priority to
energy projects and to the provision of transport infrastructure. Economic
decentralization, regional autonomy and the uniting of regional growth
centers through improved transport, communication and financial links are
directed towards creating an integrated national market, a strategic goal of
the PIN. The Plan also places emphasis on the promotion of both small scale
and commercial agriculture as a means of diversifying and increasing exports,
assuring adequate domestic food supplies, holding down inflation and contrib-
uting to the Government's nutrition and welfare goals. Industrial policy
objectives are to provide an environment of certainty, along with adequate
credit and infrastructure, so that entrepreneurs are encouraged to invest and
expand output. Because of its benefits in opening foreign markets, creating
employment and bringing in new technology, private foreign investment is to
be encouraged. The Government's approach to helping the poor takes on a new



- 5 -
orientation in the PIN. Its efforts are focussed upon improving 'efficiency
in the use of resources and strengthening the social service institutions.
Programs in the health and education sectors are to be better focussed and
integrated, and selected low income and disadvantaged groups, such as workers
in the informal sector, children and unemployed youth, are singled out for
special attention. Combined with extensions of the Integrated Rural Develop-
ment (DRI) and National Nutrition (PAN) programs, the new directions given to
social programs are expected to raise significantly the welfare of low income
groups in Colombia.
13.       While the PIN provides a good analysis of the development issues
facing the country and sets forth the general guidelines for policies and
programs to resolve these issues, there are two important aspects of bringing
off the development strategy that are expected to receive increasing atten-
tion from the authorities in coming months. The first involves a required
deepening of the sector analyses in order to improve coordination in planning
and execution sector strategies, and the second has to do with matters rela-
ted to financing the PIN. Given the large investment required to carry out
the PIN strategy, inadequate planning and coordination among sectors or
insufficient domestic resource mobilization would be likely to result in sub-
stantial resource misallocation and to delay execution of the strategy. The
two most important sectors where additional work is urgently required are
energy and transportation.
14.       Colombia became a net oil importer in 1976 and by 1985 petroleum
imports are projected to absorb about 20% of total merchandise exports. In
the absence of rapid energy development, energy shortages will become a major
constraint on growth later in this decade. Resolution of the energy problem
depends on the country's success in developing its abundant domestic energy
resources -- hydroelectricity, coal and natural gas -- and also upon increas-
ing petroleum exploration and development. The strategy for doing this will
require energy pricing policies that rationalize consumption with with energy
resource availabilities, a least cost program of investments, sufficient
d6mestic and external financing for these investments, strengthened sector
institutions, improved program execution capability and rapid carrying out of
investments. Although planning and policy making have improved substantially
in many energy sector institutions in recent years, overall planning and
coordination in the, sector is still weak. A study about to be completed by
the National Planning Department is expected to provide the basis for
improvements in sector-wide planning and policy-making, and recent pricing
decisions have gone a considerable way towards providing the correct signals
for regulating consumption and encouraging production. The prices paid to
producers (primarily foreign companies) for "incremental" and "new" crude
have been raised to levels which provide adequate production incentives, and
the retail prices of petroleum products have been increased substantially in
recent years, which on the whole reflect international levels.
15.       Colombia's high transportation costs and inadequate services could
become a constraint on economic growth, affecting particularly the
development of the country's vast coal reserves and agriculture. The State
Railway is in poor condition and the road network needs maintenance and
rehabilitation. The authorities have begun to take steps to improve the
country's infrastructure and PIN assigns an important share of future invest-
ments to the sector. An important part of this effort is the recently
approved Rural Roads and Highway Sector Projects as well as the proposed loan



- 6 -
for railway rehabilitation. The Highway Sector Project addresses the need
for more efficient planning to insure that only least-cost investments are
carried out and that a sound policy framework for the sector is established
to deal effectively with the problems of intermodal coordination and energy
conservation in line with the Government's energy objectives.
Investments and Its Financing
16.       A substantial increase and redirection of public sector investment
will be required in the next several years to carry out the development stra-
tegy outlined in the PIN . Over the 1981-85 period, such investment is
expected to increase by about 15% p.a. in real terms. The energy and trans-
portation sectors are expected to account for the bulk (59.5%) of this
investment; however, sizeable real increases in investment are also expected
in the nutrition and health, small scale agriculture and industry (including
mining), water and sewerage, and education sectors. Overall, public fixed
investment is projected to average 8.4% of GDP during the 1981-85 period, and
is expected to total Col$1,603 billion (about US$20.5 billion). Private
investment will have to increase also during this period to provide the goods
and services required by the expanding economy.
17.       This increase in investment will demand a major resource mobiliza-
tion effort on the part of Colombia's public sector. The buoyancy of the tax
system (excluding coffee tax revenues and receipts from earnings on foreign
exchange holdings), which has declined in recent years, will have to be
increased through new taxes and better tax administration, resources will
have to be used more efficiently, and the charges levied for public services
will have to be raised substantially in real terms.  Since this effort is
expected to coincide with increased private sector demand for investment
resources, the importance of measures to expand domestic savings cannot be
over-stressed. The recent capital market liberalization should encourage
savings. A significant increase in voluntary private savings is not likely,
however, as long as inflation remains high. Consequently, stabilization
remains a sine qua non for the country's future growth and development.
Growth and Balance of Payments Prospects
18.       Given the country's strong resource base and sound economic manage-
ment, Colombia's growth prospects for this decade are good and significant
advances in economic welfare are expected. The urgent need to relieve the
pressure on aggregate demand arising from the growth of foreign exchange
earnings and the necessity to increase rapidly imports to develop the coun-
try's resource potential and restore higher economic growth requires a shift
in the balance of payments from a small current account deficit of US$195
million registered in 1980 to a current account deficit projected to average
US$1,865 million, over the 1981-85 period. By the end of this period, net
official international reserves would have fallen to a level slightly over
four months of imports of goods and non-factor services (a level which is
adequate for Colombia) without prejudice to the country's creditworthiness.
This should be sufficient to support an average growth of real GDP of 5.5%
during this period. Beyond 1985, the current account deficit should improve
as a result of increasing export proceeds (particularly from coal) and a
levelling-off of imports. The current account deficit would fall to about 2%
of GDP in 1987 and turn into a surplus of less than 1% by 1990. To achieve
real GDP growth of 5.5% per annum, gross domestic investment will have to



-7-
expand to about 25% of GDP, up from 18% in the early 1970s and 20% in recent
years, and to avoid too large an increase in foreign indebtedness, gross
national savings would need to average about 22% of GDP.
19.       Gross external capital requirements (net of reserve drawdown) are
projected to total US$10.3 billion in current prices for the 1981-85 period,
for an annual average requirement of US$2,057 million. About 26% of this
amount will be required annually for debt amortization and the rest to cover
current account deficits. Multilateral and bilateral agencies are expected
to provide 33% of these requirements, 50% is expected to come from foreign
suppliers and financial institutions and the balance should come from private
foreign investment. At the end of 1980, Colombia's public and publicly gua-
ranteed external debt disbursed and outstanding amounted to US$4.3 billion,
equivalent to 13% of GDP. The Bank/IDA share of this external debt was
25%. Reflecting the recently increased lending by the Bank and the decline
by bilateral sources, this share is expected to increase to about 29% in
1983, before falling to about 25% in 1986. The debt service ratio at the end
of 1980 was 10% and is expected to climb to 17% by 1985, peak at about 20% in
1988 and then decline gradually. The World Bank's share in public debt ser-
vice is expected to rise to about 26% in 1985 from about 25% in 1980. With.-
continued sound economic and financial management, Colombia is expected to
maintain its creditworthiness through and beyond the 1981-1990 period.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
20.       The proposed loan, the 95th to be made to Colombia, would bring the
total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$3,340.9 million (net of cancel-
lations). Of this amount the Bank held, as of September 30, 1981, US$2,687.5
million: IDA made one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in 1961. Dis-
bursements have been completed on 57 loans and the IDA credit. During 1972-
77 disbursements averaged US$86 million equivalent per year, then declined
slightly to US$82 million in 1978 but increased sharply to US$215 million in
1980 and US$249 million in 1981. The gradually improving performance of
social sector institutions in the execution of Bank-financed projects, the
gradual containment of inflationary pressures, which should allow relaxation
of fiscal restraint, and increased Bank lending for infrastructure projects,
all point to higher level of disbursements in the future. IFC has made
investments and underwriting commitments of US$78.7 million in 26 enterprises
and, as of September 30, 1981, it held US$23.2 million. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans, the IDA credit and IFC investments as of
September 30, 1981 and a brief report on the status of the 36 ongoing
projects.
21.       In response to the objectives established by successive Governments
(self-sustained economic growth, increased employment and improved income
distribution), since 1966, Bank lending to Colombia has become more diversi-
fied with heavier concentration on production-oriented programs and activi-
ties which emphasize social as well as economic benefits. All three loans
for education have been made during this period, and so have 12 of the 14
loans for industry, 13 of the 15 agricultural loans, one loan for a nutrition
project, two 'Loans for urban development projects and all nine loans for
water supply and sewerage. During the same period, 19 loans were made in the
power and transport sectors, while before 1966, 22 out of a total of 25 loans
were made to these sectors.



-8 -
2, L.     Bank lending to Colombia in FY81 consisted of two loans for power
generation and distribution projects, and one each for rural roads, irriga-
tion rehabilitation and village electrification totalling US$550 million
equivalent. In addition to the loan presented in this report and the one
recently approved for watershed management, the FY82 program includes
proposed loans for integrated rural development, highways, secondary oil
recovery and rural basic education. Work is also under way on projects for
petroleum development, mining, oil refining, electric power, agricultural
credit, agro-industries, fertilizers, water supply and sewerage, ports and
small-scale industry for possible consideration by the Executive Directors
during the next two years.
23.       The proposed Bank lending conforms closely with the Government's
development strategy as outlined in the PIN (paragraph 12 through 15). To
help Colombia develop renewable sources of energy, a sizeable part of the
proposed lending would be for hydropower. The Bank intends to assist in the
development of coal mines which hold potential to help Colombia meet part of
its energy requirements and in diversifying exports.  In support of the
Government's objective to increase the supply and the recovery of domestic
petroleum, the Bank plans to finance further petroleum projects as a comple-
ment to investments of private firms and, for the first time, become involved
in projects which promote the efficient processing of hydrocarbons.  Bank
financing in the energy sector would also assist in strengthening major
institutions and in mobilizing external finance as some of the projects would
require substantial co-financing. Other future loans would finance agricul-
ture and industry to support the Government in its efforts to raise overall
productivity, income and employment, and to increase and diversify exports.
Closely related to these objectives would be the proposed Bank lending for
transport infrastructure.  In this context, the Bank is assisting the Govern-
ment in preparing a highway paving and rehabilitation program in support of
the increasing interregional flow of goods and services. A loan under
preparation for ports is aimed at helping Colombia handle larger volumes of
non-traditional exports and the imported inputs on which the modern sector of
its economy relies for expansion. Finally, several loans are being prepared
in support of the Government's efforts to help the lowest 50% of the
Colombian population. Lending for rural electrification, rural development,
agricultural credit, water supply and sewerage, irrigation and rural
education projects is principally designed to improve the standard of living
of the poor.
24.       The operations of external lenders in Colombia are shown in Annex
I. While IBRD, IDB, and bilateral sources provided about 75% of total exter-
nal financing to Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their share has decreased
since then to approximately 63% for the 1975-80 period and is expected to
decline further to about 30% of external capital requirements during 1981-
86. Like the Bank, IDB has given increased emphasis to projects with a
poverty orientation and has financed projects in low-cost housing, urban and
rural development, agrarian reform, university education, water supply, rural
electrification and land erosion control. In the future, it proposes to
assist Colombia in developing sources of domestic energy and in expanding
productive sector activities to help generate increased employment. USAID
has supported programs in education, urban development and small farm deve-
lopment, but is phasing out its program in Colombia. The Government of
Canada, the Federal Republic of Germany and the Netherlands have also provid-
ed concessional financing for basic needs and regional integration projects.



-9 -
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR AND THE NATIONAL RAILWAY
Characteristics
25.           Since the early 1950s, Colombia's transport investment policy
has been aimed at national integration through efforts to overcome the
regional and community-level isolation imposed by topography. The country's
advantage of having coastlines on both the Pacific Ocean and the Caribbean
Sea is offset by the difficulty of movement between the coasts and the
interior. The three massive ranges of the Andes Mountains which run from
north to south present formidable barriers to communication between the main
areas of population, which until recently developed as separate and almost
isolated communities. In fact, the Magdalena River provided the only
overland route between the Central Region and the Caribbean coast until the
1960s. At this time, the Atlantic Railroad connecting Bogota (the capital)
and Medellin (the third largest city and one of the country's most important
industrial and agricultural centers) with the Caribbean port of Santa Marta,
the Eastern Road connecting Santa Marta, Bucaramanga, Bogota and Neiva, and
the Western Road connecting Cartagena, Medellin, Cali and Pasto were
completed. The development of the country's railways, trunk highways and
civil aviation has greatly improved inter-regional communication and fostered
national integration.
26.          The work to complete the basic transport infrastructure has
required a considerable proportion of the country's total investment.
Transport represented about half of Central Government investment in the late
1950s (between 10% and 15% of domestic investment). When the trunk highway
system and the Atlantic Railroad were being completed, it exceeded 60% of
Central Government investment. More recently, however, transport's share has
declined to about 25%. In 1980, Col$19,195 million (US$430 million
equivalent) were invested in the transport sector of which 86% was allocated
to roads, 7% to ports and inland navigation, 5% to airports and 2% to
railways. The small size of railway investment has contributed to its
declining efficiency.
Infrastructure and Traffic
27.          Colombia has a road network totalling about 77,000 km of which
about 7,900 km is paved. The railway system consists of 3,403 km (2,822 km
currently in use) all single track and narrow gauge (914 mm compared with
1,435 mm in Europe and North America); there are gradients in the system of
3% or more. Although the development of road and rail transport has lessened
the importance of inland waterway shipping, both the Magdalena and Cauca
Rivers are navigable and account for almost all inland shipping. Over the
last decade, domestic freight traffic has grown at rates close to GDP growth,
6%-7% annually. In 1979, about 21.5 billion ton-km of freight was
transported; 81% by road, 8% by coastal shipping, 5% by riverway; 5% by
railway and 1% by aviation. The largest share of passenger traffic is
carried by road, 71%, while aviation handles 27% and railways 2%.
28.           Aviation transport developed at an early date (1920) and has
become a major mode of domestic and foreign travel. There are three national
and eleven foreign airlines providing international service, and 10
additional, regularly-scheduled domestic carriers. Colombia has 70 airports,
eight of which are equipped for international flights. The country's
principal seaports are Cartagena, Barranquilla and Santa Marta on the



- 10 -
Atlantic Coast, and Buenaventura and Tumaco on the Pacific Coast. The ports
move about 3 million tons of cargo per year, with Buenaventura handling over
1.5 million tons annually. However, goods are not evacuated from the docks
in a timely way because of unsatisfactory cargo-handling operations, labor
difficulties, lack of inland storage facilities and deficient transport
services. A faulty system of port charges also contributes to congestion,
with unenforced demurrage levies that, in any event, are too low. With
UNDP-financing and the Bank as Executing Agency, consultants and the
Colombian Port Authority (COLPUERTOS), have studied port operations and
containerization, and are analyzing possible corrective measures.
The National Railway
29.          What has become Colombia's railway system began as a number of
relatively short lines often of different gauges and standards, located in
different parts of the country and built to meet local needs. Altogether the
railways comprised in 1950 about 3,000 km of main lines, of which 2,400 km
were owned by the State Railway, 400 km by Departmental Railroads and the
remainder by private companies. The State Railway suffered considerable
financial losses; management was weak, maintenance was inadequate and the
number of locomotives and rolling stock awaiting repair was exceedingly
high. Although railway tariffs were lower than truck rates, the latter were
able to provide a more reliable service thus making large inroads into the
railways traffic. This situation has continued to persist.
30.          The Bank's General Survey Mission (September 1950-August 1951)
identified the need to link the different railways under a single, fully
autonomous, corporation. Consistent with this, on October 27, 1954, the
Government established the Colombian National Railways (CNR) to manage the
country's railway system. Three Bank loans (68-CO, 119-CO and 267-CO)
supported the construction of the Atlantic Line, which served to interconnect
the different networks. Two subsequent loans in 1963 and 1968 (343-CO and
551-CO) contributed to the rehabilitation of track and rolling stock, while
attempting to improve management and operating practices. Performance under
these loans was mixed; there were numerous achievements but also
disappointments. Except for 1966 and 1969 when CNR realized net profits from
operations, the Government had to finance its operating losses. Budget
transfers were not always on time and the railway's plant capacity
deteriorated. The problem was compounded by an amendment made to the
constitution in 1968 that introduced a cost-of-living escalator in CNR's
pensions as well as other fringe benefits. Personnel emoluments, therefore,
rose sharply and in 1970 amounted to 67% of CNR's operating cost.
The Sixth Railway Project and Recent Performance
31.          In 1970, CNR, with consultants, prepared a rehabilitation
program to revert the cycle of deteriorated infrastructure, numerous
derailments, poor service and loss of traffic. To finance the first two
years of the program, in August 1973, the Bank made a US$25 million loan to
CNR. Its inefficiency and the heavy subsidy given to the trucking industry
in the form of highway improvements and cheap fuel had caused CNR to lose
considerable traffic (from about 20% of total freight traffic in 1960 to
about 8% in 1970). For long hauls and bulk commodities, however, the railway
continued to have a clear economic advantage. The main investment



- 11 -
items of the project were improvements to permanent way, motive power,
rolling stock, and repairs to overcome the 1970/1971 winter damages
(destruction by flood and landslides), the worst in history.
32.          Under competent management during the first two years of the
project CNR achieved impressive results. In 1973 and 1974 most of the
operating targets agreed at negotiations were surpassed. Derailments were
almost cut in half (from 7,116 in 1970 to 3,614 in 1974), locomotive
availability was a healthy 87% and, through reliable service and aggressive
marketing, freight tonnage increased by 11% over 1973 as compared with 1.4%
between 1968 and 1972. In 1974, CNR obtained again an operating ratio of
98.8, thus covering its operating expenses from revenues.
33.          With the change of Government in August 1974, a new management
took over and CNR's performance began to deteriorate once more. A major
factor contributing to this was the excesive changes made in CNR's managerial
and senior staff, both by the Government and CNR, causing discontinuity of
operations, failure to adhere to targets and the adoption of unsound
policies, including excessive liberties in the form of social benefits being
gained by the Railway Labor Union, whose power was increasing during this
period. Furthermore, disciplinary actions became more difficult to enforce
partly due to union intervention; even such critical actions as enforcing
locomotive speed or firing reckless drivers, became virtually impossible to
accomplish. In these circumstances many experienced middle-level managers
and supervisory staff left, for more attractive employment opportunities in
private industries and other Latin American railways. The cost to CNR's
long-run institutional effectiveness which had been built up over the years
was a heavy one during this period.
34.          Together with the slowing down of the economy in 1975, CNR's
marketing efforts slackened and freight traffic declined by 14%. The
Government was unable to provide CNR with the financial support it needed;
consequently, in 1975 when the Pacific network was severed by track washouts,
it was never repaired and at this writing is largely skeletal with several
lines closed (491 km in total), thus preventing CNR from transporting freight
from the Central Region to the Pacific coast. Other sections of the network
fell into disrepair as well and newly laid, low-grade, untreated sleepers
deteriorated rapidly in the humid, tropical climate. Equipment received
substantially less maintenance than was normal; because of a lack of funds,
spare parts were not ordered. Locomotive availability, therefore, dropped
from 87% in 1974 to an all-time low of 30% in 1980. Furthermore, since
negotiations, the preliminary results for 1981 indicate that locomotive
availability has declined even further to 27%.  Of the 169 locomotives in
CNR's fleet, 28 are 6-10 years old, 60 are 11-15 years old, 63 are 16-20
years old and 18 are 21-25 years old. Fifteen locomotives are beyond repair
and are being scrapped. An even greater number of locomotives should be
scrapped since the scrapping program for the older locomotives under the
Sixth Railway Project had to be postponed and was never implemented in view
of the declining motive power availability. The 88 locomotives purchased
from Spain under a barter arrangement (which constitute the backbone of the
locomotive fleet), have proven unsuitable for high altitude conditions with
steep grades.l/ The diesel engines (Caterpillar D-398) overheat and fail
1/   Locomotive GE-U-lOB, with 1,050 horsepower.



- 12 -
to give sufficient margin of power for acceptable reliability of service,
when exposed to sustained heavy loading at high altitudes. The problem has
been particularly serious on the Facatativa-Bagazal section where CNR has had
to resort to using trios of locomotives to make the grade, further stretching
the already scarce motive power. Under these conditions, CNR's financial
performance worsened; between 1974 and 1980 its operating ratio increased to
163 and the resulting financial losses (about US$30.9 million equivalent in
1980) had to be covered by the Government and, to lesser extent, by domestic
credit.
Future Railway Traffic and the Government's Program
35.           In 1980, CNR still transported 862 million ton-km, less than 5%
of the country's domestic freight and the lowest level of traffic in its
history.  In terms of ton-km, the most important commodities were coffee
(15%), fertilizer (13%), coal (6%), crude oil (9%) and wheat (8%).    Well
over two-thirds of the railway traffic is concentrated in the Atlantic
network between Santa Marta and Bogota/Medellin, involving 1,287 km or 48% of
the railway system. The remaining lines have low traffic densities and in
the instance of the Pacific Network, economic justification is becoming
doubtful. It may be possible that if connected again with the Atlantic
Network, the Pacific Network could provide an outlet through the port of
Buenaventura for bulk cargo to and from foreign markets on the Pacific
Ocean. This alternative would be studied under the proposed project
(paragraph 43).
36.          The relevance of passenger traffic on CNR's operation has been
decreasing over the years. In 1980, CNR transported 2.2 million passengers,
down more than 2 million since 1974. The decline has been the result of the
much improved bus service in Colombia, the closure of non-remunerative
services, as well as the need to divert CNR's scarce motive power to more
profitable freight traffic. This situation is likely to continue since CNR
will have to reduce further its passenger services to allow for sufficient
motive power to haul its freight traffic until the working locomotive fleet
is increased   (Section.4.09(a) of the Draft Loan Agreement).
37.           The policy which the Government is pursuing with respect to the
consumer price of hydrocarbons is improving gradually the competitive
position of CNR. The already mentioned price increases for gasoline and
diesel fuels has reduced the implicit economic subsidy to road users from
US$435 million or 1.6% of GDP in 1979 and US$189 million or 0.7% of GDP in
1980 to US$44.8 million or less than 0.1% of GDP in 1981.1/ As stated, the
Government's policy is to maintain domestic prices at the international
c.i.f. Barranquilla level; this will have a greater effect on highway
transport than on CNR. Provided CNR improves its plant and its service,
higher domestic fuel prices will be an incentive for bulk freight to return
to the railways. A commodity review carried out by the Ministry of Public
1/   Estimate based upon an equivalent import price at the pump of US$57.84
per barrel or US$1.01 per gallon of regular gasoline (US$0.96 is the
price of low octane regular gasoline being sold in Colombia) and
estimated annual consumption of 26.0 million barrels.



- 13 -
Works and Transport (MOPT) estimates a demand growth for railway services far
beyond CNR's carrying capacity. With the proposed project CNR would only be
able to satisfy 44% of this in 1982 and 60% in 1986. The forecast excludes
the potential demand from coal, copper, bauxite and phosphate mining
investments now in gestation. Colombia is only beginning to exploit its
mineral wealth, much of which is unexplored. Coal, with potential reserves
of over 16 billion tons, of which 11 billion are proven or semiproven, will
depend heavily on CNR for its development. The same is likely for some other
minerals. The Government, therefore, is giving high priority to the
rehabilitation of CNR as an initial step to its eventual conversion to a
minerals carrier. When this-comes about, CNR will require considerable
investments to modernize its facilities, particularly in motive power and
rolling stock. To provide CNR with financial resources for track and rolling
stock upkeep, as well as high-priority investments, the Government has
modified Law 64 of 1967 which established the National Highway Fund (FVN), to
the effect that 10% of FVN's revenues will be given to the railway. The
principal revenue source of FVN is an ad-valorem, ex-refinery tax on gasoline
and diesel fuel.
The Bank's Role in Transport Development
38.          The Bank has played an important role in the development of
Colombia's transport sector. Overall since 1950, the Bank has lent over
US$400 million equivalent for highways, rural roads, railways and one airport
project to assist the Government in developing basic transport infrastructure
to facilitate economic and social integration, as well as overall growth of
economic activity.
39.           The highway projects, although beset with delays and cost
overruns, resulted in the reconstruction or upgrading of 3,200 km of roads
and contributed to the development of a unified trunk road system as well as
to the emergence of road transportation. They also fostered the development
of local consulting and construction industries, and have directly supported
Government efforts to improve engineering practices and contractual
procedures as well as transport investment and planning.
40.           The already mentioned six railway loans were aimed at
integrating the railway network and at strengthening CNR. The review of the
first five loans carried out by Operations Evaluation Department (OED),
concluded that past railway investments had a low return, particularly the
Atlantic Railroad.l/ It recognized, however, that the Atlantic Railroad had
an important developmental impact on the Magdalena and Cesar Valleys. It
regarded the rehabilitation projects as well-conceived but criticized the
lack of operational targets to monitor progress and the heavy emphasis placed
by the Bank on the financial aspects of CNR during supervision. Starting
with the Sixth Railway Project, therefore, operational targets were set, but
these were useful for gauging performance only as long as CNR had a
management team committed to them. Under the proposed project, operational
targets have been agreed with the Government and CNR, to which loan
disbursements would be conditioned (paragraph 52). In the event that there
is in the future a new management in CNR, the proposed loan's conditionality
element is expected to ensure continuity of effort. Lastly, the Bank
3upervision of CNR has been placing greater emphasis on technical aspects;
I/   "Bank Operations in Colombia:  An Evaluation," Report No. Z-18, 1972.



- 14 -
the work done by the Bank to assist CNR to resolve the problem of motive
power is an example of this. The consultants to be retained in connection
with the project, would complement this work (paragraph 43).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
41.           The proposed project was prepared by CNR with the assistance of
UNDP-financed consultants (ITALCONSULT). It was appraised by a Bank mission
in September 1980. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. during the
week of May 7, 1981 with a Colombian delegation led by Dra. Leonor Montoya de
Torres, Director of Public Credit, Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, and
Dr. Alfonso Orduz, General Manager of CNR. In view of the delay experienced
in receiving confirmation from the Government with respect to the
supplemental domestic financing for CNR, two follow-up missions in October
and November 1981 visited Colombia to update traffic and financial forecasts
as well as the agreed performance targets in the Program of Action. The
Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3262b-CO of January 27, 1982) is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Objective and Description
42.           The proposed project would support the Government's aim of
improving the country's transport infrastructure, as well as of lowering
transport costs by promoting efficiency in the railway system. The project
comprises the first four years of CNR's 1982-86 Rehabilitation Program, and
its major goal is to strengthen the institution's overall performance. The
project is focussed upon essential investments and actions needed to produce
safer, more reliable and faster railway service for carrying existing and
potential traffic. It is divided into two parts, with Group I comprising the
components urgently needed and Group II dependent upon potential traffic,
including the signature of user agreements on two sections of the network
(Secion 3.01(e) and Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement).
43.           Group I of the project consists of:
(a) Rehabilitation of 428 km of track in the Atlantic network
where traffic demand is high, track conditions poor and
derailments frequent;
(b) Purchase of rails and switches, prestressed concrete and
pretreated wooden sleepers, rail-screw fastenings, base
plates, materials for drainage structures, bridges, and
crushed ballast;
(c) Purchase of four, high-horsepower locomotives to operate in
the steep grades and sharp curves of the Facatativa-Bagazal
section, and spare parts for the rehabilitation of 139
locomotives;
(d) Purchase of 100 wagons (gondolas) for coal freight, spare
parts for the reconditioning of 1,410 freight cars;



- 15 -
(e) Acquisition of signalling and telecommunications equipment;
(f) Procurement of machinery for workshops;
(g) Rehabilitation of freight-handling equipment and purchase of
16 forklift trucks and six cranes; and
(h) Technical assistance aimed at improving CNR's cost
accounting, internal auditing, financial planning, tariff
structure and statistical reporting; studies of a traffic
demand model, reduction of operating costs, signalling and
telecommunications, a locomotive scrapping program and the
feasibility of linking Bogota with the port of Buenaventura
and of the line capacity of the proposed Saboya-Carare
Bypass, which would avoid the difficult gradient between
Facatativa and Bagazal; and, overseas and local training of
operational staff. This assistance is also expected to
contribute to improved overall transport sector planning.
Group II of the project consists of:
(a) Rehabilitation of another 83 km of track if agreements with
potential coal and petroleum users can be reached;
(b) Purchase of four additional, high-horsepower locomotives and
related spares, after a year of testing the first batch of
four in the difficult gradient section;
(c) Purchase of 100 wagons (gondolas) for coal freight and
spares, provided additional coal shipments from the
Lenguazaque region develop; and
(d) Purchase of additional signalling and telecommunications
equipment.
Project Costs and Financing
44.          Total project cost is estimated at US$176.7 million equivalent,
of which US$110.2 million equivalent, or 62%, corresponds to the foreign
exchange component. Project costs are based upon estimates prepared by
CNR/ITALCONSULT and include physical contingencies amounting to 5% and price
contingencies amounting to 23% of base costs (Loan and Project Summary).
Consultant services for technical assistance and training are estimated to be
US$11,000 per man-month for expatriate staff and an average of US$2,600 per
man-month for local staff, including foreign and local travel and local
subsistence. All such services would be provided by consultants whose
qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of employment would be
satisfactory to CNR and the Bank (Sections 3.02, 3.03 and 3.04 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
45.          The proposed loan of US$77 million represents about 43% of total
project cost and would finance about 70% of the total foreign component of
the project. The Government's contribution of about US$79.5 million
equivalent would finance 73% of the local costs of the project and 28% of the
foreign element. CNR, the Colombian Coffee Federation and UNDP would finance
the remaining local and foreign cpsts.



-16 -
CO. Organization, Management and Staff
46.          CNR is a semi-autonomous, public enterprise headed by a
five-member Board of Directors with the Minister of Public Works and
Transport, ex-officio, as chairman. The other members are appointed by the
President of the Republic from a list submitted by private interests
representing trade, industry, banking and agriculture. The General Manager
is also appointed by the President. The Board controls the railways
operating and financial policies. Building or abandonment of railway lines
and changes in personnel conditions rest with the Government. CNR is
organized into five divisions headed by a manager: Atlantico (Santa Marta),
Antioquia (Medellin), Central (Bogota), Pacifico (Cali) and Santander
(Bucaramanga).
47.          The strengthening of CNR's management is the central issue of
the project. CNR has capable and dedicated people in its ranks, but staff
morale overall, suffers from a severe lack of motivation. Both the
Government and CNR are aware of this problem and are beginning to take
corrective measures. CNR is now preparing proposals for revising the salary
structure of key personnel to bring it in line with competitors, and enable
it to attract and retain qualified staff. It has hired a labor attorney to
review the legal implications of limiting salary increases to certain
positions and enforcing disciplinary action. The Government has agreed to
assist CNR in its dealings with the Railway Union during project
implementation (Section 3.02(a) of the draft Guarantee Agreement). Further,
CNR is preparing a program to increase staff in technical areas and gradually
abolish redundant positions in the administrative area. In the short term
this includes hiring pensioned mechanics on a contract basis to accelerate
the reconditioning of locomotives. CNR is also preparing a program for
foreign and local training, the latter to be undertaken possibly with the
Colombian National Training Center - SENA (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Financial Forecast
48.          Much of CNR's network is underused; the poor quality and
reliability of its service limits the entity's ability to raise revenues.
The proposed investments and Program of Action (paragraph 52) would enable
CNR to improve its operations and, consequently, traffic and revenues. Even
so, CNR would have to control its costs and also effect tariff increases in
order to strengthen its finances. CNR has raised its tariffs every year but
the increases have not kept pace with the growth of operating costs. (While
operating costs increased by 587% between 1969 and 1979, freight tariffs
increased by 519% and passenger fares by 448%). During negotiations,
therefore, agreement was reached with CNR that it would (a) increase tariffs
as shall be necessary to meet working and operating ratio targets and (b)
raise tariffs by 10% in real terms in January 1983, 1984 and 1985, after the
quality and reliability of its service has improved (Sections 5.05(a) and (b)
of the draft Loan Agreement). It was also agreed that CNR would not incur
any debt not provided for in the Financing Plan, a covenant which was not
included under the previous Sixth Railway Project (Sections 5.06 and 7.01 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
49.          The financial forecast based on projected traffic and the above
tariff increases, debt service charges and the financing plan, would result
in an improvement in the working ratio from about 175 in 1981 to 96 in 1985,



- 17 -
before normalization payments (paragraph 51). In line with this, the
Government's financial contribution to CNR would decline from an estimated
US$102 million in 1982 to about US$48 million in 1986 or by 60%. The
Government is already contributing 70-80% of CNR's pension and debt service
payments.
50.          Pensions represent about 40% of CNR's salary costs and are paid
almost entirely by the Govenment. CNR has no adequate pension scheme. The
Government would continue paying past pensions and indemnities to retired
employees, but pension obligations to the existing employees would be the
responsibility of CNR. Strong resistance from the Railway Union to a
contributory pension scheme within the railways can be expected. The
Government and CNR have, however, agreed to carry out a study with the
assistance of actuaries with a view to establishing such a pension scheme no
later than January 1, 1985 (Section 5.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
51.          A burden to CNR are the non-remunerative freight lines and
passenger services. Since 1973, CNR has closed six branch lines and six
passenger services as well as a number of stations. There are several
services which do not cover their cost. CNR is being encouraged to increase
fares and to reduce services where adequate alternative transport is
available. Where non-remunerative passenger service is required for social
reasons, the Governient would subsidize them through a normalization payment
scheme to encourage CNR to minimize the cost of providing such service. All
freight services and four out of five existing passenger services in the
Pacific Network are financially non-remunerative. As stated, traffic
potential indicates that a transverse connection of the Atlantic and Pacific
Networks between Ibague and Armenia (Bogota-Buenaventura Transport Corridor)
may correct this situation. A decision, therefore, on the future of the
Pacific Network would await the outcome of the study of this connection
(Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
The Program of Action
52.          Success under the project depends upon integrated improvements
in operations, management and finances. Delays in one area could affect
action on the others; progress, therefore, would be followed closely and
would be measured against time-phased targets (Program of Action). The
targets have been set at six-month intervals and comprise: increases in
locomotive and freight car availability, improvements in average net load per
train and car, reduction in wagon turnaround time, track rehabilitation,
staffing, management, operations and financial results (Annex 4). CNR has
agreed to these targets and to prepare quarterly reports to help monitor
progress (Section 3.01(b) and 3.11(b) and Schedule 5 of the draft Loan
Agreement). Furthermore, on September 30, 1983, or when 40% of the loan
would have been disbursed whichever comes first, commitments would be
discontinued and 'the Government, CNR and the Bank would review the progress
achieved, including the financial contributions the Government has made to
CNR. Commitments/disbursements would resume if CNR reaches the June 1983
targets; if not, disbursements would resume only after CNR has prepared an
acceptable plan aimed at bringing about corrective actions (Section 3.08 of
the draft Loan Agreement and Section 3.03 of the draft Guarantee



- 18 -
Agreement).l/ This arrangement is expected to contribute to sustained
improvement in CNR's performance.
Procurement and Disbursement
53.          All items to be acquired with the proceeds of the proposed loan
would be subject to international competitive bidding, in accordance with
Bank guidelines. These items include locomotives, freight cars, rails,
fittings, track maintenance equipment, railway switches, workshop machinery,
forklift trucks, signal and telecommunication equipment and spare parts for
locomotives and freight cars. Local bidders would be granted a margin of
preference by adding 15% or the relevant prevailing level of custom duties,
whichever is lower, to the CIF value of foreign bids.
54.          Disbursements would be made on the basis of:  (a) 100% of
foreign expenditures for imported equipment and material; and/or (b) 100% of
ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equipment and material if local
bidders are successful; and (c) 100% of the foreign component cost of
technical assistance and training. In order to advance the improvement of
locomotive availability, contracts for a total not exceeding US$6.0 million
equivalent for locomotives and spare parts would be eligible for retroactive
financing (Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement). The loan is expected to
be fully disbursed by June 1986.
Benefits and Risk
55.          The proposed project would support the rehabilitation of CNR and
prepare the institution to assume a greater role in the future, particularly
in facilitating development of mining. The six sections of track to be
rehabilitated --- Facatativa-Mexico, Mexico-Garcia-Cadena, La
Caro-Chiquinquira, La Caro-Belencito, Mexico-Buenos Aires and Medellin-Grecia
--- are all located in the important Atlantic Network.   Three segments have
the potential for carrying substantial amounts of traffic resulting from the
construction of a cement plant and the possibility to transport petroleum
products (not transported via pipeline) and coal. However, two of these, La
Caro-Chiquinquira and Mexico-Buenos Aires would be deferred to Group II of
the project, until contracts are finalized with prospective shippers. The
rates of return for the track investments range from 13% to 32%. The
benefits include reduced track maintenance, less wear and tear of locomotives
and rolling stock, fewer derailments and savings resulting from faster
trains. The rates of return on the rehabilitation and purchase of
locomotives and rolling stock range from 22% to 61%. The new locomotives and
the rehabilitation and scrapping programs for the existing ones are crucial
for CNR's strengthening. On this basis, the overall rate of return on the
components of the project that can be quantified (86% of the
1/   By June 1983, CNR would have to have increased locomotive availability
to 48%, freight car availability to 80% and average load per train to
307 tons, and reduced the wagon turnaround time to 15.5 days and the
operating ratio before normalization to 159. Also, altogether CNR would
have to have rehabilitated 231 km of track as well as taken several
operational and administrative actions.



- 19 -
first three years of the 1982-86 Rehabilitation Program) is 26%, i.e., well
above the estimated opportunity cost of capital in Colombia.
56.           Sensitivity analysis carried out on the project showed that even
under the adverse scenario, i.e., traffic would materialize less than
projected, CNR would fail to adjust its tariffs and/or costs would increase
by 10%, the rate of return of each of the components would still be above the
estimated opportunity cost of capital in Colombia (11%). Moreover, the
tranching of procurement into two groups wotld allow deletion of those items
which as a result of deficient performance, would no longer be justified.
Within the range of the sensitivity analysis, the remaining items would have
satisfactory rates of return.
57.           The project presents somewhat higher risks than are normally
usual for railway projects. CNR's past performance is a checkered one,
although with some salient, positive achievements. In view of this, the
Government's commitment to the rehabilitation of CNR is of paramount
importance. This commitment recently resulted in the passage of legislation
which will provide the railways with revenues from the FVN (paragraph 37).
Further, the appointment of a competent General Manager who has a proven
record of accomplishment, the conditionality element of the loan and the
close supervision of the project envisaged by the Bank, should all help to
ensure the attainment of project objectives.
PART V: LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.          The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and CNR, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Colombia and the Bank and the
report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
59.           Special conditions of the loans are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
60.           I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI: RECOMMENDATION
61.           I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
January 27, 1982






Annex I
Page 1 of 5
COLUMBIA - SUCIAL INDICATORS DArA SHEET
COWMBXA                      9EFEUNCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE,AGES
LAND_ __ & (THOUSAb_ __ K                                                         -_DST _RlCENT ESTIMATE)
ITrAL           1138.9                                MST RECENT             NIDDLE INCCUz            41DDLE INCOME
AGiCCULTURAL     232.0              1960  /b    1970 Lb ESTIlAE Lb   LATIN AMERCA 4 CARIBBEAN            EUROPE
GNh PER CAPITA (US$1                 250.0       400.0    1010.0*                 1616.2                    2609.1
ENERGY CUNSUMPTIUN PR CAPITA
LLLUGRAIMS UF COAL EQUIVALENT)     310.2       659.7    937.9                   1324.1                   2368.4
PUPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION. MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 15754.0    21266.0  26122.0*
URBAN PUPULATIUN (PERCENT UP TUTAL) 48.2        39.8      69.1                    64.2                      53.2
POPULATLUN PRUJECT IUS
POYULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MLLLIONS)                      39.9
STATluNARY POPULATIUN (MILLIONS)                        6 L .0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2070
PUPULATIUO  DENSITY
PER sq. Km.                       13.8        18.7      22.9                    34.3                     80.6
PEL SQ. KL, AGRICULTURAL LAND     72.5        95.7     110.2                    94.5                     133.9
PUPULATIUN AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
U-14 YRS.                         46.8        46.2      38.2                    40.7                     30.1
15-64 YRS.                         50.3        51.0      58.6                    55.3                     61.5
65 YRb. AND ABOVE                   2.9         2.8       3.2                     4.0                      8.3
PUPULATIUN GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              3.1         3.0       2.3                     2.4                       1.5
UKBAN                              5.7         5.2       3.9                     3.7                      3.1
LRUDE BIRTH BAIE (PER TIuUSAND)     45.5        36.3      30.1                    31.4                     22.9
GRUDE UEArH BATE (PER THOUSAND)     14.0         9.5       7.9                     8.4                      9.1
GRUSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.3         2.6       L.9                     2.3                       1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..       115.4     142.1
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOKEN)    ..          ..      46.1
FUUO ANh NUTRIIOUN
INDEX UF FOOQ  PRUOUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-7L-100)        L10.0         99.0     124.0                   108.3                    119.8
PER CALIA SUPPLY UF
CALURIES (PERCENT OF
RLQUIRIEENTS)                   97.0        88.0     102.0                   107.6                    125.7
PRUTEINS (GRAMS PEA DAY)          54.0        48.0      52.0                    65.8                     92.5
OP WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       28.0        24.0      26.0                    34.0                     39.7
CHILD (ACES 1-4)  URTALITY BATE     L9.8        12.0       8.3                     7.6                      3.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECIANCY AT BlRTai (YEARS)    53.3       59.1      62.7                    64.1                     68.9
hFANTr ?BRTALITY RATE (PEE
THOUSANh)                           77.0          ..      65.0                    70.9                     25.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
PUPULATION)
TOTAL                             30.o          . .     64.0                    65.7
URBAN                             54.9sd        ..      73.0                    79.7
R.URAL                             6.Sjd        ..      46.0                    43.9
ACCESS u EXCXrETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
UO POPULATlON)
TOTAL                                         47.0      44.4                    59.9
U_AN                                ..        75.0      60.0                    75.7
RURAL                               ..         8.0      14.0                    30.4
POPULAIlON PER PHYSICIAN          2638.9      2189.5    1966.7                  1728.2                    973.3
POPULAIION PER NURSING PERSON     3740.0      1923.4    1250.0                  1288.2                    896.6
PUPULATION PER HUSPIrAL BED
TOTAL                            362.9       449.4     6L9.1                   471.2                    262.3
URBAN                               ..       377.5     540.3                   558.0                    191.8
RURAL                               ..          ..
AUOISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        22.9      29.8                      *-                     18.2
BOUslNG
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEFOLD
TOTAL                               ..         5.7/c
URBN                                ..         5.5c
RURAL                               ..         5.9/
AVERAGE NUMBER UF PERSUNS PER ROOM
TOAL                                ..         1.8/c
URBAN                                ..6
RURAL                               2. 4/c
ACCESS To ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
UF DWELLINGS)
TUTAL                             47.0"       58. 1       ...
URBAN                             83.OLd      87. 5-LS
RURAL                              8.0/d      13.2/c



-21 -Annex 1
21 -                                           Page 2 of 5
COLOMBIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
COLOMBIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGiS
- HOST RCCENT ESTIMATE) -
HOST RECENT              MIDDLE UICCB             MIDDLE IJCEHt
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb    LATIN AMERlCA 6 CARIBBEAN               0UR0P!
EDUCATI.N
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                 77.0        103.0      124.0                     101.7                      105.9
MALE                  77.0        101.0      122.0                     103.0                      109.6
FEMALE                77.0        105.0      127.0                     101.5                      102.2
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  12.0         24.0       43.0                      35.3                       66.3
MALE                  13.0         24.0       43.0                      34.9                       73.2
FEMALE                11.0         24.0       44.0                      35.6                       59.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)  31.0/e         20.0       22.0                      30.1                       28.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             38.0         38.0       33.0                      29.6                       26.8
SECONDARY                           11.0         17.0       21.0                      15.7                       23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         63.0         80.8         ..                      80.0                       75.4
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           7.0         11.2       18.1                      42.6                       83.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         125.1        104.3      117.1                     215.0                      181.6
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           9.5         38.1       74.0                      89.0                      131.1
NEWSPAPER (DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   56.0           ..       54.4                      62.8                      123.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..        4.1                       3.2                        5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       4726.5       6353.4    8652.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    19.2         24.8       24.7                      22.6                       32.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               51.4         37.9       27.1                      35.0                       34.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  19.2         21.0       21.1                      23.2                       28.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 30.0         29.9       33.1                      31.8                       42.3
RALE                                  48.8         45.1       49.8                      49.0                       56.5
FEMALE                                11.5         14.8       16.4                      14.6                       28.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.7          1.6       1.2                       1.4                        0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   41.2/d f    31.9/f
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  67.77          60.17/f      .
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    2.1            3 3.57      ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.8           10:17  
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      214.0
RURAL                                  ..          ..      197.0                     187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..      267.0                     513.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..      122.0                     362.2                      385.1
ESTIMTED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..       34.0
RURAL                                  ..          ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
aOng the indicators depends on availability of data and is not umifor .
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recont Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1973;  /d 1964;  /e Including teacher training at the third level;  /f Economically active population.
* The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population estimates to be shown in
the 1981 World Bank Atlas are $1180 (at 1978-80 prices) and 26.7 million.
May, 1981



22  -                                             ~~~~Annex  1
-22-                                                   ~~~~~Page 3of 5
DEFINITIONSOiF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Nones-   Aliooo,gh the data one Jroa  fine  Iooecgnealy joged the  -oe   -h-b l-ttin   end -re.lal., on  h..od also  he  -.tt  tot they ear no  be lt-et
nanlota..lly oosarble beo.e..  f --he loot of standardized deiftitoon   and otopta. uIce.d by doff-ereo  tonote  in   dlettg   o  oat..  The data arc  ot....
ohe1l..ee.. sfo.l to dem..rohe   rder, of -eegilnde. toolorair-d. IIW.     d tha-atetoae  ...t. i.aJ., diffa.an.. .            e. nee.oI onhrI.. .
Thotafenanna  donure ore  (I; the eas   on -fgra  of no~..cb fet  co...ry cad (20 a onnty   rop tIth aoeahe  hgiste  a-ereg  locat  tit- nbc ou-y groaP
000 leto; ao dInt.oioht   oEd  he eIrledI  rna           Igneaso   o lodcatt   nte.Te.aeae   Io  :toEyaflI   ortn    holeo
haiti AREA  tlhooa   aq.k.)                                                                             Hrtltonnt  oPltal fad -                     ltoal ..ha, and oo.-a  - Ptlt      tnl
Toa       ou  osrfet  ara_cran    edae   o    naoetr.uban, and torc) diradad byIba   rtnteoebto    ottlbd
T.lolrra     tIanet  of oghnn        de area need  Wepoatl  or- -          arcl                      ntal   atbi   e    rtaetrrlodeecledIeia   n   a
Se    ~CPT   fj     e   psn oslta- cen- eane  at tarten   neek- prnee, e... iol tare are nolt lodlpaded.  mod   otatcl.d  b-ee1n-. uo-pute healt
colated by oe   orreccn        he d ae      UtI     .ak AeIss  1.977-79 haste); 1960.                   and "edi,a Ia      IrenrIeI      reti  enifd hr a  h'yaoi&n  bu-  bya
1970, sod 1979 date.                                                                                    sedlcecelent Ione, nuoifa.  tt. hil.hoffen  Id-neootnIO--ti
factor and  -tooda a lleitud tenet          111- o0  -ealcs   i fa  ollth ....o ea .l-
tNERGYt COONStMPTEDN ?ff CAPITA -oAnnu. I  -ot-letlot of to         -caleegy 'teal                        oloal  na         12tses uran ontutal  onolde Who  printI pa1/peters   hopotat.,
and  Oloite.  annolec. tatonal ge and  o0odn-,  ucea  and gr-tet-l a1-                     _n   onlheptl  total  n rurI           otethal  On  osia  ano ealer...oy
orootr) It  hlogne.s a  coal  qouneene  ~r  -arta; 1960, 1970. cod 197                     t ..en.    noaldbatioo reotud  onY  ndernoent.1
Itoe h.o.ronals ditodd bt toe tude   o  beoc,
O'PAT.ItO1 AtNh VITAL STACCPOICS
TRSy~ult0on.                                   A.OTs   oooadt-O  nO July  1; 1900, 1970, ood 1979   7019091
lets.                                                                                    Iomega Ilte of t.ooaebbtllo"'I V'llil;    (oonr  ret otue hoi, d).I   -. otno- oim g, an.d arL-
didf_oeo97ttoo-hne 9furhuh.opsanooletoatnatlhyfftIddttonootrlo.   Aolti-1.o    logrotratt    ettuel
tota  ittuto   hy ob e ac .d e.. otd oeIt      eot  aotrt tyrte                                dec11 ge Ierectey.iollteottdeo-Ponre t  tOrosaad
le,ooe In  If  on, fantety arttlco   orld 77.  yearI..1, The.....o..otlnd .el. loe0t   totltyI   ttn                                                 oraaepret
netets forarrtlloy   atcaleohaetbtei terl_eeaontgdeolltel                               ofooc,uttos..u.ldelhPgneIethoty
.ettlltacooott   on  otoe  lnaI  od   ast  asty  olnnin pTfon. ne
Dao    trr flIa  haastna   one of. IIaIe n-ne tobotonto   of1 notelc                       CIOICOTIOIN.    . .                                P~     y
anfertillutyt   Ieode'         t          Idoon p -roae                                          uduseyillontstt
rileal   0 onIII Thebet  tf rh    rjne        htnettt fthe pdolaInolnfeneIIotnireIelt  or  boo  th  of Ichlal-mr tot ag..      1
1It_ nbIys 1101,  etd tlhe raeoMelt  o    enh a   tat  noterle,.o-                                  Secodar  no b l -          btr 1- . et  and fel -K ffnpuel  aa-brl ;ersd..
ner  lah eI_                                                                                          edoatuonroolteeat  teat Coo  fears o-atI...e   prt-aary. totrtIatd
sloeh. bar ..e teethed.                                                                               u-aail  of12to 17  -rr  of age; o--ep-ndene  roarse                 are .gnerlit
total ot 9s: 6011.1970 otd 1979 dana.                                                                 ldttldercbthcial,  Iderot           Iroher rr-rstc oto    perte...           red
o-it: 1960. 1970 sa' 197-8 data.                                                                   PoOPl-tnb    rt -         tenr..ad sonlr-torI                    tent   rer1lld ia
forotanlot  se Stoonnae frorn-nr   - Childre   (0-14 yeete),  tebn-g    15-                         .rsryad o...ordny In-1l  diooded by toekn  of teanhera  ia the
hoyereI., adrtns1)pce00tr)s   enasr   fedya do  -                                                     tnr-pondira  Le-ete
lantr:  960,197. sa657  data.                                                                  hal  iaen    oeOenen-l ltn                       fit-    l sIte  hored aed nt
yea 9pp60tot   tot0  15-6  d.1907,ad17-9
poplatonIt ho Rate  lonnoent -  1 -other -ueI growl tales of orban tpsP-                     COeNSUPtT OS
tathorebr f 95-90  107. sd  1970-09                                                                                                                     ..aoa   ae(a   hnan    noair      .eese   tae...eec
Crude ttncb  -tat  lIa  nios...d) -  --Ias  Lio   birohe yen thouscn of and-yea                         tar  rentn  lace  hen aighe  pereote; noldesbalao-., bhare   sta
o      1oluot 60l. 197. sod  .979 date,                                                        sot tt,ty tennlee.:
tooatt:1060, 1970  . cd (9t9 daa.lorene.n                                                                       eee  rte    e  tencee,,, ad.n ,osateP             etaa    n
iroes Orproononton rane~~~~--norga  noabar ofduhe. a -na  rill bean or                           ltredroctea   n  oerca  ndO.yar.be.eeara te  fre
teG    oraI    epouotenrlsIfeeeaatenepesn   aerenfnfa-seroaOnefet    atfo roo  pee   o   onb   tLea                                                                          .erm
tlltynne--I      sOl   Cre-ea ifrae   canIng Ia16. 1970,  so   99                                      oe    erncebOeel    onlc
taslntcnOa-o.et re-oo-  al......e.daf-tetasloosb                        of atnereor -ynen'lol                   e(etoso              oactn-TPrnfeefrpaoe
of  trnoo  ocolfatue  ude  serne   o  naIoaliatl  yanan   prge.                       eeclrbinpnahued   tlnutHotueorlese    freenr
Featir~~~~~~~~                                     ~    ~~~~ P  ttr-yce ornb fericsen. freng  of ....ic  to  oo trie   en   nyce  hnrtsceino     2T see   I   fen
FOWD AND0 PiTITICO                                                                                         on bedaIy   If it apteae e  ler            1onnic-        ak
orodotio   of aPlld-            "I lood..111 EX . oeotoe Ptdttoniea ededtcond;ncsc    od. dent  toefet   tcadrgatoct    omiel  ut-c-a-
Ins-tead of ene;eho   reetl   and no_atroerloenakle.g. tofee en
nenetuue).ugedI-                   nnono   of- ralo o-ry  he-d  loae.        o                   AJffl.
ret doy   OtalOabla~~c. s    -rllc  o 'rts  donttoproanIen  tap7r9  lernn   ottai:160   00  n    97                                        a
lo-atod.   _(coal;  911,17,edo7 da-ta.                                                              1970 end 1979--bl. data.   7  .d199d..
Per oo tc e rel  ofh . ro.ein  ere  per da'-Poenotrnifpnnr f                                       erret.d  -1 toartor Ffte  nernn       toa,  as,fcad Ie.a.-ycItoectb-              no-
sloaoso   0  rt  of.. toc., i noee  yt dy  nd          grass of anima  sd19t.17,  n  1079date   Thre  ene bae o.f.'    rttP eeaa
lor-f,tcd  tor- y 1991-60. 197  sod 1977 data                                                      to9 b    9o79 labr trne
oloed fre antees sod poes. ha  rass pa  f.dsp; 19 f1-69  197  an  107dn.-          ft-, itfn
Chl  lse1-)nrtln   -Rc  (a   blnsh.dO -by       sa dSD  echeid  far tonan    s             Fi-an         f nneeIco    bohi  ose  sod kInd) - 1fneedbrchs
ac   to    -   ar,1  oblldren  in-tis  . ag  grut  fot wandenis9ognon-                         t  ern        richest11 20lren    ere   0pren,adpeetd   ann
mOre otta depOned Pine (Ifs  ables: 0910.  1070 and 1979 Ots,                        of he1-iabotdeh
oceen  Oi,.teIsnr  of ot.la.ont Vn.I_                        otc .sdptoly -f                           nottoclyIcocefa    ladeenaleafedrdtedeei-m
lier    E 0f     -1   -doplett ..a . orbaa. eon'g1-6 tonal)0oltd ne77eadleatoIeeneafDISTfor                     UTION
rate   o pl   inlds   raadcafeceeao  ooana    a  otnd_ nh mle- ced                                    .ennaso   altnetenytrt                     -.n h (IS d ear  dsetnRl i- arba  sO.1 mel
traeeoabieecnaee  wolf Imply     ., then   th Ibacnef  to. eesr  of  the. -ocabl            sad fatl   -fets   ofpplco    obcedrua)aeea"ielt
roteacot eoneea Diaro ts '....o  ofAcoetldclor - fbna.forb.  ced.ree                            ...dA.I                   .,  .          - d  --
rarcrrcea f   thcteatn                 oflnes    arta diwea  say  1nyldd
ber f rpt.oar  Ily ase-  ri yna   ortneos  ofpaptr.                            d- efefIettc   mlyd    ad   t) nieePecte
-st tocrel.at.oe..nay 19g
tines qualifIed  froc a eatica_nela P.      oret  ia.d          it    1                        R        I.i-P-tI . M t.
-h.nlarote or Nubcine Preonb- Popteti-t d-nifehby ancdje   fdpfaonlIrn
fsl  and,,T      tp. Ieee.  creos  - nures  peotna  nura0  ted  ahsdceanatah, aser_ce,                                                                                  -



- 23 -
ANNEX I
ECONOMIC INDICATORS                                         Page 4 of 5
PopulIati "   26,670,000 (mid-1980)
GNP Per Capita: US$1010 a/
Amount                Average Annual Increase (x)       Share of GDP at Market Prices  )
Indicator                                             (million US$               (at constant 1970 prices)               (at current prices)
at current prices)
1980 b/               1960-70   1970-75   1975-80        1960      1970       1975     1980
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product c/                                     32,686                   5.3        6.1         5.8       100.0    100.0      100.0    100.0
Agriculture                                                 8,197                    3.5        5.2         4.0       34.1      28.6       29.3     25.2
Industry                                                    8.799                    6.2        6.1        4.4        25.7      26.6       28.3     29.2
Services                                                   12,559                    5.9        7.3         6.4       40.2      44.8      42.4      45.6
ConSomption                                                   24,435                   5.9        6.6         5.6        79.4     69.6       81.6      74.7
Gross Investment                                               7,994                   5.1        0.6         8.5        20,5     22.0       17.8     24.4
Exports of goods and NFS                                       5,648                   3.1        5.9        10.0        15.6     14.2       15.1      17.4
Imports of goods and NFS                                       5,391                   4.3        1.1        12.7        15.5     15.8       14.5      16.5
Gross national savings                                         8.103                   5.2        5.3        10.8        19.4     18.0       16.8     24.8
Composition of Merchandise Trade (x)
(at current prices)
1960    1970       1975     1980
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Merchandise Exports (FOB)                                     4428                     3.3        1.4        10.8       100.0    100.0      100.0    100.0
Major primary                                                2,871                   2.8       -4.6        12.8       72.5      69.4       51.2     64.8
Major manufactures                                             686                    -        23.8         6.3          -       9.0       24.5      15.5
Other                                                          871                    -         3.8         5.4          -      21.6       24.3      19.7
Merchandise Exports (CIF)                                      4.533                   3.5       -2.3         9.0       100.0    100.0      100.0    100.0
Food                                                          364                   10.0       -0.1        13.4         2.4      4.5        4.8      8.0
Petroleum                                                      750                 -21.4       70.6       43.5          2.0       -         2.0     16.5
Machinery and equipment                                     1,750                    5.2       -8.5        11.0       42.7      50.6       36.4     38.6
Other                                                       1.669                    1.8        2.4        5.4        52.9      44.9       56.8     36.9
1974       1975       1976       1977       1978      1979      1980  kI
PRICES AND TERMS OF TRADE 
GDP deflator                                                        27.6        20.8      23.6       28.3       17.1       23.9     24.5
Exchange rate                                                       27.1        31.2      35.0       36.9       39.3      42.6      47.3
Export price index                                                 155.4       159.7     214.5      303.6      260.2     262.2    294.9
Import price index                                                 210.3      217.3      233.5      254.3      202.0     220.6    252.2
Termas of trade index                                               73.9        73.5      91.9      119.4      128.8      118.8    117.0
As 7 of GDP
(at current prices)
1970         1975         1980 f/
PUBLIC FINANCE d/
Current revenue                                                                           10.6           11.1        12.1
Current expenditure                                                                         5.7           6.6         8.2
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                                 4.9            4.5         3.9
Capital expenditure                                                                         1.8           4.6         4.6
Foreign financing e/                                                                       3.3            2.9         3.2
1960-70     1970-75       1975-80
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (7)                                                                         5.10         6.30        6.00
GNP per capita growth rate (7)                                                              2.00         3.90        3.70
Energy consueption growth rate (%)                                                          5.00        4.00         4.00
ICOR f/                                                                                     3.54        3.43         4.00
Marginal savings rate h/                                                                    0.13        0.13         0.16
Import elasticity                                                                           1.17        0.16         2.20
a/ World Bank Atlas Method.
h/ Estimated.
c/ At market prices: Components are expressed at factor cost and will not add because of exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
d/ Central Government.
e/ Gross disbursements of external loans to the entire public sector.
f/ Includes Social Security and Fondo Vial.
j/ Lagged one year.
h/ Increment to gross domestic savings/incremant to gross domestic product.
April 24, 1981



Annex I
Page 5 of 5
BALANIC  OF PAYMNTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DE35
Population         26,670,000 (.ld-1980)
GNP Per Capita:   US$1010  */ (1979)                                                                            (millioc 0S4 *t current price.)
A.t..l                                                                        Proi..t.d
1974         1975         1976         1977         1978         1979         1980 b/         1981         1982         1983          1984         1985
BALANCE OP PA358!NTS
Eaport  of good. .d .o--fector .oroic                                    1000         2165         2782         3404         4059         4910         5327            4932         5660          6367         7323         8193
Inp4rta of good. cod coo-factor ervice.                                  1149         2030         2302         2730         3722         4191         5376            6361         7369          8401         9446        10415
ieto-rce 8  alce.                                                           -149         -135          480          674          337           719          -49          -1429         -1709        -2034        -2123         -2222
Net f ctt  p-yn.ta                                                       -180            3         -279         -235         -247         .127          -172            331           143           -1         -175          -319
Net oor.q.lrad tree..cr,                                                   27           48           21           16            7            4            26             35            40           45           50            45
Correct Accooct BIce-                                                       -302           -80          222         455           97           596         -195          -1063         -1526        -1990        -2248         -2486
Net direct foreign i-veat.ent                                                  39           32           14           43           56          124          234             150          175          300          450           600
Medim  cd 1og te. I.ee. (oet)                                                202           308          131          192           72          703          838             713          951         1240         1448          1596
to public a.ctor                                                          (160)        (254)        (109)        (195)         (92)        (603)         (781)          (691)        (912)        (1164)       (1335)        (1463)
to private .ecior                                                          (42)         (54)         (22)         (-3),       (-20)        (100)          (57)           (22)          (39)         (76)        (113)         0fl)
Other capital                                                                  55        -121           195          162          391         -158          264              -            -             -            -            -
Capit.l Account Baelce                                                       296           219          340          397         519           669'        1336             863         1126         1540          1898         2196
Cheee ic leerv.-  (-   ic-ee..)                                               6         -139          -562         -852        -616         -1265        -1141             200          400          450           350          300
Intern ti-1 RI.r-  (official)                                                152          547         1166         1830         2482         4106          5416           5216          4816         4366         4016          3716
Reprve a.  ooth. of ioport.                                                  1.6           3.2          6.1          8.0         8.0          11.8         12.1             9.8          7.8          6.2           5.1          4.3
GROSS DOSI0SBUR  NT8 c/
Offoicil greet.
Gro-. diaboreeeent  of hLT lo..                                            235           390          262          371          319         1036         1131
Conce.on l                                                                 102            39          47            27          60            36           53
B01 t.r.l                                                                (100)         (37)         (44)          (21)        (53)          (28)         (16)
0D6                                                                       (-)          (-)          (-)          (-)          (-)           (-I          (-)
Other 5iultiltera1                                                        (2)           (2)          (3)          (6)         (7)           (8)         (37)
NIoo-cocceeeion.1                                                          133           351          215          345         260          IOW          1078
Official eport cr.dit.                                                   (26)          (14)         (0)          (14)         (19)         (47)        (113)                                                                          N)
IBRD                                                                      (58)        (106)         (76)         (85)         (82)         (138)        (218)                                                                          P
Other -ltil.tir.l                                                         (14)          (19)        (27)          (31)         (33)         (31)         (82)
Private                                                                   (35)        (212)        (112)        (214)        (125)         (783)       (665)
EXTERNAL DEBT (ecd of period) c/
Debt omtatodiag .od dihoreed                                              1249         2348         2453         2670         2803          3426         4295
Officil                                                                  1074         1716          1785         1862        1999          2151         2446
ISi                                                                    (354)        (634)        (672)        (716)        (751)        (838)        (1035)
IDA                                                                     (20)         (22)         (22)         (22)         (22)          (22)         (21)
Other                                                                  (700        (1060)       (1019)       (1124)       (1225)        (1291)       (1390)
Priv-t.                                                                 174          632          668          808          804         1275          1849
Uodi.b... d Debt                                                           602          663           908         1040         1516         1993         2409
D8eT SERVICE SI
Total debt aervice ppoeta of  hbich                                       119          249          278           313         398           664          568
Interest                                                                 44          114          125          137          171          231           268
Ppm-te a. e rport  of good, cd
11 Serice.                                                            11.6         11.1          9.5          8.8          9.5          12.5          9.9
P.ynte a. 7 GNP                                                           1.7          1.9          1.9           1.6         1.8           2.4          1.7
Average i.tereat rate on c_lo bu (1)                                       5.8           7.4          6.5          7.4          7.9         10.3         10.2
Official                                                                 (5.1)        (6.1)         (5.8)        (7.3)        (7.6)        (7.8)         (-5
Privt.                                                                   (6.9)        (8.2)         (7.5)        (7.6)        (8.6)       (12.0)       (12.3)
Av-ag   aturity of wo  I...  (yecra)                                      22.4          15.1         14.8         16.0         14.1         12.6         13.7
Official                                                                (30.1)       (26.1)        (20.0)       (17.9)       (16.2)       (16.8)         ()
Private                                                                  (9.7)        (8.2)         (7.4)        (7.6)        (9.1)       (10.0)       (10.2)
DBD DOD/UTotlDMOD1%) SI28.4                                                            27.0          27.4         26.8         26.8         24.5         24.1
IMD di.borae  t./iottl Sre..  di.bor.-t                                   24.6         27.1          28.9         22.9         25.7         13.3         19.3
IBID debt aervice/tottl debt .-rvlca                                      34.4         28.9          13.7         14.3          8.8         13.1         25.4
IDA wOD/tota1  DOD                                                         1.6           1.0          0.9          0.8          0.8          0.6          0.5
IDA di.bereat/tot.l gro.. di.br.-ct.                                        -             -            -            -            -            -            -
I    d1b  servical/ttl dit aeri..                                           -           0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1          0.0          0.0
a/ W'rld Back Atla. MNthod
b/ Prelieiecry
c/ Poblic cd publily g.cr*eteed debt
Nove,vbr 11, 1981
Colnbia livicioi



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 11
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1981)
(US$ million)
Loan                                                            Amount (less Cancellation)
Number  Year  Borrower                          Purpose            Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
57 fully disbursed loans and one IDA credit                    1,070.6      23.5 /1   --
849     1972  Instituto Colombiano de
la Reforma Agraria             Irrigation         2.2                 .6
920     1973  Colombia                          Education          21.2               7.6
1072    1975  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply       27.0               6.3
1118    1975  Colombia                          Rural Settlement 19.5                 4.1
1163    1975  Colombia                          Agriculture       21.0               10.8
1223    1976  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.   80.0                 2.0
1352    1977  Colombia                          Rural Dev.        52.0               16.5
1357    1977  Banco de la Republica             Agricultural Cr. 64.0                14.9
1450    1977  Empresa Nacional de               Communications   58.3                50.1
Telecomunicaciones
1451    1977  Banco de .la Republica            Industrial Cr.   15.0                 1.0
1471    1977  Colombia                          Highways          90.0               39.6
1487    1978  Colombia                          Nutrition         25.0               18.2
1523    1978  Empresas Municipales de Cali   Water Supply         13.8               11.6
1558    1978  Colombia                          Urban Develop-
ment            24.8              22.3
1582    1978  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power               126.0               87.3
1583    1978  Colombia                          Power             50.0               15.9
1593    1978  Zona Franca Industrial            Industrial
y Comercial de Cartagena         Export           15.0               9.8
1598    1978  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.  100.0                14.4
1624    1979  Colombia                          Airports          61.0               32.9
1628    1979  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                      Power             84.0               41.3
1694    1979  Colombia                          Urban Develop-
ment            13.5              12.6
1697    1979  Empresa de Acueducto
y Alcantarillado
de Bogota                      Water Supply      30.0               27.9
/1   Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 11
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30,1981) (Continued)
Number  Year  Borrower                          Purpose             Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
1725    1979  Interconexion
Electrica, S.A.                Power              72.0              72.0
1726    1979  Instituto Nacional de
Fomento Municipal              Water Supply       31.0              31.0
1737    1979  Instituto Colombiano
de la Reforma Agraria          Agriculture Cr.   20.0               18.6
1762    1979  Cerro Matoso, S.A.                Mining-Nickel      80.0              18.3
1807    1980  Empresa de Energia Electrica   Power                 87.0              87.0
de Bogota
1825 /1 1980  Empresas Publicas de              Communications    44.0               44.0
Medellin
1834    1980  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.    32.0               29.6
1857    1980  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.   150.0              150.0
1868    1980  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power                 125.0            125.0
1953 /2 1981  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power                 85.0              85.0
1966 /1 1981  Colombia                          Rural Roads         33.0             33.0
1996 /2 1981  Instituto Colombiano de           Irrigetion         37.0              37.0
Hidrologia
1999 /2 1981  Corporacion Electrica de la    Power                  36.0             36.0
Costa Atlantica
2008 /2 1981  Empresa de Energia                Power              359.0            359.0
Electrica de Bogota
TOTAL                                           3,254.9      23.5
Of which has been repaid                           561.5      2.3
Total now outstanding                           2,693.4      21.2
Amount sold                         51.0
Of which has been repaid            45.1             5.9
Total now held by Bank and IDA                  2,687.5      21.2
Total undisbursed                                                  1,573.2
/1   Not yet effective.
/2   Not yet signed.



- 27 -                       ANNEX II
Page 3 of 11
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September  30. 1981)
Type of            Amount in USS million
Year               Obligor                    Business           Loan   Equity   Total
1959       Laminas del Caribe, S.A.          Fiber-board          .50      -        .50
1960-1965  Inoustrias Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                      Food products      1.99    .08       2.07
1961       Envases Colombianos, S.A.         Metal cans           .70      -        .70
1961-1968  Morfeo-Productos para el
Hogar, S.A.                     Home furniture      .08    .09        .17
1961       Electromanufacturas, S.A.         Electrical
equipment         .50      -        .50
1962       Corporacion Financiera            Development
Colombiana                        financing           -   2.02       2.02
1962-1963  Corporacion Financiera            Development            -   2.04       2.04
Nacional                          financing
1963-1967  Compania Colombiana de            Textiles            1.98    .15       2.13
1968-1969 Tejidos,. S.A.
1964-1970  Corporacion Financiera de         Development
Caldas                            financing           -    .81        .81
1964-1968  Forjas de Colombia, S.A.          Steel forging          -   1.27       1.27
1966       Almacenes Generales de            Warehousing         1.00      -       1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966       Industria Ganadera                Livestock           1.00    .58       1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74 ENKA de Colombia, S.A.            Textiles           5.00   2.60        7.60
1969       Compania de Desarrollo de         Tourism                -    .01        .01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(HOTURISMO)
1969-1973  Corporacion Financiera del        Development            -    .45        .45
Norte                             financing
1969       Corporacion Financiera del        Development            -    .43        .43
Valle                             financing
1970       Promotora de Hoteles de           Tourism              .23    .11        .34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977  Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                 Tourism              .80    .25       1.05
1973-1975  Corporacion Colombiana de         Housing                -    .46        .46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974       Cementos Boyaca, S.A.             Cement              1.50      -       1.50
1975       Cementos del Caribe, S.A.         Cement              3.60      -       3.60
1976       Las Brisas                        Mining              6.00      -       6.00
1977       Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.           Utilities          13.00   2.00      15.00
1977       Compania Colombiana de Clinker, Cement and
S.A.                                Construction
Material         2.43    .30       2.73
1980       Leasing Bolivar                   Leasing             9.00    .19       9.19
1981       Petroleos Colombianos Ltd.        Chemicals and
Petrochemicals 12.15   3.42       15.57
Total Gross Commitments                             61.46  17.26      78.72
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                              46.65   8.91      55.56
Total commitments now held by IFC                   14.81   8.35      23.16
Total undisbursed                                    8.54    .42       8.96



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 11
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
As of September 30, 1981 1/
1.        Ln. No. 849 Second Atlantico Development; US$2.2 million, June 30, 1972.
Effective date: November 14, 1972
Closing Date:    original - March 31, 1978
current - September 30, 1981
The project is the second phase of a scheme to develop about 17,000
ha of seasonally inundated land for agricultural production. At the request
of the Government, US$2.8 million of the loan of US$5.0 million was cancelled
in February 1977 and as of September 30, 1981, US$0.6 million remained undis-
bursed. Settlement of farmers within the project areas was only partially
carried out and the provision of technical assistance/farm credit needs
improvement.  Because heavy seasonal rainfall in 1979 resulted in severe
flooding in the project area, a study is being carried out to reassess the
flood protection and drainage requirements of the area. The project comple-
tion mission will take place in March 1982, once the report by the hydrologic
consultants has been completed.
2.        Ln. No. 920 Education III; US$21.2 million, July 19, 1973.
Effective date: January 9, 1974
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1977
current - December 31, 1981
Project execution was suspended in mid-1975 pending redefinition of
sector priorities by the Government. It resumed in 1977 after the Bank agreed
to redimension of the project to give greater emphasis to primary education,
but suffered continuous delays. In June 1978, the Government proposed to the
Bank to reduce the scope of the project and to cancel a large portion of the
loan. However, the new administration, which came to office in August 1978,
retracted the proposal and decided to proceed with the project as modified in
1977. Since reactivating the project, the Borrower has made progress in
planning, construction, educational programming and personnel training, and
project execution is proceeding normally. Nevertheless, because of the delay
and higher costs, the scope of the project has been reduced. The closing date
of the loan will be extended by an additional three months.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 11
3.        Ln. No. 1072 Second Multi-City Water Supply and Sewerage Project;
US$27 million, January 16, 1975.-
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    December 31, 1981
Project implementation slower during the first semester of 1981
because of managerial problems and the ground water component and subprojects
in Bananquilla, Cartagena and Villavicencio are now expected to be completed
by the end of 1982. Despite the delays, works on the other four subprojects
are expected to be completed before December 31, 1981. INSFOPAL's management
has been urged to strengthen project supervision and to accelerate project
execution and disbursements. As of September 30, 1981, US$20.7 million or
77% of the loan has been disbursed.
4.        Ln. No. 1118 Caqueta Rural Settlement Project; US$19.5 million,
June 2, 1975.
Effective date: April 1, 1976
Closing Date:    Original - October 31, 1979
Current - December 31, 1981
Project implementation is behind schedule and the closing date will
need to be extended by one year to December 31, 1982 in order to complete
project targets. A recurring problem, which imposes serious operational
constraints, is the slow transfer of counterpart funds to the project. As
of September 30, 1981, US$4.1 million or 21% of the loan remained undisbursed.
To facilitate the completion of the project, the closing date of the loan will
be extended for one year.
5.        Ln. No. 1163 Cordoba 2 Agricultural Development Project; US$21 mil-
lion, September 12, 1975.
Effective Date:   March 30, 1976
Closing Date:      June 30, 1983
A few months after effectiveness, the Government decided to give
responsibility for project civil works to another agency. This decision
delayed the initiation of the project and implementation is still behind
schedule. One of the project's main problems continues to be inadequate
budget allocations to carry out project works and to provide sub-loans to
farmers. Maintenance of roads and drains constructed under the loan,
technical assistance to farmers and rate of land transfer to beneficiaries
are inadequate; the executing agencies are taking corrective measures. The
project's social component, schools, domestic water supply and health, is
progressing satisfactorily. As of September 30, 1981, US$10.2 million or
about 49% of the loan amount had been disbursed.



-30 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 11
6.        Ln. No. 1223 Sixth Development Finance Companies Project; US$80.0 mil-
lion, March 31, 1976.
Effective Date:   September 1, 1976
Closing Date:      June 30, 1981
The project is proceeding satisfactorily and virtually all loan
funds are committed. As of September 30, 1981, about 98% of the loan had
been disbursed.
7.        Ln. No, 1352 Integrated Rural Development Project; US$52.0 million,
January 7, 1977.
Effective Date: August 26, 1977
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The project is now in its fifth year of implementation and proceed-
ing satisfactorily in spite of its complexity. The project's components of
credit, technical assistance and training are proceeding satisfactorily, and
institutional coordination continues to be effective. The forestry and water
supply components have suffered some delays. Administrative procedures, such
as procurement and disbursement, continue to present some difficulties, but
they are much less serious than initially. Control and monitoring of project
execution is comprehensive, and first stage evaluation is currently underway.
As of September 30, 1981, US$35.5 million, or 68% of the loan had been disbursed.
8.        Ln. No. 1357 Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$64.0 million,
February 4, 1977.
Effective Date:   September 6, 1977
Closing Date:      December 31, 1981.
The US$25 million assigned to medium and large farmers has been fully
committed and disbursed. However, only 39% of subloans allocated to small
farmers have been committed, and no satisfactory arrangement has yet been
found to speed up commitments. Concern over possible diversion and substitu-
tion of subloan funds led the Borrower to increase substantially its end-use
supervision. About 85% of loan funds for credit to agroindustries have been
committed for 160 subprojects. As of September 30, 1981, US$49.1 million, or
77% of the loan had been disbursed.
9.        Ln. No. 1450 Telecommunications IV; US$58.3 million, July 7, 1977.
Effective Date: October 3, 1977.
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982.
The project had been delayed as a result of several key personnel
changes in the Borrower. Current activities are concentrated on the procure-
ment of project goods, the planning of cable networks, trunk exchange expan-
sion, and design of buildings to house equipment. Satisfactory progress is
being made in the acquisition program of smaller local telephone companies.
As of September 30, 1981, US$50.1 million, or 86% of the loan, remained
undisbursed.



- 31 -                         ANNEX II
Page 7 of 11
10.       Ln. No. 1451 Second Small-Scale Industry Project; US$15 million,
September 27, 1977.
Effective Date: February 14, 1978.
Closing Date:    September 30,1981
After initial delays in loan effectiveness mainly due to management
changeover, project implementation is proceeding well and loan funds are
fully committed. As of September 30, 1981, 93% of the loan had been disbursed.
11.       Ln. No. 1471 Highways VII; US$90 million, July 5, 1977.
Effective Date: November 28, 1977.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The Project-comprises three main programs: rehabilitation, main-
tenance, and vehicle weight control. After initial delays, the project is now
developing satisfactorily. All rehabilitation works have been contracted and
25% of the roads completed. The maintenance program began in March 1980;
consultants to assist MOPT in carrying out the program have been retained and
the bulk of the maintenance equipment has been purchased. The vehicle weight
control program is about to begin after a 28-month delay. As of September 30,
1981, about US$50.4 million had been disbursed.
12.       Ln. No. 1487 Integrated Nutrition Improvement Project; US$25 million,
November 10, 1977.
Effective Date: March 9, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Progress has been achieved in the major components of health,
nutrition education and water supply but execution is running about a year
behind schedule. Initial delays occurred in two subsidiary components--home
food production and food quality control--but activities are now underway.
Project management and coordination have been sound, flexible and effective.
Project monitoring and evaluation systems are operating effectively.
13.       Ln. No. 1523 Second Cali Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$13.8
million, June 20, 1978.
Effective Date: January 31, 1979
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Because of EMCALI's failure to comply with some of its obligations
under the Loan Agreement dealing with the finances of its Water and Sewerage
Division, on January 29, 1981, the Bank suspended disbursements under this
loan. Disbursements were resumed on September 4, 1981 once EMCALI has taken
corrective measures. As of September 30, 1981, US$11.6 million or 84% of the
loan remained undisbursed.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 11
14.       Ln. 1558 Urban Development Project; US$24.8 million, July 21, 1978.
Effective Date: December 1, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
While project execution and coordination has recently improved,
overall progress is still running behind schedule. Project implementation
plans in 16 of the 23 cities have been approved by the Bank. The new General
Manager of SIP intends to accelerate project implementation and has established
a working unit to monitor progress and evaluate the project. For some time,
the Bank has been recommending a review of the project scope to ensure its
completion on time and recently SIP has presented a proposal which, while not
changing the basic concept of the project, involves design modifications in
most components. This proposal is currently being reviewed by the Bank.
15.       Ln. No. 1582 San Carlos I Hydro Power Project; US$126 million,
July 14, 1978.
Effective Date: April 5, 1979
Closing Date:    June 30, 1984
Project works are proceeding on schedule and main contracts for
equipment have been signed. As of September 30, 1981, US$38.7 million or
31% of the loan had been disbursed.
16.       Ln. No. 1583 500 kV Interconnection Project; US$50 million, July 14,
1978.
Effective Date: October 17, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Project works have recently been initiated. The Bank-financed
component (transmission line) is proceeding on schedule, at lower-than-
anticipated cost. However, project completion is likely to be delayed by
about two years as a result of KfW's objection to the contract award for
substations (KfW was originally to finance this component). The Government is
obtaining other sources of finance. The line is to be energized temporarily
at 220 kV in 1982, pending full completion of the works.
17.       Ln. No. 1593 Cartagena Industrial Export Processing Zone; US$15
million, August 1, 1978.
Effective Date: January 30, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1983
After an initial delay due to procurement problems, project implemen-
tation is now running smoothly. Construction and the promotional campaign are
both well under way, but there have been delays in contracting the water supply
works and in construction of a portion of the access road. Difficult soil
conditions encountered at the site require that substantial soil investigations
be carried out before site preparation is initiated.



-,33 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 11
18.       Ln. No. 1598 Seventh Development Finance Companies Project;
US$100 million, July 27, 1978.
Effective Date: November 28, 1978
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The project is proceeding satisfactorily and loan funds are virtually
fully committed. As of September 30, 1981, 87% of the loan, or about US$85.6
million, had been disbursed.
19.       Ln. No. 1624 Airports Project; US$61 million, December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: July 24, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1984
Project works are well under way. Because of poor soils, there is a
construction delay at the future Rio Negro airport and instrumentation has been
installed in order to estimate amount of camber necessary to compensate for'
future settlement. As of September 30, 1981, about 54% of the loan had been
disbursed.
20.       Ln. No. 1628 Mesitas Hydroelectric Power Project; US$84 million,
April 9, 1979.
Effective Date: August 21, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
Project works are well advanced, although with a 3-6 month delay.
Higher-than-anticipated costs (estimated at US$62 million) are expected as a
result of higher bids than forecast at appraisal. As of September 30, 1981,
49% of the loan had been disbursed.
21.       Ln. No. 1694 Second (Cartagena) Urban Development; US$13.5 million,
August 31, 1979.
Effective Date: June 20, 1980
Closing Date:    December 31, 1984
The project is about 18 months behind schedule, with cost overruns,
which are mainly due to inflation, of about 39%. As of September 30, 1981,
US$12.6 million, or 97% of loan funds remained undisbursed.
22.       Ln. No. 1697 Third Bogota Water Supply; US$30 million, November 30, 1979.
Effective Date: April 22, 1980
Closing Date:    June 30, 1983
Significant progress has been made on the Bogota River sewage treatment
and rectification study, the construction of water and sewerage systems in low-
income barrios, the purchase of meters and of maintenance equipment. Implementa-
tion of major civil works, however, has been slow. Loan disbursements are only



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 11
8% of appraisal projections and project completion is now scheduled for
December 31, 1983, one year later than the scheduled appraisal completion date.
EAAB is presently taking adequate measures to implement all project components
and further delays are not anticipated.
23.       Ln. No. 1725 San Carlos II Hydro Power; US$72 million, November 30, 1979.
Effective Date: June 19, 1981
Closing Date:    June 30, 1985
Project works are proceeding well, with good performance by the Borrower.
24.       Ln. No. 1726 Third Water and Sewerage; US$31 million, November 30, 1979.
Effective Date: February 28, 1980
Closing Date:    June 30, 1984
Project implementation is under way with the final designs for 21 of
the 23 subprojects approved and with designs for the remaining subprojects in
final stages of preparation. INSFOPAL has agreed on a master contract amendment
for subsidiary loan agreements which, when executed, will allow accelerated
construction and loan disbursements. The general performance of the Borrower
(INSFOPAL) is not yet fully satisfactory. Corrective measures will need to be
taken and a supervision mission is scheduled to review the problem. As of
September 30, 1981, the loan remained undisbursed.
25.       Ln. No. 1737 Third Agricultural Credit; US$20 million, November 30, 1979.
Effective Date: October 1, 1980
Closing Date:    June 30, 1985
Disbursements are lagging, even taking into account the one year delay
in effectiveness, mostly because of slow on-lending commitments. The revolving
fund for credit is working well, but overall financial management of INCORA
needs strengthening. As of September 30, 1981, 9% of the loan had been disbursed.
26.       Ln. No. 1762-CO Cerro Matoso Nickel; US$80 million, December 20, 1979.
Effective Date: July 3, 1980
Closing Date:    June 30, 1983
The project is expected to be completed by April 1982. Cost overruns
will require a revision of the financing plan and, possibly, additional
commitments from the sponsors.
27.       Ln. No. 1807-CO Bogota Power Distribution; US$87 million,
February 6, 1981.
Effective Date: September 25, 1981
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
This loan became effective on September 25, 1981 and project imple-
mentation is underway.



35 -                        ANNEX II
Page 11 of 11
28.       Ln. No. 1825-CO Fifth Telecommunications; US$44 million,
December 19, 1980.
Effective Date: October 30, 1981
Closing Date:    June 30, 1985
This loan became effective on October 30, 1981 and is proceeding
satisfactorily.
29.       Ln. No. 1834-CO Third Small-Scale Industry; US$32 million,
December 10, 1980.
Effective Date: July 9, 1981.
Closing Date:    June 30, 1981.
This loan became effective on July 9, 1981, and project implementa-
tion is underway.
30.       Ln. No. 1857-CO Eighth DFC; US$150 million, December 10, 1980.
Effective Date: July 9, 1981.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1984.
This loan became effective on July 9, 1981 and is proceeding satis-
factorily. As of September 30, 1981 US$8.9 million had been committed to
sub-projects.
31.       Ln. No. 1868-CO Guadalupe IV Hydro Power; US$125 million,
December 19, 1980.
'Effective Date: June 29, 1981.
Closing Date:    June 30, 1985.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
32.       Ln. No. 1953-CO Playas Hydro Power; US$85 million, November 6, 1981.
This loan -is not yet effective.
33.       Ln. No. 1966-CO Rural Roads; US$33 million, September 24, 1981.
This loan is not yet effective.
34.       Ln. No. 1996-CO Irrigation Rehabilitationl US$37 million.
This loan was approved on May 19, 1981 but is not yet signed.
35.       Ln. No. 1999-CO Village Electrification; US$36 million.
This loan was approved on May 21, 1981 but is not yet signed.
36.       Ln. No. 2008-CO Guavio Power; US$359 million.
This loan was approved on May 28, 1981 but is not yet signed.



- 36 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
RAILWAYS VII
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Event
(a) Time taken to prepare project:        12 months
(b) Agency which prepared project:        Colombian National Railways
(ITALCONSULT (Consultant)
(c) First presentation to Bank:           October 1978
(d) First mission to review project:    February 1979
(e) Departure of Appraisal Mission:       September 1980
(f) Comnpletion of Negotiations:          December 1981
(g) Planned date of Effectiveness:        September 1982
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
The project would be monitored closely and the targets included in the
Program of Action (Annex IV) would be reviewed every six months with
disbursements linked to the achievement of targets. A mid-project review
would be undertaken in September 30, 1983 before proceeding with Group II of
the project.
Section III: Special Conditions
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a) CNR would reduce further its passenger services in order to free
locomotives for freight traffic (paragraph 36).
(b) Group II of the project is conditional upon signing contracts with
potential shippers (paragraph 42).
(c) The terms and conditions of employment for consultants would be
satisfactory to CNR and the Bank (paragraph 44).
(d) The Government would assist CNR in its dealings with the Labor Union
(paragraph 47).



- 37 -                       Annex III
Page 2 of 2
(e) CNR would carry out improvements in its conditions of employment in
order to retain and attract qualified staff (paragraph 47).
(f) CNR would increase tariffs in order to meet agreed working and
operating ratio targets, including an increase of 10% in real terms
in January 1983, 1884 and 1985 (paragraph 48).
(g) CNR would set up a contributory pension scheme (paragraph 50).
(h) Loan disbursements would be conditioned to CNR achieving agreed
targets of the Program of Action (paragraph 52).



Annex IV
Summary Description of the Program of Action 1982-1986
The nato features of the Progran of Action are the:
Acklevewent of quantitative targets to accordnce with the table giveo below
1979         1980         1981                     IQR'                        1948                                                 1985                      1986
JU1NE       DECEMBER        JUNE         DECEMBER    JUNE          DECEMBER       JUNE         DECEMBER    JuNE           DECEMBER
1.1    Availability of diesel locoI otives a. a                  58            32           30                36             39           48             53         58               64         67             73          76             80
% of total fleet
1.2    Availability of freight cars as a % of                    75            75           75                77             78           79             80         81               82         84             85          86             87
total fleet
301         322          N/A              305             305          307            307        308              308        309            309        309             309
1.3    Average net load per train (tons)
29.5        30.3         30.5              32.8            32.8         32.8           32.8       32.9             32.9       33.0           33.0       33.0            33.0
Average net load per car (tons)
15.6        18.2        N/A                16.5           16.0          15.5           15.0       14.5            13.5        13.0           12.0       11.5            11.0
1.4    Wag.ne turnaround time (days)
1.5    Pronreament of Ties
N/A        N/A         N/A           100,000        101,700      120,000         134,700   130,000          124,900   160,000          162,257   160,000         162,480
1.5.1  Woodan treated ties
N/A        N/A         N/A            15,000         18,400       24,000          26,000    26,000           32,500    12,000           13,000    12,000          13,000
1.5.2  Concrete ties
1.6    Track Rehabilitation (kn)                                   N/A        N/A           -                70              71           90             92         90               98        100            108        100             108
1.7    Average Staff
1.71   Administration                                              N/A        N/A         N/A             2,027          1,987        1,952           1,922      1,887            1,857      1,822          1,792      1,757           1,727
- Administration                                           N/A         N/A         N/A               123            123          123             123        123             123        123             123        123             123            1
- Engineers Operations                                     N/A         N/A         N/A             2,150          2,110        2,075           2,045     2,010            1,980      t,945           1,915      1,880          1,850
1.7.2  Operations:                                                 N/A        N/A          N/A            1,813          1,813         1,968          1,968      2,011            2,011      2,011          2,011      2,011           2,011
-Wark hops                                                 N/A         N/A         N/A             2,938          2,938        3,088          3,088      3,238            3,238      3,288           3,288      3,338          3,338             1
- Transportation                                           N/A         N/A         N/A             3,285          3,285        3,285          3,285      3,305            3,305      3,355           3,355      3,370          3,370
- Traconsoricationa                                        N/A         N/A         N/A               422            422          4,44            444       466              466        466             466        466            466
T ebtotai  OperatIons aNIA                                     N/A          N/A            8,458          8,458         8,785          8,785      9,020            9,020      9,120          97T!       ,185            9,185
10,345       10,392      10,328            10,608         10,568       10,86           10,830    11,030           11,000    11.065           11 035    11,065          11,035
Total Average Staff f.                                    1.9          0381,0                          058          1   8          ___                         ......      a--           .J.        ___
1.8    Before Nornalioatico
1.0.1  Working Ratio (X)                                                                  175                    170                          143                        112                         96                          86
1.8.2  Operating Ratio (3)                                                                181                    175                          159                        124                        107                          94
I.?    After Nor-1malatioo
1.9.1   Working Ratio  i%)                                                                 _                     148                          127                        104                         91                          82
1.9.2  Operating Ratio (2)                                                                 -                     153                          142                        115                        103                          90
1.10   Freight tariff iocros.e (in real terns) 7                                                                                           10(J.an)                    1l(Jan.)                   10(Jan.)
1.11   Implementation of Staff Improvemect PI.o                                                                                        Janoary 1, 1983
1.12   Co=encenent of Training Program                                                                    October 1, 1982
1.13   Completion of Acturial Studien                                                                                                  December 31, 1983
1.14   Implemontation of Pension Plan                                                                                                                            J January 1,1985
1.15   Izplmenotation of Inpro-ed
Procurement Procedures                                                                          October 1, 1982
1.16   Icplementotion of Di-ciplienry Acti.o.                                                             October 1, 1982
1.17   Revaloation and Updated Doprociation
of Fixod Assets                                                                                                             December 31, 1983
Actual;  1979.1981
Forecast: 1982-1986
s-rce: ITALCONSULT, CNR and Mission
January 1982






IBRD 3667RI
--: S. AMERICA                                          b       .                                          ,.
CA~~~~O
c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ik
sjf ); - ; . - ; dOc~~~~~~~artageno                  g          66n
t:   0   %   0   .                 t         t            \    ~~~~~~~~~~ ~         ~ ~         ~     ~~C E S A Rj    
:   : 4  4         \ ~~~~~MAGDALENA \ j                              atoca,4e 
~~           Cham;a
4Av
57 < a    0  0 0                         )CORDOBA                     r DE
V8                                                                          Capulco i' *  /  /   /  SANTANDER   ThntPh-s bean preardbythe
(  Wdd 8aek. -tff enOlOteay for
terept t  t - d,h tisahed
.  .  :  t;   !   :              -   '          )             -R:                s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-   the denorn,ntisn  used amd th
do -5t nttp(y  Ottt the pett of the
Word Bek and ,te afhte,ay
' ';   \          \    t~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ -  (            < ~~~~'Puerto E° (                     ;o; *A ld pttat en thet deto' t stetho of
-j --   <   _   w/X_y Wi   fCadetta \ucaramanga-\
A N   O   Q U I A                    Barrancabermeja
S'QN T A N D E Rp.                    A R A U C A
Bolombolo                                   BaribOsOC  RiO9
B   ~~~  ~BelencitoA~ st _IRJE
h,J                                 0 ~~~~~~~~quInqui ~~~~~~~~Bonza.,--
'.~ ~ ~~~H  CO 'A 'r :et'~ S                       uzr c   
rela.  :CA  La D         
RISARALDA'p        Moriq         co
> : ~~~~~~~~Cdortagip t  ZP\/eh,gaCro 9 _
NW FO  I  CnA SBA NTA                         R-E
CaIr ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ 0IaIo              ' . s~I 
--    .  <    -                ZarzaSnia    /  ZirardotZarz                                                             <
t:~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~B nahen_t. ra           Andahkcia  Buenos-, 7                                                             te
-~~~~~v tuS  ura (           OL IVA                                                                     i>
>2opradera  g J  g                  ~~~~~~~~M   E   T   A
/ V A L L E /tali/ 
Timba  ~''~Son.
- :- / T.... Suar ez           Ignacio
t   ' \  Nelnvjq            CO LO M B I A
C A U C A                )
*0Popaydn                         NATIONAL RAILROADS
*  t    <     ?                ') ~~~~~~~~~H U I L A    QUT
'5-                          ~~~~~~~CAQUETA
N A R I NO                                                                               MAIN LINES
0Tumaco               (                                                                        BRANCH LINES
El Diniso  5-)                                    SECONDARY LINES
.5).. al                                              LINES CLOSED
\- - -                                                      PROJECTED LINE
* 0  ot. -50  100    150   200   250                         R RIVERS
.       PLTUMAYO           KILMETERS                              -   -    DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
ECUADOR                \   .                             .                                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES



