Lè-/V 3 S6i- C I6 Y4.
Document of
The Warld Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
M I tC31,() I OTCH F CO PY
Report No.: 11120-CHA    Type: ("AR)
Title:  SHANGHAI PORT RESTPUCTEJRTINQ AN                        Reprt No. 11120-CA
Aut.hc.lr: PARTHASAiATH4. M.,.
Ext.:8'2925 FooMr:E80E3 Dept.: ASTIN
STAFF APPRAI'AL REPORT
CHINA
SHANGHAI PORT RESTRUCTURING AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NOVEMBER 23, 1992
Transport Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
This docunent hs a restded distibuton and may be used by nepens only in the peformance of
their officl dutes. Its contens may no otherwise be dised wihout Wodd Bank sahikateon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of July 1, 1992)
Currency Name - Renminbi
Currency Unit - Yuan (Y)
Y 1  $0.018
$1.00 . Y 5.45
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 cubic meter -   35.31 cubic feet
1 ton         -   1.1023 tons (short)
tph           -   tons per hour
2             -   square meter
ppm                parts per million
TEU           -   twenty-foot equivalent unit
ABBDIATIONS
CIF       - Cost, insurance, and freight
COSCO     - China Ocean Shipping Company
EPB       - Environmental Protection Bureau
FYP       - Five Year Plan
GEF       - Global Environment Facility
GOC       - Government of China
HSA       - Harbor Superintendency Administration
ICB       - International competitive bidding
LCB       - Local competitive bidding
MARPOL    - International Convention for the Prevention of Marine Pollution
MEPB      - Municipal Environmental Protection Bureau
HOC       - Ministry of Communications
MOF       - Ministry of Finance
MOR       - Ministry of Railways
PCMIS     - Port Costing and Management Information System
SAA       - State Audit Administration
SMG       - Shanghai Municipal Government
SOA       - State Oceanic Administration
SPA       - Shanghai Port Authority
SPC       - State Planning Commission
TOR       - Terms of Reference
This report was prepared by Ismail Mobarek, M.S. Parthasarathi, K.C. Chung,
M.N. Rasheed, and Han-Kang Yen, and is based on the information collected
during project appraisal in May-June 1992. Peer reviewers are: Messrs. G.
Tharakan (Economics), E. Vernigora (Engineering), L. Morrell (Finance), and A.
Bruestle (Environment). The Country Director is Mr. Shahid Javed Burki and
the Division Chief is Mr. Daud Ahmad.



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
CHI
SKANCHA  PtrT RURC ING MN  DEVILOPI4PT PROW=
LoAn and Project 8ummarv
People's Republic of China
AeMUR ar:             Shanghai Port Authority (SPA)
$150.0 million equivalent
hags^:                20'years, including five years' grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate
Onlendins Termo:      Between the Borrower and Shanghai Municipality and the
Shanghai Port Authority: 20 years, including five years'
grace, at an interest rate equal to 90 percent of the
Bank's variable interest rate per annum. The foreign
exchange risk and the commitment fee (0.75 percent per
annum on the unwithdrawn balance) would be.borne by SPA.
Prolect Oiective:    To assist the Shanghai Port Authority in (a) rationalizing
the long-term development of the port by gradually shifting
operations away from the city center and by promoting
terninal specialization, (b) providing needed additional
capacity in an optimla, environmentally sound way, and (c)
increasing efficiency by introducing modern methods of
operational and financial management.
Project DegariLtion:  (a) Formulation and implementation of an action plan for
restructuring the existing port facilities on the Huangpu
river to rationalize their use and move cargo operations
away from the city center, (b) provision of new and
replacement cargo handling equipment for existing
terminals, (c) measures to improve the Port Authority's
financial condition through tariff restructuring and other
measures, (d) construction of new termiunls at Vaigaoqiao
and Luojing on the Yangtze river, and installation of the
necessary cargo handling equipment, and (s) technical
assistance and training.
The main risks relate to potential delays in project
implementation and the project impact on the environment.
Based on past experience with Bank-financed port projects
in China, the implementation risks are being minimized
through closer supervision, advancing the procurement
process in the project cycle and tightening the
prequalification process. On the institutional side, SPA
could face considerable financial risks if it does not
adopt management/financial reforms in a timely manner; SPA
has, however, agreed to take reform-oriented actions on
tariffs and institutional and financial improvements. As
regards th environment, all potential remedial measures
are being taken by the Port Authority and safety features
are being incorporated in the project design.
Thisdocumenthas ansftted distibution and may be used by raipWntsonly in X ofrmn
of thek oflia! duticLItscof aw ts amynctothorwi be diuksed without WwddEhakauthodiatknL



- iti.
Local        Foreign      Total
-------($ million) -----------
IltImalAd poits
Civil Works                            163.13         25.12       188.25
Equip_ent                               19.91        128.25      148.16
Technical Assistanc./TrarAing            0.15          1.65         1.80
Sub-total (Base cost)                  183.19        155.02       338.31
Physical contingency                    18.31         15.36        33.67
Price contingency                       27.01         25.39        52.49
Total project cost                     228.51        1Z 42Ia
SPA                                    228.51         45.77      274.28
IRD                                                  150.00      150.00
Total                                     LJL95.77 J4E
IBRD FY   1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999
'----($ million) --------------------
Annual               2.0   14.5   22.5   33.0   31.5   36.0   10.5
Cumulative           2.0    16.5    39.0    72.0   103.5   139.5   150.0
AeGmlc Rato of Return  36.7 percant (weighted average)
N M IBRD Non. 24093, 24101 and 24102



- ili -
SHANGHAI PORT RUTRUCTTRING AND DEVL  E  PROJECT
Table of Contents
P No.
I.   THE TRANSPOR. SECTOR  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
A.   Introduction    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  . .
B.   Traffic   .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1
C.   Investment    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  2
D.   Transport losues and Objectives             . .      . .    2
S.   Bank Group Participation in Transport Sector  . . . . . . . .   4
II.  THE PORT SUBSECTOR      . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . .    8
A.   Port Traffic  . . . . . . . .     .8 . . .    . . . 
B.   Reforms i Port Subsectort              . . . . . . . . . .   8
C.   Operations and Naintenance                                   9
D. Naritime Environmnt          . . . . . .     . . . .          11
R.   Investment Priorities and Tecbnology  . ...      . .        11
F.   Port Costing and Tariff Restructuring...      . . .         12
G.   The Role of the Bank  . ...13
H.   Experience in Pst Lending to Port.s                         14
III. TiH PORT OF SJ HAN   . . . . . .. .  .  .  .  .   . . . . . . . . . .   .  15
A.   Locstion and Faclitlies.................    15
A.   Hinterland      ........    ........              ......    16
C.   Operations  . . . ....... . . . .. . .                      16
D.   Envirorment in the Shanh Area...    17
E    SPA Nanagement and Organization ...18
F.   Planning, Budgeting, Accounting and Audit . . . . . . . . . .  20
0.   Traffic--Past and Future  .............21
H.   Future Development of Shangai Port .       .......          22
IV.  Tl   PROJECT  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  25
A.   Project Objectives and Scope . .... .  .  .   ........ ...  25
S.   Details of the Project . ................. .   25
C.   Cost Estiates  . . .  . . . ..... . . . . . . .. . . . . .  28
D.   Finacing  Plan    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  28
3.   Status of Preparation ....  .  .  .   ............................  29
F.   Project Implematation  .................. ......... 29
G.   Pro reent             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . ..     . .  30
H.   Disbursmets   _  n t  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .#.  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  31
1.   Project Monitoring  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . .  32
J.   Project Impact on Ecology and Environent . . . . . . . . . .  32



* iv -
V.   ECONOMC EVALUATION. ........ ......   ..*.*. .                       Ss
A.   Introduction  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  35
B.   Costs and Benefits of the Proposed Project  . . . . . . . . .  36
C.   Economic Return and Sensitivity Analysis  . . . . .  . . . .  37
VI.  FINCIAL ANALYSIS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  40
A.    Introduction  . . . . . . . .  .*. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  40
D.   SPA's Past and Present Financial Performance  . . . . . . . .  41
C.   Lon8-Term Financial Objective . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  42
D.   SPA's Financial Reforms and Institutional Developmnt . . . .  42
E.   Future Financial Performance  . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . .  43
F.   Sensitivity Analysis.. . . . . ....... .  45
G.   Management Reforms and Training Program . . . . . . . . . . .  45
VII. AGREEMES REACHED AND RECOMMENnTIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  47
1.   List of Documents in Project File
2.   Status Report on Recommendations of the October 1987
World Bank Mission
3.   Unitization Study
4.   Environmental Impact Assessment
S.   Dangerous Cargo Handling Study
6.   Traffic Origin/Destination Analysis and Cargo Owners'
Survey for Major Commodities
7.   SPA's Long-Term Restructuring Action Plan
8.   Technical Note on Fly Ash
9.   Outline of Semi-Annual Progress Reports
10.  Notes and Major Assumptions Underlying SPA's Financial
Forecast for 1992-1997
11.  Outline for the Training Program for SPA's Financial
Staff
12.  Corporate Financial Action Plan
134  Financial and Operating Performanee Targets
1.1     China: Freight Traffic
1.2     China: Passenger Traffic
143     China: Investment in the Transport Sector
(Including Posts and Telecommunications)
1.4     Transport Investment vs. Economic Output
3.1     Port Traffic (1981-1991) and Forecast (to 2005)
3.2     Port Traffic by Modes
4.1     Summary of Project Cost Estimates
4.2     Project Cost Estimates - Luojing
4.3     Project Cost Estimates - Waigaoqiao
4.4     Project Cost Estimtes - Replacement and
Additional Equipment for Existing Terminals
4.5     8quipment for Valgaoqiao



4.6(a)   Implementation Schedule
4.6(b)   Project Launch Action Table
4.7      Bqulpment to be Procured under Local Competitive
Bidding Procedure (LCB)
4.8      Procurement Packaging
4.9      Estimated Disbursement Schedule
5.1      Operational Parameters Assumed for Economic
Evaluation
5.2      Economic Project Cost
5.3      Price Conmersion Factor for Capital Costs
5.4      Summary of Port Traffic
5.5(a)   Cargo Randling Without and With Proposed Berths
(Break Bulk Berths)
5.5(b)   Cargo Handling Without and With Proposed Berths
(Construction Materials)
5.5(c)   Cargo Handling Without and With Proposed Berths
(Coal Berths)
5.5(&)   Cargo Handling Vithout and With Proposed Berths
(Container Berths)
5.5(e)   Cargo Handling Without and With Proposed Berths
(Bulk Fertilizer Berths)
5.6      Loading/Unloading Cost Savings
5.7      Economic Benefits Summary
5.8(a)   Economic Rate Return Summary
5.8(b) &
5.8(c)   Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and Sensitivity
Analysis
6.1       PA's Income Statement: Actual, 1984-91;
Fore2ast, 1992-97
6.2       PA's Cash Flow Statement:  Forecast, 1992-97
6.3      SPA's balance Sheet:  Actual, 1990-91; Forecast,
1992-97
1     Organization of the Shanghai Port Authority
2     Typinal Organizatlon of District in Shanghai Port
NM
1.    Shanghai Port Project (IBRD 24093)
2.    Shanghai Port Project - Luojing Coal Terminal (IBRD 24101)
3.   Shanghai Port Project - Waigaoqiao Terminal (IBRD 24102)



I. THE TRANSPOD.?ROJECT
A. o      r
1.1       The transport system In Chin is characterized by intensive freight
traffic in relatlon to economic output, heavily suppressed demand, high
utilization of assets, a strong emphasis on railways, and distortions in
tariffs and costs.  Freight traffic Intensity in China, measured in ton-km per
dollar of GNP, is even higher than ln dhe (former) Soviet Union, and is much
higher than ln India, Brazil or the United States. The major reascns behind
China's high freight traffic intensity are a relatively large heavy Industry
sector, rellance on coal as the major source of energy, and a large volume of
other bulk products. In addition, energy officiency ln China is relatively
low, and there is still little preprocessing of raw materials before shipping.
On the other hand, the density of China's transport network, measured both on
the basis of geographic area and population, is among the lowest in the world.
B. IaC*=
1.2       MUM lxa=. The economic reforms introduced since 1979 have
provided the impetus for a large upsurge in both freight and passenger
traffic, severely taxing the transport system. Freight traffic from 1980 to
1990 grew at about 8 percent per annu; I rt traffic at about 9 percent per
annum; and intercity highway freight traffli at about 16 percent per annum--
consLstently higher than the growth of gross domestic production (Table 1.1).
These rates would have been even higher were it not for the capacity
constraints whlch are evident in all modes. Many power plants and factorLes
have fallen short of their productLon goals because the transport system has
not been able to deliver the needed raw materLals in tlme. Coal production in
Shanxi province, the largest coal producer, continues to be hampered by
inadequate rail capacity. Rural ares throughout the country are short of
transport services, both for crops and for local light industry. The capacity
of navigable waterways bas declined due to lack of investment in upgrading and
maintaining navigation channels. At the ports, lack of modern facllities
lidits the bandling in bulk of commodities such as fertilizers, cement, and
grain.
1.3       rmma g  ZsLCif.  The transport system is further taxed by the
marked growth in the demand for passenger travel in the last decade. Since
the economic reforms of 1979, passenger traffic bas grown at nearly 12 percent
per annum, illustrating the positive relationship between growth in income and
growth in demand for travel (Table 1.2). Nonetheless, passenger travel per
capita in China remains very low, In part because of severe capacity
constraints. Civil aviation traffli, despite growing much faster than any
other mode, is still very lidited, and moat long-distance journeys are made by
rail.



- 2 -
1.4      TrM_t Dand and Modal Split _      renda. Although the railway's
share of traffic has declined over the last 10-20 years and the trend is
likely to continue as the sbare of road traffic grows, unlike in most other
countries, rail transport still dominates freight and passenger traffic in
China. In 1990, 58 percent of freight and 46 percent of passenger traffic
were moved by rail, and the rest was moved by road, inland waterway, coastal
shipping, pipeline, and civil aviation. The continued pro eminence of the
railway is in part due to the structure of the Chinese economy, wherein heavy
industry Is prominent and coal is the dominant energy source. Coal and the
large quantities of other bulk inputs associated with heavy industry are well-
suited for railway transport and constitute the majority of railway traffic in
China. In the case of passenger transport, it is due partly to the virtual
absence of private automobiles, and partly to the poorly developed road
network. Civil aviation's share was only 3.1 percent for passenger traffic
and 0.04 percent for freight traffic.
1.5      As a result of the slowdown in economic activities in 1989/1990,
transport demand, particularly of passengers, dropped significantly, and
temporarily alleviated the congestion in transport facilities. Preliminary
figures indicate that resumption of high economic growth in 1991 has resulted
in a corresponding surge in transport demand.
C. In"snt
1.6       The Government of China has repeatedly described transport
bottlenecks to be one of the most severe constraints to economic growth.
However, transport investment levels have not kept pace with the increased
demands. Thus, while annual investments in the transport sector measured in
current prices surged approximately three times during the period of the
fifth, sixth and seventh five-year plans (1976-90), the share of total public
inestment dedicated to transport remnined quite steady over this period,
averaging about 13 percent (Table 1.3). Further, investments in transport
infrastructure represented only about 1.4 percent of GNP during 1980-90,
compared to 2-3 percent for countries such as the Republic of Korea and
Brazil. Transport investments as a percentage of GNP have declined from a
high of 2.4 percent during the Fourth Five-Year Plan (1971-75), to 1.3 percent
during the Seventh Five-Year Plan (1986-90) (7FYP), despite the absolute
increase in transport investments during the period (Table 1.4). In the
future, a substantial expansion of Investments will be needed if the
transport-related constraints to economic growth are to be removed.
D. TrAnsort Issues and Objectives
1.7      The key lssues in the transport sector are:
(a) ehronic shortages in the supply of transport services due to
underinvestment, resulting in severe economic losses due to unmet
deand;
(b) excess demnds generated by underpricing of transport services and
transport-intensive commodities (particularly coal);



- 3 -
(c) uneven development of modes (i.e., excessive reliance on rail,
relative neglect of other modes, and the absence of modern,
irtegrated intermodal services);
(d) lack of modern technology within each mode (obsolete vehicles,
infrastructure, and operating systems), resulting in high operating
costs and poor services;
(e) shortages of human resource skills in specific key areas,
particularly in multimodal planning and policy analysis, economic
analysis, and user-oriented logistics management; and
(f) structural weaknesses in highway construction capabilities related
to project and entity management, quality control and procurement
procedures.
1.8      Achieving a better balance between demand and supply is vital
because chronic shortages of transport services have been increasingly
constraining the growth of the Chinese economy. The effects bave been seen in
the past in electric power shortages due to lack of coal transport capacity,
but transport constraints pose economic problem well beyond their effects on
the energy sector. The poor quality of transport services resulting from
shortages of often outmoded equipment and substandard, often congested
infrastructure. imposes high costs and impedes the integration of markets,
which is one of the major sources of economic efficiency in modern societies.
The ability of China to compete in world export markets is also reduced,
particularly for light vanufacturing and high-value agricultural exports,
which require efficient, flexible, fast door-to-door services.
1.9      Despite recent adjustments, pricing distortions are still a major
problem. Cost analysas conducted during a recent study in Guangdong
Province ∞ sugest that, despite substantial tariff increases, nationwide
long-distance coal transport, for example, is underpriced by as much as
40 percent relative to long-run incremental costs, thus generating uneconomic
excess demands wbich clog the transport system. Distortions In the opposite
direction occur in highways and aviation, where tariffs may exceed long-run
incremental costs, thus distorting the choice of modes. So far, enterprises
bave lacked appropriate incentives to set tariffs to reflect costs as they
bave had only limited financial autonomy and responsibility, and competition
among transport modes has been minimal due to regulatory restrictions and the
congested condition of the system, reflecting an excoss of demand over the
supply of transport services.
1.10      China has so far failed to acquire the full spectrum of modern
transport technology. It still relies on the railway to handle much traffic
that could be better served by modern highway vehicles amd by the airplane.
Both these modes are modernizing and are steadily increasing their share of
total traffic, in highways for both freight and passengers, and in aviation
especially for the movemnt of people. There is also some railway traffic
∞f Guangdong Province Comprehensive Transport Study, Transportation Divi-
sion, Country Department III, Asia Regional Office, World Bank, July 7,
1991.                                     -



-4-
which culd be more economically aerved by coastal shipping. The Ministry of
Railways In recent years has significantly increased tariffs for short -haul
commodities, so as to encourage diversion of this traffic to other more
suitable modes and to concentrate on long-haul bulk commndities, where its
comparative advantage lies.
1.11      Over the long run, China's choice of which modes to oxpand and by
how much should be based on an understanding of the differences in costs and
service characteristics of the different modes, on the one hand, and
prospective changes in the structure and level of transport demand, on the
other. At the present time, there is a need for China to train planners and
policy analysts in the analytical tools necessary to evaluate those choices
and to identify the instruments required to effect the necessary changes.
1.12     3XTranor& Sector R      aform.  The Government has already taken steps to
respond to some of these challenges. Notably, it has:
(a) made major adjustments in transport tariffs and is conducting
costing studies that will provide the basis for further adjustments.
In addition, it has allowed local authorities more autonomy to plan,
finance, and implement projects which will expand transport
capacity;
(b) allowed private individuals and commercially oriented collective and
township enterprises to provide passenger and freight transport
services on roads and inland waterways and has encouraged provincial
authorities to develop local railway systems;
(c) carrled out major structural reforms in the organization and
management of civil aviation and in the ports, leading to increased
financial autonomy and accountability, less central government
controls and paving the way for introduction of competitive
services;
(d) reduced operating and capital subsidies for major infrastructure
services, through higher cost recovery and creation of user-funded
capital construction funds; and
(a) encouraged introduction of more modern technology in the transport
system primarily by improving rolling stock technology in the
railway subsector; enhancing container and bulk handling capacity in
the port subsector; improving road pavement design and geometric
standards for the expansion of motorization in the highway
subsector; and increasing the use of computerized data proces3ing
and planning techniques in operations in all modes.
E.  An&  Ox=  PaticDtlon In Trnsort Sector
1.13      The Bank Group has supported the initiatives of the Government in
the transport sector through projects, sector studies, technical assistance,
and training. Through June 1992, the Bank Group had loaned about $2.9 billion
to China under 23 projsects for the transport sector and is presently preparing
several new transport projects.



1.14      The railwjy sl ubcto  has received $1.385 billion in Bank Group
funding under six projects (Loan 2394-CHA; Loan 2540-CHA; Loan 2678-CM/Credit
1680-CHA; Loan 2968-CHA; Loan 3060-CM/Credit 2014-CHA and Loan 3406-CHA).
These projects have assisted with the expansion of capacity on key routes and
the manufacture of electric locomotives, passenger coaches, and signaling
equipment; one project is a"si8ting construction of a line in Inner Mongolia.
The most recent project is assisting with rail technology modernization;
development of system-wide plans, planning tools and costing studies; and
adding capacity where it is urgently needed. The audit of the first Railway
Project noted that physical components were well executed and that macro-
policy adjustments, especially in the area of tariff reforms and investment
prioritizatlon, were likely to have the highest impact; these conclusions have
been considered in designing the railway project currently under preparation
(PPAR No. 9735 dated June 24, 1991).
1.15      The highway subsector has received $788 million in Bank Group
financing under seven projects (Loan 2539-CM/Credit 1594-CHA; Loan 2811-CMA/
Credit 1792-CHA; Loan 2951-CHA/Credit 1917-CHA; Loan 2952-CHA; Credit 1984-
CGA; Loan 3073-CHA/Credit 2025-CHA; Loan 3316-CHA/Credit 2226-CHA). These
projects provide for the construction of high-quality national and provincial
roads totaling about 1,276 km, and the expansion and improvement of some
3,250 km of rural (lower class provincial, county, village) roads and major
bridges. When completed, some of these roads will help to provide vital
missing links in the national highway network; others will help to ease severe
congestion in parts of the network or provide access to remote areas. The
projects are also designed to provide foreign technical assistance and
training of Chinese personnel in areas such as supervision and quality control
of road construction, design, and planning. Finally, the projects support
studies on key issues of highway development such as road safe.y, pavement
management, user charges, and methods :f financing the expansion, improvement,
and rehabilitation of the road network. The first Highway Project (Loan 2539-
CIA, Credit 1594-CHA), completed in 1991, successfully achieved its physical
and institutional objectives (PPAR No. 10749 dated June 29, 1992).
1.16      The gort  aubsector has receive4 $509 million of Bank Group financing
under seven projects (Loans 2207-CHA, 2689-CHA, 2907-CHA, 2877-CHA, 3006-CHA,
3007-CHM, and Credits 2391-CHA, 1875-CMA, and 1845-CHA). Most of the
loan/credit funds are being used in Shanghai, Tianjin, Dalian, Huangpu,
Ningbo, and Xiamen for construction of terminals, jetties, and berths for
handling bulk counodities, general cargo, and containers, as well as the
dredging of navigation channels and the procurement of cargo handling
equipment. Funds have also been used for training, tsehnical assistance, and
various studies in such areas as port planning, operations management, and
containerization. The audit report (PPAR No. 9695 dated June 19, 1991) of the
first Port Project found the project successfully completed, on time and below
cost, but recommended developing long-term strategic port investment planning
and improving prequalification procedures for purposes of procurement;
recommndations on the former point have been incorporated in the preparation
of the proposed project in Shanghai and in the undertaking of a study of
strategic issues in ports and shipping (para. 2.22), and recommendations on
the latter have been taken into account in the discussion of procurement
procedures in transport projects under propa.ation. The most recent project,
the Ship Waste Disposal Project (Cr. 2391-CHA and GEF 10398-CHA), co-financed
by IDA and the Global Environment Facility (GEF), will reduce pollution of



6-
international and Chinese territorial waters caused by the discharge of ships'
wastes.
".17     The first urban transport nubsector project (Credit 2296-CHA, $60
million), apprvevd in September 1991, is intended to be the first stage of a
long-term program to upgrade and develop urban infrastructure In Shanghai.
The project will finance capacity increases on key urban links and will assist
the Shanghai Municipal Government (SNG) to improve planning, programming,
financing, and management of its urban transport system.
1.18      One nltimodal project was approved in 1991 (Loan 3316-CHA/Credit
2226-CHA, $154 million) to improve provincial transport in Jiangsu. While the
main focus of the project is on rehabilitating the provincial road network,
this project also includes the first loan to the inland waterwav suasector, to
be used to r3habilitate a section of the Grand Canal and expand an Important
ship lock.
1.19      The dialogue between the Government and the Bank Group on transport
sector operations and strategy has been strengthened both through the project
preparation activities and project-financed studies mentioned above and
through other studies carried out in collaboration with Chinese authorities.
A provincial transport study has been conducted in Guangdong Province (para.
1.9) to support the design of a new multimodal transport plan in the province.
The Bank Group also conducted a survey of the national water transport system,
which has re-affirmed the need to further exploit the large potential of
China's waterways. In preparation for future highway lending, the Bank
assisted in the screening of national highway improvement proposals, aimed at
better identifying highway construction priorities.
1.20      The Chinese authorities and the Bank Group are currently preparing
or undertaking studies which will focus on long-term strategies for the
country's transport system. These studies include a multi-port optimization
study to evaluate msdium to long-term options for developing the deep-water
seaport at Ningbo; a study of strategic issues and the role of ports and
shipping in southern China; a multimodal transport study to examine strategic
options in developing the transport system for the Yangtze Economic Zone
(ShAnghai Municipality together with the provinces of Jiangsu, Zhejiang and
Anhui); a coal transport study to evaluate strategies for alleviating coal
delivery shortages through the year 2005; a railway investment study to
optimize railway investments within a system-wide approach, and a railway
costing study that will allow the enterprise to establish cost-based tariffs.
In the highways subsector, the Bank and MOC are discussing preparation of a
number of studies that will cover finance, management and other policy issues
in infrastructure and in road transport services.
1.21     While the above projects and studies are helping to spur the growth
and modernization of the transport system, much more needs to be done to bring
about the changes required to effectively deal with the emerging issues. In
order to significantly alleviate the transport bottlenecks and rationalize the
transport system, the Goveriument would need, by the year 2000, to take the
following measures:



-7
(a) increase the total level of transport Investment in relation to GNP,
to expand capacity to meet the now traffic demands and to alleviate
the congestion caused by past underilvestment;
(b) realize the most economic balance of investments among the major
freight transport modes of railway, highway, and water;
(c) realign further the prices of freight transport services and those
of the major commodities, especially coal, to bring them closer to
their true costs;
(d) lncrease further the productivity of existing transport assets
througp technological modernization and management reforms; and
(e) improve multimodal investment decisions, both across and within
modes, through the use of analysis and planning tools that more
reliably determine the optimu economic prioritles of transport
lmestments under budget constraints.
1.22     In the past, the Bank has supported the Government In lmplementing
the above measures mainly by focusing on expanding traffic capacity and
iproving operational efficiency. While such support will remain, the Bank
has broadened its strategy and is currently asslsting the Government in design
and implementation of instltutional and sectozal reforms in a number of areas,
includLng investment planning, pricing and financing, services' deregulation,
operational management, and transfer of advanced transport-related technology
through training and provision of up-to-date equipment.



-8-
II. THE_lDRT UBSECTOR
2.1       There are over 460 sea ports along China's 18,400-km coastline.
Sixteen are classified as major ports and seven of these (Shanghai, Dalian,
Qingdao, Qinhuangdao, Guangzhou, Ningbo and Tianj in) handle over 87 percent of
the total traffic. With some 140 berths, Shanghai is one of the ten largest
ports in the world. In 1991, It handled over 146 million tons of cargo and
more than 6 million passengers. There are also some 2,000 river ports along
China's 110,000 km of navigable waterways.
A. ort traffiL
2.2       Compared to many other developing countries, China's port traffic is
low in relation to the size of its economy. However, it has been growing
rapidly since the economy was opened to foreign trade: between 1980 and 1989
traffic at the 16 major ports more than doubled from 217.3 million tons to
442.1 million tons. The volume of cargo handled at these ports declined
slightly to 432.3 million tons in 1990 as a result of the Government's moves
to cut inflation, but growth in port traffic resumed in 1991 (to about 450
million tons). Tonnages of both domestic and foreign cargoes are increasing,
with foreign traffic growing at a faster rate. Foreign trade is expected to
continue growing about 7-8 percent a year in step with the economy as a whole.
About one-third of total traffic is coal which mainly moves from northern coal
loading ports for distribution through ports on the south and east coasts.
Bottlenecks in coal transport are seen as a major constraint to continued
rapid economic growth. Other bulk and semi-bulk cargoes also feature
prominently in waterborne traffic. These include ores, grain, fertilizer,
construction materials and steel. General cargo usually makes up only 10-
20 percent of the traffic at the major ports.
2.3       Cargo unitization has only just been introduced in China and the
potential for growth in unitized cargo movements using containers and pallets
is very large. Starting with 72,000 TEUs (twenty-foot equivalent units) in
1980, by 1989 total port container traffic had grown to 620,000 THUs, or 8.3
million tons of containerized cargo. This represented a 21 percent increase
over 1988. There are now 30 ports which handle containers and 13 specialized
container berths with a total throughput capacity of over 1 million TEUs.
B. Reforms in Port Subsector Kanagement
2.4       One of the most important challenges facing the management of
China's ports is how to adapt the ports to the changing circumstances brought
about by the economic reforms. While the reforms were initiated in 1979, the
port subsector was not affected by them until 1984, when the Ministry of
Communications (HOC) started the process of port decentralization. The main
features of the reform in the port subsector are self-financing of port
operations; inmestments to be funded by internal cash generation; and opening
up of competition among ports for cargo. Before the reforms, NOC set tariffs,
allocated cargo, provided grant financing for major investments, covered any
operating deficits, and received most of the surpluses (if any) generated by
the ports. Now only a portion of the total cargo is allocated by NOC



-9-
(although this is a rather a high 80 percent), tariffs for unallocated cargo
are allowed to be set competitively within a specified range, and profits are
retained by the ports and are subject to taxes. The tax arrangements,
however, tend to be ad hoc (usually fixed, lump-sum payments), and are
apparently based on the fintncing needs of individual ports. The Government
plans to progressively reduce the proportion of cargo allocated, reform
tariffs and taxation policies, and phase out grant financing of investments.
2.5       The first port to be decentralized was Tianjin under a "Pilot System
Reform* introduced in 1984. Under this arrangement the primary leadership of
the port was transferred from NOC to the local government.  The port received
considerable autonomy in management, Investment planning and control over its
finances. As part of the decentralization arrangement, Tianjin port also was
exempted from paying any profits tax up to the year 1990. In 1986, the ports
of Shanghai and Dalian were also decentralized with somewhat different
provisions regarding taxes and grant financing of investments. They were
required to pay a fixed lump sum tax, needed MOC approval of l.arge
investments, and received some grant financing through 1990. Huangpu port was
asmilarly decentralized, though speciflc provisions were again slightly
different. Nost of the remaining ports under HOC control were decentralized
by the end of 1988. The arrangements under which the ports were decentralized
were extended to 1992 pending the determination of a new set of provisions.
2.6       The main objectives of this program of decentralization were to
develop the c*pability and initiative of the ports' local managements, and to
increase coordination between port development and the development plans of
the region served by a port. Further, it was expected that the need to be
financially self-sufficient and to compete for cargo would encourage
efficiency in the ports subsector. The experience of port decentralization is
generally viewed as successful in China. The Bank is encouraging NOC to
undertake a systematic review of the experience. The current port management
arrangements are transitional in nature. MOC direct control has been removed.
Ports are expected to operate as commercial entities accountable to local
Municipal Administrations. Prerequisites for this change to be successful are
proper policies with respect to taxation, pricing, accounts and audits, and
corporate management. Key elements of the new policy relate to taxation,
tariffs and the financing of investments and, in order to develop appropriate
policies in these areas, there is a need to improve the information available
on port operations, costs and finances. In support of the Government's
initiatives in this area, the Bank under the Ningbo and Shanghai Ports Project
(Ln.3006-CHA) is assisting MOC in conducting a port costing and management
information system (PCKIS) study.
C. Opsrations and Maintenance
2.7      All major ports in China operate around the clock with a three-shift
system, but operations are hampered by congestion inside the port areas.
Factors contributing to congestion are over-aged and outmoded equipment,
excessive reliance on break-bulk cargo bandling methods which have been
replaced in most major ports of the world by various forms of cargo
unitization (containers, pallets, etc.) and a lack of adequate hinterland
transport capacity at most of China's major ports. In addition, the tariff
structure falls to provide incentives for efficient utilization of existing



- 10 -
facilities. In particular, it does not encourage efficLent use of often
limited port storage facilitLes and the us. of more effLeLent unitized cargo
handling techniques.
2.8       Port congestion peaked in 1985 when average ship delays for forelgn
trade vessels were as high as 11 days. Thls improved somewhat in 1986 as a
result of Government restrictions on imports, but port congestion is beginning
to increase again with average waiting times in excess of 4-5 days in many of
the major ports. These expensive ship delays can also be traced to a number
of deficiencies in addltion to the lack of an adequate number of berths. Poor
documentation procedures and inadequate information systems in the ports often
lead to delays caused by documents not being available in. time, and/or the
port not having the right equipment available when a ship is ready to start
loading/discharging cargo.
2.9       !Aere is also a need to rationalize cargo movements.  In many of the
southern and eastern ports, a large proportion of the traffic involves ship-
to-ship or ship-to-barge transfers, some of which could be avoided by direct
movemens between smaller ports through the use of modern sea-going barges
capable of operating on both coastal routes and inland waterways. MOC has
begun efforts to rationalize traffic flows and, as part of the Ningbo-
Shanghai Ports Project, a study of cargo and ship movements in the mid-eastern
region (the Port Development Optimization Study) is being completed (see para.
2.22).
?..10     Efforts are under way to improve productivity.  In the recent past,
consultants had been engaged to provide the ports of Shanghai and Dalian with
recommendations to improve their performance. Under the Ningbo-Shanghai Ports
Project and the Xiamen Port Project (Ln.3007-CHA), the Bank has mounted major
reviews of operatlons and maintenance, and action plans to achieve specified
performance targets within a specified time-frame are being implemented in
these ports. The problems with productivity in China's ports, however, have
less to do with poor operational practices, and are more relaten to the lack
of adequate specialized facilities. As a result, bulk cargoes are often belng
handled inefficiently at break-bulk faeilities. Container handling capacity
is well below the potential for contalnerizing cargo, and little attention has
been given to achieving productivity improvements through cargo unitization.
There is a clear need to improve the availability of specialized bulk handling
facilities and to increase the level of cargo unitization for break-bulk
cargo.
2.11      Excessive reliance on break-bulk handling has resulted in berth
productivity levels for general cargo often being as low as 50 percent of that
achievable with unitized cargo handling. Whereas in foreign trade some
progress has been made through containerization, in the domestic trade little
has been achieved to date. Palletization of break-bulk cargo and through
movement of pallets are feaslble and cost-effective means for increaslng
unitization of domestLc break-bulk cargo, and savings would result both from
Improved productivity and from reductions in cargo damage and loss. The
problems to be overcome, however, are both technological and instltutional,
with the latter being perhaps the more critical. MOC bas initiated efforts to
introduce through-pallet concepts with a pilot scheme to be implemented
between Guangdong Province and Hainma Island. Lessons learned there,
epeciLally concerning the organization of through transport movements, will



^ 11 -
benefit not only the introduction of through pallets in the domestic trades,
but also the through movement of containers in foreign trade. It must,
however, be emphasized that many of the initiatives needed are beyond the
power of the ports: for instance, tariff reform and coordination of other
entities, such as freight forwarders, involved in the through movement of
cargo.
2.12      Inadequate rail and road links in a number of the ports continue to
binder the smooth flow of cargo through the ports, cause congestion in port
storage facilities, and increase costs to shlppers. The proper interfacing of
different transportation modes is an aspect of port development which
continues to receive the attention of HOC; however, only road connections are
within MO¢'s own jurisdiction, while railways are the responsibility of the
Ministry of Railways (NOR). Since NOR itself is facing a serious shortage of
capacity, coordination of its own priority projects with demands for rail
projects arising from MOC's non-rail projects is important.
2.13      Each major port has its own maintenance facilities and port
equipment is kept serviceable, although much of the equipment suffers frequent
breakdowns because of age. The most serious maintenance problem is siltation
at the estuarine ports and this requires considerable routine dredging. Some
of the dredging may be excessive and could be reduced through hydrographic
work to provide a better understanding of estuarine flows.
D. Maritiv  Enviroment
2.14      Appropriate legislation for the maritime sector has been passed to
improve and preserve the environment.  The "Maritime Environmental Protection
Law" (March 1, 1983) regulates discharges from ships, and provides for
protection of marine waters. In addition, the *Regulations for Environmental
Protection Facilities of Capital Construction Projects' (GHZ-002, 1987), and
the 'Managerial Measures for Environmental Protection in Capital Construction
Projects* (GHZ-003, 1986) apply to the construction of facilities in the
maritime sector. China is a signatory to the International Convention for the
Prevention of Marine Pollution (known as the NARPOL 73/78 Convention) which
regulates the discharges of ship wastes at sea and requires ports to provide
adequate reception and treatment facilities. Also, China is a signatory to
the "London Dumping Convention* regulating the dumping of wastes and dredged
sediment at sea. Under current Chinese law, an environmental impact
assessment (EIA) is required to be prepared in accordance with the
Government's guidelines during the feasibility study stage of any project to
assess the environmental impact of a project and to ensure the inclusion of
mitigative environmental protection measures in the engineering plans. The
port's environment (water, air and dredged material) are regularly monitored
by the Municipal as well as the Port's Environmental Protection Bureau to
ensure adherence to Chinese environmental laws.
S. Invjstment Priorities and Technologj
2.15      Towards the end of the 5th FYP (1975-80), the need for port
development was apparent as foreign trade began to increase rapidly after the
oconomic reform policies of 1979 were introduced. Fifty-four deep water
berths were completed during the 6th FTP (1981-85), increasing annual cargo



- 12 -
handling capacity from 200 million tons in 1978 to 350 million tons in 1985.
Under the 7th FYP (1985-90) port expansion and improvement continued to be
considerable and, by 1990, ninety-six deep water berths and ninety berths for
medium size vessels were constructed, which together with other improvements
increased total annual cargo handling capacity to 550 million tons, more than
50 percent above that in 1985. The Government's objectives in the 8th FYP
(1991-95) are to: (a) expand the capacity of major ports, (b) support and
stimulate economic development in the hinterlands, and (c) improve the
financial viability and efficiency of the ports. Over this period, port
traffic is expected to reach 650 million tons. In addition to improving port
facilities, the Government will continue to invest in roads, railways and
inland waterways that link ports to their hipterlands to correct the past
uneven development of modes and achieve a better balance between demand and
supply.
F. Port Costing and Tariff Rsstructuring
2.16      The structure and level of port tariffs are determined jointly by
MOC, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the State Price BureauY   The present
tariff structure was set up in 1978 (and was revised in 1985 for foreign trade
vessels) on the basis of a somewhat arbitrary allocation of costs to the
different port services. To some extent, the structure also reflects the
distortions inherent in the prevailing prices of the different factor inputs.
SPA does not have a comprehensive port costing system which could assist it in
establishing a cost-based tariff structure. Rates for vessels, particularly
for foreign vessels, szem to be set on the basis of what the market will bear.
The profitability by each cost/revenue center is currently not assessable.
SPA initiates its proposals for tariff adjustment on the basis of system
averages rather than detailed cost analyses (para 2.20).
2.17      There are two tariffs in China's ports, one for foreign trade and
another, lower one, for domestic trade. In foreign trade, it is understood
that foreign ships pay the published harbor dues and charges while Chinese
ships pay lower rates. About 80 percent of all Chinese cargo is carried in
vessels owned or operated by the China Ocean Shipping Company (COSCO), which
is controlled directly by HOC. In national terms, port tariffs paid by COSCO
were little more than a transfer payment between two parts of MOC. Tariff
rates could be set for efficiency objectives, but instead they seem to reflect
the relative financial strengths of COSCO and the ports and their different
investment requirements.
2.18      There are no shipping conference rates for Chinese ports and the
ports only rarely pay demurrage charges for ship waiting. Charter contracts
usually include an allowance for ship wa£ting time, but these charges are paid
AV SPA submits its proposal for tariff adjustments to MOC which after its
review, if acceptable, requests the State Price Bureau to approve.
Following its review and discussions with cargo owners and shipping
companies, the State Price Bureau either approves or disapproves the
proposal and notifies SPA, through HOC, of its decision. If proposed
tariffs are approved, SPA notifies the stevedoring companies generally
two weeks prior to enforceaent of new tariffs.



- 13 -
by the cargo owner, not by the port. Recently, however, ports have been
signing despatch agreemqnts with ship operators guaranteeing a certain turn
around time, with demurrage charges payable by the port if the time is
exceeded or premiums payable by the ship if it is handled faster. Usually the
premiums far exceed the demurrage charges.
2.19      The Government has recently taken positLve steps in increasing
tariffs. In loading and unloading operations the State Price Bureau has
approved a tariff increase of 44 percent in foreign trade effective April 1,
1992 and of 50 percent for domestic trade to be effective January 1, 1994.
For barges the tariff was increased by 25 percent effective Nay 1, 1992.
2.20      Pricing reforms are necessary for tariffs to reflect the appropriate
economic cost of port operations, to ensure financial viability of the port,
and to promote incentives for selective investment planning and efficient
utilization of port assets. It is essential to assist the Government and the
ports with effective management tools for costing port operations, and
managing financial viability through accurate and timely statistical,
financial and operational information. In rrder to achieve these, MOC
obtained a grant of Y 116 million from the Japanese Government in 1988 to help
the ports establish a computer based port costing and management information
system (PCNIS). The Bank is acting as the Administrator of grant funds under
the Japanese Grant Fund Agreement related to the Ningbo and Shanghai Ports
Project (Loan No. 3006-CHA). Under Phases I and II relating to the diagnosis
of the existing system in the ports, evaluation of alternative systems has
already been carried out. Phases III and IV relating to designing, developing
and implementing of PCMIS as well as the training of port staff are now under
way. This exercise is expected to be completed by December 1993. The new
PCKIS will be tried on a pilot basis in the four selected ports of Shanghai,
Ningbo, Dalian and Xiamen. SPA, being the biggest port authority in China,
will take a lead in PGHIS.  The benefit of this system will be that ports will
be able to estabitsh a sound, cost-based pricing policy providing incentives
for efficient management of investment and port assets to maintain long term
financial viability and to attain higher productivity at economic cost.
C. The Role of the Bank
2.21      The Bank has supported, and will continue to support, the
Government's objective of expanding capacity and improving productivity in the
ports. The Bank has further expanded its role and is helping the Government
in introducing institutional, managerial and financial reforms. The first
lending operation in the subsector (Three Ports Project, Lu. 2207-CHA)
financed additional container handling capacity in Shanghai, Huangpu and
Tianjin and a coal terminal at Huangpu. The second (Tianjin Port Project, Lu.
2689-CHA) is financing the construction of eleven additional berths at Tianjin
for timber, construction materials and general cargo. The third (Ruangpu Port
Project, Lu. 2877-CHA/Cr. 1845-CHA) is financing the construction of five
additional berths in the Xinsha area of Huangpu port for coal, iron ore, bulk
fertilizer and general cargo. The fourth (Dalian Port Project, Ln. 2907-
CHA/Cr. 1875-CHA) is financing construction of a new terminal at Dayao Bay for
container and break-bulk cargo. The fifth (Ningbo- Shanghai Ports Project,
Ln.3006-CHA) is financing the development of container and multipurpose berths
in Ningbo and the procurement of cargo handling equipment for Shanghai. The



-14 -
sixth (Xiamen Port Project, Ln.3007-CHA) is financing the development of
container and multipurpose berths in Xiamen. The seventh (Ship Waste Disposal
Project, Cr.2391-CHA and GEF 10398-CHA) is financing ship waste reception and
disposal facilities at air major ports.
2.22      A number of studies in the port and shipping subsectors have been
undertaken both under Bank projects and as part of sector work. These
included a containerization study which was completed by the Comprehensive
Transport Research Institute in 1985. Recent investments in container
facilities have benefitted from the insights provided by this effort. Studies
currently under way include an "Intermodal Cargo Distribution Study" as part
of the Huangpu Port Project (in the south), a similar intermodal transport
study for containerized cargo in the Dalian Port Project (in north China), a
study of the Master Plan for Ningbo port and port development optimization in
the central part of the east coast, and a study of strategic Issues in ports
and shipping (financed by the Japanese Trust Fund). This last study, expected
to be completed in January 1993, aims at defining the strategic objectives as
well as dealing with bottlenecks in ports and shipping in ports in southern
China. The Bank was also instrumental in establishing an international panel
of exports  undoer the Ningbo-Shanghai Ports Project, to review SPA's long-term
development plan; the proposed project follows the lines recommended in the
panel's final report (para 3.36). Earlier Bank projects have also supported
-anagement system improvements with components addressing computer development
and training. The work of Bank missions has also been instrumental in
developing Chinese expertise in the economic evaluation of investment projects
and in updating various aspects of port operations. Through the proposed
project the Bank is supporting decentralization of ports and sectoral reforms
comprising pricing policy, modern technology, deregulation and pollution
control.
H. Exuerience in Past Lending to Ports
2.23      Construction of the Three Ports Project (Ln.2207-CHA) is complete,
one year later than envisaged at appraisal. There has been a considerable
foreign exchange cost saving under the project as a result of bids being lower
than expected, and $55 million of the original loan of $124 million was
canceled. The project was problem-free. The project performance audit
(Report No.9695) concluded, however, that more benefits could have accrued to
the project if the Bank had taken a more consistent position with regard to
the qualifications of contractors. A need to develop long-term strategic port
investment planning was also identified. The long-term development for
Shanghai port was a precondition to the appraisal of the proposed project.
These lessons have been taken into account in subsequent port projects through
detailed discussions with the borrower on procurement procedures during
project preparation and supervision and through the commissioning of studies
and technical assistance that address long term port development needs and
strategies (pars. 2.22). The Tianjin Port Project (Ln.2689-CHA, $130 million)
was approved in April 1986; Implementation is satisfactory, although slightly
behind schedule. Implementation of the remaining projects is on schedule.



* 15 *
III. TH= PORT OF SHANGHAI
A. Lnoation and Facilities
3.1      The Port of Shanghai is the largest port in mainland China and the
primary gateway to eastern and central China. Because of its location at the
confluence of the Huangpu and Yangtze rivers, it allows sheltered water access
to the network of inland waterways in -,Ie region, a major factor in its
attractiveness as a transportation hub.
3.2      The port is situated on,the banks of the lower Huangpu river, which
flows into the Yangtze river at Wusong, about 90 km from the mouth of the
Yangtze. The entrance to the Huangpu river from the Yangtze is protected by
the Wusong groin to keep sediment away from the entrance. The Yangtze
entrance channel Is subject to heavy siltation and is maintained to a
controlling depth of 7 a below MLW by dredging. The volume of annual
mairtenance dredging (carried out by the Shanghai Dredging Corporation on
behalf of SPA) in of the order of 20 million en.  The disposal of the dredged
material was reviewed by two environmental experts hired by the Bank in 1987
and 1988, who considered the Corporation's practices satisfactory from an
environmental point of view. The tides are semi-diurnal with an average range
of about 2.7 m. These conditions limit entry to the port to vessels with a
maximum draft of 9.5 m. Vessels with a greater draft have to be lightened at
the Luhashan anchorage at the Yangtze estuary entrance. Lightening takes
place by means of an anchored 100,000 dwt bulk carrier equipped with ship
unloaders/loaders.
3.3      The Shanghai Port Authority (SPA) at present owns 143 berths, 68 of
which have depths alongside of 8 to 10.5 m. The berths, totalling over 14 km
in length, are located along both banks of the Huangpu river in the Shanghai
urban area. The city of Shanghai surrounds the port on both sides of the
river, thus severely constraining any expansion of facilities at the present
location. The berths are operated by 14 "handling companies" (stevedoring
districts) and a passenger terminal company. In addition, SPA operates a
large number of mooring buoys in the Huangpu river, many of which are used for
uld-stream lightering operations.
3.4      With the exception of District 7, which specializes in bulk coal
handling, the districts handle a variety of cargo types. Of the 143 berths,
20 are specially equipped for dry bulk handling and five are equipped to
handle containers. The remaining berths are used for semi-dry bulk, break-
bulk general cargo and passenger operations. Twenty of the berths date back
to the 1920-40 period and are in poor condition. Some 30 berths would need
major upgrading to be operationally adequate.
3.5      The port employs a great variety of equipment from very old to quite
modern ones and of many different makes.  Modern, high capacity ship
unloaders, fast conveyors and stacker-reclaimers may service one berth, while
the neighboring berth may have small cranes, short, sectional conveyors, and a
very small storage area equipped with outdated machinery. The port is
planning gradually to phase out older, inefficient equipment but is hampered
in this effort by antiquated depreciation policies for equipment, shortage of
funds and a general reluctance to write off obsolete equipment.



- 16 -
3.6        The port has about 1,400,000 m2 of storage space, of which some
370,000 e is covered. Much of this space is in poor condition. The average
available storage area of 14,000 ma per berth is inadequate for efficient
cargo operations. Unfortunately, the port's location in the built-up urban
area of Shanghai precludes enlargement of existing storage areas.
B.   int ranl
3.7       Geographically the hinterland of the port includes the provinces of
Anhui, Hubei, Hunan, Jiangsu, Jiangxi, Zhejiang and the municipality of
Shanghai. This area accounts for some 38 percent of China's industrial and
agricultural output, 25 percent of its population, but only 10 percent of its
land area. However, a small area within 200 km from the port accounts for
over 90 percent of the port's traffic and the Shanghai Municipality alone for
70 percent. This is the port's real economic hinterland.
3.8       Some 70 percent of cargo moving to and from the hinterland uses
water transport, either the inland canals or the Yangtze. The major transport
corridors to the larger hinterland are the Yangtze, the Shanghai-Hangzhou
cottidor in Zhejiaig province, and the Shanghai-Changphou corridor in Jiangsu
province. The latter two corridors are served by road and rail as wcll as by
barge.
3.9       Both the railway and highway in these corridors are, however,
congested and their connections with the port are inadequate. Of the 14 port
districts, only three, on the west bank, have rail connection. Access by road
is also poor because most port traffic must traverse city streets and, while
over half the port's cargo is handled on the east bank of the Huangpu river,
cross river traffic is restricted to one single tunnel, one bridge and some
ferry crossings. Truck traffic, particularly to ard from berths on the east
bank, is subject to substantial delays. Construction of an additional bridge
now under way will alleviate the truck delay problem somewhat. However, road
and rail access can only become efficient as the port gradually moves out of
the city, as envisioned in SPA's master plan.
C. nexAatigns
3.10      Operations at the port of Shanghai are characterized by the
predominance of bulk operations, with coal accounting for almost 40 percent of
all cargo handled. Other operational characteristics of the port are the
limitation on vessel size (maximum draft 9.5 m) and the large proportion of
cargo (70 percent) moving to and from the hinterland by water transport. Port
operations are hampered by insufficient ship berthing and cargo storage
capacity, inadequate rail and road connections and obsolete cargo handling
equipment at many terminals. In spite of these conditions, the port has
achieved very high rates of throughput per berth, albeit at the cost of
excessive vessel and cargo delays and, at times, significant traffic
diversion. Berth occupancy factors are 80 to 90 percent and ship time in port
averages 1.5 days per vessel overall and 4.3 days for foreign trade vessels.
3.11      In 1987, the Bank and SPA conducted a joint review of the operations
of SPA which resulted in a number of recommendations for improving the flow of
cargo through the port (para. 3.34). While some of C%ese measures have been



- 17 -
implemented, many are procedural and operational ln character and require
joint action by SPA and port-related government and other agencies and
enterprises; as a result, they will take time to design and imploment. Annex
2 lists the recomended measures and shows the current status in the
implementation thereof.  With a view to rationalizing the long-term
development of Shanghai Port, the Bank and SPA established a panel of
international experts to review and coment on the port's master plan (para.
3.34). Longer-term measures were identified as part of the review: in essence
these were that SPA should move its activities gradually away from the urban
area. For this, SPA has prepared a restructuring action plan (Annex 7) which
visualizes the freezing of expsansion of terminals and activity on the Huangpu
river, initiating development of terminals outside the Huangpu river, and
gradual transfer of operations away from the city center terminals.
3.12      One of the key problems identified was the relatively small amount
of general cargo handled as unitized cargo in the port. SPA has agreed to
carry out a cargo unitization study to Identify measures to encourage
unitization of general cargo in order to improve the efficiency in the port.
At negotiations, agreement was reached that SPA will carry out, by October 31,
1994, the unitization study according to terms of reference agreed with the
Bank (Annex 3). To assist it in improving container handling operations, SPA
has also been exploring the possibility of securing the assistance and
participation of overseas container terminal operators in managing and
operating its container facilities. It intends to enter into a joint venture
with a private sector operator from Hong Kong to own, manage, operate and
maintain its container handling facilities.
D. Environment in the Shamgbai Area
3.13      The port and city of Shanghai have developed together along the
banks of the Huangpu river. Today, the Municipality of Shanghai covers some
6,100 kmz and has a total population of 12 million. The "built-up" area of
the city covers some 350 k  and has a population of over 7 million.  Port
facilities are located in the city on both banks of the Huangpu river, up to
its confluence with the Yangtze river and occupy 14 km of waterfront. A
review of the environmental protection program of SPA by Bank consultants in
October 1987 and March 1988 showed that the port administration was sensitive
to the need to minimize the adverse environmental impact of its operations and
bad an adequate program in place (see also para. 3.2), although the port's
contribution to the environmental problems of Shanghai is very small in
relation to those of industry, power stations and households in the area. The
Huangpu river, which serves as the main source of drinking water for Shanghai,
is heavily polluted since it serves also as a sewer for a substantial part of
the city's industrial and human waste: it receives about two million cubic
metors of waste-water daily from the 12 million residents and 9,000 factories
in the city. Major improvements in waste-water disposal are under way as part
of a Bank-financed sewerage project (Ln. 2794/Cr. 1779-CHA).
3.14      The port contributes marginally to this pollution, mainly through
accidental oil spills and spillage of coal and other bulk cargo (fertilizer);
these are most likely to occur during mid-stream cargo operations. Port
management is conscious of pollution and safety requirements and has taken a
number of steps to safeguard the environment in the course of its activities.



* 18 -
These measures are summarized in the environmental impact assessment (EIA)
carried out for the proposed project (Annex 4).
3.15      The ZIA recommended several studies to be conducted, namely:  (a) a
study of the West Shanghai Outfall to mitigate its polluting effects on the
near shore water environment; (b) a study c.r the receiving capability of the
Huangpu river; (c) a study on source disposal outlets south of Waigaoqiao
terminal; and (d) a study on the effects of disposal of the Huangpu river
maintenance dredging by pipeline to the Yangtze in the Waigaoqiao area, on the
Waigaoqiao marginal wharf area and on the Yangtze. SMG has started monitoring
the West Shanghai Outfall area and the necessary mitigating measures will be
implemented. The Municipal Environmental Protection Bureau (MEPB) monitoring
of the Huangpu river showed that its lower reaches had reached the maximum
pollution capacity and hence SPA has decided to freeze or reduce cargo
handling throughput at the Huangpu river terminals. At the same time MEPB is
monitoring the effluent volume from factories and placing limits on these
effluents. A report prepared by SPA on the effects of the source disposal
outlet of Waigaoqiao showed that it would have no effect on the proposed
project facilities. The Shanghai Dredging Corporation has studied the effects
of disposal of the Huangpu river dredged material on the Waigaoqiao area;
these studies show that the impact is insignificant.
3.16      Ship waste reception and disposal will be handled through the Ship
Waste Disposal Project (Cr. 2391-CHA, GE) 10398-CHA). The noise at the grain
terminal, District No. 2, is being addressed under the current Ningbo-Shanghai
Ports Project (Ln. 3006-CHA). Measures are also being taken to overcome or
minimize: (a) dust from coal and iron ore handling at Districts No. 7 and 8,
respectively; (b) air pollution from boiler chimneys; and (c) hazards from the
handling of dangerous cargo. Sprinklers and water collection, purification
and recycling facilities have already been installed at the stacking yards of
Districts No. 7 and 8. The dust resulting from the grab unloaders will be
countered by renewing the grab teeth and providing sprinklers on the unloading
bin. This would address the dust issue until the grab unloaders could be
replaced by covered continuous ones. SPA is addressing the problem of air
pollution from boiler chimneys by providing the necessary filters. This will
be completed by December 1995 with SPA's own funds. A study is being carried
out under German Goverrment funding for improving the handling of dangerous
cargo. The scope of the study is in Annex 5 and the report, when completed,
would be sent to the Bank.
E. SPA Management and Organization
3.17      The port of Shanghai has a two-tier organizational structure:  SPA
which incorporates all central functions organized as departments, and a group
of port-owned operating units organized as corporations or companies (Charts 1
and 2). Since 1988, SPA, which is administratively responsible for the
operation and development of the port, has been under the dual jurisdiction of
SNG and MOC. Prior to 1986, it was a local unit of MOC. SPA is charged with
implementing a policy of financial self-sufficiency and must support both its
operations and investments from internal cash generation. It employs a total
of some 55,000 staff, of whom about 1,600 are engineers and technicians,
14,600 stevedores and equipment operators 4nd around 900 managers and
administrative staff. SPA needs to expand its level of computerization to



- 19 -
cover financial and operating information which are still prepared manually ln
many areas.
(a)  SAW5AI Portl Ulhgri
3.18      SPA is responsible for the management and operation of port-related
facilities, and for the planning, design and construction of port facilities
subject to approval by HOC and SPC. It manages all common user wharves and
docks, buoys, anchorages and other facilities engaged in serving the
transportation of passengers and goods. It is charged with the collection of
various harbor, construction, service, and transportation fees, and
enforcement of laws and regulations affecting the port, i.e., those that are
not under the control of the Harbor Superintendency. SPA is responsible for
coordinating its development planning with the Waster Plan of the SMG and the
Central Government's five-year and annual operating plans.
(b) Port Districts and Cornorations
3.19      The individual enterprises, which make up the second tier of the
port organization, replicate most of the organizational activities of SPA and
are usually organized into four departments and supporting divisions. The
relationship between the enterprises and SPA is defined in contracts which
determine, inter alia, allocations of cargo, productivity targets and
distribution of district level profits.
(c)  Shanghai Hrbor. S="erpenudui
3.20      The Shanghai Harbor Superintendency (SHS), a department of MOC, is
responsible for ship movements, ship safety and channel maintenance, and is
organized along these principal functions. SHS has a total staff of 3,000, of
whom 1,700 are assigned to channel maintenance, and the remainder are engaged
in ship movements and harbor traffic control. On average, there are some
6,000 vessels in the harbor on any day. Movements of vessels are controlled
by five control stations linked by telephone, while communications with ships
are by radio telephone. SHS has jurisdiction over ship movements along the
East China coast (23'N to 35'N) and maintains all navigational aids in this
area.
(d)  OUEl;g    trol Q=isglan
3.21      A quality control commission has been set up under SPA, charged with
setting performance standards and targets. The work of the commission is
divided into six categories: operational decision making; production-
dispatching; technical assurance; capital construction development; training
and services; and personnel motivation. After setting targets, the commission
bas to obtain approval from the staff and workers' congress, an elected body,
before submitting the targets to the Port Director. During the year,
information on performance is fed back and targets are revised every siX
months.



- 20 -
(a)  Four Ports Commsion
3.22      The four majs.r regional ports--Shanghai, Ningbo, Nantong and
Zhangjiagang--have established a commission which meets periodically to
coordinate cargo allocation and future port development. The commission is
organized under the auspices of the Shanghai Economic Zone Planning Office.
F. Planning. Budgeting. Accounting and Audit
3.23      The long-term development plan of the port of Shanghai is prepared
by SPA and submitted to SHG, MOC and SPC for approval. SMG's main objectives
are two-fold: (a) to ensure that the port's development fits into the city's
Master Plan and (b) to support the port's development, for example, through
the provision of access roads.
3.24      SPA's financial year is January to December.  SPA prepares the
annual budgets during September and October. The budget package has three
main components:
-   Operating budget
=   Capital Expenditure budget, and
=   Replacement budget
Based on the information provided by the Planning Department (on traffic
forecast by cargo type and by domestic and foreign trade), the Technical
Department prepares all sections of the budget. The capital expenditure
budget is prepared five yearly and then broken down annually. The operating
and replacement budgets are approved by the Director of SPA, and the five-year
capital expenditure budget and that portion of the replacement budget where a
single equipment costs more tLan Y300,000 are approved by MOC. Financial
planning and budgeting are confined to the control of expenditures rather than
to the monitoring of performance. The annual budget is mainly used as a
control tool.
3.25      SPA uses double entry accounting and accrual-based accounting
systems. The accounting guidelines and procedures are issued by MOF. The
financial statement and the classification of accounts are prescribed by MOC.
The accounting system was basically designed to ensure compliance with set
rules. It does not facilitate decision-making for improving productivity and
efficiency under market oriented operations. SPA's financial statements
comprise an income statement and a balance sheet. At the request of the Bank,
however, SPA prepared the cash flow statement so that its financial condition
could be nonitored.
3.26      SPA needs to modernize its accounting system and adopt commercially
oriented, internationally accepted accounting standards and practices. It
needs to strengthen computerized long term financial planning and forecasting,
internal auditing and control, evaluation, and control of financial
performance. To achieve this goal, technical assistance would be required by
SPA and this will be provided under the project (para. 4.4(c)).
3.27      Until recently the State Audit Administration (SAA) was carrying out
the external audit of SPA. Since the decentralization of ports, the Auditing



21 -
Bureau of Shanghai Municipality (AB8H) has started auditing under the guidance
of SMA. The Bank has accepted this arrangement. During negotiations
agreament was reached that (a) SPA will submit to the Bank not later than six
months after the end of each fiscal yew. audlted financial statements
Including enterprises that operate under SPA; and (b) GOC will submit to the
Bank audited accounts of the project expenditures including the Special
Account and Statements of Expenditure (SOBs), with a separate opinion on the
S0Bs.
C. Traffic--Past and Future
Past Laffic
3.28     Despite the sbarp decrease in national economic activities starting
from the second half of 1989, traffic at the port of Shanghai has, since the
open door policy of the early 1980s, reached 146.8 million tons (mt) of cargo
in 1991, of which, about 67 percent (98.4 mt) was handled by SPA. Of this,
76 percent of traffic is domestic cargo and 24 percent foreign trade cargo.
Within the domestic trade, waterways (including coastal, Yangtze river, inland
waterways) handled 63.8 percent of incoming cargo and 46.2 percent of outgoing
cargo. This traffic composition reflects the economic base of the hinterland,
in particular the high level of water-to-water transhipmuent traffic of the
port and Shanghai's status as the major traditional cargo transhipment and
distribution center for the region. The actual average traffic growth per
annuxm for SPA by major groups during 1981-91 is summarized as follows:
AVELGE TRAFFIC GROWTH PER ANNUM (1981-91)
(percent)
Dry bulk
of which:
Coal                                              4.7
Fertilizer (foreign Imports)                      4.7
Others                                            4.2
Container                                          ZI_1
General cargo
of which:
Construction materials                            2.3
Conventional break bulk                           1.0
Total traffic bandled bv the port              I.
3.29     Details by commodity are given in Table 3.1.  The modal split for
distribution of traffic to and from the port is shown ir Table 3.2. Traffic
origin/destination analysis and cargo owners' survey for major commodities
handled by SPA are given in Annex 6.



- 22
Futue Traffic
3.30      Total port traffic handled by SPA is expected to increase by about
40 percent over the next 14 years from 98.4 mt in 1991 to 135.4 mt in the year
2005 (2.3 percent per annum) and is expected to reach 174 mt by the year 2020
(1.7 percent per annum). This forecast is based on the assumption that part
of the traffic which would normally have come to Shanghai would divert to
other ports to take advantage of cost savings, particularly for domestic dry
bulk and foreign-going container traffic which either needs to be rerouted to
other surrounding domestic feeder ports or to the nearby deep water port of
Ningbo. The estimated average annual traffic growth rate of each commodity
type up to 2005 is summarized as follows:
AVERAGE TRAPFIC GROWTH PER ANNUM (1991-2005)
(percent)
Dry bulk
of which:
Coal                                               2.2
Fertilizer (foreign imports)                       0.7
Others                                            -2.9
Container                                            5.
General cargo                                        4.0
of which:
Construction materials                             5.4
Conventional break bulk                            3.4
Total traffic handled by the port
3.31      In 1991, the domestic transhipment of coal and bulk fertilizer
formed the major portion of the total dry bulk cargo (over 70 percent), and
the total dry bulk comprised almost two-thirds of total traffic handled by
SPA. Foreign-going container traffic is expected to have the fastest growth
rate. General cargo is also expected to grow faster than in the past due to
the open-door policy adopted by the Government, in particular for foreign
trade. The average annual growth rate for total foreign cargo, between 1991-
2005, is expected to be 3.0 percent compared with 2.1 percent for total
domestic cargo. Construction materials (mainly sand, stone, brick and tile),
in particular, are expected to grow fast to meet the demands of port
construction itself, the construction activities of the city of Shanghai and
the ongoing long-term development plan of the region. Given the factors
stated above, the traffic forecast of the port may well be on the conservative
side.
H. Future Development of Shanghai Port
3.32      In order to meet the needs of the projected growth in traffic, SPA
had, in 1988, prepared a general layout plan for the future development of the
port over the next 30 years. The plan was based on four strategic



- 23 -
considerations: (a) the need to move cargo handling operations away from the
city center and the consequent need to find new sites for future expansion
outside the Huangpu River area; (b) the depth limitation in the approach
channels to the Yangtze River that limits the size of ships which could serve
Shanghai port; (c) the diversion of a large part of the transhipment cargo to
other regional ports such as Ningbo; and (d) the development of the Pudong
area on the east bank of the Huangpu River included in the Shanghai Metro Area
Master Plan which would require the provision of port facilities that would be
easily accessible to industries and businesses in the new area. Based on the
above factors, the plan visualized the f.uture development of Shanghai port
facilities at three new sites: two on the Yangtze - Waigaoqiao on the Pudong
side and Luojing - and one at Jinshanzui in Hangzhou Bay on the East China
Sea.
3.33      The selection of the three new sites followed a comprehensive
screening of several potential locations and has been approved by MOC and by
SMG. They have subsequently been incorporated in the Metro Master Plan and
approved by the State Council of the People's Republic of China. Taking into
account the water depths, geographical locations, inland distribution links
and land availability, different functions have been assigned to these three
new sites.
3.34      In 1988, SPA and the Bank jointly set up an International Panel of
Experts to review the Master Plan (para. 3.11). The panel agreed with the
broad direction of development outlined in SPA's plan and suggested that
detailed pre-feasibility and engineering studies could proceed, with
Waigaoq.ao terminal development being given first priority as proposed by SPA.
At the same time it expressed some reservations on the adequacy of the
engineering investigations carried out in the preparation of the plan. Since
then, SPA commissioned the Nanjing Hydraulic Institute to undertake physical
model tests of the proposed terminals, and results indicate that SPA's plans
are soundly conceived. As can be seen, future port development in Shanghai
has to be outside the Huangpu river, involving the gradual phasing down of
operations at existing facilities in the city center terminals.
3.35      A major constraint to development of port facilities at new sites
away from the city center has been the high cost of new facilities which until
now could not be offset by the sale, lease or alternative use of city center
land that may be released by such a move, as technically all city land belongs
to the SMG which had to authorize other uses. Recently, SMG has started to
give a major portion of the proceeds of the auction/lease of such land for
alternative uses to the entity affected (up to 70 percent). This is expected
to help SPA to plan for moving several city center port operations to other
locations more speedily than it would otherwise have. It must be borne in
mind, however, that SPA's city center berths are very large in size and serve
a number of customers in their proximity. Their abandonment will have to be
planned very carefully and implemented over a considerable period of time,
allowing both SPA adequate planning, preparation and implementation time and
customers opportunity to make the necessary adjustments.
3.36     S8G, with the assistance of the Bank, is formulating a Shanghai
Economic Reform Action Plan (SERAP), focusing on the following areas:
state-owned enterprises, financial sector, municipal finances, social
security, housing, infrastructure and land management. Detailed action plans



- 24 .
for each of these are being worked out by SIG with the assistance of
consultants. Future Bank projects in Shanghai would be designed to support
these reforms. In the area of municipal reforms, the key objectives are:
autonomy and strengthening of public utilities and municipal services, pricing
of municipal services and laproving the medium-term and annual planning,
progra_ming and budgeting process for infrastructure investments and
operations. The proposed project would support SEO's reform efforts in such
areas as: enterprise reform (SPA), re-orientation of urban growth away from
the city center, pollution control etc.



- 25 -
IV. THE  MM
A. Prolect Qbiectives and Scope
4.1       The main objectives of the project are to assist SPA in (a) the long
term development of the port and the use of its facilities by gradually
shifting port operations away from the congested city center and by promoting
terminal specialization; (b) providing needed additional capacity in a
rational, optimal and environmentally sound way; and (c) increasing efficiency
by introducing modern methods of operational and financial management. The
project would also provide a basis for the Bank to continue the dialogue (a)
with 5OC on the development of the most appropriate strategy for the future
development of ports in China and (b) with SPA on the long term planning,
development and operation of terminal facilities in Shanghai port.
B. Details of the Project
4.2       The proposed project constitutes the first major steps being taken
by SPA in the implementation of an action plan for restructuring the existing
port facilities on the Huangpu river to rationalize their use and gradually
move cargo operations away from the city center. It includes: (a) the
provision of new and replacement cargo handling equipment (for existing
terminals) to improve cargo handling efficiency and promote terminal
specialization; (b) measures to improve SPA's financial condition through
tariff restructuring, computerization of accounting, auditing and budgetary
control; (c) the construction of new terminals (first stage) at Waigaoqiao and
Luojing, and the procurement and installation of the necessary cargo handling
equipment for operating the terminals; and (d) technical assistance and
training.
4.3       This project will initiate a long-term process of restructuring in
accordance with the Naster Plan of Shanghai Port. Key project elements will
initiate development of port facilities on the Yangtze river at Waigaoqiao and
Luojing thus diverting some of the existing and future traffic away from the
city center; help create specialized terminals at Luojing for coal and at
districts No. 9 and 10 for containers through provision of the required
equipment; initiate planning of relocation of tht fertilizer terminal; and
expedite the process of compensating commercial enterprises for high-value
land vacated on the Huangpu river.
4.4       Specifically, the loan proceeds would assist SPA finance (a) the
provision of equipment for four berths in the first phase of the planned new
container/break-bulk general cargo terminal at Waigaoqiao; (b) the
construction of, and the provision of equipment for, coal berths at Luojing;
(c) the purchase of equipment both for replacement and for addition to the
existing fleet in the present port areas including the Guangang and Baoshan
terminals constructed under the ongoing Ningbo-Shanghai Ports Project (Ln
3006-CHA); and (d) technical assistance and training in the areas of financial
management, tariff restructuring and operations management.



- 26 -
4.5       Details of the project are described in the following paragraphs:
(a) CkLil .orka
(i) Waisaqiao.  Four deep water berths with a total length of
900 a and a 300 m long berth for barges will be built to a
designed annual capacity of 2.4 million tons. Of the deep
water berths, two are multi-purpose berths of which one will be
fitted at the outset to handle containers, one for handling
steel products and one for handling timber and construction
materials. All are capable of being converted for the handling
of containers as and when necessary. A container freight
station, a 100,000 v2 container yard, a general cargo transit
shed, warehouses, open storage areas, workshops, and other
ancillary buildings will also be constructed inside the
terminal area. The terminal will be served by a network of
roads, rail and inland waterways. The planning of the
necessary roads is wall advanced; planning of rail and inland
waterway connections is under way and they will be provided
later when needed.
(ii) Iui±ni. The proposed development at Luojing is the first
stage In the development of a major coal terminal at that
location and comprises (a) two unloading berths, 469 m long and
28 m wide, capable of accommodating vessels up to 35,000 DWT
with a depth alongside berth of 10 m and (b) five loading
berths for sea-going vessels and river barges of varying sizes
with a total quay length of 465 m and a width of 18 m. The
terminal has an area of approximately 50 hectares, with the
berths extending 1224 m from the shore line. Part of the back-
up area has been reclaimed largely using fly ash generated by
the nearby Shidongkou Power Station. The terminal will be
fitted with equipment to provide an annual throughput capacity
of 12.5-15.0 million tons. Two access roads to the terminal
will be constructed to link the terminal to the area road
network. To serve the torminal with an inland waterway, the
Lianqi river will later be extended connecting the terminal to
the Huangpu river. There is also a plan to eventually serve
the terminal by rail through a link which will connect it to
the planned railroad leading to north Jiangsu Province. The
hinterland connections to the city and the nearby provinces are
under construction.



- 27 -
(b) 3AidaLaUi
Vaigaoqiao will be provided with cargo handling equipment which
will enable the torminal to handle containers, timber, steel,
construction materials and general cargo. Luojlng will be
fitted with two 1,250 tons per hour capacity bucket chain ship
unloaders, one 1,250 tons per hour capacity grab unloader, and
two ship loaders each with a capacity of 1,500 tons per hour.
Coal will be stacked at the yard using three 3,000 tons per
hour stackers and four 1,500 tons per hour reclaimers.
Transfer from berth to stack yard will be by conveyors.
Equipment for the existing terminals are essentially to replace
those that are obsolete or found to be beyond economic repair
as well as a few pieces of now equipment to facilitate terminal
specialization and increase productivity. Equipment to be
procured using the proceeds of the loan are listed in Tables
4.2, 4.4, and 4.5.
(c) Technical Assistance and Training
(i) Support for SPA Restructuring Plan. An Action Plan for
'restructuring existing terminals, in accordance with the policy
agreed with the Bank, for the relocation of cargo handling
activities away from the city center and for terminal
specialization, had been prepared by SPA and was reviewed by
the Bank at the time of appraisal (Annex 7). The plan takes
into account the recomuendations of the Bank's October 1987
mission and the recommendations of the international panel of
experts which reviewed SPA's general layout plan. The proposed
project marks the first phase in the implementation of this
plan.
(ii) Insitutinatut l Deelgm=n.  SPA will be assisted in
introducing measures to improve its accounting systems, to
revalue fixed assets, to computerize its accounts, to
restructure tariffs on the basis of costs (para 2.20), and to
introduce corporate planning (para. 6.18). Technical
assistance will also be provided to assist SPA in carrying out
a cargo unitization study and a vessel traffic management study
and in corporate planning and the development of a management
information system that includes port operations and financial
management. Overseas training in port operations,
environmental enhancement, financial management, port
engineering and computer applications, will be provided to
SPA*a managers. Training in equipment maintenance will be
undertaken by suppliers as part of the contract for the
procuremnt of cargo handling equipment. The terms of
reference were agreed during negotiations. Technical
assistance in container terminal operations is being provided
by German experts under bilateral financing.



- 28 -
C. Cost Estimates
4.6       The total project cost is estimated at Y2439.36 million or $424.28.
million with a direct and indirect foreign exchange component of Yl,129.43 or
$195.77 mdllion. The cost of civil works is based on work quantities
calculated from preliminary engineering designs computed on the basis of NOC's
standard manuals for labor and equipment productivity and current market
prices of materials and checked against prices of similar works. The cost of
equipment is based on prices quoted by manufacturers and suppliers in recent
bids for the procurement of similar or equivalent equipment executed with Bank
financing.  The cost of consultlng services is estimated on the basis of
recent fees charged by foreign consultants for services similar in nature and
scope. Detailed cost estimates are found in Tables 4.1-4.4 and are summarized
below. The project is exempt from duties and taxes.
8AN  OF I T MT X     !TB8
Juma 1992 Ptices)
Lcal.  potela   Total    Local  Tor.1u   Total    lori.±
(Yuan md111a)            --- (08$d m(8ion) ---   (2)
civil worl               889.06   136.91  1025.97   163.13    25.13   188.25    132
Ugut                     108.56   698.96   807.52    19.91   128.25   148.16    871
T.A./traftis:             0.62    6.99    9.81    0.15      1.65    1.80    921
8ub total                918.44   t44.86  184.3J    183.19   1U.,2   998.l1  i
Ibysical oont4u*anoyLs   99.77   63.59   183.36    16.31    15.36    33.67    46S
Price .ontIngmaeys      211.72   200.98   412.70    27.01    25.39    52.40    491
Total project eoat      1309.93  1129.43  2439.36   228.51   195.77   424.28    46X
- inminin
J. 1O1 o¢ civil work and *qydpsent costs.
Us5x 4nntwrantienal ual. escalation factors of 2.61 in 1992. 3.9S In 1993. 3.9X in 1994. 3.61 ln 1995
and thereafter. Price escalation factor for Yuan - 6.61 In 1992 and 5.02 thereafter.
D. FinaniLng Plan
4.7       Financing for the project will be provided as follows:
Component                Total Cost   Bank Loan         SPA
*  ''-.......--(S million)   -
Civil Works                  236.36         8.83       227.53
Equipment                    186.12       139.52        46.60
Technical Assistance
and Trainlng                 1.80         1.65      _ 0.15
Total                   " 2           150.00     2z7zi



* 29 -
4.8       The Bank loan of $150 million, representing about 36 percent of the
total project cost or about 77 percent of the foreign exchange cost, will be
made to COC and will be used to finance the foreign exchange cost of civil
works for the marine structure at the Luojing terminal, the procurement of
equipment under the project and the provision of technical assistance and
overseas training. The remaining foreign costs and all local costs will be
financed by SPA. Reforms in government lending policies have been introduced
and steps taken to convert customary grants into interest-bearing loans in COG
dealings with public utilities. GOC has also gradually increased the on-
lending rate. For the Three Ports Project in 1983, the interest rate was
about 3.6 percent; for the Tianjin Port Project in 1987, it was 4 percent; for
the Huangpu Port Project in 1988, it was 5 percent, and for the Ningbo and
Shanghai Ports Project in 1988 it was increased to about 6.2 percent. For the
proposed project, during negotiations it was agreed that GOC will onlend the
proceeds of the Bank loan through SMG to SPA at an interest rate of about 90
percent of the Bank's variable interest rate for 20 years, including a grace
period of five years; SPA will bear the commitment fee (0.75 percent on the
unwithdrawn balance) and the foreign exchange risk. Approval of the Loan
Agreement by China's State Council and the conclusion of Subsidiary Loan
Agreements between the Government and SMG and between SMG and SPA satisfactory
to the Bank, are conditions of loan effectiveness. In future projects, GOC
intends to raise the interest rate on onlending to a rate equal to or greater
than the Bank lending rate.
E. Status of Prenaration
4.9       Civil works for the four berths at Waigaoqiao are under way.
Preliminary design for the Luojing terminal was completed in May 1992;
detailed engineering is expected to be completed in June 1993, after the soil
test program results are finalized. Specifications for cargo handling
equipment and bidding documents for their procurement are being prepared by
SPA, and will be completed before June 30, 1993, except for Luojing terminal
which would be completed by the end of 1993.
4.10      An Action Plan for the restructuring of terminals to eventually
shift cargo handling activities from the city center ha! been prepared by SPA
and reviewed by the Bank. The plan, summarized in Annex 7, will be
implemented by SPA in the context of its long-term development plan.  The Port
Costing and Management Information System study, which will provide the
necessary inputs for improving SPA's financial performance including tariff
restructuring, asset re-valuation and computerization of accounts, is in
progress and its design and development is expected to be completed by
December 1993.
F. Project Implementation
4.11      Implementation of the project, as with previous projects, will be
the responsibility of SPA, with NOC providing general supervision and
guidance. SPA is assisted by consultants (the Third Harbor Engineering
Investigation and Design Institute) in the design of the terminals at Luojing
and Waigaoqlao. Construction supervision will be undertaken by the Capital



* 30 -
Construction Department of SPA. Implementation of previous Bank-assisted
projects by SPA has been satlsfactory, and this experience should benefit
implementation of the proposed project.
4.12      hxternal consultants will be engaged to assist SPA in vtdertaking a
cargo unitization study (para. 3.12), the development of a Management
Information System (MIS) and the computerization of accounts, and in tariff
restructuring (para. 6.19). Training in oquipment operation and maintenance
will be provided by suppliers; overseas training for senior staff and managers
will be undertaken at major international ports in agreement with the Bank.
4.13      The project is scheduled to be completed at the end of 1998 with a
loan closing date of June 30, 1999. The implementation schedule is shown in
Table 4.6(a).
G.  ,Procumnt
4.14      Procurement under the project will be carried out as shown below.
The figures in parentheses represent the amounts to be financed by the Bank.
All figures include estimated physical and price contingencies and are
rounded.
Procurement Method     NBF      Total project
ICB     LC     OtherLA                cost
------------------ ($ million) --------
Civil Works                        26.04              -       210.32    236.36
(8.83)                      -        (8.83)
Equipment                         180.12      3.00    3.00              186.62
(133.52) , (3.00)  (3.00)            (139.52)
'eebhnical assistance
and training                        -        -       1.80                1.80
(1.65)              (1.65)
Total                        206.16      3.00    4.80    21O.      424.28
(142.35)   (3.00)  (4.65)   (-)      (150.00)
1A International and local shopping. Includes consultant services.
NBF - Not Bank-Financed
4.15      Procurement arrangements for the project take into account the
experience gained from previous Bank Group-financed port projects.
Documentation for the procurement of works and goods has recently been
standardized for China and the model documents will be used for procurement
under the project.



- 31 -
4.16      Civil wvorks for the marine structure at the Luojing terminal
estimated to cost $26.04 million and major items of cargo handling equipment
with an estimated aggregate cost of $180.62 million will be procured follow.ig
international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures. However, a few items of
standardized equipment of basic technology estimated to cost not more than
$300,000 r-r contract, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $3.0 million,
where foreign bidders are not expected to be interested, may be procured by
Local Competitive Biddings (LCB). A list of these items is given in Table
4.7.  Further, items or groups of items covering minor maintenance equipment
and equipment for workshops, research and environmental protection purposes,
estilmted to cost less than $200,000 per contract, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding $3.0 million, may be procured following international and local
shopping procedures on the basis of a comparison of price quotations solicited
from at least three eligible suppliers in accordance with the Bank Guidelines
for Procurement. Planned procurement packaging is shown in Table 4.8. Civil
wvorks not financed by the Bank amounting to $210.32 million are being procured
by SPA following local procedures.
4.17      Prequalification of contractors for the civil works contract for the
marine structure at Luojing and suppliers for the cargo handling system and
equipment for the Luojing terminal will be undertaken in advance of bidding to
ensure that invitations to bid are extended only to qualified bidders. All
contracts exceeding $300,000 for the procurement of works and goods financed
from the proceeds of the loan will be subject to prior review by the Bank.
This would represent about 60 percent of the estimated amount of all contracts
under the project. Under ICB, qualifying domestic contractors and
manufacturers will be eligible for a margin of preference in the comparison of
bids of 7.5 percent for civil works and 15 percent (or the prevailing rate of
customs duties, whichever is lower) for goods. All consultants financed from
the proceeds of the loan will be selected and employed under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank in accordance with the Bank Guidelines on
the Use of Consultants.
H. Disbursgenot
4.18      Disbursements from the loan would cover:
(a) 34 percent of total expenditures in respect of civil works for
the marine structure at the Luojing terminal;
(b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for directly imported
equipment or 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory) for
locally manufactured equipment, and 75 percent of local
expenditures for other items procured locally; and
(c) 100 percent of expenditures for consulting services and
training.
4.19      To facilitate disbursement, a Special Account will be opened with an
authorized allocation of $5.0 million, the estimated average expenditure for a
four-month period, in a bank acceptable to the Bank. Applications for
replenishment of the Special Account will be submitted monthly or when the
account is drawn down by 50 percent, whichever occurs first. A schedule of



32 -
estimated disbursements, which takes into consideration the disbursement
profile for transport projects in China, is given in Table 4.9. Retroactive
financing up to $15.0 million is provided to enable SPA to proceed with tle
payment for some items of equipment (under way for LCB items, see para. 4.15)
for Waigaoqiao pending loan approval, in order that the first berth, expected
to be completed by early 1993, can become operational as soon as it is
completed. Retroactive financing would apply to payments made after June 30,
1992.
4.20      Disbursements will be made against full documentation except for
small contracts for equipment worth less than $300,000 each and for costs
incurred for training which may be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure (SOEs). Documentation supporting SOEs will be retained by SPA and
will be made available for review by Bank supervision missions.
I. Proljct Monitogrin
4.21      The project will be supervised regularly in conjunction with other
ongoing port projects.  In addition to field supervision, the progress of
project elements will also be monitored through biannual progress reports
submitted to the Bank. An outline of the report is presented in Annex 9.
Giver. that SPA has been involved in two earlier Bank projects and the advanced
stage of project preparation, no unusual supervision costs are anticipated.
The focus of Bank supervision efforts in the first year would be on
procurement of equipment, and improvements in SPA's operational and financial
maiagement. Table 4.6(b) summarizes project launch actions, which were
confirmed during negotiations. During project implementation the Bank's
supervision efforts would focus on: technical specifications of equipment;
procurement process; tariff restructuring; port operating improvements;
financial management; and corporate planning. Supervision of this project
will be combined with the supervision of two other ongoing projects - the
Ningbo-Shanghai Ports Project and the Ship Waste Disposal Project - and the
mission composition will be in accordance with the coubinted needs of these
three projects. Upon completion of the project, GOC and SPA will prepare a
project completion report not later than six months after the loan closing
date.
J. project Impact on Ecology and Environment
4.22      Most of SPA's existing facilities are located along the Huangpu
river surrounded by high density residential and commercial neighborhoods.
This has generated amplaints from the local population about dust, noise and
vehicular traffic. The quality of the water of the Huangpu river,
particularly in the lower reaches, is poor and the underlying sediment is
contaminated due to a combination of untreated sanitary sewage, storm water
drainage and industrial effluents from small enterprises being dumped into the
river. Projected quantities of waste-waters from the port facilities and
shipping are small in comparison with the approximately 1.3 million tons of
Industrial effluents and 610 million tons of sanitary sewage discharged
annually into the river system in Shanghai. The Bank is addressing these
problems through the Shanghai Sewerage Project (Ln.2794/Cr.1779-CHA) and the
Ship Waste Disposal Project.



- 33 -
4.23     Conditions in the port have been exacerbated during the past decade
as extensive economic development has led to significant increases in the
port's traffic. The consequences are particularly acuts in the case of coal
handling for which Shanghai is a major transhipment center. District No. 7,
designed to handle 22 million tons per year, handled over 42 million tons in
1990. Further, coal handling is projected to increase to 68 million tons a
year by 1995. To alleviate the situation, new terminals will be developed on
the Yangtze river away from the city center and various measures will be taken
for the amelioration of conditions, including additional or new dust control
devices, now offloading equipment to reduce noise, and new effluent and waste
management facilities at several of the terminals to ensure that they meet
current and proposed effluent and emissiou standards.
4.24     Bulk fertilizer handling at District 8 also contributes to
pollution. SPA is carrying out a study on the possibility of shifting
fertilizer handling away from the city center facilities. During
negotiations, agreement was reached that SPA will complete the study by
December 31, 1994, and agree with the Bank by December 31, 1995, on an action
plan and thereafter implement it.
4.25     As required by current national laws, SPA undertook environmental
impact assessments (EIA) of the proposed developments at Luojing and
Waigaoqiao through the Shanghai Environmental Protection Sciences Research
Institute (SEPSRI). Completed in 1989, the reports have been reviewed and
approved by S1IW. A review of the ZIA and the envirormental protection
measures proposed to be taken in the existing terminals sniowed that a thorough
and detailed impact assessment was undertaken. (A sumary of the EIA is
presented in Amnex 4.) Care will be taken to ensure that the engineering
designs of the new terminals and the technical specifications of the equipment
to be procured will incorporate the necessary mitigating measures prescribed
in the EIA. These measures include (a) secondary treatment of sewage from
both ships and port facilities, (b) solid waste management with maximum
recovery and recycling of such wastes as compost and metal containers,
(c) planting and  intenance of extensive greenbelt areas to contain dust and
noise and, where necessary, bemrs or walls as noise barriers, and (d) an
extensive dust suppression system at taojing employing water sprays and
enclosed conveyor distribution systeas. The provision of treatment facilities
for oily and other contaminated wastes from ships and port facilities is
already being attended to in the Ship Waste Disposal Project. A technical
note on the use of fly ash as fill material is given in Annex 8. During
negotiations, SPA agreed (a) to carry out all measures necessary to mitigate
any negative environmental impact of the project and (b) operate appropriate
environmental protection facilities and monitor compliance with GOC and SIG
environmental laws and regulations.
4.26     Investments proposed under the project to upgrade facilities and
equipment in the existing terminals will have a beneficial impact on the
environment. The proposed developments at Luoj ing and Waigaoqiao will have
only insignificant impact which can be further mitigated through a
comprehensive environntal protection and management plan supported by a
monitoring progrm by the Port Enviromental Protection Bureau. SPA has
sufficient expertise to monitor the waste streams and ensure that current
criteria are met. To further safeguard the environment against the impact of
future delopments In their vicinity, SEQ'a Environmental Protection Bureau
has started to monitor:



- 34 -
(a) the impact of the West Shanghai Outfall on the near shore water
environment; and
(b) the effluent volume from factories on the Huangpu river with a view
to placing limitations on these effluents.
Further studies are planned to determine the assimilative capacity of the
receiving environment in the Baoshan area vis-a-vis future industrial
expansion and to determine the influence of the Zhuyuan Outfall to be
commissioned in the Vaigaoqiao area.
4.27      The impact of the proposed developments at Luojing and Walgaoqiao on
the hydrological regime is minimal. Most of the area required, for the
landside facilities at Luojing terminal, will be constructed in an area
currently bermed for coal ash water disposal while Waigaoqiao is an
agricultural area.  Wharves are to be constructed of the open-pile-structure a
type for miniml effects on the currents and the littoral zone, and for    0
minimal or no maintenance dredging In the future. The state of the marshlands
and littoral zone was found to be relatively weak as early as 1982 due to the
impact attributed to heavy industry and effluents having been dumped in the
area for several decades, and it has not been rated as a significant wetland
resource. It was, therefore, concluded that the zone defined for the proposed
port development could not be rated as valuable wetlands.
4.28      For the Luojing terminal stacking yard, SPA would consider in the
design provision of either an impervious layer below the coal stack or a well
point system to draw out any leaching from the coal stack into the ground
water, or both.
4.29      Three hundred and seventy families at the site of the Waigaoqiao
terminal have already been resettled in new housing constructed by SPA.
Resettled families were given financial compensation in addition to new
housing. Discussions with members of resettled families selected on a random
basis revealed that the resettlement terms were generous and satisfactory.



- 35 -
V. EN1 1
A. ntaroductgn
5.1       The port of Shanghai is the most important port in China and one of
the largest in the world. It i8 located on the Huangpu river, about 30 km
upstream of its confluence with the Yangtze river and close to the East China
Sea. The coastal location, the Yangtze river, the Huangpu river and the
inland waterway system surrounding the whole area connecting it to many other
smaller feeder ports, help Shanghai port serve not only the city of Shanghai,
the largest industrial city in China, but also a vast hinterland. The
economic influence of the port extends not only to the inland river ports
along the Yangtze river but also to all other major coastal conurbations in
China.
Port Operations and Ex1a0AULn Pla
5.2      As detailed in Chapter III, SPA has a total of 143 berths spread
over 15 districts, each district operated by a separate business enterprise.
Only one district (Saoshan, 8 berths, deslgned annual handling capac'ty 2.9
at) is not along the HuaD8u river. The congested state of operations along
the Huangpu river and the expected steady increase in the port's traffic have
caused the port to seek alternative locations to provide facilities to meet
the future traffic demand in the long term. Some of the proposals being
pursued are summarized, briefly, as follows:
(a) To divert some of the traffic to other feeder ports on the basis of
the most economic routing of the cargo.
(b) To build new terminals outside the Huangpu river to accommodate the
increasing port traffic as visualized in SPA's Kaster Plan.
(c) To limit the role of the existing districts by reducing the scale of
their operation.
(d) To maximize the throughput capacity by the replacement of obsolete
equipment with more efficient ones and the relocation of some of the
activities to new terminals outside the Huangpu river.
(e) To improve operational technology and handling efficiency of the
port.
5.3       SpecLfically, under the Eighth Five-Year Plan (1991-95), the port's
capacity is to be upgraded through:
(a) Construction of two new terminals (first stage) outside the Huangpu
river which includes:
(i) four berths at Waigaoqiao including two multi-purpose berths,
one container berth and one construction materials berth, with
a total annual designed throughput capacity of 2.4 mt-- as
already stated, this is the first phase of a long-term
development planned at this location, and



- 36 -
(li) cool handling facilitles with a total annual designed
throughput capacity of 12.5-15.0 at at a new coal terminal in
Luoj ing;
(b) Renovation of 11 existing berths on the Huangpu river; and
(c) Renovation of, and additions to, the port's equipment fleet for five
different types of cargo (fertilizer, coal, construction materials,
containers, and break-bulk general cargo).
B. Costs and Benefits of the Proposed Project
Operational Parameter-s
5.4       Operational parameters used in the economic evaluation for the
analysis of the costs and benefits of the proposed project are given in
Table 5.1. These were reviewed with SPA and were considered realistic.
Protect Costs
5.5      For the economic evaluation of the project, all costs necessary to
the completion of the facilities planned under the project have been taken
Into account. Only certain costs being incurred at Luojing to facilitate the
construction of the next phase of coal facilLties for reasons of economy and
convenience (amounting to less than one- fifth of the terminal costs) have been
Ignored. All lnputs and outputs have been evaluated in cons tant 1992 economic
costs. Financial costs have been converted to economic costs by shadow
pricing each berth's input categories. Conversion factors for each input
category are based on estimates determined in completed Bank studies. All
price contingencies, taxes and duties are excluded. For traded goods, c.i.f.
prices of iLports and f.o.b. prices of exports are used in estimating the cost
of materials and equipment, with adjustments for the cost of inland transport.
The official exchange rate in July 1992 is used to convert foreign costs to
yuan (Table 5.2).
5.6      The overall conversion factors are 1.22 for break-bulk berths, 1.20
for coal berths, 1.27 for construction materials berths, 1.21 for container
berths, and 1.05 for bulk fertilizer berths.  The factors derived for the
various cost items (Table 5.3) have been applied to the annual project
expenditures to obtain the stream of project economic costs.
Pro1ect Benefits
5.7      Using the congestion currently being experienced in Shanghai port's
facilities along the Huangpu river and the forecast increase in future traffic
as the basis, the economic analysis primarily focussed on the benefits derived
from relleving congestion in the port. Details of the traffic forecasts are
shown in Table 5.4. The proposed project will yield quantifiable benefits in
the form of savings in cargo handling costs, ship time (both waiting time and
operating time), and cargo time (Table 5.5). In the case of coal handling and
other equipment for the rehabilitated berths, there will be large benefits
from reduced environmental pollution but, unfortunately, these are not yet
quantifiable in monetary ter"m.



* 37 -
5.8       Savings in Cartp Handlig Coat. Some savings in the direct coat of
cargo handling are expected from handling the cargo over the new berths and/or
the new facilities compared with the present facilities, but these will be
relatively small. However, without the project, the only way to handle
traffic In excess of available berth capacity would be through more costly
lightering. SPA estimates lightering costs to be 3 to 4 times normal handling
costs. Detailed estimates of handling cost savings are shown in Table 5.6.
Lightering has been assumed for cargo tonnage in excess of berth capacity at
95 percent occupancy, at a cost three times that of normal handling.
Substantial savings in the cost of handling coal at the existing berths after
renovation and at the proposed now berths are expected. Savings in handling
costs have been converted to economic benefits by shadow pricing the main cost
components of normal handling and of lighter!ng. Conversion factors of 1.05
for berth handling and 1.1 for lightering are used; these factors were
estimated In a previous Bank study.
5.9      Savings 1 ShL p Tim.  These include both reductions in ship time
waiting for berth and working at berth due to improved cargo handling.
Estimates of savings in ship waiting time resulting from the project are shown
In Table 5.7. Ship costs used for the economic evaluation are the low end of
the ship costs given in the ship cost model developed by the Bank. The
annualized ship resale value plus operating costs have been used to calculate
project benefits. The annual resale value of ships has been assumed to
reflect the present state of the shipping industry; it gives a slightly lower
return than the annualized replacement value of ships.
5.10     Savings in Cargo Tism. Savings in ship time apply also to cargo:
the benefit is interest saved on the value of cargo. For domestic cargo, the
marginal source of working capital would be loans from the People's
Construction Bank of China at 7-8 percent interest. For foreign cargo, the
higher foreign exchange working capital needed would require more foreign
borrowing, and it is assumed that this would be at China's marginal cost of
capital of around 12 percent. Roughly 80 percent of all cargo passing through
Shanghai is in donestic trade. Interest savings have, therefore, been
calculated assuming an average rate of interest of 9.0 percent per annum.
5.11     Total project benefits for the items discussed above are presented
by year in Table 5.7. The major part of project benefLts would be in ship
time savings. These would accrue first to ship owners and could be passed on
t) cargo owners. Coal and construction materials are in domestic trade and
ship and cargo owners are 100 percent Chinese. As for the other traffic, the
vast majority of ships calling at Shanghba are either Chinese-owned (COSCO) or
Chinese-operated: it is expected that 90 percent of the project benefits for
such traffic will also accrue to China directly.
C. Economic Return and SensitiVity Analysis
Overa  Ecnoi EvalO  and Sensitivt Analysis
5.12     Table 5.8 (a,b and c) sets out the economic rate of return (ERR),
not present value (NPV) and sensitivity calculations for the various project
compents as well as the entire project. The overall ERR, for the project as
a whole, is 36.7 percent, with ERRs ranging from 17.5 percent for coal



- 38 -
terminals to 52.5 percent for bulk fertilizer berths, 49.9 percent for the
container berths, 36.8 percent for break-bulk berths, and 27.6 percent for
construction materials berths.   The sensitivity of the ERR and the NPV of the
project to variations in costs and benefits is'sumnarized as follows:
NPV (@12X
ERR (X)         discount rate)
(Y million)
Bass case                                       36.7                2,598.7
15X increase in cost                            32.7                2,396.4
151 reduction in benefits                       32.1                2,006.6
151 increase in cost combined w/
15X reduction in benefits                     28.4                1,804.3
1-year project delay                            29.5                2,124.1
This shows that even for large variations in the major parameters which are
unlikely in the Chinese context, where project planning is very conservative,
the ERRs would be very satisfactory. If ship costs in the mid-range of the
ship cost model were used, the ERRs would be 5 to 7 percentage points higher.
5.13      An evaluation was also carried out to assess the economic viability
of the three major parts of the project: (a) the rehabilitation of existing
terminals, (b) the construction of the Waigaoqiao marginal berths, and (c) the
construction of the Luojing coal facilities, along with the purchase and
installation of the associated equipment. The results indicate that the ERR
would be a very high 69.2 percent on the renovation of existing terminals (for
reasons somewhat similar to those applying to the bulk fertilizer facilities,
where a relatively small investment in equipment produces large improvements
in productivity), 33.1 percent on the Waigaoqiao terminal and 14.2 percent on
the Luojing terminal. The ERR for Luojing does not include benefits derived
from (a) reducing pollution in the city by moving part of the coal handling
from city terminals to a location away from the city and (b) by using covered
continuous unloaders at the new location, as-these benefits cannot be
quantified in monetary terms at present. A sonsitivity analysis indicates
that the ERR for Luojing could decline to 8.4 percent in the worst combination
of circumstances, but this is highly improbable, and this part of the project
is the most attractive from the point of view of its environmental impact.
Using ship costs in the mid-range would yield an ERR of 13.0 percent even in
this situation.
ZLitSik
5.14      The majority of the components to be financed under the project show
very robust economic returns. The viability of the investments in the
facilities for bulk fertilizer is unlikely to be affected by any foreseeable
factor, for the returns are ostimated to be quite high as large improvements
In throughput efficiency will result from modest marginal investments. The
ERRs for coal and constructlon materials are subject to a low degree of
uncertainty due to (a) the severe traffic bottlenecks in coal transport



- 39 -
throughout China and (b) the growing demand for construction materials
expected for the greater metropolitan area and the port. The ERRs for break-
bulk berths and container berths are dependent on two factors: (a) the degree
of diversion of long-distance ocean-going container traffic from Shanghai to
other nearby deeper water ports and (b) changes in the container penetration
ratio of general cargo traffic. The former has been taken into account in the
planning stage, resulting in a relatively low container growth rate in the
traffic forecast of the port. The latter has been taken into account by
providing for the possibility in the original design of the conversion of the
proposed two multi-purpose general cargo berths (at Waigaoqiao) to container
operation in the future. The ERR for the new coal facilities at Luojing could
decline to as low as 8.4 percent in the worst combination of circumstances,
but this is highly improbable, and this part of the project would still be the
most attractive from the environmental point of view. (Even in this case,
using the mid-range of the ship costs would yield a return of 13 percent.)
5.15      The only remaining tangible risk in the physical parts of the
project is that there may be prolonged delay in the course of implementation.
On the basis of preparations already made by SPA and its past record, this
risk is not considered to be a serious one.
5.16      There is, however, some risk that the implementation of the
institutional and financial reform measures included in the project may be
slower than planned or may even falter. However, given the level of
commitment displayed so far at all levels in GOC to carrying out these
changes, although the pace of reform may be slower, the risk of major failure
is not considered serious. A slowdown may affect SPA's finances adversely for
a short while, but this would be a temporary phenomenon, with which SPA should
be able to cope.



. 40 -
VI. n= AnS
A.   ntduction
6.1       In recent years, the Government and the port authorities in China
have made considerable progress in improving institutional and financial
policies. Steps are gradually being taken in recognizing the benefits of
ma.ket-oriented economies. The ports are now decentralized and the central,
provincial and municipal level of governmonts have started giving greater
freedom and responsibilities to port authorities in the areas of tariff
adjustments, investment planning, and financial and operational practices
based on commercial principles. The process of decentralization of ports in
China was started in 1984 by MOC, and the port authorities today enjoy
considerable freedom of action, with an incentive to manage their business in
the most efficient manner, with the priemay objective of attaining financial
viability. This evolving process should promote higher productivity and
efficient operations. The Bank bas been actively promoting efficiency
improvement measures and the design and implementation of institutional and
sectoral reforms consisting of pricing policy changes reflecting the true cost
of operations, deregulation of services, investment planning, and introducing
modern tochnology. Despite the above positive steps taken by the Government,
pricing distortions are still a major concern.
6.2       As indicated in Chapter II, SPA's present tariff structure, as that
of the other ports in China, is not cost-based and reflects distortions in the
prices of various inputs. Ports are insufficiently aware of the cost of
providing specific services, funds needed to cover future financial
obligations and the adequacy of depreciation reserves. The structure and
level of tariffs are decided by HOC and the State Price Bureau (SPB) on the
basis of arbitrary cost allocation to various port services without a
comprehensive and systematic cost analysis. In many instances, the present
tariff structure is inefficient on both counts. For instance, the relative
charges for handling break-bulk cargo, palletized cargo and container cargo do
not reflect costs and actually discourage shippers from the introduction of
more efficient unitized cargo handling technology. Currently, a large portion
of total cargo (about 80 percent) is allocated to ports by MOC, and tariffs
for unallocated cargo are allowed to be set competitively within a specified
band, and the ports are allowed to retain a part of the profits. Tariffs for
storage facilities are low, causing congestion in yards and warehouses. In
order to avoid such congestion, the long period of storing should be
discouraged by reducing the free storage period, introducing an escalating
system of charges to promote speedy clearance and, after a reasonable period,
moving the cargo to other locations at cargo owners' expense. The PCMIS study
(para. 2.20) will make recomendations for improvements in all aspects of port
charges and for introducing cost-based tariffs for all port activities
including the storage operations. Agrement was reached during negotiations
that SPA will:
(a) based on the results of the PCHIS study, install by December 31,
1994, a computer-based costing system in Shanghai port using the
latest operating and financial data, and
(b) by June 30, 1995, restructure tariffs and appropriately adjust
tariff levels, in consultation with the Bank.



- 41 -
B. SPA'.a Past and Iregent Financial ftrfoFmanc
6.3       The financial performance of SPA for 1986 to 1991 is shown in Table
6.1 and is summarized in the following:
1986   1987   1988    1989   1990   1991
-.-.-------- (Y million) -------------
Net sales after tax                  602    618    730     873    965  1,163
Working cost                         219    243    316     474    524    669
DeprociatLon cost                     33     39     47      44     65    108
Operating cost                      252    282    363      S18    589    777
Net operational profit before tax   350    336    367      355    376    387
Net non-operational profit/(loss)  (23)   (37)   (44)    (54)   (63)   (71)
Total profit before tax              327    299    323     301    313    315
Transfers to GOC: Tax and othr.       73     73     73      73     89     89
Net profit                           254    226    250     228    224    226
Working ratio (X)                     36     39     43      54     54      58
operating ratio (X)                   42     46     50      59     61      67
Return on net fixed assets (X)        43     36     35      29     22      1S
Even though the operating ratio continuously deteriorated from 42 percent in
1986 to 67 percent in 1991, it is still very satisfactory. It shows, however,
that revenues increased by only 93 percent from Y602 million in 1986 to Y ,163
million in 1991, while the costs increased by 307 percent from Y252 million to
Y777 million in the same period. This indicates that tariff increases were
considerably lagging behind cost increases. Losses on nonoperating activities
also inuceased by 92 percent, from Y37 million in 1987 to Y 71 million in
1991.
6.4       Up to 1985, SPA transferred 70 percent of profits to the state for
taxes, keeping 30 percent for itself. Between 1986 and 1989 MOF decided to
levy a tax of only a fixed amount of RMB 51.55 million annually. Effective
fiscal 1992, it is expected SPA would be exempted from taxes in order to
enable it to generate adequate funds to cover its future investments and debt
service obligations. The financial forecast, therefore, assumes no income tax
payments (Table 6.1).
6.5       The financial rate of return on net fixed assets declined in the
last five years from 43 percent in 1986 to 15 percent in 1991. This was
mainly due to additions to the fixed assets after 1990. The balance sheet in
Table 6.3 indicates that the debt/equity ratio remains satisfactory at 22/78
in 1990 and 20/80 in 1991.



- 42 -
6.6       Although the financial condltion of SPA appears to be satisfactory,
it should be noted that the operating costs of SPA are understated. The
depreciation charges, for example, are calculated only on book value and not
on revalued fixed assets. SPA also receives price subsidies from the
Government on items like fuel and energy for the handling of annual tonnage
quotas assigned by the Government. SPA in return provides its services to the
Government at tariffs lower than those charged to other customers. The
tariffs are, therefore, distorted; such distortions should be eliminated
(paras. 2.16-2.20).
C. Long-Term Financial Objective
6.7       The main objective of the decentralization of ports in China is to
strengthen the ports' own capabilities in management, development planning and
coordination between the port authorities and the respective regional
governments. The central government would like ports to become financially
self-sufficient and meet all obligations with their own internally-generated
funds, in order to eliminate government subsidies. The long-term objective of
SPA should, therefore, be to function on commercial principles, to improve its
operational efficiency and to achieve and sustain long-term financial
viability by introducing cost-based tariffs. This should enable the port
management to generate sufficient funds to cover operating cost and debt
service charges, to contribute toward future investments for renewal and
expansion of port facilities, and to meet all other financial obligations on a
regular basis.
D. SPA's-Financial Ref-orms and Intitutional DeveloRen
6.8       In addition to the measures described in para. 6.1, the Government
and SPA have recently taken a series of commendable actions in introducing
policy reforms. SNG and SPA have taken major steps in carrying out the
revaluation of the port's fixed assets. The cargo handling machinery and
equipment, which form a major part of the port's assets, were revalued in 1991
and the results (reflecting some 60 percent increase in value) incorporated in
the balance sheet. This is the first port in China where the revaluation
concept has been introduced and KOF has agreed to it in principle. The next
logical step would be to carry out a revaluation of all the assets and on
aperiodic basis. However, since revaluation is a countrywide issue, the Bank
will pursue its dialogue with the Chinese authorities as part of the reform of
overall pricing policy. GOC and SPA have also taken a positive step in
increasing tariff levels, and the State Pricing Bureau has already approved
substantial tariff increases (para. 2.19). SPA would like to restructure its
tariffs as soon as the costing study is completed (para. 2.20). MOF has been
regularly increasing the onlending rates for the proceeds of foreign loans to
SPA--from 3.6 percent in 1983 for Loan 2207-CHA to approximately 7 percent for
the proposed project. KOF plans to eliminate all forms of subsidies in
interest rates and material prices.
6.9       The Bank has also suggested and agreed with SPA on additional steps
to be taken for further improvements. In order to further increase SPA's
overall officiency and productivity, control operating costs, help in the
introduction of cost-based tariffs, and promote commercially based accounting



- 43 -
and management practices, a technical assistance and training program has been
agreed with SPA and is included in the project. This program includes
training in accounting and finance, MIS, corporate planning and internal audit
and control. Details are discussed in paras. 6.16 to 6.19.
E. Future Finanial Performanue
6.10      Financial forecasts for the Shanghai port operations were prepared
by SPA for 1992-97. The forecast is based on the proposed investment plan,
foreseeing growth in SPA's traffic, assumed inflation and tariff adjustments.
Major assumptions of this forecast are given in Annex 10.
6.11      Details of forecast income statement are given in Table 6.1 and are
summarized in the following:
1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997
-----.------- (Y million) -------------
Net sales after tax                    1,314  1,435  1,721  2,055  2,401  2,804
work4ng cost                             780    870  1,037  1,232  1,419  1,650
Depreciation                             131    155    178    201    224    248
Operating cost                           911  1,025  1,215  1,433  1,643  1,898
Total operating profit                   402    410    509    622    757    905
Net nonoperating profit (loss)          (82)   (83)   (97)  (114)  (133)  (155)
Profit before tax                        320    327    412    508    624    750
Transfers to government                   18     19     20     21     22      23
Working ratio (X)                         59     61     60     60     59      59
Operating ratio (X)                       69     71     71     70     69      68
Return on n.f. assets (X)                 12     10     11     13     14      15
The above figures indicate that SPA would be able to arrest the gradual
deterioration in the financial performance of the past five years (1987-91).
Although the working and operating ratios deteriorate to 61. and 71,
respectively, in 1993 they start improving gradually and reach 59 percent and
68 percent, respectively, in 1997. The financial rate of return on the
average net fixed assets shows gradual recovery from 10 in 1993 to 15X in
1997. Operating revenues are expected to increase faster than expenses (by
RMB 1,546 million between 1992 and 1997, as against cost increases of RMB 987
for the same period).



- 44.v
6.12      The fund flow statement (Table 6.2) indicates that the total
financial obligations of Y5,660 million, including investments of Y4,242
million for the forecast period, will be covered by:
Internal cash generation           Y     3,953 m      70X
Loasa
Foreign                           Y     1,080 a      191
Local                             Y       627 a      11l
Tor&l                                5,660 m
The annual cash position is expected to remain satisfactory at Y330 million on
the average, representing three mnths' working expenses.
6.13      The balance sheet (Table 6.3) also shows acceptable results during
the forecast period. The ratio analysis produces the following satisfactory
indicators:
1992     1993     1994     1995     1996     1997
Debt/Equity Ratio La        23/77    27/73    31/69    33/67    31/69    28/72
Current Ratio &b              2.2      2.2      2.3      2.3       2.3      2.4
Liquid Ratio I£               1.8      1.7      1.8      1.9       1.9      2.0
La Relationship between long-term debt and total equity (i.e., the sum of
equity and long term debt).
Lb Relationship between total current assets and total liabilities.
i; Relationship between current assets (excluding inventory) and current
liabilities.
6.14      From these forecast results, SPA would be able to achieve its long-
term financial objective (para. 6.7). It should be able to generate
sufficient revenues to cover operating costs, contribute about 602 of the
capital expenditures during the forecast period and meet the debt obligations
including possible losses caused by depreciation of the Chinese currency.
Based on the financial forecast the annual self-financing ratios have been
calculated indicating SPA's capacity to contribute to future investments. The
self-financing ratios are determined by paying off SPA's anual debt service
charges and other obligations from the sum of internal cash generation and
borrowings and then using the remaining funds as contributions for
investments. In order to achieve these objectives, it was agreed during
negotiations that SPA will: (a) take all steps, including controlling costs,
adjusting tariffs and improving productivity, to ensure that sufficient funds



- 45 -
will be generated to cover operating costs, debt service charges and other
financial obligations to achieve a self-financing ratio of not less than 20
percent for 1993 and 45 percent thereafter; (b) incur additional debt only if
the internal cash generation would provide a minimum debt service ratio of 1.4
during 1993, and 2.5 thereafter; and (c) maintain an annual working ratio of
61 percent or better starting fiscal year 1993.
F.  ßemityiLj, Ana ,ia
6.15      A sensitivity analysis was carried out to test the impact of no
tariff increase. If the assumed tariff increases included in the forecast
from 1993 onwards do not materialize, the financial results of SPA will be as
follows:
Wor1~king  ato                    1993     1994     1995     1296      1227
----(Z)-----------------
Base forecast                      61       60       60        59       59
No tariff increase                 63       64       68        72       90
The working ratio will deteriorate from 63 in 1993 to 90 in 1997. This
indicates that tariff increases will play an important role in meeting cash
flow requirements. If the tariffs are not increased as assumed in the
forecast, SPA would have serious financial difficulties in covering debt
service charges. Indications so far are, however, that GOC intends to permit
the port authorities to revise their tariffs to be able to meet their
obligations under the new set-up.
G. ana1gement Reforms and Training Program
6.16      Although SPA staff has fairly good knowledge of some of the
accounting, corporate planning, long term financial planning and other related
subjects, and it attempts to apply them in practice, it does not seem to
achieve full benefits from these techniques. The main reason for such
deficiency is that there is lack of coordination among the functions and the
fact that Shanghai port, as other similar enterprises in China, is going
through a transition stage with respect to administration arrangements. The
Chinese authorities are, however, keen to introduce policy reforms and to
modernize management techniques and are willing to develop productive and
market oriented operations (para. 6.1). SPA's organization should respond to
the changing environment by assuming responsibility and establishing measures
for accountability.
6.17      In order to modernize SPA's management and introduce techniques for
obtaining higher efficiency and maximization of profits, a training program
was prepared comprising: (a) foreign visits of SPA staff to overseas ports to
familiarize themselves with market oriented operations and modern scientific
management techniques and (b) employment of foreign experts to train local
staff. Under this program, SPA's financial staff will be trained in long-term
financial planning and forecasting, updating the accounting system to a
commercial and fully integrated accounting system of international standards,
computerization, management information system, cost-based tariff system and



- 46 *
strengthening corporate planning. Details of the proposed training and
associated costs are discussed in Annex 11.
6.18     One of the important aspects of management reforms in SPA will be
corporate planning activities. Although SPA currently uses several planning
tools In Its work, it would be much more beneficial If it further sharpens
monitoring and control techniques. SPA needs to restructure its organization
to respond to requirements of marketing principles. It should develop and
modernize management techniques to plan, to organize, to coordinate and to
efficiently monitor port operation to achieve full financial viability.
Corporate planning will ensure that the port management will have capability
for (a) preparing long-term strategic plans, including manpower, financial and
investment plans, (b) setting pricing policies, (c) monitoring financial and
operational targets and controlling capital and recurrent costs. Through
corporate planning SPA should be able to define Its long and short term goals
and plan strategies to achieve such goals. SPA should prepare such strategies
by setting annual operational and financial targets, improving cost control,
establishing cost-based tariffs, developing manpower plans, and carrying out
tochnical, economic and financial feasibility studies for selecting the best
investment alternatives.
6.19     An outline Corporate Action Plan was prepared during appraisal
(Arnex 12). Financial and operating performance targets have beer developed
in accordance with this plan and taking into account the investments under the
proposed project (Annex 13). To ensure satisfactory implementation of the
corporate action plan, agreement was reached with SPA during negotiations that
it will (a) carry out the action plan and achieve the financial and operating
targets; (b) send selected managers to foreign ports to familiarize themselves
with corporate planning techniques; and (c) with the help of a consultant
prepare and send to the Bank a proposal for a corporate planning system by
June 30, 1994, and, taking into account the Bank's comments, implement it by
June 30, 1995.



- 47 -
VII.                    .             LM.AND
7.1       During negotiations, agreement was reached vith SPA that it will:
(a) complete by October 31, 1994, a cargo unitization study
according to terms of reference agreed with the Bank
(para. 3.12);
(b) submit to the Bank not later than six months after the end of
each fiscal year its audited financial statements (para 3.27);
(c) complete, by December 31, 1994, a feasibility study for
shifting the bulk fertilizer handling operations away from the
city center facilities, agree with the Bank on an action plan
by December 31, 1995, and thereafter implement it (para. 4.24);
(d) carry out all measures necessary to mitigate any negative
environmental ispact of the project, operate appropriate
environmental protection facilities and monitor compliance with
GOC and SMG environmental laws and regulations (para. 4.25).
(e)  (i) based on the results of the PCMIS, install by December 31,
1994, a computer-based costing system in Shanghai port using
the latest operating and financial data; and (ii) by June 30,
1995, restructure tariffs and appropriately adjust tariff
levels In consultation with the Bank (para. 6.2);
(f) (i) take all steps, including controlling cost, adjusting
tariffs and improving productivity, to ensure that sufficient
funds will be generated to cover operating costs, debt service
charges and other financial obligations to achieve a self-
fLnancLng ratio of not less than 20 percent for 1993 and 45
percent thereafter; (ii) lncur additional debt only if the
Internal cash generation would provide a minimum debt service
ratio of 1.4 during 1993, and 2.5 thereafter; and (iii)
malntain an annual working ratio of 61 percent or better
startlng fiscal year 1993 (para. 6.14);
(g)  (i) carry out the agreed corporate action plan and achieve the
agreed financial and operating targets; (ii) send selected
managers to foreign ports to familiarize themselves with
corporate planming techniques; and (LiL) with the help of a
consultant prepare and send to the Bank a proposal for a
corporate planning system by June 30, 1994, and, taking into
account the Bank's comments, implement it by June 30, 1995.
(para. 6.19); and
(h) carry out a training program satisfactory to the Bank (para
6.19).
7.2       Agreement was also reached with the Borrower that it will:  (a)
onlend the proceeds of the Bank loan to SPA through Shanghal Municipality on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.8); and (b) submit to
the Bank not later than 8iX months after the end of each fiscal year the



- 48 -
audited accounts of the project expenditures including the Special Account and
Statements of Expenditure (SOEs), with a separate opinion on the SOEs (para.
3.27).
7.3      Approval of the Loan Agreement by China's State Council and the
co. dsion of Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the Borrower and Shanghai
Municipality and between Shanghai Municipality and SPA, satisfactory to the
Bank, are conditions of loan effectiveness (para. 4.8).
7.4      On the basis of the above, the proposed project provides a suitable
basis for a Bank loan of $150.0 million equivalent to the People's Republic of
China for 20 years including five years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.



49 -
CHINA ~ ~    ~    ~    Ane
SHANGHAI PORT RESTRUCTURING AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Documents in Prolect File
1. SAR No. 7257-CHA, November 16, 1988, vNingbo and Shanghai Ports Project -
Shanghai Port.
2.   SAR No. 9852-CHA, May 15, 1992, "Ship Waste Disposal Project."
3.   "Model Tests into the Effect of the Proposed Excavated Basins on the
Marginal Wharf of Waigaoqiao New Harbor Area of Shanghai Port", Nanjing
Hydraulic Research Institute, May 1992.
4.   'Research Report on Siltation Model Tests for Waigaoqiao Excavated Basins
of Shanghai Port", Nanjing Hydraulic Institute, May 1992.
5.   "Projected Scenario for Restructuring Handling Facilities in Huangpu
River", SPA, April 1992.
6. "Shanghai Port III Project Resettlement Action Plan Summary for
Waigaoqiao Terminal - Phase 1I, SPA, April 1992.
7.   "Shanghai Port, Issues Identified by the October 1987 World Bank
Mission', SPA, April 1992.
8.   "Preliminary Design for Luojing Coal Terminal (Phase I), Shanghai", SPA,
May 1992.
9. "Shanghai Port III Project - Environmental Assessment Review', SPA,
March 1992.



UNMI     MSIRMIM ADi Ma
8311! I!ORt RESTRJUJRUB hIlD DVISONUTPREIT 
us su PORTn CRcoIRIIlDT           orS in OFOER 198J7 WOUD mu1  MIC.
looms saA 3c _endtions                        Igopnb1i5l                         StttuslPt oaress to Data              b re            _
1." =  111
A. TM older port                               SPA                     As part of a  long temM                Impluntsti  of th
distriLts often                                                    develo_ment restturing plan,           restructruzn  pla  to foms*
occupy valuable                                                    SPA Vll gradually shft esee            part of the fo_th tmis
d on      locations,                                               handng activities aw  ftn              Sanghal port betlruci         ed
wbhLcb l addition to                                               the urban center.   m                  Develo et Project.
not bein  the mat                                                  teminls will be deeWlop 
Appropriate ma of                                                  Loj tag to handle coal .d ia
searc  utban lead,                                                 Va4eoqia  to handle Ptolne
also affect the                                                    traffti  sad transhient ctmp.
city's enviremnt
end poea cnluierable
risk  to adjacen
trsidentil an
commrclal area".
A. Dieterland                             "DC, NOR, SW                 hinterland connections are            Ptogress bein montored.       o
consections to the                                                 beisn  iproved through doubling
Port of Shangbha are                                               the railway lines and the                                            I
inadqute in the                                                    construction of e*aproem_ys to
cas  of road and rall                                              "sing aNd Hagabou. NrO
trasport, eNd                                                      inand-ater aviatIo aa
obsolete in the caea                                               chael, formed in the Toadm
of Inland water                                                     tiver and Taipu Canal,  a
ttraporr, and future                                               recently opend. Vlthin the
incresae. in traffic                                               Sbanghl mettopolitan ares an
will requre                                                        etensie road netmork i being
substantlal                                                        pleaned and developed.
iwmprov mets in
hinterlnd access to
the port.
C. Based on the                                "DC                     Planin  coordination i                To be monitored.
differing traffic                                                  eerctsed by HOC. To improe
forecasts proilded by                                              coordinatiuo   a yeasgt"e Delta
ports serving the                                                  Econedic Zone Study bhs be"e
Shanhi eonmc                                                        eqleted. for Shanghai port
Zone, it appers that                                               traffic, there Is so differenc
Increased                                                          in the forecasts between OCO
coordination of                                                    aNW SPA (e.g. a foreast of 197
plauni  betweea                                                    m tons for 2000 b"h  bee                                           I!
adoptd by both WIC Ad sPr). 



SUA    ! F?              n  An           I I CT
Up leooms  MAn            la" Remiltn.ndtVo                                        statuAle a  to Dat                      t    t         R
D. Sttong directional                           HOC                      As hnterlnd co_mect1ams are            To be monitord.
imbolances elist tat                                                 improved (se  3), adljutmnts
indvidal trawport                                                   I3 the dlt t            wiU
mode sevin  th                                                       be factiUtated. Also, c tbe
Port of Sh      am.a                                                economy is refoed, market
this   old pre t                                                    forces sill inreay decide
sabottl                                                             bw caro to sad frm the part
opportuities for                                                    will be carried.
ratienalisi
transport
aquireets.
B. The port should seek                         SPA                      Usrs with toneale                     Ho fuSthet action to ruin d
to avoid raceivn                                                    icreasinly hadle tbhlr cargo            xcept to monltor situatio.
cargo sch as col                                                    directly at thelr teinals.
(for puier plunts)                                                  In 1987, total tng  badled
A  Iron ore, whhb                                                    at owners' tenmials wa 28.39
can be delvered                                                     m tons. Thi inreasd to                                                     4A
drectly to the uqer.                                                48.31 m toes In 11.
A.  1  pr"snt cotrcts                           S                       Contracts betwoe SPA ad the            To be montored.
betwee  S   ad                                                      etewrpriss in the operating
indivdual port                                                      districts are being revieed
entrprise  reatrit                                                  MAn negotiated.  mm contracte
the officiant uAe of                                                to reflc"t changing
post facities, and                                                 circmtansee  brought dbot by
shoul be reviewed.                                                  econic refom  a          ctd
to he in pl w    1993. I"
D. Pl_and icrteae  In                           SPA                     the total      r of employes           Situatio  to be monitored.
the staffing of the                                                 in 1967 aem 54,454. th 1101bt
port from 54,000                                                    in 11 wa 54.986. Th
employees (in 1987)                                                 intentio  of SPa  to to r_d
to 63,000 a_plope                                                   staff "am  terminals are
by the year 1990, Is                                                d l .
probably unncesay
mi ansou  be e-                                                                                                                          U



Bfl&30&  Moi? 3KIUCIRMIU  An0 DIWIIum3I w J
STID   3T3 On 3EXHMM"TIOhS Of 733 OCNI3  1901 MM. UK1 MISSION
KUw lessee end ecemiatime                                                        tour m  toDot
C.  =.pterlmettem                            SPA                                                          lbptuoto  efrstoeU fvutheri  t   IcU s 1  egSu
efort. I the po.t                                                    ceettalisod. The
- s fume I ¢       t                                              ceatuallood eosto r center
fuma"_tatie  of                                                  repot" dtiety to the lot
staff Iesenuo,                                                   Ditetor.
uncesrudinted
software devel.pmsstt
ad * prollfecetis
of co_iter break,
etonfdaudizati...
difflfcat..
D. statistical date                          Noe                -     ft stotletical dotas ao malt. am lialeef tthe:
collectin at present                                              efl et the mods of                  with MC. To dee       n e  nIo
to ptd_:lly designed                                             operetioatl  _masent * i eo that it  -.-     f
to servo the                                                     data that eae eahItted to HC$,        " gell s opeptiml
"ePotlng                                                         consideration is bheig given to      reqiemet  (to the ptopoed
rynlm_te of OC,                                                  ame h  tbey ca  be improved.          projectl.
Mm s Mt vott
nfel to menmS at.                                                                                                                        'A
3. Carso delore a"                           133                     Hot _eometo are proeesed              Ibe c  eqited eetaoic ,m 
delays are often the                                             -memnall  huvr,                       tecl dt  e             he
reonlt of For                                                    aetinted         of                                       s oInte to *   sr
sfoumtle1aed                                                              ties Is pl_a-e. a                _            g of
decwoet fl  betwee                                               _omptlaed   at  e                     cof                etcow
the powt, the *hp'.                                              monitoring eoteine trattfflc 1t      fl    rgm .
agent, the freight                                               enwealy bein  t"ted.
fonetem.
1. Operatiol plai                             I                              t of        efo, C           to      nied
end peufoimen                                                    sgaulydcnrlse
targtsbmuld h                                                    centel e  th   ot ed h
Instituted by the                                                  b  to *1 l   pefot_
port is order to                                                 taret dIrectly with the
provide hettor                                                   oraotie  steuprLes. Maw
servic  to  n.                                                   cntract. betwen SPA MA  the
opratisa etrpuise  ar
omoeted to cetas such
peufom_   torgte. 
_*~~~
I



SUAomt PM_IuciUU  me                ID      us=
stn=i  s'a uauyiion            c  UK gm=su  ;IgI OMi B "mum msc
lbn l* and f e_tinAM                                                            1%shlr    ttatuiprocree to                     Aionl
M11.  ,UM =
A. lb* singl. mt                              SPA                      mall tim  of contaiers               St"oragp dbargs are ohvin.al
important lea.                                                    ben reduced trvm 14.20 days In        atl1 UV ad do not Inim
affectin  operaomal tin7 to 11.06 days in 1"1.                                                          cOW to WI_e out of the port
effilaccy  is the                                                   Ow qrs, avra  *tangs                area. 1b  proposed term
port is cong_tio  in                                               pored. for coal MAn geeal            r.trntnring (in thn projet)
the  orts staorge                                                 Carg  have lcreaed fra  12.22         aboul giv* particul
facilrtle., aed ths                                                day. and 10.79 day. to 22.43         attenti  to I *te a riat
to a direct result of                                             day. and 1S.27 day.,                  tarff attVctar  for atere of
13OOSeivOly lon                                                    reopectivoly, deap e an              carp In pot.
cargo 41l tine  Is                                                inr ee  in storage r"t fot
the port.                                                         coal fram 10.03 ln 1#67 to
10.10 in 1991. Cureat storage
charge.  To 0.10 pat day fot
coal MA 10.25 and 10.10 for
genral carp at vaehao_se  Nd
ope ntorp yb*a.
D. Presently, each                            SPA                    ;.letea have bee take  to'             To he lmntoted.
etevedorlg dlttict                                               have apecalid termnal. for
handle, a Wide                                                    cootarse, grain. fertilisr.,
varitty of hulk and                                               iron are and coal. Further,
tbrak-hulk cargo;                                                 carp hanlin  facilite at
this lack Of                                                       Dltriets 3 and S are betn
epecialu tion                                                     converted to hadlo more
roalt In lo                                                       p"engr., turning the" two
opeati nl                                                         districta into predominantly
efficiey  nd the                                                  p"aenr teminal. ?ropoa.
port eeea                                                         develpmet of the coal
substantial ecemosu                                                temial at luoing will
of cale aN a rZealt.                                              further add to terminal
speci*ltsation.
C. Ibeh oupany rate                           SA                      Barth occiae_  rate fll frm           To a mtonted.
in th  ort are                                                    7.62 i  1961 to 62.942 ia
atrsely bibo, a                                                   1991. Kedamile, arag  .p-
th  lUS" to                                                       star In paot for foreigs
exefodley to                                                 Vesls1         rado  fm 7.2S 
ships ad ireae in                                                 day to 4.27 day in the oeM
e.at to ebigpera.                                                 p"rtd.
oztenaive~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ dea.t                  e!   a  eue  rn72



SUAUGUI NOT t? hiUiCTUiU  AM nuiti.oiiW  UURJET
mmnS uuvon Z1 uiNmN"INS Oto iw ocroC 1981 ViM.SAK aniSUIII
lan laMe, .       _d lellemotlen             IaauballUit                       stntuclpreae.to "to                          Ast
D.   s operatium                              SPA                    SPA a      
peufox_eme of the                                                    b   t      m       to             be    e    n s h         s
pert cAn probably be                                              inr"oe  podeuctivity throug          project to furtthe piete
doubld for etn bulk                                               tominal speciattliatin,              csgo utttsatias.
operatle, an  for                                                rplacemet of obeolete bllk
break-blkepeatan                                                  b"tianlg ""uPoemn and impTOv'd
Sayrermente of                                                    operatioul M_nsammnt
around 25be                                                       proceue.  d monitoring. A
feasible in am                                                    teat gn an thece
district.g bmmir,                                                 tracki  of the  _ n of
the inatrodstla of                                               container  to undeny.
car  uttltias for
a larger prortie
of break-bulk
oe"ratio eseld
enable productiLvitila
to more toa double
frgm present lenle.
X. While the port does                        SPA                    SPA agree with the conclio            so furtber action is rque.
not suffer fm  a                                                  ad be taue macue to
hill of cargo                                                     introdce better eupment ed
lose ed demg* such                                               procaura".
*                loesse can bh reducd
through introdutio
of bettor aquipnt
and procedue.
P. For general cargo,                        SPA                     SPt agre. with the conclue_s          So further actiont n required.
equpmet utiize                                                    and to taktig action to replace
rat" are lowr ,                                                  obeesolete equipmnt nd
tbere are too  _n                                                introduc  equipment
Peces of qet                                                       tla    er
of diveraa                                                        possible.
hich rnder. proe
meintenence
difficult.
4A 
-                                          C "~~~~~~~~~~



mrs"Angl8m IIMSASUR1 
STAIBS IqPR  CE  UCTIOU   01U I  OCIUBI  1ß8 ii   3*11 NKSS8
RvI tse and lle          ct                    lb_daclllt                         Statuelrezs  to Datebtw    c
A. For historical                                PS  h  a r.*trsituvtri   plan to                               no Saylematiom of the
reasons, tb ejrt'e                                                  gradu all move carp operation           restmuctorog, pla Mi *
existing facitles                                                   away (rum the city center. dse                   Ofe  o  ths project.
are cloaely lnter-                                                  teminle al re being built maY
mingld wit hewavily                                                  frm the city in Luoj ng (36
populated urba                                                      ink) sad Vaigao"iso (73 in). A
arean, *ad Ia the                                                   few 9boagpu River teminal
future aloe plans                                                   w1U contiuse to handle cars.
call for building aem                                               s  tbey ses users within the
port facilities la                                                  vicinity of the terminal. The
close proxmity to                                                   vouse handled, hemever. will
urban developments.                                                 be liited.
3. Serious water                                SPA                     The port ha  14 operating              To be mo*ntored.
polluilos problms                                                   districts all of which bhwe oil
affect the Hu anaj                                                   -a8∞ dioposal systems, balf
RLver which Is  e                                                   bave dmesetic sago disposl
main source of                                                       facillties and the other  balf,
drinking water for                                                  whicb do not bave scb
the city, and the                                                   facilitles am thelt own, will
poct mat make a                                                     be serwed by the city systae.
special effort to                                                   All aem teridls will bhe a
reduce water                                                        full rca    of wate disposl
pollution stemng                                                    facilities.  futtber, uneti
fta  its operatons.                                                 CEFiDA fe diag, a ship wast
ecetie  ad tatmen
f clty mwill be developed to
set  sbnhi p ort.
C. Coal tetrials                               sn                       Measue are being take  by SPA          To be monatored.
generally leck                                                      to *ve the bhndling of coal
adequate du t                                                        way ftm the city, us
_uprsson                                                             elod shp naloedevr Sd
equi ment, and la                                                   bolt coowneyor system _ ad
portialae r smal                                                    Install watrr sptryig syste
older tominal                                                       at sack yards.
located on the Vest
leak of the bawn                                                          '
Uvor in the beart of
th city ar *a
_                                                            .5



SHAPOSi FMS RKSTUCIIR!I MRD DVKNEEK mOJ
STADS A REOS OR RSOOSUOTIO  Of in  O flu  187? Mm  USK  MSS
Rev lomasa and Eeamaendatin.a                 3>g@gj~jJ1j~            *Statlu8PLonres to Date 
si*iiant sorce of
air pollaie.
D. TM hlh desity of                           SPA                     Mew teIala willl be developed         A VW  study he. bee IWldd
vessl traffIc os the                                               mfy tun the         sive. a           In thbis poject.
0uispe River, Ad                                                   "∞jor  iact of the
the Saudeoate                                                     reructurIg plan will be a
traffic ceatrel                                                   reduction of vessel traffic an
steaf   co ntr     are                                            the .awpa River. A VOel
a major safety hbaard                                              Traffic _eneeusat System
both to vesels N                                                   (VIM) is wder conasideration
to the clty.                                                       by mDC.
S. _eres deftlelsacle.                        SPA                     txeprts from Hambrg Port an           T  ad a repert an the cmtem
were identIfid la                                                  helpag SPA Improve the               of the technical asseitance
the da_gerota. geedo                                              procedures for handling               fo           us re to    1      I
torae  facnlitiS,O                                               degeos. "Caro.                        fngdieed to the "aoh for       tA
. to"lp te¢llltleet                                                          caro woddtot  W
tl the overall                                                                                           rI 
prcedure for
goee ta_ed to be
reviewd end
streamlinend.
*t.
A. At thls time, the                          C SPA                   A Fort Costin  and Hemagmet           lopl     tat    of te r Ite
port basa                                                          Info tilo Syatem stwdy               of to     s a _ot et ti
Inufficint                                                               .                              prJect.
Of "t
financial health, aW
a teowusg  revIe  of
the poet'
liabilti" and
assets is necoesar.
5. Tbe existing                             NW, WC                    A am cftract Is begTo he  ateged.
agreemen withb NI                                                     ti       n    eIpect  to
regading the profit                                               he ppal     fro 1993. 
ta, a fLst no 51.55
to   n pa., I 1due
ad theela                                                                 _ 



536U1 10?3SI3CUIOD DIKOU  IEcT
31A81 RIP1 go 3UCCIMTCS   in E0c03   1w917 wUO    BAK  31810
3eb IeO asd lAecieadattions                                                    StstualPb tnese to Dat                    r  4         e rd
futur ta  tretet
of roftts.
C. The criteria ot                         NOC, SPA                   Data ger atod f i    the IGE         lb be moaitored.
invastuente eae                                                   wi ll sealot menassmat is
ea"        * t                                                                  _ tdeclisi  Mki e o Xn
datot   () by the                                                 letmets.
1w opportunity coat
of capiltal perceved
by      mt    e
() by th
the tea ttt of
retained etiis
D. Te contracts enter                         SPA                     Wm ceotracte between1 SPAd           To he montoed.
ito betwee SPA and                                                the operating eaterpre  l an
indiwidual Por                                                    the dietricts wilU  e entered
dietrctat do got                                                  Into upon the conelbao   of the
ref lot the econmoic                                              contract beteea SPA ad 0W.
reform ewniramen
the port feces.
3. Theoe to reaon to                       IIC, SA                   t riff adjusrmmts bh   bee            Tariff retracuig in a
believ  that the                                                  ude. The crealts of C3SaoS_t of thin project.
current price                                                     wil pride a better
structuen APrice                                                  iAdiation " to bh  the trff
leves do not prmits                                              shoU  be rstrutur.
efficency is the us
of port faciltel".
_Sme ports of the                         SPA                     Port   etmt Plau ar                  To e m tore.
pr_posed Investment                                               reiewd aswully to e_ns
pln my be at odds                                                 that tbey met re_irmato.
withthe
recins-tso  of
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t  *
*h"  eport *and
_                                          O N~~~~~~~~~~



Page 1 of 2
PROPOSED SENNA  ETRU T~No AND DRmONN   rOJECT
scoge of Uork
1.         The Port of Shanghai, one of the ten largest ports in the world,
is the largest port in China, and the primary gateway to Eastern and Central
China. The SPA owns 143 berths, 68 of which have a depth alongside of 8 to
10.5 m. The berths totalling over 14 kke in length, are located along both
banks of the Huangpu River and the Yangtze River, all in the Shanghai urban
area.
2.          With the exception of District No. 7, which specializes in bulk
coal handling, the other 13 Districts handle a variety of cargo types and may
be considered multipurpose terminals. Containers are handled at Districts 9
and 10 as well as Baoshan District. The remaining berths are used for semi-
dry bulk, break-bulk general cargo and passenger operations.  Break-bulk cargo
constitutes about 121 of the total port throughput. SPA realized that
unitization of this break-bulk cargo will enhance the efficiency of its
operations and reduce the cost of cargo handling.
Scgge of Work
3.          The study's scope of work covers the break-bulk general cargo
handling, more specifically It should include:
(i)        various methods of cargo unitization, including: containers,
pallets, slings, boxes, etc.;
(ii)       the cost of general cargo handling in the port, on ships
using un-unitized cargo, versus unitized cargo;
(1ii)      the time taken to load and unload the break-bulk general
cargo off/on the ships;
(iv)       the various types of ships carrying break-bulk general cargo
and their sultabillty for handling unitized cargo;
(v)        the cost of unitizlng the general cargo to the shipper, port
and consignees;
(vi)       methods of encouraging or promoting the use of unitized
cargo among shippers, source ports and consignees;
(vii)      devise an action plan to Lnwrease the unitization of cargo
in the port; and



- 59 -
3
Page 2 of 2
(viii)     carry out a feasibility study for the required actions
including study of the use of the tariff system to encourage
the various parties to use unitized cargo.



- 60 -                                   4
Page 1 of 27
SMHNGHAI PORT RESTRUCTURING AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
£VUBIMNN IM MG          ASSIWEMS
I. I2B3DWCIN
1.        Under current Chinese law, an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)
is required to be undertaken during the feasibility stage of a project to
assess the impact of the proposed project, and to provide for inclusion of
mitigative environmental protection measures in the engineering plans. The
ETA should also follow the State Environmental regulations prescribed under
the: "Managerial Measures for Environmental Protection in Capital
Construction Projects (GHZ-003, March 26, 1986)" and the "Regulation for
Environmental Protection Facilities of Capital Construction Projects (GHZ-002,
1987). Moreover, in the marine sector, the "Maritime Environmental Protection
law (March 1, 1983)" regulates diacharge from ships and provides for
protection of marine waters. In addition, China is a signatory to the MARPOL
Convention (MARPOL 73/78) regulating the discharges of ship wastes at sea and
requlring ports to provide adequate reception and treatment facilities, and
the London Dumping Convention' regulating the dumping of wastes and dredged
sediment at sea. Under the auspices of the above regulations the EIA for the
proposed project was prepared by the "Shanghai Environmental Protection
Science Research Institute* (SEPSRI).
2.        SPA has a well developel organization to undertake tasks related to
environmental management and proteccion in the port, within its overall
management structure. The Environmental Division (ED) of SPA reports to the
Port Director through a Deputy Director. The administrative structure of the
ED is well established with the flow of information designed to ensure that
all activities of SPA meet current national and unicipal environmental
protection guidelines and criteria.
3.        Most of SPA facilities are located on either shore of the Huangpu
river and are thus surrounded by high density residential and commercial
neighborhoods. Projected quantities of wastewaters from the port facilities
and shipping are low in comparison to the approximately 1.3 million tons of
industrial effluents and 0.61 billion tons of sanitary sewage discharged
annually into the river system in Shanghai. The Bank is partially addressing
these problems through the Shanghai Sewerage Project and the Ship Waste
Disposal Project.



- 61 -
Anex 4
Page 2 of 27
II. EXISTING C0N2IZINSi
A. Huanu River Terminals
2.1      Increased demand for cargo handling facilities has placed
considerable strain on environmental protection measures or led to the use of
facilities for which protection measures are inadequate or inappropriate.
Besides problems related to increased demand, there are four other key port
problem which have environmental impacts:
(a) Several of the Huangpu river terminals are old (pre-1940), have been
heavily used and require extensive upgrading/replacement;
(b) Kost of the terminals are surrounded by high density urban
development, resulting in limitations on expansion and cargo
distribution via roadways;
(c) Those terminals handling ore cargoes have generated dust and noise
problems in adjacent neighborhoods; and
(d) Concentrated shipping traffic has added to degrading of water
quality in the Huangpu due to release of such ship wastes as oily
waters or sanitary sewage in combination with inadequately treated
effluents from the older terminal facilities.
2.2      A brief summary of the environmental issues related to each of the
major Huangpu river terminals follows:
-    Terminal #2  mostly handles bulk grain. The pneumatic offloading
system generates considerable low frequency noise
which leads to complaints from adjacent residential
neighborhoods. The terminal also requires upgraded
effluent treatment systems and dust monitoring
devices.
*    Terminals #3 were constructed pre-1940. The berth faces and top
and #5     structure require replacement due to heavier
operational equipment using the facilities.
Warehouses are badly dated, often difficult to access
by modern equipment, and often leak during storms.
*    Terminal #4  mostly handles timber and logs, but a decrease in
traffic has led the terminal to handle other cargoes,
such as iron ore. Facilities at the terminal are
outdated and there is a need to upgrade the effluent
and sewage handling/treatment system.



- 62 -
Annex 4
Page 3 of 27
*     Terminal #7  is devoted to the handling of coal.  The south berths
have been modernized with extensive water spray
equipment to constrain coal dust during unloading/
handling; the middle and north berths are older, using
portal cranes and clamshell unloaders resulting in
extensive dust problem and related complaints from
adjacent residential neighborhoods. The water spray
system is not sufficient for the volume of coal being
handled.
*     Terminal #8  primarily handles iron ore and bulk chemical
fertilizers (e.g., urea). The fertilizer handling
system is modern with material transferred to the
bagging facility with little dust generation except
for the offloading of the last 15 percent, during
which some dust is dispersed. The ironore facility is
very dated, using portal cranes/clamshell scoops to
offload material onto open horizontal conveyors with
storage in open piles on the wharf. This has resulted
in extensive iron ore dust problems in the adjacent
residential neighborhood. The terminal also lacks
sanitary sewage and other effluent treatment systems.
-     Terminals #9 are relatively modern, handling much of the
and #10    containerized cargo through the port.  Terminal #10
also handles much of the dangerous cargoes for the
port, with such cargoes discharged before a vessel
moves to the terminal for discharge of the remaining
cargo. Both terminals wash containers which contained
various chemical cargoes, generating a need for
treatment of chemically-contaminated waters. Although
they have established small multi-contaminant
treatment systems, projected future traffic and cargo
type have identified the need for more extensive and
complex systems. The Dangerous Cargoes Area of
Terminal #10 is relatively dated, there is
insufficient hazard monitoring equipment and little or
no safety equipment for the workers. Emergency
response for hazardous material spills or fires is
very limited.
B. Lul2 LUg Terminal
2.3       The proposed development will be located on the south bank of the
southern branch of the Yangtze river about 10 km upriver from the Wusong Kou
(entrance to the Huangpu and the main facilities of the Port of Shanghai).
Located in the Baoshan District of the Shanghai Municipality, the original
project was designed to occupy about 4.7 km' (4.7 km long by 1 km wide). When
the first EIA was undertaken in 1982, the port area was mostly marshland to
the seaward side of the shore protection berm. Nineteen hectares (ha) of
interior lands (to be excavated as part of the inland waterway system) were
predominntly used for farming (e.g., rice and cotton). Within a 10 km radius
of the facility are several villages.



- 63-                             Anex 4
Page 4 of 27
2.4       The area surrounding the proposed Luojing terminal site includes
industrial development including several small township enterprises, the first
component of the Beaoshan Steel Works, and the Yuelong Chemical Works. In
addition, the West Shanghai Outfall (industrial and sanitary sevage)
discharges about 300 m dovnriver of the eastern boundary of the proposed
facility. Since 1982, the Baoshan Steel Works has been considerably enlarged,
as has the Yuelong Chemical Works and the Shidongkou Power Plant (coal) has
been built and expanded. Much of the Baoshan District has been slated for
development to accommodate industrial and urban expansion of Shanghai.
C. Waigacaia2 Terminal
2.5       The proposed project will be located in the northeast corner of the
Pudong New Area, about 2.5 km north of the Town of GaoqiAo, in Chuansha County
of Shanghai. The present population is about 20,000. it this location, the
Yangtze is about 7 km wide facing Changxing and Hengsha Islands. Nain chamnel
depth is 15 m; the channel near the proposed development is about 10 m.
III. BA'SZLI    ENVIRONSENT  CONDITIONS
A. Huangpu River Terminals
3.1      XgteC: Oualit. The water quality in the Huangpu below Guanggang, is
heavily impacted and classified as Class V (Attachment 2). The "Bulletin of
Current Environmental Situation in the City of Shanghai - 1989" describes the
quality in the Wujing Channel section as being mostly Class III and IV, while
the lower reaches are mostly in Class IV or V (data are provided in Table 1;
criteria, in Table 2). The Bulletin further described the lower reaches as
*black and smelly' for 138 days (38 percent) in 1989. Pollution was
attributed mostly to organic pollution, such as biochemical oxygen demand
(BOD), ammonia-nitrogen, chemical oxygen demand (COD), petroleum hydrocarbons,
and volatile phenols. These are related to inputs of either sanitary sewage
or industrial effluents. However, data collected by the Port Envirormental
Protection Bureau indicate that several of the older terminals (e.g., #2 Grain
and 44 Timber) do not meet current effluent criteria (Table 3) for select
pollutants.
3.2       The water quality of the tributaries (e.g., Suzhou Creek) and inland
waterways connected to the Ruangpu is often worse than the mainstream, with
waterways in the center of the City beLag the worst (Annex 1). "The Bulletin
of Current Environmental Situation in the City of Shanghai - 1989" indicates
that 94 percent of the inland waterways have poorer than Class III water
quality, with sections of Suzhou Creek classified as Class V. The degradation
is attributed to a combination of uncontrolled city sanitary sewage,
stormwater drainage, industrial effluents from small enterprises, and a
history of pollution leading to contaminated underlying sediments. The flow
of these waters into the Huangpu degrades the mainstream water quality in the
mixing zones of the water asses. The impacts are somewhat mitigated by the
strong currents in the Huangpu which promote and accelerate mixing and
dispersion processes, thus minimizing the mixing zones.



- 64-                              _3mex4
Page 5 of 27
3.3       Studies undertaken as part of the environmental assessment of the
proposed W.igaoqiao Port Facility suggest that the pollutant loadings from the
Huangpu degrade the water quality of the Yangtze for up to 4 km downriver from
the Wusongkou, mostly in the waters adjacent to the south shore. The impact
has resulted in a diminished and degraded aquatic biological community in that
section of the Yangtze.
Sediment Ouality
3.4       Dredging of the Huangpu river is undertaken by the Shanghai Dredgilg
Corporation (SDC) on behalf of SPA. Sediments from the lower sections of the
Huangpu are often dumped at an open-water site to the north of Chongxing Dao
in the Yangtze, provided that the sediment characteristics meet current open-
water disposal regulations. Sediment surveys in 1991 indicated that current
standards were being met (Attachments 5 and 6).
3.5       Sediments in the middle reaches of the port area are pumped to
unconfined shoreline areas on the Yangtze. Current sediment assessment
suggests that the sediments are more contaminated than open-water disposal
guidelines, but not as contaminated as in other major harbors in the world.
Sediments in the Wujing Channel were assessed by SDC in 1989/90. Although
concentrations of metals were somewhat elevated, the levels were still within
North American or European sediment quality objectives. In all studies to
date, only limited assessment of trace organic contaminant distributions has
been undertaken.
3.6       A detailed study of Suzhou Creek, under the direction of the
Shanghai Municipal Science and Technology Commission (1987-89), showed that
the aquatic contamination was reflected in highly contaminated waterway
sediments (Attachment 6). The Suzhou Creek study was undertaken as the basis
for a multi-year remediation program to clean up. the contamination and limit
the flow of pollutants into the Huangpu. The first two stages of the
remediation are a river control structure to limit Suzhou Creek discharge into
the Huangpu and redirection of effluents to a treatment system with subsequent
discharge at the Bank-financed, Zhuyun Outfall on the Yangtze. An extension
of the Suzhou Creek study will be initiated in 1992 to characterize the
sediments of other tributaries and inland waterways.
ALLfOuliz,
3.7       Much of the air pollution in Shanghai is due to total settleable
particulates (TSP), SO., and NO1, resulting from coal and charcoal burning
with minimal air pollution control. Poorly regulated vehicular exhaust alno
contributes to degraded air quality (air qualLty criteria are provided in
Attachment 4). Alr quality was poorest in the center of the City (average S02
in City center: 0.10 mg/i3; In suburban areas: 0.02 mg/in; Class II criterion:
0.15 mg/i; average TSP in City center: 0.37 mgJm3; in suburban areas: 0.17
mg/i'; Class II criterion: 0.30 mg/ms ).  Coal burning also contributed to
acidlficatlon of pH with an average value of 4.72 reported in 1989.
3.8       Port activities contributing to air quality degradation are
primarily dust generated from the Coal (#7) and Iron Ore (#8) Terminals, with
more limited contributions from boiler stacks in the terminal facilities,



- 65 -                             AImex 4
Page 6 of 27
truck traffic to and from the terminals and ships exhaust. Dust from the ore
terminals has generated considerable complaints from adjacent residential
neighborhoods and SPA has been fined several times by the Municipal
Environmental Protection Bureau.
Augtlc Elnvironment
3.9       As much of the port facilities along the Huangpu river are
surrounded by high-density residential and commercial neighborhoods, numerous
complaints are reglstered with the Municipality as to operational noise, nolse
from truck traffic and, in partlcular, noise generated by the ore conveyor
systems of the Coal (#7) and Iron-Ore (#8) Terminals and the low-frequency
pnsumatic offloading equipment at Grain (#2) Terminal. In an operational
area, natlonal occupational health and safety limits are 85 decibels (dB)
exposure over an 8 hour work shift. Municipal environmental standards require
a maximum of 65 dB daytime/55 dB nighttime noise levels at the facillty
boundary and within a fixed distance of major roadways. Property boundary
noise levels are often exceeded at Terminals #2, #7 and #8.
B. Luojln; Terminal
AuuatLc Enviror ent
3.10      Since 1980, numerous studies of water quality of the Yangtze have
been undertaken. Since 1984 a routine monitoring program has been undertaken
by the Yangtze Water Research Institute with sampling three times per year,
assessing a variety of general water quality parameters (e.g., pH, dissolved
oxygen) and trace metals and once per year for sediment quality parameters and
trace metal content.
3.11      These studies have shown that the waters of this section of the
Yangtze river meet National Water Quality Group #2, except in the near-shore
waters where pollution from the West Shanghai Outfall (300 m downstream of the
proposed facility) degrades the water to Group #3/#4. Table 2 provides a
listing of criteria for the National Water classification. The EIA for the
Shidongkou Power Plant noted that the Outfall created a pollution zone of 1.66
km wide by 12.4 km long (total zone coverlng flood and ebb tides).  Surveys
undertaken for this ZIA showed that for transects from the high water mark to
the end of the designed marine structures (approximately the 10 m contour),
there were distinct improvements in water quality proceeding towards the
center of the river, away from the more heavily impacted near-shore zone. The
Western Shanghai Outfall consists of about 70 percent Industrial sewage and
30 percent sanitary sewage with a flow of approxlmately 600,000 tons/day. It
is projected that this will increase by the mid-1090s to 2-4 million tons/day,
allowing for stormwater drainage.
3.12      Currents In this section of the Yangtze are strong ensurlng good
water mass mixing and dispersion, except in the near-shore zone. There,
shoreline configuration and the placement of the West Shanghai Outfall
(untreated sanitary sewage) creates eddy zones, permitting the accumulation of
vastewaters and associated contaminants. In general, river currents are
sufficiently strong to limit sedLusut deposition, however, at sites where
quiescent hydraulic regimes can occur (e.g., at the mouth of the Baoshan Steel



-66 -                             Ane  4
Page 7 of 27
Works Marine Terminal), silt deposition does occur. Problems of sediment
deposition in the area of the marginal wharves has been considered, with most
of the berth and connecting conveyor link consisting of an open-pile
structure. Very limited maintenance dredging is projected.
Air Oualiev
3.13     Much of the existing air quality is a function of dispersion of air
pollutants (SO2, NO., and particulate) from the Baoshan Steel Works (5 km from
the proposed port facility), the Yuelong Chemical Works (3 km), the Shidongkou
Power Plant (coal) and township industrial enterprises (e.g., at Shenqiao,
Luojing and Yuepu). Surveys In 1984 and 1988 showed that in general the local
air quality met Grade 2 national air quality standards. Exceedances for
particulate were recorded 20-30 percent of the time; there were also
occasional exceedances of 802 and NOx, typically in the morning and under
certain atmospheric conditions. Trends in air quality since 1979 suggest
long-term degradation due to surrounding industrial development. Proposed
expansions of the Baoshan Steel Works and the Shidongkou Power Plant are
projected to further degrade the air quality, particularly for particulate
related to coal combustion and ash disposal. The areas closest to the
proposed port facility are primarily agricultural. This combined with good
atmospheric circulation associated with the river provides for adequate
dispersion of pollutants in the proposed port area.
Acoustic EnviXonent
3.14     Noise monitoring was urdertaken at several sites along the existing
seawall (i.e., the nominal boundary of the main section of the proposed port
facility) for the full length of the proposed project (4.7 km of shoreline).
As much of the adjacent area is farmland, the existing acoustic onvironment is
relatively quiet with an average value of 51 decibels (dB). Major industrial
sources of noise, such as the Baoshan Steel Works or the Shidongkou Power
Plant, are several kilometers away.
C. Waiggggiao Terminal
water BUlhtY
3.15     The study zone was taken to be 4 km of shoreline and extending out
to Yangtze center. Within the projected impact zone, a series of seven
uonitoring stations were designated, based on the standard pattern of a single
point source with exponential dispersion and dilution of pollutants away from
the source. At each station a group of samples were collected over two
aspects of a tidal cycle: beginning with low slack water, through a rising
tide to high slack water; and beginning with a high slack water, through a
falling tide to low slack water. Three inland waterway sites were monitored.
3.16     Although the Yangtze drains a large area of central China, much of
the lower reches of the river were found to meet National Water Quality Class
II status. Waters adjacent to the shoreline mostly met Class III type. This
suggested sme Impact due to dilution/dispersion of waters from the Huangpu
River which enter the Yangtze 7 km upriver from the study area. Some impact
due to ammonia-nitrogen, copper and hydrocarbons was also projected to occur



- 67 -                             AMM∞ 
Page 8 of 27
as a result of dilution/dispersion of water from the Zhuyun outfall of the
ShanghaL Combined Sewage Dlscharge, entering the Yangt:e about 5 km downriver
from the study area.
3.17      Water quality in the inland waterways was found to be generally poor
(Class IV or V), reflecting a comblnation of excess nutrients, mostly sanitary
sewage in orlgin, and oxygen-demand materials (mostly as chemical oxygen
demand--COD) from industrial effluents.
Aquatic EnviXromen
3.18      Due to time and seasonality limitatlons, the existlng benthic and
pelagic biological and flsheries environments were described using 1987 and
1988 detailed studies and fish landing statistics. The lower Yangtze has very
strong river currents and is the uixing zone for rlver waters of the Yangtze
and Huangpu and the East China Sea waters. Because of these complex physical
conditions the study zone was taken to extend from the Wusong Kou to 20 km
downriver.
3.19      Six major cash fish are harvested in the South Channel of the
Yangtze river: Tial and Dao Anchovy, White Bait, Shrimp and Crab. Review of
fLsh landings, in terms of quantity and age class, showed a decline in the
landings of all fish types, with a very sharp decline in White Bait occurring
In the early 1970s. The decline has been partially attributed to pollution,
particularly for the White Bait. Fish harvesting has gradually been switched
to other types, such as eel and dao anchovy. However, the flshing effort has
had to increase greatly aver the past five years to maintainlng the catch
landings, suggesting a declining stock. This could be due to both pollution
and over-fishing.
Air  nlnU
3.20     Using the extensive wind speed and direction data base, it was
determined that the predominant was northwest/southeast with some northeast
component. In January, predominant dlrection was In the northwest direction;
in April, direction was in both the northeast and southeast directions; in
July, predominantly, southeast; and, in October, mostly to the northeast and
sotheast. Uslng thls wlnd rose, a pollutlon coefficLent rose was constructed
on the basls of sulphur oxides (SO.), nitrogen oxides (NO.), carbon monoxlde
(CO), bydrocarbons (HC), total suspended particulate (TSP) and lead (Pb). On
the basis of the pollution coefficient rose, an eight station ormpling program
was undertaken ln December 1989.
3.21      The current air quality status of the project area is good and meets
Class 2 atmospheric quality (Table 4) as expressed by the daily averages for
So*, No., CO and TSP. Although there is no current Chinese criterion for
hydrocarbons, daily averages ranged from 0.029 to 0.72 mg/m3, bracketlng US
criterLa.



- 68 -
Ane  4
Page 9 of 27
Acsoustic Enviroment
3.22      To assess the existing acoustic environment, the 6 km2 area was
divided into a series of 9 grids with two monitoring instruments placed within
each grid; one adjacent to a roadway and one in a field away from short-term
noises. To obtain a complete definition of the acoustic environment,
measurements were made over specific intervals at different times of the day
and night using GS-3222-82 method (Environmental Noise Measuring Method for
Urban Areas). The acoustic environment for the area of the proposed new port
area was found to be good (Class 2).
Socioecnmic Amecta
3.23      The Vaigaoqiao port orea will be located in the Township of Gaoqiao,
County of Chuansha, Municipality of Shanghai. The area contains about 20,000
people of whom about 80 percent derive their income from agriculture,
18 percent from nonagriculture activities (e.g., village industries and
commerce) and about 2 percent miscellaneous. Of the approximately 12.6 km2 of
landmass, about 48 percent is currently devoted to agriculture. The new port
area will occupy about 66.7 ha, primarily of agricultural lands or about
11 percent of the farmed area. Agricultural products consist mostly of rice,
wheat, vegetable oils, vegetables, and pigs with a total 1988 estimated value
of Y 9.91 million. Financial benefits derived from an operational port would
greatly exceed the 11 percent of the agricultural value which would be lost as
a result of the port development.
3.24      Presently much of the Pudong area is agricultural, with urban
centers concentrated along the shore of the Huangpu River. Future development
will increase the population by approximately 50 percent, with large areas
designated for industrial and commercial parks, under the Special Economic
Zone policy. The Pudong development will provide considerable environmental
benefits to the Municipality of Shanghai through redistribution of population,
development of new industrial and commercial facilities to replace obsolete
and polluting facilities within the main section of the City and provide for
new port facilities to replace older facilities currently operating at over-
capacity and creating pollution, noise and traffic impacts to the urban core.
IV. INVIROUIAL W=
A.  Ihangmu RyieraLrminalu
A4g4icEniomt
4.1       Sources of aquatic iWpacts from port activities include:
(a) sanitary sewage, stormwater drainage and operational effluents from
the terminals;
(b)  sanitary sewage discharged from the ships at the berths;
(c)  oily waters discharged from the ships at the berths;



- 69 -
Page 10 of 27
(4) chemically-contaminated waters from ships;
(e) chemically-contaminated waters from such sources as the battery
recharge areas; and
(f) dredging and dredged material disposal.
All the above aspects are addressed In the Ship Waste Disposal Project (Cr
2391-CHA, GEF 10398-CHA).
Air Ousaity Imacts
4.2       Sources of air quality impacts from port activities include:
(a) stack emissions from boiler and heater facilities;
(b) emissions from ships moving within the port and at berth;
(c) emissions from vehicles and operational equipment within the port;
(d) emissions from vehicles transporting to and from port terminals; and
(e)  dust from ore loading facilities.
4.3       Bailer Stack Emissions. Each terminal may have one or more boiler
plants for water purification and production of heat. Reduction in air
quality within the Municipality, particularly in the central urban area, has
led the Municipal Environmental Protection Bureau to recommend that all
industries and other sources of edissions undertake a program of emission
reduction.
4.4       The program proposed under the 8th Five Year Plan will have a
positive effect with a reduction in both particulate (TSP) and other gaseous
emissions (e.g., S0).
4.5       Shin Stack Emissions. In comparison to other sources of emissions,
ship stacks are a relatively minor contributor to air quality problems in the
City. Proposed investments will not increase ship traffic on the Huangpu
River; investments in the proposed port facilities at Luojing and Waigaoqiao
will have the benefit of diverting the projected increase in ship traffic
through the Port of Shanghai. At this time, no programs are proposed to
reduce emissions from ship stacks. This activity can be considered no
impact/no interaction.
4.6         r Vehicle EMissions. As part of a city-wide program, SPA is
proposing to upgrade emission controls on port vehicles and operational
equipment; older vehicles and equipment will be replaced with new equipment
with appropriate emissions control, particularly those items purchased from
foreign sources. This activity will have a positive effect on air quality.
4.7              r&tiMu..ka LrAfi  Emis4ions. Most of the vehicles transporting
goods to and from the port terminals are not under the operational control of
SPA. However, the Sunicipality of Shanghai has embarked on a program to
reduce vehicular emissions through upgrading of existing equipment and



-70 -
Page 11 of 27
promotion of purchase of equipment/vehicles with appropriate emission
controls. Presently, PRC still permits the sale of leaded vehicle fuels.
While presently not a major factor in urban air pollution, increased vehicular
transportation may load to future problems. The proposed port project will
not include any investments to alter truck traffic patterns or provide for
roadways to port facilities separate from urban roads.
4.8      kmut. Dust generated during coal and ore loading/unloading,
particularly at Terminals #7 and #8, have created significant impacts on
adjacent residential areas.
22186 Impact
4.9       Noise impacts from port activities include:
(a) offloading equipment at Terminal #2;
(b) vehicle and operational equipment within the port areas;
(c) vehicle traffic to and from the port terminals; and
(d) ship traffic.
4.10      Offloading Eauiiment at Terminal 42. The current pneumatic
offloading system at Terminal #2 (grain) creates both an operational dust
problem with the port facilities and a significant low-frequency noise impact
en the adjacent residential neighborhoods. Investments under the Shanghai-
Ningbo Port Project will replace this equipment, thereby both reducing dust
problems and the noise problem.
4.11      Vehicle TXaffic.  Noise resulting from vehicle traffic, both within
the port and to and from the port facilities will not be addressed in this
project. Noise monitoring programs have indicated that operational equipment
is the prime source of noise problems. This source will be somewhat addressed
through investments proposed to purchase new equipment to replace outmoded or
obsolete equipment. This will provide some positive effect. However, noise
generated by vehicle traffic at the terminals within the City center is
difficult to address as the residential neighborhoods are in very close
proximity.
4.12      ShIn Trffi.  The proposed investments will not address noise from
ship traffic, but this is not expected to worsen.
B. LuojLng Terminal
NAIM1a Enyir4xen
4.13      Kuch of the proposed facility is to be built to the seaward side of
the existing seawall in an area that was mostly intertidal marshland. The
proposed construction will totally destroy the marsh as the area is infilled.
Hovevr, the marshland area is already severely impacted due to raw sewage
from the West Shanghai Outfall and effluents from adjacent township
industries. These effluents have degraded the local water quality, reduced
the diversity of the plants, and Impacted associated animal species. In



- 71 -
71                     ~~~~~~Annex 4
Page 12 of 27
addition, the eastern portion of the proposed port area has been bermed and is
currently used as a coal ash wasto holding area for the Baoshan Steel Works
and Shidongkou Power Plant.
4.14      Up to 430 ha of land to the inside of the seawall will be consumed
when the project is fully developed. Most of these lands are currently used
as a dump site for the fly-ash generated by the nearby power plant.
water Qgalitv
4.15      Waste waters from the port facility will consist of ship wastes and
facilities wastes. The impact of the ship waste is addressed through the Ship
Waste Disposal Project. The facility wastes, including sanitary sewage, storm
water drainage, oily water from machine and repair shops and drainage from the
coal storage yard, would be treated and/or recycled to the required level
before disposal in the river.
Aquatic Envirornmet
4.16      The current aquatic environment has been severely impacted by other
discharges, principally the Western Shanghai Outfall into the Yangtze river.
While this would provide a short-term improvement to the near-shore
environment, a long-term solution would still be needed. The impact of the
proposed port facilities is very small.
Air Oua£litZ
4.17      To evaluate the impacts of the proposed port facilities, studies
were undertaken of air quality at comparable facilities elsewhere in the port.
These studies also evaluated the number of ships projected to use the berths
and possible missions from boilers, stacks and vehicular traffic in or
proceeding to and from the facility. Dust derived from the coal storage area
at full capacity, without dust suppression and under average atmospheric
conditions, could create particulate of 0.7-1.0 mg/u9 at up to 3 km distant;
with reduced wind dispersion, concentrations could increase to 2-3 mg/m3 or up
to 20 times national standards. Therefore, mitigative measures must be
installed so as to constrain the dust generated by the coal handling at the
berths, by coal handling in the storage yard and from the coal in the storage
yard. This particulate will also be deposited in the Yangtze, degrading river
water quality.
4.18      Atmospheric assimilative capacity is good, therefore, adequate to
permit construction of the facility. Wind dispersion at the site is good,
with only limited conditions creating problems which could create exceedances
of air pollutants. Emissions of S0, and NOx from the ships and port facility
stacks will be minor contributors to local air quality, with a projected
increase at the port site from 0.01 to 0.02 mg/mu for So, and 0.02 to 0.04
mg/bP for NOx, both within national criteria. For comparison, current
Canadian standards are: S02, 0.055, and 10,: 0.200 ms/u'. Emissions from
truck traffic, while relatively low, could create problems related to lead
deposition on agricultural lands/crops and further additions to S0k and NC;.
The EIA studies noted the potential of impact to air quality at the terminal
arising from expansion of operations at the Baoshan Steel Works and the
Shidongkou Power Plant.



-72 -
Annex 4
Page 13 of 27
4.19      Noise could be generated by three sources within the port facility:
coal handling equipment, transportatLon vehieles and auxiliary equipment.
Based on measurements at existing terminals. It is projected that the handling
equipment will generate 85-90 dB at berth, with a reduction to 46-55 dB at the
facility boundary. This meets both the 'Hygiene Standard of Noise of
Industrial Enterprises" and 'Environmental Noise Criteria in the Urban Area of
Shanghai." Noise from vehicular and rail traffic is projected to marginally
exceed urban standards at 74 dB during the day (allowable is 70 dB) and 61 at
nlght (allowable 55 dB). The projected noise impact is not considered
significant within the study boundary.
ImJant of Solid Wastes
4.20      There will be some solid wastes produced during construction and
that resulting from the normal operation of a terminal facility. As the
proposed development area is rural in nature, a solid wasto handling and
treatment management plan will be required so as to avoid pollution,
particularly diseases resulting from foodstuffs and other wastes from foreign
shipping. Solid wastes can be divided into two types: facility wastes
(foodstuffs and waste materials) and ships solid wastes (foodstuffs, other
operational garbage and cargo residues).
4.21      Facility wastes will consist of foodstuffs from the cafeteria/dining
room and normal garbage associated with facility offices. There will also be
some scrap steel and wood wastes resulting from facility carpentry and metal
shops and repair facilities. To suppress and control dust, water sprays will
be used. The spray water and other run-off will be collected in a treatment
facility, with the resultant precipitated solids recovered.
4.22      The Elk estimated about 1,200 tons of solid wastes from the ships
and about 1,470 tons from the port facilities. The impact of the facility on
the municipal solid waste volume will be insignificant. The facility, as with
other terminals and ship wastes throughout the port, will undertake a complete
solid waste management plan.
Fill Material
4.23      In the first engineering design, the marshlands seaward of the
existing seawall were to be lnfilled mostly with sand dredged from the Yangtze
and other Inland waterways/canals. Subsequently, a storage/deposition area
was created in the easterrmost part of the proposed port area for coal ash
wastes from the Baoshan Steel Works. It is now proposed that the existing ash
wastes be consolLdated and additlonal materials added to serve as the infill
materials for the port facility.
4.24      Extensive testing has been undertaken of the geotechnical and
geochemical properties of the ash materials. The results suggest that, if
mlxed with soils, the ash could be used as a fill base (See Annex 9).



- 73 -
- 73 -                  ~~~~~Annex 4
Page 14 of 27
8cioecoOnomic AJpects
4.25      The actual port facilities (wharves, loading/unloading equipment and
storage yard) are to be built to the seaward side of the shoreline seawall
occupying some existing marshlands and intertidal areas designated for ash
waste disposal from the baoshan Works and the Shidongkou Power Plant.
Construction of the inland portion of the development will include linkage to
inland waterways/canals. further backup lands for the port facilities and
requirements for rosidential facilities for the port staff. It was determined
that approximately 50 hectares would be required for Phase I size.
4.26      Projected earnings from the port facilities, increased commrcial
activity in the adjacent towns/villages which will result from the port
construction and new jobs available at higher wages to existing farm laborers,
provide a positive economic impact to the Baoshan District. The resident
population of the lands requisitioned for the project will increase from 2,900
(60 percent agricultural) to 40,000-50,000 based on about 13,500 port staff,
their families and associated employees (e.g., school teachers).
4.27      Most of the new population will be located in Yuepu Township about
8 km from the port facility. New public transportation, roads, schools,
public recreational and cultural facilities will be constructed. These new
facillties should be beneficial to current inhabitants and provide for better
transportation linkages to central Shanghai. Therefore, it can be concluded
that the project will provide a positive socioeconomic Impact.
C. WaijaggLao Terminal
Definition of Imnact Zon Boundarv
4.28      To define the impact zone, the land component was described as an
area 4 km long by 3 km wide centered at the terminal for a total of 12 kui.
The water component was defined as 4 km upstream and downstream centered on
the terminal and to the center of the Yangtze (approximately 2 km) for a total
area of 32 Imn. The air and noise quality zones were taken to be the same as
the land component with an upper boundary of 20 m for air quality, based on
the maximum height of any incinerator or ship stack.
4.29      As the project is a new development at the slte, much of the
assessment of impacts was based on measurements of pollution tt*ken at other
existing port facilities and extrapolated to the proposed facility, based on
size, type of cargo, and type of shipping. Where necessary, computer models
were employed for assessment of air and water dispersion of pollutants.
4.30      Existing sources of pollution in the study area were small and
limited to various village enterprises (e.g., ballpoint pens, shoes, bottles,
hardware). Most existing heavy industry is located at least 5 km (direct
line) away from the proposed developmant; *.g., Gaoqiao industrial area with
an oil refinery, coal gasification works, and coal-fired power station.
4.31      The impatm of the development must also be consLdered in terms of
other nearby developments, including the Waigaoqiao Coal-Fired Generating
station, to be built adjacent to and south east of the port development; the
Zhuyun Combined Sewage Outfall serving mostly the Suzhou Creek area of



74 -                            AnZex
Page 15 of 27
Shanghai, being built about 4 km to the south east, and other industrial
developments planned to the south in the Pudong Development Zone.
Natura fntwromment
4.32      Nuch of the port area used was agricultural lands; the remainder was
open unoccupied space, partially forested. The shoreline consists of a
seawall and berm to limit flooding of the lands; much of the land is about 4 m
above Wusong Kou datum. The project will entail construction of four marginal
wharves to the seaward side of the berm with access via a ramp to the laydowv
areas. Due to the relatively low level of the lands and high water table, it
is proposed to backfill and raise the level of the laydown areas. During
construction, existing roadways will be used, but it is proposed to link the
port facilities to central Shanghai via two new road systems: the ring road
and a direct road to the new Huangpu river bridges.
4.33      Construction of the port facilities will significantly alter the
existing terrestrial environment, however, it is now neither pristine nor
unaltered. As the wharves will be pile structures with little dredging
required for navigational access, there will be minimal impact on the existing
aquatic environment.
aLr- 4uaity
4.34      To assess the impact of the proposed development on the water
quality, two aspects had to be considered:
(a) The estuarine waters of the Yangtze in front of the proposed
development. These waters reflect a mixing of Yangtze (freshwater),
the oceanic waters of the East China Sea, and the fresh waters of
the Huangpu river.
(b) The inland waterways of Gaoshangang, Gaoxing and Gaoqiaogang which
would ultimately be linked via new canals with the Waigaoqiao
Development.
4.35      Within the study zone, four effluents have the potential for
significant impact on the aquatic environment: the Huangpu --4 million cu
i/day; the South Sewage Outfall--230,000 cu m/day; the proposed Zhuyun
Outfall--1.7 million cu m/day; and the Waigaoqiao development--567 cu m/day or
0.001 percent of the total input of the other three sources. On this basis,
it was concluded that the Waigaoqiao development would have little or no
discernible effect on the aquatic environment.
4.36      In contrast, the Zhuyun Outfall, 5 km downriver will discharge
1.7 million m3/day or about 3,000 times the effluent from Waigaoqiao. To test
the effect of this discharge and its dispersion, particularly during the
period of low Yangtze flow and spring tide conditions, hydraulic models of
dilution and dispersion were tested assuming only the effluents from the
Waigaoqiao development and then both the port development and the Zhuyun
outfall.



-75 -                             AMLA
Pags 16 of 27
4.37      The model results showed that under certain conditions of tide and
river flow, inadequate dispersion of the Zhuyun Outfall will occur in the
Waigaoqiao area with a potential decrease from Class II to Class III quality,
using COD as the test parameter. Current flows are such that convective flow
and vertical diffusion predominate, with only weak transverse flows. so that
impacts from the Waigaoqiao effluents and the Zhuyun Outfall will primarily
impact the south shore of the Yangtze, with little or no impact of the north
shore (Changxing Island).
4.38      It was concluded that if the Waigaoqiao terminal project was the
only contributor of effluents, the water in the evaluation area would meet the
current Class II status (i.e., there was sufficient aquatic assimilative
capacity. As a result of the current discharges from the Zhuyun Outfall and
other proposed projects in the Waigaoqiao area, waters adjacent to the south
coast will likely degrade to Class III status; waters in the middle and north
sides of the river will remain at Class II status. A recommendation was made
in the EIA that monitoring be conducted after initiation of the Zhuyun Outfall
to ground-truth the dilution/ dispersion model.
Air Quality_
4.39      To determine impact on air quality, a model was developed based on
existing meteorological conditions at Waigaoqiao and utilizing data from
measurements made in existing port facilities, taking into consideration ship
traffic, vehicular traffic, and incinerator/ship stacks. Also taken into
consideration was the ore off-loading facilities with possible contributions
to TSP.
4.40      The model predicted that SO2, NO, and CO could meet Class 2 air
quality criteria under general meteorological conditions; i.e., there is
currently sufficient atmospheric assimilative capacity except under certain
conditions. Class 2 concentrations of NO could be exceeded under poor wind
conditions (<2.8 m/sec), with a maximum daily average concentration 1.1 times
higher than criterion limit. The model also predicted that the TSP will
exceed the criterion limit by up to five times the maxmum concentration.
However, this was primarily attributed to the ore loading facility and not to
the other operations. Present plans no longer include the ore handling
facility and, therefore, the dust problem will not be significant.
Nogise
4.41      To derive an estimate of noise (a) from routine terminal operations
within those areas; (b) in the storage/stock areas; and (c) at the boundaries
of the facility, noise monitoring was undertaken at similar existing
facilities within the Port of Shanghai (mineral berth, timber berth, and
steel/multipurpose berth). Measurements were made using the same protocol as
for the ambient noise tests.
4.42      The highest noise levels (82-87 decibels (dB)) were predicted to be
in the operations area, with an average value of 74-76 dB. 'While the results
are poor (Class 4), they are generally within the 85 dB average for 8 hours
permitted under the National Hygiene Standard of Noise in Industrial
Enterprises. Storage areas were projected to have an average value of about
70 dB which is within the National Standard. Because the existing acoustic



- 76 -                             Anx A
Page 17 of 27
environment was Class 2, property boundary noise had to meet the municipal
standard- -Environmental Noise Criteria for Urban Areas of Shanghai--75 dB
daytime; 55 dB nighttime. Projected property boundary noise was 51-65 dB,
which conformed with the municipal standard. Roadway traffic was projected to
be in the 64-72 dB daytime and 41-50 dB nighttimo which also met municipal
standards.
4.43      It was concluded that the noise within the facility will meet the
'Hygiene Standard of Noise for an Industrial Enterprise," while the noise
levels at the boundary of the property and on the roadways are projected to
readily meet "Environmental Noise Criteria in Urban Areas of Shanghai" and,
therefore, will not create an environmental impact.
Pill MateriAls
4.44      To protect the lands along the south side of the Yangtze, a seawall
and berm were constructed a number of years ago. Part of the conceptual
design of the marginal wharves project ls to backfill and raise the level of
the interior lands of the project. As some dredging would have to be
undertaken during port facility construction, the EIA reviewed the option of
using dredged river sediments from the Yangtze as backfill material or
alternatively dumping the sediments in open water further downriver.
Subsequently, the Municipality requested that the Shanghai Port Authority
Investigate the use of fly and bottom ash from the Baoshan Coal-Fired Electric
Power Plant and other power plants to relieve problem of ash disposal. Two
studies were undertaken to assess the geotechnical properties of the ash and
to determine if chemical contaminants within the ash could be leached out,
thereby affecting ground and river waters (see Annex 9).
4.45      River Sediments.  Five sampling sites were designated within an area
containing suitable sediments on the basis of earlier geotechnical
investigations. Samples were taken and analyzed for trace metal contaminants
(cadmium, copper, chromium, lead, mercury and zinc). The sediment quality was
first reviewed in terms of current Chinese marine sediment quality criteria
(Annex 5). As the sediments could also be disposed of on land as fill,
results were also compared to standards set for pollution in agricultural
soils.
4.46      The Chinese marine quality criteria are stricter than either
Canadian or Amerlian criteria. The survey results indicated that much of the
study area sediments were contaminated with zinc in comparison to marine
sediment criteria and to a lesser extent with lead and copper. However, all
of the sediments met criteria for disposal on land and thus could be used as
fill material.
4.47      Fly and Bottom Ash Materials.  Use of fly and bottom ash as fill
material has the advantage of utilizing a material which would otherwise
require a storage/disposal facility. Such materials are extensively used in
other countries as fill materials, providing an excellent scientific and
engineering base to compare the results using ash material from several
sources In Shanghai. Geotechnical tests showed that the material could be
placed and capped in such a fashion as to prove acceptable as fill material.
Care would have to be taken to limit intrusion of ground and surface waters to
limit the subsequent water content. Leaching tests (methodology not



- 77 -
Page 18 of 27
specified) to determine contaminant 1088 indicated some loss of lead, chromium
and arsenic depending on the source of the ash (i.e., coal). Generally the
studies found the leach concentrations to meet irrigation water quality
standards.
V. ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES
A. HuangpU River Terminals
5.1       Three alternatives to the present plans were considered:
(a) Increased investments with a shorter time schedule for project
implementation;
(b) Diversion of ship traffic and cargo to alternate port facilities;
and
(c)  Diversion of ship traffic and cargo to alternate ports.
5.2       Alternatlve 1. The major impediment to enhanced environmental
protection has been the lack of available funds, particularly foreign
exchange, to purchase appropriate technologies. For example, while the 8th
Five-Year Plan has budgoted significant funds for upgrading of environmental
protection measures, iuvestments and funding through a GEF project will
enhance reduction in wastes discharges from ships, thus benefitting both the
port and the adjacent coastal/international waters.
5.3      'While some increase in funds would be beneficial, very large
increases would create significant stress on available institutional and
operational frameworks. In many cases, the implementation of the project is
timed to coincide with manpower training programs. Advancing project
schedules will have an undesirable 'ripple" effect which will not be
beneficial.
5.4       Significantly increased funding atd shorter project timing is not
considered a viable alternative.
5.5       AltenatLUt_.Z. The operational and environmental problems
attributed to design capacity, actual activities and projected traffic demands
on the Huangpu terminals is well understood by SPA. The proposed project
includes investments in Luoj ng and Waigaoqiao which will reduce some of the
cargo traffic currently using the Huangpu terminals. However, the proposed
implementation schedule for the new port facilities will barely meet the
projected traffic demands over the next decade. That is, problems of current
over-demand will not be adequately addressed.
5.6       The alternative of diverting traffic rather than making the proposed
investments in Shanghai port is not a viable alternative. A significant
portion of the proposed investments is intended to reduce current
environmental impacts atd such investments would be required even if cargo
demand was only to design capacity. Very large investments would be required
in alternate facilities to meet current over-demand, &s well as projected
demand increases.



- 78-                             Annex"
Page 19 of 27
5.7       The proposed Shanghai port project will include both investments to
enhance environmental protection and provide alternative terminal facilities
within the port area (e.g., new facilities at Luojing and Waigaoqiao). The
proposed strategy is the best approach and Alternative 2 is      not
considered viable.
5.8       Aternative 3.  Shanghai holds a unique place in marine commerce in
China because of the scope and extent of its port facilities and because of
its location, both central to the Pacific coast and as the gateway to central
China through the Yangtze and smaller inland waterways. In particular, the
Port of Shanghai serves as an important transhipment point for coal from the
north being shipped to customers in the south and central areas of China. The
other nearest major deep-water port is Ningbo, to the south. There are two
drawbacks to this alternative: (a) nearest alternate ports, such as Ningbo,
typically lack sufficient or adequate specialized facilities to handle
sufficient diverted cargoes to provide significant relief; and (b) other ports
lack the sophisticated links and transportation infrastructure enjoyed by
Shanghai, making transhipment more difficult and expensive. While GOC has
included significant expansion of other ports within the 8th Five-Year Plan,
such expansion typically will serve to handle over-demand and projected
traffic increases in those ports and would be inadequate to handle large
volumes portions of cargo diverted from Shanghai. In any event, investments
to provide alternate port facilities will be very large and will require
considerable tim. for planning and implementation. Twhe beneficial effects on
the Shanghai port environment would be well outside of the timeframe of the
investments proposed in this project. Alternative 3, therefore, is not
considered viable.
VI. MITIGATION PLANS
A.   Au  Terminals
6.1       Within its 8th Five-Year Plan, SPA has identified the need for
upgraded effluent treatment facilities at the older terminals, reception
facilities for ship wastes, both domestic and foreign, and expanded systems
for chemical-contaminated waters generated at the container terminals. In
addition, water spray systems for dust control at Terminals #7 and #8 are
proposed to be upgraded, including additional treatment before discharge back
to the Huangpu river. While SPA has a good management plan for wastes, the
major impediment is limited funds.
6.2      At Terminals #2,1#3, #4, and #5, new effluent treatment systems will
be constructed providing secondary treatment of sanitary sewage, upgraded
treatment of storm drainage waters and treatment of condensed fumes from the
battery recharging facilities. Oily waters associated with the machine shops
and other facility activities will be treated through the use of advanced oil-
water separators.
6.3       The lack of reception and treatment facilities for ship wastes is
addressed by the Ship Waste Disposal Project (Cr. 2391-CHA, GEF). The
mitigative measures include: (a) a new 300,000 ton/year land-based facility



- 79 -                             nex 4
Page 20 of 27
to treat oil-contaminated waters; (b) conversion of another tanker to replace
the BONUTA facility; (c) installation of connections and piping to permit ships
to discharge sanitary sewage; (d) purchase of oil containment booms;
-(e) participation in a national oil spill contingency plan; and (f) purchase
of equipment to upgrade the monitoring capabilities of the Port Environmental
Protection Bureau and the HSA.
6.4       At Terminal #7, additional water spray equipment is proposed to be
installed at the middle and north of the terminal. Waters from the spraying
will be collected and treated using a physical separator system augmented by
the addition of flocculating agents. Water will then be reused for spraying
or discharged into the Huangpu.
6.5       Proposed effluent controls and modifications will have a significant
positive effect with site specific reduction in the input of contaminants and
low quality waters to the Huangpu river. No negative environmental impacts
will result from the proposed investments.
Alr OualL£X
6.6       To counteract the dust problem at Terminal #7 (coal), SPA has
proposed: (a) inwtallation of water spray and collection facilities;
(b) installation of new offloading equipment which will generate less dust;
(c) purchase of properties and the creation of more extensive green belts as
buffer zones; and (d) shifting of coal handling to the proposed Luojing
facility on the Yangtze(north and east of City center). Kitigative measures,
not including the Luojing development, have been estimated at Y 266 million
(approximately $50.3 million). To counteract the problem at terminal #8 (Iron
Ore), SPA has proposed: (a) installation of new offloading equipment;
(b) installation of enclosed conveyor transport systems; (c) installation of
water spray facilities for the ore piles; and (d) eventual shifting of ore
handling to Luojing.
6.7       The dust problem at Terminal #7, mostly from the middle and north
sections of the facility, can be partially mitigated through the installation
of the proposed water spray equipment. However, a significant factor in dust
generation is over-demand. The terminal was designed to handle 22 million
tons, but in 1990 handled 42 million tons; projected 1995 demand is 65 million
tons. If Phase I of Luojing is on stream by 1995, it will be capable of
handling about 9 million tons, still leaving a handling, capacity shortfall of
12 million tons in addition to the current over-demand of 20 million tons.
This over-demand places significant stress on environmental controls, creates
bad relations with the residential neighborhoods, and contributes to the
overall air quality problem in the City center. Constructlon of the new
Huangpu bridges near the terminal will only serve to further public complaints
with respect to the terminal.
6.8       Measures which are proposed to be undertaken during the 8th Five-
Year Plan (199196) will include: (a) installation of exhaust controls for
diesel and gasoline fuelled vehicles; (b) inAstallation of air pollution
controls on boiler stacks; and (c) installation of gas-fired stoves in the
cafeterias, replacing charcoal stoves.



- 80 -                            Anme  4
Page 21 of 27
6.9       Proposed emission controls and modifications will have a significant
positive effect with site specific reduction in the input of contaminants and
particulate to the airshed comprising Shanghai. No negative environmental
impacts will result from the proposed investments.
Noise
6.10      SPA is procuring a new grain offloading equipment for Terminal #2,
which would greatly reduce the noise compared to the existing pneumatic system
(Shanghai-Ningbo Ports Project, Loan 3007-CHA. Operational noise at the
various terminals is proposed to be reduced through more sound insulation and
control, as, for example, in machine shop buildings. However, the layout of
many of the terminals and their location with respect to residential
neighborhoods, makes it very difficult to significantly reduce much of the
noise. SPA is planning to purchase property and relocate neighborhoods
adjacent to Termina- #7, as well as increase tree planting and other natural
noise barriers, to reduce complaints. However, these measures are expensive
and provide only limited effectiveness. Alternate measures being considered
include shifting much of the ore-loading activities to the proposed Luojing
facility, which is both more isolated from residential areas and will be built
to include a broad buffer zone. Noise associated with truck traffic will be
very difficult to reduce, unless special roadways are constructed, funds for
this are not currently available.
6.11      Proposed noise controls and modifications will have a positive, but
limited, effect with site specific reductions. No negative environmental
impacts will result from the proposed investments.
olid Wastes
6.12      Within its 8th Five-Year Plan, SPA has identified the need for
upgraded reception facilities for ship wastes, both domestic and foreign.
While SPA has a good management plan for solid wastes, maximizing recycling
and recovery, the major impediment is the allocation of limited fiunds, with
such issues as dust and noise control and clean-up of effluents seen as more
important than solid wastes. (the Ship Waste Disposal Project is addressing
these issues).
6.13      Proposed solid waste management programs and modifications will not
only have a positive effect the port, but also ensure a significant reduction
in dumping of solid wastes in the coastal and adjacent international waters.
To reduce negative environmental impacts associated with the incinerator
operations, strict emission controls and monitoring will be implemented.
B. dLytlgLITerminal
6.14     Mitigation of the port development impact will include both
extenslve greenbelt areas within the port facility and a greenbelt area to
serve as a buffer zons between the facility and adjacent lands. This buffer
zone will also serve to further control and constrain dust arising from the
coal and iron ore storage piles. Approximately 15 (7 hectares) of the total



-81 -                              Annex 4
Page 22 of 27
surface area. is to be devoted to greenbelt and other parklands/gardens within
the port facilities.
Noise
6.15      Noise from the coal handling equipment can be reduced through
careful muffling and placement of noise absorption barriers. These barriers
are proposed to include extensive greenbelts along the existing seawall and
wall noise barriers. Buffer zones of greenbelts and berms are proposed along
the rail lines and along the new entrance roadway. Enclosure of the conveyor
system to constrain dust pollution should also assist in noise control. The
Environmental Monitoring Centre for the Terminal will undertake routine noise
monitoring, particularly of the coal handling areas as part of worker safety
and protection measures.
ALF Ouality
6.16      The most serious impact on air quality will be created by coal
handling and storage. To reduce this, the port will: (a) install enclosed
ship offloading equipment; (b) install enclosed conveyor systems from the
berths to the storage yard; (c) utilize water spray equipment for the storage
yard; (d) utilize water spray equipment to reduce and capture dust on
roadways; (e) load trucks and rail cars within enclosed sheds; and (f) utilize
water sprays to clean trucks and railcars before departure from the port
facilities. All water would be collected in a central treatment system to
separate out particulate. The Terminal Environmental Monitoring Centre will
regulate ambient air monitoring (particularly, SO, and NO.).
6.17      Boilers and stacks in the facility will be equipped with air
pollution control devices to reduce particulate and gaseous emissions to meet
national standards. Switching truck fuel to unleaded varieties, combined with
improved emission controls, will significantly reduce air quality impacts.
However, such alterations are beyond the control of the Port Authority and are
recommendations to the Municipality, as part of the implementation of air
environmental management strategies for nearby industrial enterprises.
C.  Waigao Terminal
Pseility and ShI2 Effluents
6.18      The aquatic Impacts of the proposed port development include:
(a) sanitary sewage from the operations areas; (b) sanitary sewage discharged
from the ships at the berths; (c) oily waters discharged from the ships at the
berths; and (d) chemically-contaminated waters from such sources as forklift
battery recharge area. To reduce the impacts of these effluents, the
following mitigative measures will be taken:
(a) sanitary sewage from the operations areas will be piped to a
secondary sewage treatment plant before discharge to the river;
(b) sanitary sewage from the ships will be collected by barge and
transported to the sewage plant for treatment before discharge;



- 82 -
Annex
Page 23 of 27
(c)  all oil-contaminated waters (from both ships and shore equipment)
will be treated to meet current standards of 10 mg oil/L before
discharge into the sanitary sewage outfall; and
(d) chemically-contaminated waters are projected only to be acidic or
alkaline and not contain other substances. Treatment will consist of
neutralization before discharge to the sanitary sewage outfall.
6.19      To ensure that national water quality criteria are met, the terminal
Environmental Monitoring Bureau will have on-site laboratory capability.
6.20      Residential garbage will be sorted into materials that can be
composted, materials requiring icineration, and materials which can be recycled.
Foodstuffs from domestic shipping and facility dining areas will be given to
farmers for compost; foodstuffs from foreign shipping will be incinerated at the
Port of Shanghai solid waste disposal station, presently located on the Pudong
side of the Huangpu River. Aluminum cans, bottles and plastic containers will
be recycled where possible. Cargo hold clean-out wastes will be collected and
sorted by the Terminal Environmental Protection Bureau for recycling or use as
fuel; e.g., wood and timber wastes recovered for possible fuel; waste metals for
recycling; and coal wastes for fuel.
6.21      It was concluded that the facility could operate without creating a
solid waste environmental impact through careful management and recycling of the
solid wastes.
Socioeconomic Aspects
6.22     To alleviate the social and economic disruption related to the port
development, farmers have been compensated by the Shanghai Port Authority in the
form of cash for the lands acquired, new housing to replace old housing, and
offers of employment in the port for displaced workers.
6.23      To alleviate the impact of increased t:ruck traffic, the Municipality
of Shanghai is constructing two major roadways which will be accssed from the
port facilities through a designated, limited-access road constructed by the Port
Authority. The first major roadway will form part of a new Shanghai Ring Road
encircling much of the urbanized core of the municipality; the second major
roadway will provide direct access through Pudong to the new Nanpu Bridge. These
roadways will limit truck and associated port traffic from use of local
residential and collector roads and facilitate easy cargo ingress and egress from
the port facilities.
6.24      It was concluded that minimal socioeconomic impact would occur as a
result of the proposed port development.



- 83 -                           Ahmix 4
Page 24 of 27
VII. ENVIRONNENTALMANAGEHU Ln XRUANa
Orr nizatfgn
7.1      The Shanghai Port Authority has a well *.eveloped organization to
undertake tasks related to environmental management and protection in the port.
Monitoring within the port is divided into two operational levels: (a) Port
Environmental Protection Bureau and Monitoring Centre (PEPB); and (b) Environmen-
tal Protection and Monitoring Centres for each terminal (TEPB), both reporting
to SPA management through a deputy director.   The PEPB provides overal
supervision and audit of the TEPB activities, back-up technical support (e.g.,
capability to analyze select chemical substances) and liaison with the Municipal
Environmental Protection Bureau. It also undertaken monitoring programs either
separately or in conjunction with the Municipal Environmental Protection Bureau,
of general river conditions.  The TEPBS undertake site specific monitoring
activities (e.g., monitoring of specific substances in air emissions or aquatic
effluents from the terminal) and operate appropriate treatment facilities. Data
are reported to the PEPB and through          to the Municipal Environmental
Protection Bureau. The Municipal Bureau also conducts its own monitoring, but
with a focus on systemwide assessment with more limited site specific audit and
compliance activities.
7.2      Currently, about half of the terminals operate their own Environmental
Protection Bureau; the Port Bureau undertakes monitoring for the other terminals.
Under the 8th Five-Year Plan, Environmental Protection Centres will be
implemented at many of the remaining terminals to undertake their own monitoring,
thus permitting the Port Bureau to assume more of an audit and supervisory role.
7.3      To operate appropriate anvironmental protection facilities and monitor
compliance with national and municipal regulations, both the Luojing and
Waigaoqiao terminals will establish their own TEPB with a laboratory on the
grounds of the terminal. The TEPB will require hiring of staff, purchase of
equipment and some staff training, and provision has been made for these. During
the phase-in of the TEPB, monitoring activities will be undertaken by the PEPB.
Facilities and Equinmeat
7.4      Although located in older premises within Terminal #3, the Port
Environmental Monitoring Centre is equipped to undertake the necessary sampling
and analyses with a wvll trained staff. Limitations on monitoring are related
to the number of pieces of sampling or laboratory equipment available. Each TEPB
maintains a laboratory capable of undertaking analyses for select chemical
substances (designated as indicator species; e.g., chromium for trace metals) and
appropriate sampling equipment. While the laboratory and monitoring equipment
are typically sufficient for the tasks ldentified, certain limitations on
sampling are imposed as a result of the limited amount of equipment available.
7.5      New TEPB laboratories will be constructed and equipped during
construction of Phase I of each of the Luojing and Waigaoqiao terminals. A
component of the funding for the project will be allocated to provide appropriate
monitoring equipment (noise, air, and water quality) and laboratory testing
support.  The laboratories will be housed in their own ficilities, thereby
permitting rapid turnaround of results. The TEPBS will be sup?orted by the PEPB.
The proposed facilities and nonitoring programs are similar to those already in



- 84 -                            Annex 4
Page 25 of 27
place at many of the other port terminals and, therefore, will not be an onerous
or unusual task for SPA.
St&t
7.6       Staff within the PUPB are well trained and several have undertaken
work/training programs in other countries. At a typical TEPB, there are six to
ten staff meibers with a lower level of training than the PEPB, but adequate for
the tasks to be undertaken.
Aasesgn=
7.7      Additional staff wvll be have to be hired to staff the new TEPB's
established during the 8th Five-Year Plan. The local universities and technical
institutes are capable of supplying the necessary manpower.  No additional
training would be required to undertake the proposed investments. The proposed
environmental monitoring investments would have a positive effect in that the
overall level of monitoring would be extended and additional sampling programs
undertaken.
VIII.  EIIVMuNPALMQN.UQELAN
Cumrent ActLLtLe
8.1       SPA has an extensive moniloring program now in place throughout the
port area, including water, effluent and air quality assessments. Each terminal
is required to sonitor its own air emissions, liquid effluents, solid wastes,
noise and occupatLonal health/safety requirements to comply with national and
municipal quality criteria and guidelines. The intensity of sampling varies from
weekly to quarterly, depending on the parameter and matrix being regulated.
Where a terminal does not currently have an Environmental Protection and
Monitoring Centre or where the TEPB cannot undertake all of the necessary
monitoring, the PEPB fulfills these tasks. The PEPB also performs necessary
audit and data review of the TEPB.
8.2       The Municipal Environmental Protection Bureau monitors the Huangpu
three times per year for water quality and once per year for sediment quality.
These data serve to provide a baseline assessment of receiving envlronment
quality. The monitoring undertaken by the TEPB, the PUB and the Municipal
Environmental Protection Bureau provide a comprehensive review of impacts related
to port activities as they relate to national and municipal environmental
criteria.
8.3      Monitoring of the Yangtze from Lusoukou down to the river mouth is
undertaken by the Yangtze River Centre (local unit based in Shanghai) and the
Shanghai Municipal Environmental Protection Bureau. These monitoring programs
provide detailed information on air, water and sediment quality.
_th Five-Year Plan PZposed ActiitLes for Huangn_  Termina
8.4      Under the 8th Five-Year Plan, Environmental Protection Bureaus will be
established for those terminals and Port Industrial Enterprises which currently
do not have such facilities. Subsequently, the PUPB will assume primarily the



-85 -                            Am" 4
Page 26 of 27
role of providing technical assistance and supervisory auditing se the terminal
Environmental Protection Centres. The information and data gathered by the TEPB
will be used by the PEPB to assess the environmental impacts of activities and
thus make recommendations for addition or upgrading of environmental protection
measures.
ProDosed Activities for Luoiing and Waigaogiao TeMinals
8.5      As with the existing Huangpu Terminals, an extensive monitoring program
will be established for both the terminals. This plan includes monitoring of air
emissions, liquid effluents, solid wastes, noise and occupational health/safety
requirements to comply with national and municipal quality criteria and
guidelines. The intensity of sampling varies from weekly to quarterly, depending
on the parameter and matrix being regulated. The proposed progran of monitoring
will be supervised/audited by the PEPB with results subsequently reviewed and
approved by the MEPB.
Auaa-sen
8.6       Based on the monitoring programs being currently undertaken at the
other terminals, it can be concluded that the proposed program will fully meet
International standards.
IX. CONCLUSIONS =LhDJ    UDATIONS
9.1       Specific conclusions and recommendations are as follows:
(a) As all effluents will be treated before discharge to the Yangtze, no
significant impact on the aquatic environment is predicted to occur.
The water quality will continue in current Class 2 to 3 status.
Present aquatic assimilative capacity will be sufficient to receive
and assimilate  the discharges.   However, the capacity may be
lnsufficient when the Zhuyun Outfall is commissioned. SPG will study
this aspect in the future at the appropriate time.
(b) Under normal atmospherLc conditions, air quality will remain in
Class 2; possible N4 exceedance could occur under limited special
atmospheric conditions. There could also be limited exceedance of
total suspended particulate during offloading of ore cargoes. If the
ore discharging is not included ln the operational plan, problems
related to TSP will not occur.   While the current atmospheric
assimilative capacity will not be exceeded, the operation of the
adjacent Waigaoqiao Coal-Fired Generating Power Plant may cause future
problems, related to NO.,  TSP and s02.   The Municipal Power
Administration has studied this issue and more stringent guidelines
will be applied.
(c) The project site noise will meet current industrial enterprise
occupational health guidelines. Noise at the property boundary and
the new roadways will meet Shanghai urban area environmental criteria.



- 86 -                            AU=  4
Page 27 of 27
(4) Any solid wastes generated will be managed, with maximum recycling of
materials. Only foodstuffs from foreign ships will be incinerated for
quarantine reasons.
(e) The scope of the ZI was llmited to the construction and operation of
the four marginal wharves at daigaoqiao. The ZIA did not include the
planned interior basins, linkage to the inland waterways or associated
infrastructure. This is to be the subject of a future EIA.
9.2       On the badsi of the detailed study undertaken on behalf of the Shanghai
Port Authority, it was concluded that the proposed port development can be
undertaken in an environmentally acceptable manner with minimal residual impacts.



- 87 -
SHANMN I PORT               AND DPVRWPNENT FROJECT
DNGEOUS CARGO BAR=IE  STUDY
1.          The study will cover the following points:
(i)         review the traffic and determine the historical amounts of
cargo passing through the port and the forecast of its
volumes in the future;
(ii)        review the methods of handling dangerous cargo at present;
(ii)        review the laws and regulations pertaining to handling of
dangerous cargo;
(iv)        identify the risks in the various steps of handling
dangerous cargo at present and their effect on the
environment;
(v)         devise a plan to handle dangerous cargo with all the
required safety measures;
(vi)        identify the mitigating measures considered in the plan;
(Vii)       prepare a cost estimate for Implementing the plan; and
(viii)      carry out a feasibility study for the proposed plan.



- 88 -
Page 1 of 2
*                     ~~~~~~~CHIN
SHNUGAN = 0r RUTIUCTURING NmD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Txaffic Orid n/DestiWation Analysis and
Carao Owners' Survey for Ialor Comnmdities
Commodities       Origination/Destination            Major Cargo Owners
Coal            Qinhuangdao port (north)/    1. Local users:
City of Sbanghai and            (a)  Electric power company
Jiangsu and Zhejiang            (b)  Coal Company (for gas and
Provinces                            factory heating system)
2. Transhipment:
Planned by the local coal
companies. Using the smller
ships (60-100 ton) and the inland
waterway system to transport sand
and stone and coal in and out of
the city.
Petroleum       Dalian port (north)/         1. Gouqiao oil refinery (capacity.
production      City of Shanghai                4.0-4.5 ut p.a.)
2. Jinshan petrochemistry (capacity:
2.0 mt p.a. Traffic is expected
to be handled totally by the cargo
owners' berths.
Metallic ores  Australia and Brazil/         1. Local users:
City of Shanghai                (a)  Baoshen Steel Co. (capacity:
6.0 mt p.a.)
(b) Shanghai First Steel Co.
(capacity: 1.0 at p.a.)
Hubei and Anhui Province     2. Transhipment:
(a) Wuhan Steel Co. (Hubei)
(b) Haanshen Steel Co. (Anhui)
Ocean ships (100,000-150,000
tonnage) to Beilung district
of Ningbo port, coastal ships
(20,000-50,000 tonnage) to
Shanghai port and river ships
(2,000-5,000 tonnage) to the
Steel Co. via Yangtze River.
Iron and        Dalian port and Japan/       For five locil steel factories.
steel           City of Shanghai



- 89 -
ANNE 6
Page 2 of 2
CH
SHANGHA POR RESTRUCTUIN  AMD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Traffig Orifin/Destination Analysis and
Cargo Ownera' Survey fox Major Commodities
Commodities      Origination/Destination            Major Cargo Owners
Construction    Shandong, Zhej .ug, FJuian  Construction Materials Bureau of
materials      provinces & Yangtze River/  Shanghai. 75X of incoming traffic is
City of Shanghai            sand and the volume is heavily depend
on the city's development plan.
cement         Anhui province/              Construction Materials Bureau of
City of Shanghai and        Shanghai.. The city can produce
South East Asia countries    sufficient cement for its own use.
IMort/export of cement only account
for a small portion of the market.
Timber          South East Asia countries    1.             Local:  Shanghai Log
and Dalian Port/                            Supply Co.
City of Shanghai and        2.              Transhipment:
Shandong, Jiangsu, Anhui,                   East China Log Supply
Zhejiang, Jiangxi, and                      Co. The company in
NJuian provinces                            charge of the log
distribution for the
six provinces.
Nonmstallic     Inland provinces along the  1.              Shanghai Metal and
ores           Yangtxe River/                               Ores Import and
City of Shanghai, Japan                     Export Co.
and Europe                  2.              Shanghai Metallurgic
Bureau.
Chemical       Japan, Philippines/          1.              Shanghai Agriculture
Fertilizer     Jiangsu, Zhejiang, Anhui                     Production
provinces and Tianjin port                  Information Company.
(north)
Salt           Yangtze River                1.              Shanghai Salt
Company.  Mostly for
industrial use.
Grain           Canada, USA/                1.              Shanghai Grain Bureau
Nearby provinces



- 90 -
Annex 7
Page 1 of 3
_L_fMEM ESn___AD                       _XuPEN
SPA's Lon-torm Restructuring Action Plan
District    District         Present
No.    ~Name            Activity           Future glan
Dongohang        General cargo      Part to be converted to
Financial and Trade Center by
1996-2000. Rest to undergo
equipment rehabilitation.
2       Ninsheng          Grain              Grain handling to be improved
and new machinery will be
adapted after 1994 to control
dust and noise.
3       Huishan           General cargo      Cargo handling to be downsized
and passenger      from 4.65m tons in 1990 to
3.20m tons; demolition of old
warehouses underway; increase
passenger handling from 0.97
million in 1990 to 1.8
million; construct a high-rise
multi-function passenger and
service building - all to be
completed between 1992 -1996.
4       Nuchai            Lumber & small    No change since lumber is
amount of          serving small industries
building           around the asea.
material
5       Gaoyian           General cargo      Downsize cargo handling from
and passenger      2.8m tons in 1990 to 2.3m tons
and increase passenger traffic
from 23,000 in 1990 to 150,000
by 1997; demolition of old
warehouses and renovate berths
and provide passenger
facilities.
6       Kaiping           General cargo      Unchanged - serving
and lumber        'surrounding industries.
7       Coal Co.          Coal               Shifting of coal activities
will start in 1996 to Luojing,
according to attached plan.



- 91 -
Page 2 of 3
District    District         Present
No..       Name           Activity           E&WuLlan
8       Xinhua           minerals,          Will be shifted to Luojing by
Fertilizer         the end of 2000; the district
then will be converted to
general cargo. In the
meantime fertilizer handling
will be improved by using
screw unloaders. This
activity may eventually be
shifted to Waigaoqiao. SPA is
to study feasibility of this
subject.
9       Zhanghuabang     Containers,         Increase container berths and
general cargo      containerization of all
general cargo.
10       Jugonglu         Containers,        Increase container berths and
general cargo      convert Berths 1-5 to
container berths.
11       Gongqing         Building           To be converted to port
materials          handling service vessel
berths. Building materials
will be handled as needed
(small quantities) at other
districts.
12       Fuzing           Coal and           Traffic reduced to minimum
general cargo      (3.5m tons in 1990 to 1.5m
tons in 1991). Briquets
needed for area inhabitants.
Factories will not move until
gas is supplied. As soon as
gas reaches area, berths will
handle only general cargo.
13       Baoshan          Containers,        No change.
general cargo
14       Gaungang         General cargo      No change.



- 92 -
Ane7
Page 3 of 3
Note: SPA has agreed to:
(i) study the feasibility of moving fortilixer handling from District
No. a (Xinhua) to Waigaoqiao to reduce dust pollution in the city,
and
(il)  launch a feasibility study for general cargo unitization.



- 93 -
Aranex 8
Page 1 of 5
CHIN
SHANGHAI PORT RESTRUCTUR1NG AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TECICALNOTE: FLY ASH
1.          Coal fired power stations produce ash.  About 80X of the ash is in
the form of fine powder, known as fly ash (FA), all over the world, except in
the UK where it is called pulverized fly ash (PFA). The remaining
agglomerated ash is much coarser and is called furnace bottom ash (FBA). The
properties of the FA are such that it has been used as fill material, in
grouting fissures, voids and cavities, in concrete, in blocks, bricks and
ceramics and light weight aggregates. The use of the fly ash in coastal and
port work has been quite limited, mainly due to the high transport costs
required for its use. This technical note examines the possible use of fly
esh in marine structures, the environmental effects and the precautions needed
to put the properties of fly ash into advantageous use by its recycling
instead of wasting it by mere dumping in specially prepared pits.
Proiw rties of PA
2.          Chemical Prooerties.  The three main elements in PA are silicon,
aluminum and iron, the combined oxides of which account for 75 to 95X of the
material. Conventional chemical analysis is presented in Table (1). A small
proportion of FA is soluble in water. The solution is usually alkaline in
reaction and contains many calcium and sulphate ions. Magnesium, sodium, and
potassium are usually present as well but in much smaller amounts.
3.          Three types of FA are available: (i)  conditioned ash - FA taken
directly from the silos to which water has been added to assist with delivery
and subsequent compaction on site; (ii) stockpiled ash - previously
conditioned ash which has been placed temporarily on a stockpile before
delivery to site; and (iii) lagoon ash - FA which has been taken from the ash
silos, pumped into storage lagoons and allowed to settle and drain prior to
re-excavation and delivery to site.
4.          Typical grain size distribution for conditioned and lagoon FA and
its comparison with samples of FA from Shanghai Baoshan Iron and Steel and
Shanghr  Shidongkou Power Plant FA are presented in Figure 1. Segregation
occurs in lagoon FA with the finer particles remaining on top and moving with
water, which explains the larger particle size. Samples from two sources of
FA in Shanghai, but from the same coal mine, show similarity and fall between
the two standard curves of lagoon and conditioned PA but show more 4niformity
of partiele size.
5.          Under field conditions, the degree of coupaction of FA will depend
on the source of the ash, the compaction plant used and the level of site
control Table 1 presents a comparison of maximum dry densities and optimum
moisture content of the FA compared with other soil material (BSS 1377, test
12 used). Tests over several years by the Central Electricity Generating



- 94 -
Page 2 of 5
Board, UK has shown that the compaction characteristics of conditioned FA from
a single source varies very little. Some stockpile and lagoon FA, however,
exhibited lower dry densities because of either segregation or a content of
coarser material.
6.          hear   5 .  The shear strength of FA, in general, increased
with time. The cohesion and angle of shearing resistance are greater with
conditioned FA tan in stock piled and lagoon material. The rate of strength
increase with time is, however, adequate for most purposes.
7.         Perability and Drainage. Laboratory measurement of the
permeability of conditioned FA gives values of 0.05 x 10-' to 8 x 10-7 m/sec.
The drainage characteristics, therefore, range from practically impervious to
poor, despite the air void ratios of 8-20X. FA can, consequently, absorb
large quantities of water in the upper layers before reaching saturation. The
lower permeability of PA prevents leaching of soluble material from the mass
of compacted FA. As a consequence, there have ben no reported cases of
concrete structure adjacent to FA fill suffering from sulphate attack, despite
continuous exposure over many years. It is normal, however, to have a layer
of tar bitumen or polytene sheet between concrete and PA. FA, however, can be
eroded by surface water so that the normal precautions of using intercepting
drains and covering side slopes are essential.
8.         Caoillarity and Frost Heave. Water will rise by capillary action
in FA even after compaction. In fills shallower than 0.6 m thick, this could
cause saturation and instability. A drainage layer of coarse m&terial placed
before the FA if laid will eliminate capillary action. The capillary action
makes FA frost susceptible. Lagoon and stockpile FA mixed with coarser
material are only slightly if at all, frost susceptible. FA susceptible to
frost attack should be kept at least 0.45 m below the finished surface.
9.         LeadhLDg. Tests performed as part of a study in Israel confirmed
results obtained by others, that concentration of leachable salts of heavy
trace metals in fly ash leachate are in general lower in fly ash than in sea
water. At eh same time, analysis of leachate content in fly ash from Shanghai
power plant shows that it is highly improbable that any percolate through the
fill, from rain, surface water or sprinkler water for coal stack, will reach
the surrounding water at all due to: (i) the fly ash will be compacted to
such an extent, that its permeability will become impermeable or at least very
poor and (ii)  if some leachate would reach the surrounding water, quantities
will be so minimal that the dilution in the water will be infinite, and will
have no ecological influence.



- 95 -
~a8
Page 3 of 5
CHENIGAL ANALYSIS OF FLY ASH
(Percentage by Weight)
ELEMENT         TYPICAL           CHINA A/         U.K.h/      LOCAL
_________   _________SOIL
Baoshan    LuoJ ing              Baoshan
Silicon (SiO2)            48.00      54.00      51.50      50.00       61.50
Aluminum (A1203)          27.00      32.40      32.20      28.00        16.20
Iron (Fe2O0)               9.00       5.50       5.90      10.50        7.30
Calcium (CaO)              3.30       2.50       2.80       2.30         7.30
Magnesium (NO)             2.00       0.80       0.80       1.60         3.30
Potassium (R20)            3.80                  0 O.50     3.60        3.20
Sodium (Na2O)              1.20                  0.20       1.20        0.80
Titanium (TiO2)            0.90                     ..      1.00
Sulphur (S0O)               .         0.20       0.40       0.70         ....
(Water Soluble)            0.60       .                       .           .
Chloride (C1)              0.08                             0 .  O.08     .
Unaccounted                4.12       4.60       5.70       1.02         0.40
100.00     100.00     100.00    100.00       100.00
/ Source:  Shanghai Port Authority, 1992
g Source: PFA Bulletin, U.K., National Power, U.K.



- 96 -
Page 4 of 5
COMPARISON OF FLY ASH COMPACTION IG   OTHOM  SOIL
type of Soil                  Maxim=w Dry Density            Optimm moisture
Kg/m3                     Content X
Gravel                                2070                           9
Sand                                  1940                          11
Sandy Clay                            1840                          14
Silty Clay                            1670                          21
Heavy Clay                            1550                          28
FA                                    1380                          18



HEAVY METAL COCTENT
Soil          FA        (Kg/Kg)       FA Water         State Requirement      Criteria
Zlment   Waigao.qiao    Baoshan    Soll Wats   Watgaigiao 1/  Soil Water    FA Water   for Indus-
Whgaouiaa                   Luoajung       Luojing   trial Vat.
cu           18.20        47.800        0.010          O.009       0.0120       0.0010     1.00
Pb           23.50        82.900        0.002          0.015       0.0009       0.0020     1.00
Zn           67.50        56.100        0.030          0.030       0.0300       0.0300     5.00
Cd            0.04        0.100         0.004          0.008       0.0016       0.0004     0.10
Cr           72.20        38.400        0.010          0.010       0.0100       0.0100     0.50
Ni           37.30        34.100        0.003          0.003       0.0030       0.0030
Fe       3.5 x 10^    4.4 x 104         0.030          0.130       0.0800       0.0300      ----
Mn           70.20        53.100        0.050          0.740       0.3100       0.0500      ----
Hg            0.01         0.005    0.5 x 10-4     0.5 x 10-4   0.5 x 10-4   0.5 x 10-      0.02
As            3.31         9.980        0.047          0.045       0.0240       0.0400     0.50
U             ....        8.900    0.6 x 10-3    _                   ._
Th             ....        0.290    0.2 x 10-5                                    _.
Ph                                      7.700          7.700       8.8400       9.0800   6.00-9.00
1/  aF water is treated by acids to reduce the alkalinity and get rid of the extra trace metals.
0



- 98 -                         Annex 9
Page 1 of 3
SHANGHA PORT RESTRUCTURING AN  DKEPKTPROJECT
Outline of Semi-Annual Proaress Reports
1.        The purpose of these reports is to provide information on
significant events which occurred during the reporting period, together with
an evaluation of progress achieved and the prospects of future progress. To
this end, the information contained in the reports should cover at least the
following aspects of the project:
(a) physical work accomplished during the reporting period;
(b) a comparison of the actual progress of construction at the end of
the reporting period with the original forecast of progress at that
date;
(c) actual or contemplated material deviations from the original plans
or schedules, except that any such changes which would require prior
consultation with the Bank should be reported immediately and
subsequently included in the next report;
(d) other changes, events or conditions which would materially delay the
construction of the project or increase its cost; and
(e) the expected dates of completion of the principal physical elements
of the project.
Civil Works
2.        Construction progress should be reported on all the main items of
this component of the project as follows:
A. Preparatory work
B. Main items of works
-   wharf and causeways
-   reclamation
-   pavement
-   utilities
-   power supply
-   telecommunications
-   roadways
C. Supervision of construction
D. Consultant's activities and effectiveness.



_ 99 _
Anex 9
Page 2 of 3
3.        Progress on procurement of the port and cargo handling equipment
should be mentioned with particular reference to the:
-   bidding process
-   manufacturing/supply; and
-   testing and operatioxi.
Technical Assistance
4.        Information contained in the reports relating to the cargo
unitization study, the study for shifting fertilizer handling to the new
Waigaoqiao terminal, the preparation of the corporate plan, the development of
th.e MIS, the vessel traffic management study, the computerization of the
accounts and tariff/restructuring should cover:
-    the selection of consultants;
-    the work of the consultants their effectiveness.
-    the current status of the study.
Traffic
5.        Particulars of port traffic that is actually handled during the
reportinL period, desegregated by commodity so that the appraisal estimates
and forecasts can be checked and updated, should be included in the report.
Text of the Report
6.        The text of the report should describe the work performed on each
major item during the reporting period1, following the headings given above.
Where appropriate, the text shou' d inAlude explanations of and comments on the
following:
(a) Actual or expected material deviations from the original (or
amended) plan/design or implementation schedule.
(b) Actual or expected difficulties or delays, any weasures taken or
planned to correct them, and the probable effects on the
implementation schedule.
(c) Expected changes in the completion date of any major part of the
project or the project as a whole.
(d) Actual or expected delays in delivery of major items of equipment.
Reasons for such delays should be given, and their possible effects
on the implementation schedule should be estimated.
(e) Numbers in the work force including the Construction Management
Bureau, consultants and contractors.



- 100-
Page 3 of 3
(f) Any actual or expected event or condition which may effect the cost
of the project.
(g) Any unusual occurrences affecting the progress of the project.
(h) Project expenditures and disbursements and a comparison of actuals
with estimates and reasons for the deviation, If any.
7.       Drawings showing the plan and sections of the wharf and causeways
should be included. Construction progress should be indicated on the drawings
by color or other markings.
S.       A bar chart should show separately scheduled and actual progress on
principal activities of each project component. Simplified CPK or PERT
diagrams, which may present a more comprehensive picture of the schedule and
progress than the chart, may be used if necessary.



- 101 -
Amex Ql
Page 1 of 5
SUAN=N  PORT ERUTRIADDEEOMNPOJT
Ngtes and Major Assumptions Underlying
SPA's Financial Forecast for 1992-1997
A. G*Qar1
1.   The forecast is prepared in current prices.
2.   The projections are based on the traffic forecast and investment plan
lncluded in this report.
3.   No operating subsidy or equity contrLbution from the goverment is
assumed.
B.   ncme Statemen
1.   0peratbg Reven  - Revenues are projected by using the estimated
traffic, the current port charges with estimated future tariff increases
as follows:
Item                                     Tariff Increases
Foreian Trade           Domestic Trade
(a)   Loading/UnlngaMt:
1992                  44XL.                        -
1993                   -
1994                   -                          501 Za
1995                  15X                          -
1996                   -                          301
1997                  25X                          -
./ Approved by the Price Bureau effective April 1, 1992, for foreign trade
and January 1, 1994, for domestic trade.
(b) Storagg: No storage tariff increase was actually stipulated in
the forecast but SPA agroed in principle to increases (based on
the results of PC MIS study [para 2.201) to discourage cargo
owners from unnecessary, prolonged use of storage areas. The
charges will be increased annually as the storage capacity is
expanded.



- 102 -
AnnxhI 10
Page 2 of 5
(c)   Obaz:
_ Bargm- p sg_ss
1992                         25X /A
1993 to 1997                 9.62
(annually)
LS Approved by the Price Bureau effective May 1, 1992.
k A 152 tariff Increase was approved on March 16, 1991 to Y 0.067 per ton.
(d)   Serv9Lce tg  Pasaseges:  An additional charge will be made  for
providing now services such as delivering tickets to passengers at
their homes.
(e)   Taon: Operating revenue taxes are paid to the government as
follows:
3.21X of gross revenue for loading/unloading,
5.352 of gross revenue for storage,
3.21 to 10.72 of gross revenue for others, and
3.21 to 5.35X of gross revenue for marketing.
2.   OgeratLrg Z&2gn=:
(a) Salary and wage increase is assumed at 6X annually and material
price increase at 62 to 162 annually during the forecast period.
Cost reduction due to expected improvement in efficiency and
productivity was taken into ¢onsideration at 22 after 1996 when
the project will be fully implemented. Staff costs are calculated
based on labor required for different levels of cargo throughput
and incentives for higher performance.  The gross payroll and
bonus payment were, therefore, closely linked with both throughput
and operating revenues. Employee bonus is paid from profits, not
from operating costs, as per specific agreement between SPA and
the Shanghai Smunicipality. The generation of higher profits is,
therefore, an incentive scheme to labor to earn higher bonus.
Staff health and welfare cost are included in the working cost at
112 of gross payroll.
(b) Fuel and consumable items are expected to rise at an average rate
of 162 per year due to inflation and pricing reform.



- 103 -
Annex 10
Page 3 of 5
(c)  Applylng straight-line depreciation method, the following
depreciation rates were used:
Vehi¢les                                       8.04X
Machinery                                       6.84X
Communication devices                          7.561
Buildtngs, warehouses and sheds                4.20X
Other operational facillities                  6.0X
Accessories                                    6.48X
micro computers                                17.201
Mini computers                                14.901
Medium and large computers                    11.90X
3.   Terms and Conditions for Borrowings
(a)   Foreign  Mans:
(i)   IBRD Loans - MOF borrows all forelgn loans and then on lends
them to SPA. The terms for such lending are as follows:
ongoing Proigt (199l 1         Proposed Pro"ect
Amount (3006-CM)                   $46.46 million           $150.00 million
Duration                            20 years                  20 years
Grace Period                         5 years                    5 years
Interest Rate                        6.21                       71
(i) ADB Loans - (1991)
Amount                             $20.00 million
Duration                            10 years
Grace Period                         3 years
Interest Rat                        Variable Rato (currently 8.25X)



- 104 -
Am"e 10
Page 4 of 5
(b)      aastic Loins  (from local banks and governments)
Auount                              MB 625 million (during 1992 to 1997)
Duration and    }                        Government's past loans at 3.61
Interest Rate                      -    Construction Bank loans at variable
rates, e,g.:
-    at 7.20X for 3 years
-    at 8.64X for 3 to 5 years
-    at 9.12X for 6 or more years
The total amount of future loans from local banks is estimated at
RKB 625.0 million; the annual loan amounts will be determined
periodically at the going interest rate.
4.   Income Tax
Up to 1985, the government levied a tax of 701 on annual net profits and
gave capital contributions. Between 1986 and 1991, it levied a fixed
tax of RNB 51.55 million each year. From 1992, SPA expects to be
exempted from any paymonts towards income taxes in order to enable SPA
to contribute to future investments and meet its debt obligations. SPA
will also be bearing the foreign exchange risk of foreign loans.
C. ALanM ghost
1.   Accounts receivable were estimated at 6.81 of operating revenue.
2.   The inventory and the cash were estimated to increase by RNB 10.0
million annually.
3.   At the request of SPA, the Accounting Bureau of Shanghai Municipality
carried out the revaluation of the cargo handling equipment in 1991.
The results show that the current value of the machinery is about 160X
of the book value. The Government agrees in principle with the merits
of revaluatLon and formal approval is under consideration.
4.   Current liability has been estimated to increase by RMB 5.0 million
annually.



- 105 -
Anmex 1,0
Page 5 of 5
D. Cash Flow StaMent
1.   Capital expnditures for each year reflect t'he investment plan which
includes the proposed project for civil works, SPA's own imestment
program, housing for SPA staff and others.
2.   The Special Fund Expenditures rspresent investments on teebnical
upgrading of existing equipment of the Project and SPA's own investment
outside the proposed Project (not icluded in item 1 above and financed
through ADB and ID for W  facilities).



- 106 -
ADmex u1
Page 1 of 2
SHANGHAI YO    RESTRUCTIJRINC ASD DEVELOPENST PROJECT
Outline for the Tralning Program
for SPA's Financial Staff
1.   While the theory of accounting and finance, profitability, management
techniques, corporate planning, long term forecasting is understood
fairly well by SPA staff, there are missing links, inconsistencies and
incompleteness in their practical application. The accounting
procedures applied in China are used basically to monitor compliance
with given methodology and rules. It does not however guide management
for making sound decisions and does not provide some critical
information for sound judgement and actions. For example SPA has been
customarily preparing income statements and balance sheets but not the
cash flow statement which is sn important link to vital information and
a valuable guide for judgement and decision. SPA works on its long term
strategies, prepares manpower, financial and investment plans, sets its
tariffs through the State Price Bureau (SPB) and prepares economic ani
financial forecasts. But these activities are not properly linked and
-coordinated as is normally done in the corporate planning in the wester-n
commercial world. Therefore while the existing practices are reasonably
good, SPA should explore modern techniques and commercial principles to
achieve higher and effective management efficiency and labor
productivity. In order to achieve these objectives and especially to
strengthen key relevant management activities, a technical assistance
and training program was prepared and agreed with SPA. This program is
outlined in the following:
The training program for SPA staff will be carried out in two
steps:
(a)   Foreign visits of SPA staff to overseas ports
(b)   Professional experts to be engaged to come to China for
helping SPA staff in training
2.    The areas of training to SPA's financial staff will be:
(a)   Long term financial planilng and forecasting model, flexible
budgetary control, internal audit control and management
control, improving existing accounting system to commercial
accounting of international standards, computerized
accounting, cost accounting and full integration of cost and
financial accounting and preparation of financia istatements
and development of comprehensive management accounting;
(b) Financial feasibility studies of investment, financial port
evaluation of projects, financing plan and cash flow
forecasting;



- 107 -
Amex 11
Page 2 of 2
(c) Asset management, fixed asset revaluation techniques and
depreciation methodology;
(d)  Strengthen corporate planning and preparatlon of annual
action plan and targets, evaluation and control of the
financial performance and improve management efficiency and
effectiveness;
(e)  Develop cost based tariff system following the FcIlS study
(para 2.20) and expand its role to a complete management
information system (NIS) by including all operating and
financial data ensuring that financial cost and management
accounting are suitably linked; and
(f)  Structure and functions of shareholding corporations'
evaluation of joint venture eligibility.
The total cost of the training is estimated to be $400,000, with the
following details:
A. ForeiMn visits of SPA staft:
- Boarding and lodging
80 weeks x 7 - 560 days @ $80/day                 44,8" 0
- Air travel - approximately 3 groups
with 5 persons in each group needing
15 return tickets.
Cost of air travel 15 x 2500                      37,500
- Fees to foreign ports - 120 days (4 months)
@ $10,000/month                                   40 000
Sub Total                                      (A)        122_300
B. Foreign sinerts in China
- Fees - 5 experts for 3 months each - 15 vm
* $12,000 am                                     180,000
- Air travel 5 x $2500                                     12,500
- Boarding and lodging $130/day x (5 x 90)                 58.500
Sub Total                                      (B)2000
Subtotal (A + B)                                          373,300
contingency                                                26700
Total cost estimate                                      S4.



- 108 -
Page 1 of 6
Gororte Financial Atign Plan
A. Itrodun
1.   In 1986 the Port of Shanghai was decentralized and placed under the
primary jurisdiction of the Shanghai Municipal People's owernment. Three
features of this reform step encompass: self-financlng of port operations;
inestments funded by internal cash generation; and increasing competition
among ports for cargo. Before the reforms, HOC set tariffs, allocated cargo,
provided grant financing for major investments, covered any deficits, and
received most of the surpluses generated by the ports. Now only a portion of
the total cargo is allocated, tariffs for unallocated cargo are allowed to be
set competitively within a specified range, financing for major investment is
lent to the ports at negotiated interest rates and profits area retained by
the ports and are subject to taxes.
2.   The next logical step is for the port to move towards fully
comercializing its operations. To schieve this, it should use corporate
planning, set strategies for the future, and implement a market-oriented
organization which can respond to market forces and improve the efficiency of
Its operations. This action plan is designed to assist the port in
formulatig and implementing these new targets and will be an integral part of
the project.
B. Corgorate Planning and Strategias
3.   The elemnts of a corporate plan are the following:
(i)  objectives,
(ii)  strategies,
(iii) operational plan,
(iv) financial plan, and
(v)  manpower plan
Soem of the elements of corporate plaming are being carried out at
present by SPA on an ad-hoc basis without concrete linkage between the various
elements. In the following paragraphs the work carried out now and the
required action plan to bring them together into a corporate plan are
outlined.
C.
4.   The port has prepared a short/long term restructuring plan to:
-    iclrease termnal specialization; and
-    to preserve the environmt of the city.



- 109 -
Anix 12
Page 2 of 6
5.   The port is a party to the PCNIS (Port Costing and Management
Information System) study being carried out by MOC to determine the cost of
different operations at the various ports and to modernize the port accounting
systems to a commercial basis. The study is planned to be completed by 1993,
and imple_meted starting January 1, 1994.
6.   The port has, in 1991, set up a port users' management information
system. The system allows port users to get all information about their
shipment, thus facilitating paper work requirements, customs clearance, etc.
This is a first step in the through bill of landing required for multimodal
transport.
7.   The port Is currently preparing a long-term investment program, traffic
forecasts and financial statements and allocated targets of cargo throughput
to each of its 14 districts.
D. Corporate Planning Action Plan
S.    The port will recruit consultants to assist in:
-     formulating the port's activities,
-    setting out the required strategies,
-    preparing the operational plan, financial plan and
manpower plan,
-    reviewing and upgrading the organizational structure   of
the port,
-    setting up the port's MIS,
-    setting up the port targets and the monitoring sequence for
control and addressing the weak links as identified,
-    setting up the port marketing function.
9.    Outline terms of reference for the consultant(s) were agreed during
regotiations and a copy is attached.



- 110 -
Page 3 of 6
CHINA
SHANGHAI PORT AUTHORITY
DEVELPMENT OF CORPORATE PLANNING
OUTLINE TERMS OF REFERENCE
Introduction
1.         In recent years, the Government of the People's Republic of China
and the port authorities in China have achieved substantial progress in
improving institutional and financial policies. Steps are now being taken to
introduce market oriented operations. The Shanghai Port Authority (SPA) is
now decentralized and the central, provincial municipal governments have
started giving greater freedom and responsibilities to SPA in the areas of
tariff adjustments, investments, institutional development and commercial
practices. The World Bank is currently considering a loan to ht.Ap SPA
strengthen its management, increase its efficiency and capacity and improve
the environment in the city center. It is, therefore, important that, with
increased authority and responsibility, SPA strengthens its management
capabilities and introduce modern techniques of management.
2.         SPA desires to upgrade its management capabilities, both by
improving financial management and information systems, and by initiating a
more formal corporate planning process. This will enable SPA to better
anticipate future needs, to coordinate efforts to meet those needs, to build
consensus on goals and objectives, to monitor progress towards achieving these
goals, and to prov'.de a context for other planning and implementation efforts
(including financial and investment plans, human resource [staffing, training,
etc.], plans of individual units, and organization structure).
Okbjectivs
3.         The major objective is to establish a corporate planning process
in order to assist the senior management and other key individuals within SPA
to introduce plans and strategies for:
-    develop efficient and reliable port organization and improve the
corporate image of SPA;
-    promote the increased use of SPA facilities by shipping, cargo and
other interest"; and
-    maintain and develop controls through management policies and
objectives and through monitoring of investments.
4.         With the agreement of the Bank, SPA will engage a Corporate
Planning Expert to assist in developing corporate planning in SPA.
Scope of Work
5.         The development of a corporate plan is expected to take place in
two steps. First, creation of a sound data base and the diagnosis of the



- 111 -
Page 4 of 6
current planning prnctices. SPA and the Corporate Planning Expert (to be
employed by SPA) should review inter alia, the following documents:
(a)  The 1989 report on the Port of Shanghai (based on the findings of
a mission led by Mr. van der Meer);
(b) The 1988-89 report on the genera'. layout plan of Shanghai Port;
(c)  The long term management development strategy currently being
prepared by SPA covering scope and layout of the port and its
operations; and
(d)  Available corporate plans of other ports to be provided by the
Corporate Planning Expert.
Second, working toward the development of a suitable corporate plan for SPA,
the following steps will be taken:
(e)   SPA will send a team of Chinese experts comprising 7 to 8 members
from Finance, Operations, Planning and other departments of SPA to
three selected foreign ports for a total period of about three
months. The Corporate Planning Expert will also be a part of the
team.
(f)  Upon return to China, the Corporate Planning Expert and SPA will
prepare a draft corporate plan to be introduced in SPA and send it
to the Bank for review and comments.
6.          In the development of the data base, the consultant is expected to
assist SPA in the following areas:
A.    Ahaissment of Capabilities.  An early step in this project is to
assess the status and quality of SPA's planning actii'ties to
date. This is intended both to identify particular areas of focus
in development of the corporate plan and to guide the design of
the ongoing planning process. The consultant will also work with
SPA managers and staff to develop an assessment of SPA's
capabilities and resources in operations, maintenance, marketing,
information technology, finance and administration, and management
as part of the planning data base.
B.   Projection of Reguirements. The other element of the exercise
will be an external assessment of the future requirements and
opportunities for the Port of Shanghai. This will include
projection of volume requirements (inbound and outbound, by major
comodity and traffic type), customers' service and quality
requirements, new traffic opportunities (e.g., intercoastal,
transshipment) and constraints or objectives Imposed by municipal,
regional, and national considerations. The external assessment
should also include a review of threats and opportunities created



- 112 -
Anne12
Page 5 of 6
by likely technology developments (both in transportation and in
cargo handling).
C.    Conetitile Assessment.  The external assessment should also
include familiarization with other port operations. This portion
of the work has two purposes. One is to establish benchmarks for
key operational and service measures of performance (e.g.,
equipment, etc.), as well as for overhead levels and
effectiveness. The consultant will help identify and develop
appropriate standards measure. The second purpose is to determine
how Shanghai compares with other Chinese ports, especially from
the customers' perspective, and to assess their relative strengths
and weaknesses. In carrying out this task, the consultant is
expected to direct and train SPA staff in the process of
gathering, analyzing, and presenting competitive intelligence.
7.          Responsibility for the corporate plan resides with the management
of SPA. The role of the consultant is to facilitate SPA's planning process
and to guide management's use of appropriate procedures and techniques.
A.    Process facilitation.  To this end, the consultant is
expected to advise SPA management on the structure of
meetings, task forces, analyses, etc. that will facilitate
SPA in:
- Identification of issues;
- Development of alternative courses of action; and
- Evaluation of those alternatives (including financlal
modelling).
In particular, the consultant will assist SPA management prepare a
formal evaluation report for review with authorities and finance
providers.
B.    PI= RrgR#U&l  . The consultant will assist SPA management
in turning the results of the preceding deliberations into a
coherent formal plan. This plan is to include a statement
of mission and purpose; goals and objectives for SPA;
detailed financial, investment, and manpower plans;
guidelines and performance measures for both operational and
functional units. The plan should also include steps to
gain approval and support of other decision-makers (e.g.,
Ministry of Commerce, Shanghai municipal authorities, and
finance providers).
8.          The final produce of this project is the design of an ongoing set
of procedures including reports for corporate planning at SPA. It is expected
that the experience of preparing the initial corporate plan will be used to
decide what steps to include in the ongoing process and who should have
responsibility for each step. The consultant will also make recommendations



- 113 -
Anne 12
Page 6 of 6
to SPA on requirements for systems, procedures, capabilities, and organization
needed to support the ongoing planning process.
Level of Effort
9.          The consultant should be prepared to direct a joint term of SPA
staff and its own professionals. OPA management and staff are expected to
participate in all aspects of the ptoject. The consultant is expected to
provide the bulk of the effort in the creation of the data base, particularly
in the external assessment of future needs, the understanding of customer
requirements, and competitive benchmarks. He will share responsibility with
SPA in the analysis of the data base and identification of issues. Equivalent
weight in the consultant's effort should be given to development of the plan,
design of the ongoing process, and training of SPA management staff.
?.0.        It is expected that the initial corporate plan will be developed
before the end of 1993. Detailed implementation plans and the design of an
ongoing planning process are to be completed in 1994.
11.        Much of the work on this project will be performed on site in
Shanghai. The consultant is expected to work full tim for most of the
project. The intenswive phase of preparing the initial corporate plan is
anticipated to last 6-8 months and will require an estimated 25 man-months of
effort.



- 114 -
AmEa la
Page 1 of 3
;IIAOEA POR RURUCTRNG MR aD LoMT PROJECT
Financlal and Operatlng Perfgrm^nee Tarmts
1. Z1nanci.al
1993       1994       1995       1996       1997
1.  Working ratio (X)        61         60         60         59         59
2.  Operating ratio (Z)      71         71         70         69         68
3. Self-financing ratio
(X)                   20         45         45         45          45
4.  Return on net fixed      10         11         13         14         15
assets (1)
5. Debt/equity ratio       27/73      31/69      33/67      31/69      28/72
2.    OaorationaJ
(i) To Reduce Dwell Time of Cargo in Port as Follows:
(No. of Days)
1993       1994       1995       1996       1997
(a)  Coal                   20          18         16         14         10
(b)  Containers (loaded)    10          9          8          7          5
(c)  General cargo          14          12         10         8          7
(d)  Others                  14         12         10         8          7
Action to be taken to achieve these targets:
-     Increase store rent to exceed storage charges outside port
terminals;
-    Restructure tariff to provide incentive for cargo delivery after
normal working time;
-    To work port terminals at least two shifts for cargo delivery.



- 115 -
Page 2 of 3
(Ui) To Reduce Ship Stay In Port as Follows:
(No. of Days)
1993      1994       1995       1996       1997
(a)  Foreign Vessels        3.5        3.3        3.0        2.7        2.5
(b)  Chinese/Foreign        4.5        4.2        4.0        3.8        3.5
Going Vessels
(c)  Domestic Trade         1.8        1.5        1.2        1.0        1.0
Vessels
Action required:
-     Increase productivity
-    Optimize berth utilization
Improve documentation flow
MiOi) To Achieve Berth Utilization Of At Least 751
(Berth Occupancy Ratio defined as: Total hours berths occugied)
365 x 24 hours
Action required:
-    Efficient berth allocation. and
-    Efficient equipment and gang allocation.
(1v) To Reduce Non-productive Time at Berth as Follows:
(X time vessel not working while alongside)
1993      1994       1995       1996       1997
(a)  Bulk cargo vessel      151        14X        132        12X        11X
(b)  Containers             251        25X        231        21X        201
(c)  General cargo          302        301        281        281        26Z



- 116 -
Page 3 of 3
Action required:
-    Restructure tariff to charge berth occupancy according to time;
and
-    Pre-plan berth operation, vessel stowage, cargo avallability.
(v)  To Achieve Following Equipment Utilization Rates:    TIeM Kui=nent Us"d
Time Available for Use
1993      1994       1995       1996       1997
(a)    Berth Handling       85        86X        871        88X        891
Equipment
(b)    Container Quay       751        75X        77Z        79X        80X
Cranes
(c)    Portal Cranes        701        70X        72X        721        74X
(d)   Mobile Cranes         701        702        701        701        701
(e)   Rubber-tired          701        701        701        701        701
Gantry Cranes
(f)    Tractors             702        702        752        751        752
(g)    Others               601        601        602        602        60X
Action requlred:
-    Proper maintenance of equipment,
-    Correct use/operation of equipment, and
-    Efficient inventory control of spares.
(vi) To increase output through reducing number of employees engaged in cargo
handling at the terminals. Currently, approximate total number of
employees at the districts 55,000. As new terminals come into
operation, as many existing staff as possible should be transformed to
the new terminael. Target should be to reduce staff by 32 - 51 each
year.



am
11M1   t  WEUCIIIM  M        EwILr     Pin0C
cips. Fredit tragic
(isn blim of t_ i)
Tow         Na l           _W      _twwwL.        MpgU,..    eIVItl alntliß         Total       O_m usbIrW
1952          *0.2         1.         11.8            -.Ota2                           73.          2.a
ult IIt(I)              12.0         2.0         16.6                                           100.0          -
19           45.9         25.1       102.1           3.T             0.076            6229         174.1
Nodmt 1 pit M1           73.4        4.6        16A             6.2             -               100.0
197m         559.9        74.5       139.3           47.             0.12S            1A           317.1
1900         51.7         76.4       152.1           49.1            O.141              9A .33.2
1961         571.2        78.0       150.7           49.9            0.170            450.0        3"4
1962         612.0         4.9       17M8            10.1            0.19             916.         376.9
19SS         444.7       15|.4       181.1           53.4            0.22'          1,007.A       3W.?
1906         724.8       153.6       196.1           57.2            0.r .          1.13.0        437.4
1I5          12.6       1L3         237.1 W603                      0. .15         1271.?         532.9
1996         87L.        211.0       270.0           61.2            O.481          1.40.0         504.6
19"S         9W7.1       266.0       28.9            42.5            0.6SO          1.56.2         W7.6
19tt         987a        322.0       310.4           t.0             o.no           1.p 5.9        6A6
199       19.4         37.S        349.S A.9                       0.600          1,790 3        746.6
1990       1,062.2       335.8       345.1           42.7            0.m            1,806.6        614.1
NEt o  t  Z()            56.6        18.6        19.1           3.5             -               100.0          -
O ra rae() p.cI
t952-rt       &64         12.1         9.0                          I 1S.              6.9         16.0
1"amI          9.0        41.7         8.3            .1            358                12.3        10.0
19618         12.1        10.2        20.9            5.4            .4                13.0       2V.
196/86         7.9         5.1        13.9            1.5           15.9               11.0        11.6
"*/            81          5.6         7.0            2.1           35.1               10.2         10A
Wis            C.S        21.1         7.4            4.0           12.3                7.7         5.9
19/9           5.2         4.8        12.7            3.2)           (.5)              6.2          10.3
1969/90        2.2        (0.5)       (1.3)          (0.3)          18.8               0.9          5.9
196800         6.4        16.0         6.S            2.S           19.3                7.6         8.7
xetludos ocem-goir  tr.npott.
ScreottatIstical tcwbook of Chir, 1991.



- 118 -
Table 1.2
SHANGHAI PORT RIStRUCTMURNG AND DEVELOmE     PROJECT
China: Passangr Traffic
(billion passenger-km)
civil
YTo r      1l             ROMd         Waterw"" /a       £viation          To6W1
1952      20.1              2.2            2.5             0.0             24.9
"Mdal *pllt (X)     80.9              9.1            9.9             0.1             100.0
1977     102.3            44.8             9.7             1.8             158.6
modal split tS)     64.5            26.2             6.1             1.2             100.0
1979     11.6             60.3            11.4             3.4             196.7
1980     138.3            73.0            12.9             3.9             228.1
1961     147.3            83.9            13.6             5.0             250.0
1962     157.5            96.4            14.5             5.9             274.3
1993     177.7            110.6           15.4             5.8             309.5
1964     204.6            133.7           15.4             8.3             362.0
1965     241.6            172.5           17.9             11.6            443.6
1986     258.7            198.2           18.2             14.6            489.7
I987     264.3           219.0            19.6             18.7            541.6
1966     336.0           252.8            20.4             21.4            620.6
1969     303.7           266.2            16.6             18.6            607.2
1990     261.3           262.0            16.5             23.0            562.6
Nodal oput (C)      46.4            46.6             2.9             4.1             100.0
owth rate (2) p.o
1952-7        6.7            12.7            5.7             18.9               7.7
1983/64      15.1            20.9            0.0             43.1             17.0
19"//5       16.1            29.0            16.2            39.8             22.5
195/66        7.1            14.9            1.7             25.9             10.4
198/87        9.9            10.5            7.7             28.1             10.6
1967/66      14.7            15.4            4.1             14.4             14.6
1968/69      (r.8i            5.3           (7.8)            (13.1)            (2.1)
1989/90     (14.0)           (1.6)          (12.2)           23.7              (7.3)
1960-90       6.6            13.6            2.5             19.4               9.5
I* Roslade ooaft-ouln traMsport
Eburo: 8toatical Yeazbook ot Chle -- 1991.



gm
8m:i PORT ass          t   svaaeuwT PRoJECT
Chira:    tnt  n  th  Tr t Sctoi fneludin Posts and Telec_muicatIos
(in bitlions of Twan)
lest P    2and mP          SrdYfP  4th Fm   Sth FVP              6thYP                                 7th mP
1953S7  195763  196S-6S  196S-70  1971.7S  1976-80   1961    1962        1903    1964   1915   19      17  198    1989    1990
Trasport:
RaIltwy    5.916    10.416   3.39    11.250    17.30B     4.047  1.4S    2.637   4.221   5.852    7.7    8.5    8.7   10.2    5.4    9.3
11fe       -         -                 -                         0.799   0.87   o.m22   1.196    2.3    2.7    3.3    4.2    4.3    6.8
Materw-y                     -                  -         -       1.25   1.545   1.9P7   2.629    3.7    3.7    3.9    3.2    3.6   S3
Aviation   *         -       -        -         *                 0.070   0.145   0.299   0.263    2.1    1.3    1.4    1.3    1.0    1.A
Pipline   -                           -         *                0.018   0.017   0.006   0.010    0.1    0.S    0.1    0.1    0.1    03
St6tota    -             -            -         -         *      3.627   5.231   7.115   9.950   15.9   16.7   17.4   19.0   14.4   23.1
Post md tete       -         -       -        *         -          -      O.U     0.490   0.619   0.8M     1.2    13    1.6   l1        2.3    2.7
Total    9.015    16.330   5.387   16.001    31.759    30.24S  4.067   5.721   7.804  10.046   17.1   U.0   19.0   20.6   16.7   8.8
Totat capita
hwost*nt    58.047   120.609  42.189   97.0    176.395   234.217 4.291  55.553  59.413  74.325  107.4  117.6  134.3  1S2.6  155.2  170A
Towuport sa   of
tota  irwest   15.3X      13.51   12.1X    16.4X      18.01     12.96   8.2X    9.41   12.1t    1.4x    14.    14.2   13.01  12.51   9.3   13.6SX
IS  lmestawt of Ft, before 1960, Inludes Post ad Tecomuleatlon  (out 4 o total).
source: 3elstleal Towbook of Chinf, 1991.
I4



- 120 -
ZAU2I-ikL
SHANGHAI PORT iNTUCTURING AnD DKVKI.PIMNT ROJE
ahina: Transert Investment v, Econeosm  Outpt
(in billions of Yuan)
GNP           Transport
Transport           (current        investment
Year                 investuent          prices)          as I of GNP
00.0 JA           0,000.0            0.0
1966-70    3FmP           15.0                935.0             1.6
1971-75    4FYP           31.8 Ja           1,323.0             2.4
1976-80    SFYP           30.2 IA           1,758.0             1.7
1981-85    6FYP           41.9              3,130.0             1.3
1986-90    7FTP           85.5              6,861.7             1.2
1980                    5.9                447.0            1.3
1981                    3.6                477.3            0.8
1982                    5.2                519.3             1.0
1983                    7.2                580.9             1.2
1984                   10.0                696.2             1.4
1985                   15.9                855.8             1.9
1986                   16.7                969.6             1.7
1987                   17.4              1,130.1             1.5
1988                   19.0              1,401.8             1.4
1989                   14.4              1,591.6            0.9
1990                   18.0              1,768.6             1.0
1980-90 average                                                         1.3
La Investment of FYPs includes Post and Telecoumunications (about 4 percent
of total).
8ourc: Statistical Yearbook of China, 1991.



j,    ~ ~       ~        ~       ~       ~ ~ ~ rEIlI 
;"j 1   i1 Jr       f  Ii        li IfSig  l 6k hr Iij           16ffI  i  I.Ing II. IL .
i 1   1 If  *1 11f11I . Iki I.li 1 "..  In.  lie 11. lao. Im 1  16k. 1.  Ii.  I
IN  Ii II3 1  1      I laU *X I't lVi I  19. IM lK   1oir,t I.-  Im IL  1R III Ica 1 2
li I  I      FrI1. I1  I5 s 1      1   11m la . I    16i lrui,3 1i    6 11-  lai lid I..  !
Iff ir   Jr* Ii,    i11  B I ri  166 I1l. 1gio J 1f. Is= I. lirr i   16i    I;.    l
I               WI Ulf   I31:c31sR  ik IaI".1 51 j 11.61IV, lffI lii1la  61r.,j L   I
I* Fs  if ;i    1i l    .1 11 1;1 lig  Im 11. 1131 1t6  1131 lii liIi X   1. 1.. l 
1%  II; 1Jr   1  N I  1    t11 11 IE1    k1ß1    S1   1 1 i IiXSir1
4 t~t66166~,              A 11       1661  1    6, III1 1. Is       3   ii I   1 .  
la  111 1I       I ,1i  rit. . C1.75 1    1. IN  lfi1b  1U3 l    IL  ltlik l   I1...i |
19  Iß r. I    1 i    % a  1141 A    1111N 1m 1bi liL  ki- lr i lar. l fiL Im1-  11 La 'M
1:;i I II  ig lE  at  | 1 Ik 1G 1i 1  1 - la  IrA.6    r  1. 1t l1   tih lo  1;  t
la |;I lu-W    1 Ira  pl   ff fi Il imr Iid I W  I   1-NdI   1-GLIAi IidI. 1 
ll       I 1%  r   lr  116   1 111 1B 1m l1-i.II 6  lmu. I.  Ir,, 1tI&    1. 1 16 
IN  lt- 1%   IS I N 1 1         H; lih irs 1 1     Im  I  lt- 1I   1 111 lg 11W  I.   lau
la          VA 1    w 1N  aB 1%   I=gjW IIIu . lw ivtImi  19. Iraii    l id   13 I'
0 138 1] 1G  1  1; 3~ ~ 4 11           J N|E E    ri IFS.1 1   1. 1J1 
t 1Z " 1N E 3 | " 1 tE 1."I& Im n 11t I-M lm 1. | | 
ig 13       Ig lir  igN1N. ; II V*  1£-1   x;111 1- Igg 1r Jr   1r- J    I
is I3 1  I i9r  1  161  I 71'  I   tPi   1 GIOiiiI&  IW 1ii I ib   WI IM   I G . IW"  I RI I I"M



ii                                                       - 122 -                                               Table 3.2
cain
UHAOHAIM PM?f5RCIRK   N  DSVSI0NUUN  99022
Pnrt trafflO by Hg  (11)
-o --- -  ------- - ---------------
- -----Wateays-------
Tant  inland                                        Subtotal
ftoeign  Coastal   River wateays Highay  Railway SaItbr  Others (Omestic)  Total
A. Out Gtings
Coal                         5   2.881    3.918    8.442    1.769       g08  8,861      *20   21,60S  21.610
PetroleupmrodUcta           12        *        2        3        9        0      2        0       21       33
Metallc oes                 59       S0   4,.50        23      444     215      703       0    5.995   6.044
Iroa a" ate               964       216      138     369    1.10l        4   1.070        0   2.965    3.929
Construction materiala     106       60        4      199    5.265       0    449         0 a 5.97    6.083
cement                     637      1          0       13      s3       12       0        0      186      823
Simber                      13        9       36    1.080       85       0    291       164    1.665    1,678
Nonmeallic eae             504      125       46      423      401        1    120        0   1,116    1.620
Chemical fertiiser           5       65      350    1.358       12       66    422        1   2,174    2.179
Salt                         0       40      142     50        13       59    709        0    1.513    1.513
aGri                       324      770      291    1.3 6       98      38    901         0   3.464    3.7S0
Others                   4.333      65       626    1.773    3.912      388    418       11   6. 76   11.119
Total                    6. 963    5,03   10.103   15,S01   12.169    1.691  13.946     996   59.459   66_421
in 4                      10.54     7.64    15.20    23.34    10.38    2.5s   21.04     1.54    89.5S   100.08
4 for Watewys                               46.2t
B. In Oomitg:
Coal                        23  24.064   1.103         29      1i         0    232        0  27,438  27.461
petrole    Preduot          1S        2        4        0        4        0      5        0       1S       30
Mertalici ores           4.719    1.475       16        2       75        0      4        0    1.572    6.291
Irn  aei steel           1.24       73       93       197      980      81    102         0   3.031    4.055
Construction materias        a    12S4    5.887    1.145                  2     29        0   0.416    8,418
cenwit                      12       12       36      196      544      271      2        0    1.061    1,073
Timber                   1.S31      174        0        3        9        0      6        0      192   1,723
Nonmetallic ores           12S     230       760       38     4S1         1     21        0   1.501    1.626
Chemial ferlizers        1998       162        1        2       2        16     18       10      219   2.217
salt                         0    1,406      2S         6        1       0       0        0    1.51     1.518
Grain                   2.209       760      136      268      108        0    194        0    1.466    3.675
Others                   4.S38      796      339      279   4.499        19    2)       993   7.160   11. 69
Total                   16.196   33.146    9.239   2.165    6.790      390    848    1,011   53.5$9  69,7$5
in 4                     23.24   47.54    13.24      3.14     9.74     0.6    1.24      1.44    76.84  100.04
* for Watery                               6.8
C. tOtal
Coal                        28   20.943    S.021    *.471    1.707     908  9.093       820   55.043   SS,071
Petroleum prodts            27        7        6        3       13        0      7        0       36       63
etanlli ores             4.778    1.S25    4.S46       25      519      21S    707        0    7.S57   12.33S
Iron and steel           1. 98    1,015    1.070      S66   2,088       05   1,172        0    s.m"    7.984
Construotion materials     108    1.314    5.891    1.344    5.364        2    4"         0   14.393   14,501
Cent                       649      120       36      209      597      283      2        0    1.247    1.896
Timber                   1,544      13        36   1.083        94       0    297       164    1857    3,401
Nonmtaie ores              429      35S      806      461      852       2      141       0   2.617   3.246
Chmical fertiliers       2.003      227      351    1.260       14       82    440       19   2.393    4.396
"at                          0    1. S26     167      554       14      S    709         0   3.031    3,031
Grain                    3.533    1.130      427    1.634      206       38   1.095       0   4.932    7.465
Others                   0.671    1.454     945    M0        7.411      407    653   1,004   13.946  22.017
Total                   23S158   38.19   19342   17.666   1,959    2.081  14.794   2,007  113,048  136,06
in 4                      17.0e   236.0    14.20    13.08    13.94      1.4S  1098      1. S    83.00  100.08
4 for  laterys                              55.20
Soures ShanhaiL Port Authority.
Ju-S2



-123 -
T abl  4.1
U165
.... ~..  ....u......................................
Itry of Project Cost Ea"tiste
(Jww 199 Pr )
Last  forein   Total   Lal  forn   tootl  Fligi
A. CMvi1 vurk
Lwjlns                 543.21    71.04  614.8    ".4    13.0   11.72    1M.A
b. VoigloWie              345.5    6.6   411.72   63.45    12.00   75.53    14.0
$ubtotal              0.06   136.91 1,025.97  165.13  28.12   JL3.          1.3
........ ......  .......... .......  ............ ...... ..... ......... ......... ...... 
a. LusJi In                58.42  197.54  25.96   10.71   3625   44.9            .3S
b. Wlsuoqmi                16.35   163.50   119.5    3.00   30.00   33.00    90.91
.  xistin  tena"ls         33.79  3.90  371.69    6.10   65.00   4620 .         ".
Eabtotal              106.54  96.96   007.32    19."   1211625  14161       SL64
_................... ............ .........  ...... .........  ......  ............
c. T.0.7                                 .      300n055                             6
.............
O. Iffnrel                  0.27    2.n3    3.00    0.0%       0.50    G."      "03
b. Iuntiatoun study         0.05     0.26    0.       0.01     0.05    0.06    $6.7
5. Oversees traInin         0.05    0.55    O4        0.01     0.10    0.11    91.91
d. Corpate plutirg          0.05    O.5      040      0.01     0.10    0.11     91.9M
a. MIS                      0.11     1.09    1.20    0.02    0.20    0.m        90."9
f. Vlll                     0.06    0.27    0.33    0.01    0.00    0.06    6.X
Sultotat                0.59    5.47    6.06      0.11    1.00    1.11      90.1
......  ........ ......   ......... ......  ...... . .. ............... ......... ........
as Cot                     9".21   651.34 1,3.55   16.15   154.37  33. 52    45.71
......  ......  ......  ......    ....
Phyical ceitewy /1            99.77   83.59   16.34    18.31    15.36   3.67    4541
Tott                     1,0.."   924.93 2.0.1   201.46  149.7   3n.19    45.n
......  ......  ......    ....
Price mtn1_m   _2            2l."6   204.50  416.45   2."    2.04   53.09    49.01
...... ...... ..... . . . . . .. ......
Tott Pwe.t eost            1.309.  1,1219.43 2,49.34   22.51   196.77  424.26        4.12
mam.   -     umm            -- 
1.S 101 of civIl wk Ow  uPWmmt cos.
/-as using interatioat  &not escation facto      2.8f  1.i9nI, 3.91 fn 19", S.= to
1904. 3.8in 11995 ad therefter.
pree scaetion fc torfo 1u  * 6.01 in 1"9  ed 5.01  eaft tw.
1 3 xcx          ret.:  1 U       5.45 Yu    n at llt he f igAre  ar r_Ld.
hp2



- 124 -
Male 4.2
SHANGHAN PORT RESTRUCTURIEG AND DEVELQPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
Luojing
(Y million)          (US$ million)
A.   Civil Works
(i)     Channel works                         1.345             0.247
(ii)    Reclamation, earthworks              51.191             9.393
(iLL)   Marine structures                   113.522            20.830
(iv)    Stackyard, shore works               27.042             4.962
(v)     Utilities                           243.355            44.652
(vi)    Communication and control            37.639             6.906
(vii)   Temporary and Other Works           140.156  614.250  25.710  112.700
B.  KUWiM.
(i)     Bucket chain ship unloaders (2)
and grab unloader (1)
(1250 hp each)                       68.670            12.600
(ii)    Belt conveyor (5617 a)               27.577             5.060
(iii)   Stacker (3,000 tph) - 3 Nos          16.350             3.000
(iv)    Reclaimer (1,500 tph) - 4 Nos        28.340             5.200
(v)     Bulldozer - 6 Nos                     2.616             0.480
(vi)    Shovel Loader - 4 Nos                 3.270             0.600
(vii)   Weighing/Calibrating equipment        4.360             0.800
(viii)  Tug (1 X 3200 hp; 1 X 2000 hp)       28.340             5.200
(ix)    Spares                               16.398             3.000
(x)     Erection and other local costs       58.424            10.720
(xi)    Training                              1.635  255.980   0.300   46.960
Total
Note: Excluding Physical and Price Contingencies.
July 1992.



- 125 -
Table 4.3
CHIN
SHANGHAI PORT RESTRUCTURING AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
Waigaag$ao
(Y million)       (US$ million)
A.   Civil Works
Mi)    Marine Structures                    82.616            15.159
(ii)    Shore Works                         132.375           24.289
(iii)   Others                              196.734  411725  36.098   75.546
B.  Ig3buanLm     Ja
Mi)     Container berth                     61.640            11.310
(ii)    General cargo berth                   8.709            1.598
(iii)   Steel berth                          10.246            1.880
(iv)    Timber/construction material         27.228            4.996
berth
(V)     Supporting equipment                  6.540            1.200
(vi)    Other equipment                      25.343            4.650
(vii)   Spares                               22.160            4.066
(viii)  Erection and other local costs       16.350            3.000
(lx)    Training                              1.635  179.851   0.300   33.000
Total                    S91.576           108.546
La See Table 4.5 for details.
Note: Excluding Physical and Price Contingencies.
July 1992.



- 126 -
abe   4.4
Page 1 of 2
CHlIM
SHANGHAI PORT RESTRUCTURING AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
Reglacement and Additional Equipment for Existing Terminals
Total
Unit      Unit     Cost
Category               Commodity Handled           (Nos)    $s        £USSU1
Portal Crane
(1)   16 Ton        Timber/Gen. Cargo              1      .550      .550
(it)  10 Ton        General Cargo                  6      .450     7.200
(iLL) 25 Ton    ,   General Cargo                  3     1.600     4.800
Mobile Crane
(i)   25 Ton        General Cargo                  2      .220     4.840
(tU)  40 Ton        General Cargo                  1      .300      .300
(iii) 80 Ton        General Cargo                  1      .500      .500
Fork Lift Trucks
(i)   16 Ton        General Cargo (1);            20      .200     4.000
Container (8); Coal (1)
(ii)  25 Ton        Container                      2      .250      .500
(iii) 40 Ton        Container                      8      .450     3.600
(iv)  10 Ton        General Cargo                  4      .080      .320
Wheel Loader
(i)   3.1 m9        Coal                          21      .160     3.360
(ii)  3.5 m9        Coal (23); General Cargo      35      .180     6.300
(7); Ore (1)
Bulldozer              Coal                          15      .080      1.200
Rubber Tyred Gantry    Container                      2     1.200      2.400
Crane
Ship Unloader (500     Fertilizer                     1     4.000     4.000
tph)
Stacker/Reclaimer      Coal                           2      .500      1.000
Container Mobile       Container                      1     4.500     4.500
Crane
Container Prime Mover  Container                     54       .050     2.700
Container Quay Crane   Container                      1     6.000      6.000



- 127 -
Table 64.
Page 2 of 2
Relacemoent and Additional Equipmeat for Existing Terminals
Total
Unit      Unit     Cost
Category               Commodity Handled           (Nos)    CUSSm)
Communication System                                                     .500
Maintenance Equipment                                                   1.000
Spares                                                                 2.130
Training                                                                 .300
Contingency                                                            8.000
TOTAL                                                       70.000
Note: Excluding Physical and Price Contingencies.
July 1992.



- 128
Mik 4A.
Page 1 of 2
SHANGIAX PORT RESTUCTURNOG AND I   DEELOPMENT PROJECT
BuGM=ent for Waigagoiao
(to be procured with Bank loan)
No. of        Unit        Total
Category                                           units        cost         cost
($ m)
A. Container Berth
(i) Container shore crane                         1         6.000        6.000
(ii) Rubber-tyred gantry crane                     2         1.350        2.700
(iii) Forklift truck:
(a) 40 ton                                   2           .410         .820
(b) 2.5 ton                                  5           .020         .100
(c) 25 ton                                   1           .250         .250
(iv) Container prime mover                         6          .070         .420
(v) Container chassis (40')                       9          .020         .180
(vi) Weighing scale (60 ton)                       2          .070         .140
(vii) Computer                                      1          .700         .700
Subtotal                                                              11Q310
B. General Cargo Berth
(i) Portal Crane (10 ton)                         2          .450         .900
(ii) Forklift truck (5 ton)                        8          .034         .272
(11i) Electric mobile crane (16 ton)                5          .038         .190
(iv) Towing tractor (5 ton)                        4          .044         .176
(v) Platform trailer (3 ton)                     20          .003         .060
Subtotal                                                                1 598
C. Steel Berth
(i) Portal crane (16 ton)                         1          .550         .550
(ii) Forklift truck (10 ton)                       2          .080         .160
(iii) Diesel mobile crane (16 ton)                  7          .042         .294
(iv) Towing tractor (5 ton)                        4          .044         .616
(v) Platform trailer
(a) 10 ton                                  25           .008         .200
(b) 3 ton                                   20           .003         .060
Subtotal                                                               1.880



- 129 -
able 4.5
Page 2 of 2
No. of        Unit       Total
Category                                          units         cost        cost
($ mI)
D.  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
D. Timber/Contruction MfterXLj Agrth
(ij Portal crane (16 ton)                        2           .550       1.100
(ii) Electric mobile crane (16 ton)               2           .038        .076
(ili) Diesel mobile crane (25-30 ton)              3           .240        .720
(iv) Towing tractor (5 ton)                      10           .044        .440
(v) Platform trailer (25 ton)                   15           .010        .150
(vi) Tipper truck (8-15 ton)                     11           .050        .550
(vii) Shovel loader                                6           .080        .480
(viii) Timber loader                                4           .300       1.200
(ix) Bulldozer                                    3           .070        .210
(X) Weighing scale (60 ton)                      1           .070        .070
Subtotal                                                               i92i
S. 8u=ortng Ecuigsment
(i) Control & commmnication equipment        1 set           .500        .500
(ii) Commodity inspection equipment           1 set           .700        .700
Subtotal                                                              1.200
P. Other Terminal EquLmMent
(i) Tugboat (3,200 bp)                           1         3.200        3.200
(ii) Shuttle boat                                 1           .450       1.450
Subtotal                                                              4,650
.   ares                                                                   4066
H. Trainisg
Total                                                                    30.000
Note: Excluding Physical and Price Contingencies.
July 1992.



3*INM    N? FMUMflER3X    ANDIUn           3?
1m             19931           19              199S            1994            1997            19
1  2    3   4    1  2    3   4    1  2    3   4    1  2   9   4    1  2   s   4   1  a    3   4    1  2   a  4
A. G
2. Lujlu
(1) Dredgiun  h_il                               _
(it) b_ _ matl____
till) Haa  a_________ __                                 _______.__   ___________ Ö
Uv  Ubaz. wo*s---------- ----------~- -----                                                   ----
Cv) CadieatIos axv_e_
{W) Aczt    o -,  __________ ______s___
(Vi) Mo... zo.s. spe*                                              ---- ------- ------
D.  4IUM&
(1I) LoWi- -------Ö-___                                             ----
CIII) Rixtlas t.maxdal.                                      --   -    -  -      Ö  -------
C.                                                                                                                                                                o
tl) D.sI l of ZAiO                                                                                                                                          S
TexI                ------    ------
(CI) Ca. iUset                                     -----
(AIl) Ciput.ls"t4m  of
and bodStaz2 cantsi
(IV) tariff Nt Suu                                                       ------- ___________
(v) Czp        Pl_A_ng-                 ------          _ _-----
(W) levlqmat of l.s
I 



- 131 -
TAle 4.6t
RRAI&IM  PORT RETU  IJIOADDVLPETPROJECT
Project Launch Action Timetable
ACTION                           2SPOISIBILITT                    TARGET START DATE
1. Nih±gS.QiM
Civil Works               SPA Construction Dept.           already started
Equipment                      Procurement Dept.           September 1992
2. IxuJiWn
S a mrk:
channel                 SPA Construction Dept.           July 1, 1993
Reclamation              SPA Construction Dept.          July 1, 1993
Marine Structures        SPA Construction Dept.          January 1, 1994
Shore Works             SPA Construction Dept.           April 1, 1994
Communications          SPA Construction Dept.           January 1, 1996
Access road, etc.        SPA Construction Dept.          July 1, 1994
Utilities                SPA Construction Dept.          July 1, 1994
Zouiaepm,:                     Procurement Dept.           September 1, 1993
3. Existin _erminals
Equipment                      Procurement Dept.           January 1, 1993
4.  Fort Costing                 SPA Costing Division            Within one year of
completion of PCMIS
5. XaiZLEafs18a&UiacLzu g        SPA Tariff Dept.                Within 6 months of
Installation of port
cost,.ng (item 4 above)
6. Consultant Services
Design Luojing Terminal   Third Design Institute           Started
Cargo Unitization         Science and Tech. Dept.          June 1, 1993
Computerization of        SPA Finance Dept.                June 1, 1994
accounts, financial
manlagement, etc.
Corporate Planning        SPA Management                   June 30, 1994
Development of MIS         SPA Management                  January 1, 1996



- 132 -                            Table 4.7
SHANGHA PORT RESTRUCTURING AND DEVEIOPMENT PROJECT
Eauimuent to be Procurped under Local Comnetitive Bidding Procedure (LCB)
Estimated
No. of units                      contract value
($ million)
WaigagXao
Diesel Mobile Crane±                7                                0.294
Container chassis                   9                                0.180
Platform trailers (3 ton)          40                                0.120
Platform trailers (10 ton)         25                                0.200
Platform trailers (25 ton)         15                                0.150
Fork Lift Truck (10 ton)            2                                0.160
Fork Lift Truck (5 ton)             8                                0.272
Fork Lift Truck (2.5 ton)           5                                0.100
Weighing Scale (60 ton)             3                                0.210
Electric Nobile Crane (16 ton)      7                                0.266
Subtotal                                                        1.252
Existin Terminals
Fork Lift Truck                     4                                0.3Q0
Total                                                           2.252
±1 Already under procurement.
Note: Excluding Physical and Price Contingencies.
July 1992



- 133 -
Tabl.e 4
Page 1 of 3
CHZA
SHANGHAI PORT RESTRUCTURING AND DEVELOPNMNT PROJkCT
PROOURESN  PACKAING
I. Replacement and Additional Eauipment for Existing Terminals
Bid Package                                               Estimated
Number          Category              Unit (Nos,)I    Value IUSUm)
1               (a) Portal Crane
10 ton                16             7.200
16 ton                .1             0.550
25 ton                 3             4.800
2               (b) Mobile Crane
25 ton                22             4.840
40 ton                 1             0.300
80 ton                 1             0.500
3               (c) Fork Lift Truck
10 ton                 4             0.300
16 ton                20             4.000
25 ton                 2             0.500
40 ton                 8             3.600
4               (d) Wheel Loader
3.1 cu a              21             3.600
3.5 cu m              35             6.300
5               (e) Bulldozer              15             3.600
6               (f) Rubber tyred
Gantry Crane           2             2.400
7               (g) Ship Unloader          1              4.000
8               (h) Stacker/Reclaimer      2              1.000
9               (i) Container Quay Crane  1               6.000
10              (j) Container Nobile Crane 1              4.500
11              (k) Container Prime Mover 54              2.700
12              (1) Communicatlon
Equipment            1 set            .500
13              (a) Maintenance Equip.  1 set             1.000



- 134 -
Table 4.8
Page 2 of 3
II.  Equiment for Waigaioq
Bid Package                                                Estimated
__Number             Categor           Unit (Nos.)    Value LUSSmf
1               (a) Container Quay
Crane                  1                6.000
2               (b) Rubber-tyrod
Gantry Crane           2                 2.700
3               (c) Portal Cranes           5                2.550
4               (d) Fork Lift Truck
(i)   40-ton           2                  .820
(Li)  25-ton           1                  .250
(iii) 10-ton           2                 .150
(iv)   5-ton           8                 .272
(v)  2.5-ton           5                 .100
5               (e) Mobile Crane
(i)   Electric(16-ton) 7                  .350
(ii)  Diesel(16-ton)   7                  .378
(ifi) Diesel(25-ton)   3                  .720
6               (f) Towing Tractor         28                1.230
7               (g) Platform Trailer       80                 .470
8               (h) Container Prime
Rover                  6                  .420
9               (i) Container Chassis       9                 .180
10              (j) Shovel Loader
(4 a 3 capacity)       6                  .480
11              (k) Timber Loader           4                1.200
12              (1) Tipper Truck            11                 .550
13              (a) Weighing Scale(60 t)  3                    .210
14              (n) Bulldozer               3                  .210
15              (o) Computer                1                  .700
16              (p) Tugboat                 1                3.200
(q) Shuttle Boat           1                1.450
17              (r) Commuication
Equipment            1 set                .500
18              Cs) Commodity Inspec-
tion Equipment       1 set                .700



- 135 -
Table 4. 8
Page 3 of 3
III. Kgutument for Luojing
Bld Package                                               Estimated
Number                Categorv         Ynit (Non.)          valuea_
Coal unloading system
consisting of:
(i)   Bucket Chain
unloader             2                8.40
(ii)  Grab unloader        1                4.20
(iii) Reclaimer
(1500 tph)           4                5.20
(iv)  Stacker (3000 tph)  3                 3.00
(v)   Conveyor Belt      5617 m              5.06
(vi) Weighing/Cali-
brating system
and equipment                           .80
(vi)  Spare Parts                           2.77
2               Bulldozer                   6                 .48
3               Shovel loader               4                 .60
4               Harbour tug
(i)   3200 HP              1                2.70
(ii)  2600 HP              1                2.50



- 136 -                                            Table 4.9
SAMII   PUT UTRESU IJ2 SD OMLN     PROJECT
Cumltative    S
van           M                         A~~~M           Ab tr    p 
= *Or        ~~Fiacl yawr ud qiatec           US NILon)              ttSNI ion)   psonV PqVen
lot hatf
Ird hatf                                                                4. tl                    ;
12K:
lothtf half
yew 4t                                                                  }3  
S                    ~~~~~~~~90       90. ":8          .   60-8
ist hiltf                  @.8   r.864}                                                        i
S:00           119:S
lot haltf                3                              .             129.5          83.0
70.5           1 375 2.00
4.0            814.0         95.g         .
1213inS               4~~~.0         140.0           680.W
lot half                  1/99                         2.0           1t9.5           99.7      73.0
0.5            150.0         100.0     100.0
Th stwnwd dflkrsmmt protile for Chfna trarsportatfon projects.



- 137 -
T5bl1 3.1
saaz   mmu  am mnUmm  -
R_Ums p._.es od  berabsew-bo
WM"   te        2   nb                     eipf~e
Sonba   tba3k                                      26    11      9 a 4           3              3    li
Aw.eq.at   pwaftvT  VW bM  ("Mt                    40    33    43    3s         w3 63
400286 eOEW~bmsPo=   (11100)                  13   is    17       11      it
lbwyWss aipeoMy       timidey)                  LISS 43   I.8"   low2   so!".7    .d
."           t3s pa . ' I                       Sa              z 
t    als emmA.  ,07 pot bsh "(amla?                   UAW
Obip uwtwla ~oee(tooumebe"S                                             I=
Coig vai. (Ta.Im)                2060  *002.000   3.0    300                     0     2
tol  f* peSt (1M.I5")      13.0                 .5       M           S1 AS
e (Inw sawlem  1-3          * 40          id5 3.78    3.76 n s         IM,   1.05
-.4..)     beSabs..      Suib vent38aa
~ -
m.      be          ne   VW              _ (WM)          S"     a0   $O                a7       al
Avovas. eeW~ Smr pet *4. _bmw.)        XS                at      33              33     U
-   oep.eta~ pee beauS (smidey)          13.00  13.750  35.30* 744    1350
lenS eye#81t36 dole .y yea' (d      30    320  a-"         .     330
~~ emiL  tamet*  SeMe"S(03Sm                        .1  4.746o S45
IMp eetwab( m  .
Catt Vai. (Ieat"                                  18040   180n  MOM10                       0
pgrO           -.            be
IonS. (unSeitVo)  7a6                                               7 601
CeW,g pet beauS ( ~1ou)                         0.86I4         10  J10
Thrg"s to        01.7 ow"   u Seats(imeloy)               288"pwbeb     446m            336
($S4ewS8 dp  oeya  doeS Il                            320           236"t V        allma
l                            VW Pam  benk .. 3m)   4.0          74.a            40 .0
iMp -W       (w mSedulbO                             asesa6    US.4.Lai  SOMM""
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a                                                    Om Om:|
S.           to                        MA  o_  , l  (IamIdv        SW.3
(lt          ta te t. .3           _        £s myq  uM  Sm. ,o  __.
(SW  easi   am'). tapest pot Seflbe sbesto                    =-.). bai     -   be-
b  ,,,.              ..g,m   Omt auq@tnN
I *. Vow Itbows emla. _bmbu apee~ to sabo i  0  1oe) beS aM                                o30-7
_2. l" ba g             ta        ab
se.em  ibesb      o



eswlm~~~~~~~~         dwwm~~~~~~~                               **W. sid s.mmpe,U.I
aaw-arnm-w          s U US
-                         -   ~-
erie     r      "   frnt     0'     M'St dt      ie-  trnt 0*                                      SUW 
to      "ff Usei SP*SM
nS         W'tU  rU4       .Sl       tW    Wi t4  "- -
"' ns   t                                                                                                     4    t S dt  t       
-  - -   -      -      -      -     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a,    :1'
n~~~~Fwvl                VVS   "Ie"                rn-"I*n r r
11'Ilos Ar           "ee*Us  S'S   wten   99           .*e sutes                                'M  I e
am   "O  U-C tt   I          "I$   it    t       1tt4  Sol  0t1                                           JIM
eras  sni    wee   erie   ISLS   9 *-Sr erie M'9  e'  S*C
'         "R    soi s  "S  W                 see     qua gesm      tin'e
I      t"I    IS      WL           wrot         es n-n       re                     son              m      a 
u     wla          v-   3 t**     * ti      Wst tOOV tY    0-            
-  -o    - - t   * t  -lm -                   -e  - -t Wu ore                                           *351 t g
59.3 a Us.      I t    'sCt  sr" t  W       Os, "ttI R-   W- U'U  US I US                                       *
-X- o-  -*l*  t-                     a-- Mn      X tW-l "- "cl:              -.!
we'U       weS .  so,"     :Fl  $ree   SSrL 29.1n 04'U? SI'S'                               131O
Wms    e      ae     w'.e'?           ~      S  ira: U',  we'e           sse                uasqisiSiS
"IM   ;w          es c         D  a"                                       Vw ._
We    asosraor g &  Ora
l"4    t   At   Xit   tlZ          DO   ~t tla  bt   l                 _
w     Wu    "_9              91
aeWs we        Wss      ,ge       or al**   9.'e   it'.     "            e
emama As
stm   rs    s  sbt    w    wt    w_ ilt   we  we    t X
era-   Srw           -    -  -
a.'ema'w U':Ci  U'U Css   rse   "6,    n:U  p,Ca ers es                                  Isie 
Se'?    U',   te':,   Om.   a's    e    It  Doe as's  se's                            wwwae  wiw
-    0-I    - :       -                                                                          Sol- -- -    -
dt35LVImie ei    wee ",?a    w e 'S'a," ' w et               we wla
U""   ro   o$ '     g    a to,1    SPISO  Is'" Ara*  WM' as'                                          USS
S.C    55'    OraS  LIsr 5        Lsr VS .C                                              W
Ws    so.*   '.   are     en w     et11P  u' , s as""i's    e                     WU*'
"as i'   006    gms.  Oms   "eA   "St' Coll  9s'1  IS'e            amaaon". 
-  -  -  -     -      -     -     -     -    -~~~~.P0 v--
wee.U'S U'* se'.:  'ss is's   eaes  nstoo""es
writ  a's    'S    1.3  is     sis:ame   ie   rs                              qsm   nss'
eras  U'    USS    iS   eV AnSn"~      S9'UM do9  59's.m im 
wuW    e   *a'e    s'~   ge:    s's: Ut:  ?**?ss.evt



K.,                           us.,$"I       K
a "-l   lll  w  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~soi    9
w~~~~~me -   ..Ai -   -~ -  @em -   mm  mm..  @- 
noes tre    i siv trUe    g   g           wig. g*  ie    isis
ww. *iii.   I.l  WO                      0o   4i ,1n    we    e*                              q
gl B @ 8t @Is  "Ill                    *O Nof "I zi  nl   4                           t1
*gg  U1  £  ,,,         .       ,' "o:f     [        a's I  I                          "OI .ulm
~~~~~....ne  e.. .e..SIW.n..fe
" . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e ...., i
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o   "Oi   "I _*                         I    
-                      mm~~~~~~~~~~ -                      m---------
n*u           "                 a*u  un                                                                     sets. es*1P
"on  m' fi          WN   1- Ei- WM  1         .2,           - 1Igoeo m"el. .me... "IeNS   -"0
i.          "~~~~~~~~~ " Of:   "It    I                                         "OM 11: X::   1  l     11 1 f  | 0 1 of 
set  X tog is.,  sees urn   scsi irs., sg*ws io "08         e geus  swws   : n l:. *e      t ns:                          U.,
U,, no   sn   aim   66    £- i6         - isi    ii   16           6651 f +lo     z grw   nsa   sei             ,usQt    U..tsq
~~~~1          I$! I   1 "t |":    st-i  go.P 1" d"IF              got WOR9000 1",$1to-"   
*  '.  a..   no~~~~ -e*    £5   tow   it's   no1   it's                 Wog u*    w",Or     W
a'        4    '.:.  ii.,   ii,~~~~~~". oO"u    "Is'   "Il   "s.                      i t-' st  WO
"Ill   "Is   Ill  Wo   "I        "I    "I  @s         0    :O W-
-  ~ ~ ~ j  ~~~j  no    ne~0I     WV  *I      ::   j:,   ,,.,   no0   Is*              so ...    so'       I     .,S
_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u....._
$1mf14.  we   W.m     u' woe    1 e ss i    so- go - .9,*'            st-    W-      at,£jN
u::  :1::H      ig.    I#::   r i1    Ie*   i.*..   WO   4i,'    £*   :1::'lItl   so'    It    0
ee...e.M_Ip --- *   ---- ---    -.  u      -n sms%s.ssa-----  v----.---xsms vo2s------.
"ete  in"'  usol 'Res  a o t"em Isw seastp I sols   OloA ~     se u l eg" a loses low .s.ga .tus. es' semiStee
.e..ee..e... ..........e... --- *.e. .*e.  e.... .........e.......  e..e W.e. ............cea... oefoe
e.....e..e..e ..........       *.*.... .l.e........-
.-   -s--:. ...
a-         -| amvuu us            nsa intErnA
Wme



12
coma
...........*....... .................................. 
tummy of rt trallic
.....................
4                                                                  (p0  *at)
19      119"   99            19      1        1961           1999   26 2me11S
fOr tutth;
Coal                                     40.223 47.056424650 SO,OOO  SI.O3S  51.091  S.9 5M S4.2     S.406                s5.
ShAk fwtlIzaer (forWign In)               2.02   1.69   I.9             1.900   1,93    3.91?   2.01?  2,        2alms       2.210
othr                                     14.33   141  61.252           13.050  12.160  12.492  12.222  11.1T l1,t10         f2al10s
ht4aI                                 " U4 6548 62J71              "6.9O 5   5,Nl741  "60 67.406 66.26  6,20              r1.90
......... ............ ....... .... ........ .... ........ . ..... ;..... ...... ;..... ...... ;..... ...... ........  ......
Liqaid bib                                     12      13    43              O       0       0       6       0      0
.... ....   .... .... ......  .........  ........... ...... ....i ...   ...... .........  ......
Cemtolrlued awp Elouh                       2.M    3.,5    4.06          6.210  6,634   ?.0o     r.4"    ?,0sr   ,310         162m
...... ...... ......         ......  ......  ......  ...... ......  ......          O...
Cmmemtqstas                              isrml  1.to   .32r 0.65?     '12.414  1S.=5  13.1101 14.411  ISO11   I5.9051.6
of tAleh, two beth   r26                        1.496  2.16          2.2    2.316  2.454   2.516  2.        2.5             .221
Iml berth   ,ais             626   6.5 6*06                O.103  10.19   30.00  11.249  11,1   12,411          U4051
0ldstrom _o las                339   3n?   341               50U    529              56&  4         6               2
6rabetWi                                 2I.491  21.02m 22".0"        29,356 3,65      9       .6   32.699"  33.5"          5.214S
l00 le: lrp bert qatloa                16.603  14.M1  14.04,        20.S56 21.099  E1lm 22m   22n,0  2n3i                 24.
1i  brth opeato              3,2    3.44   4.413           40,   4.9     S.6      S,21J   S        S5S0          s,m
* Stroo n                    3.656  2,U1  2,09             4.061  4,116   4.226   4.343  4,42   4.5S5           4*,11
IsAtatet                               36.116  29.353  .123         41,M0  43.212 4".6f   6.2    47.09  49,4"             S3.24S
......*    ...                 ..   ...... ...... ......  .... .                   .....
istat ,rofk ,  u di by VA               14.106 06.414 96.35          I30   IIS0,5U7 11G.26 fallen  2.M  f2al0"             us3.o
eSIMISsosme"oesa,   "e       sasesam seessaw amseesasw,ass amassesaesaw  ssMO      aIseIs.
Tot  sattel sr tntrll   4 1t0    )354.0    6.0  51s.0                     MA.4  10.3   02.3   M1.1  942.3  M9.2              1.124.6
Cost traffic( ar_olwdit   In) l$          31.1 30,662121                34.,60  1,449 36.09  36,6    37,310 1 ,9*0, 4100
$Oxs  _ l Ptt  herity ad  a*  taff.



oss:           isv:  6O?   . -   ZIP 6U'1   U91i *nt                   otw: £OVI  ;WC-               sLi sOdt amTo"&
o          @       @       ~0   0   90                      0          0      0                       "V.P SPSa~.qftT dTqs.
nO't           gv      Uth      ca     OOt    "m        1t             n      n       taWitt i4a                                *ti-
t1 I', ov                t tI.tU  tC':t  act',   mot : Utt             Ut's  9T tt'tt                         pw                 t
*ro            9O    o so in- Co1 tt- O1 O,  CO   (t'O'                                                            o - e t t-   i> qs *q
016?           06      IS? 06'?   0f0?0 -t                             t       tt    et              a" p,ns ea" q dm' qv   C
Ot9T'          09tO1   L19?   £551   66'   Gt6't   L9?'t               5£O?  we'l  LUe              VW         P qu.q Op T        W *tn
on W ,t        D"t Lt  I   ti  tO OttI ol   Oitl                       "TT"t              t                 *A*%o          eg     vIt
Coo'?          09t   5tCt.   0"II?  ilt         £69'?t  Ot#5            m't  5t691   "04                       faun tttd Sh1L 'tI
9       9       9       C        9       9              11    11       1?                           (a s     m)      ItU,
ODs'afI~ sw aq -Sw.3m rs WmRut~oS~
ft5        9$0MI    $OI9  09t99   1&69'S  69?'?    mot,            SW;l ::vS  :"'s                *VP gagd d' insa
O      t      - 0O'O So0       0       0        0       0              0S0            0                  .AtOOOo s-osq qt *g
G"m                    o n     sit     11t    St        to             0      0         ?                   sL9 p & dt  
IT oS,*l   onc t   mov   OK                     "o"t  Ott*             ot-  gt'-   oft-t               O                 t'o Cawv.  n
9?0            to0* C0 lo    "IS    CO lo             t* t             000   00*0    Co lo  noS                       own _fws *t
To             so      9S      to      0e      51       it             to    t9       et                  Ca) Om1 5.63dm. qsa.t *
Is**e           Mot'    M4'    ml*e    mlv9   "tot   06v9              09v5:  SW  909'49          P5WO   Lpqucd'~m 
"&O'tt        ztt'tt  96631? 0t GUtIST 999'tO 9ZWOt  000'0t            ttt £WSi  "rot                          (      0 
£IT     It      IT.                   St      of                                           -I*t1
WtWDM   Aqn    -q4.    -      tt- SU16
uw~a.q  ~s~ -sqs,e  s        r sz   ht.e
L9£01          109'S?  0S'CI 0cu   9   0 0'?t 6t O't    K'tt           *5£L  WL    Osv 7ON,          sLp sa.d d3qu71
016't         99       "I      0? 0n                   0 00                           0                  *Op Ota.s Os Om
MIst    9t1?   69c11   O?   9 1  0tt9c   ittoS                        tS 't           £1                L p  t  qT. iiW   '9 
nt'tt            tLtt Mot5   tO'tt        0'S gOgOt  MOS  t'           *11't  C LM    ftgeg          SLip 53.4    *R6 lno
"~~~~tl    ßs" *Z t61   goos    co"  its's                         6Vt " s1tt  soot                &V  os td Om"
nc             U       9               0       0        0              0      0       0                  aoi owp-%q9 odOm    -
u^Ct uM    UL6t    19t'   tn't                 C't   900               to  n9         tot                   SLp S*5*5  dWu  *t
C-C            9t'5    9S 9   l *      09t 9t "t   S   1'£             UT t"tot  MU'T                  "-P         4$s 
£1*1           £1?      1?       t      WS0   St0    OVO               tol   TO'S   110C                                           .5a  M     t aI
,tnt           (go;    tt-tg  1no    Io    go   orot-   tt                             eto  tl-4              **a "*Mm rumt 
0t9tc         KtSt'S   ox96'S  Sit'S   OCPt    Ot'SC  90'ßC            OtfC   uPCg   OtLt'?       pT9"33   sLip I.q   q  I           S
100'S          *5C   "ot'S   99g 5t*t  ge5   TOteC                     i        t t£   Gi'S                    (t-t00.) *5-5* t
IT  T~~~~~ ~~~~~-i tl  T T  i     ti       t                           taqm  oqPt 
3t1            t.1t *nnI            t z  t O t-*   =t                  ;'-  TU        1  t           *t t        n       ) Sq?-
-vc't          -tt   -t             O-                                          -    -            OOO _St dm -
TIV,t          10 619'??    O:'   0"*I  :tWO            it             Ct aS   "l.     'nsp ,i .e
n9£-t          Ot l-O t t-0                              0             0   000 0 COslo               * PA*
t6£)           (O      J0'    O         le      St       99                    toS                         S n  n   t Om            . '9
0' Ott,O   e      tn OCtt'C Ott'    OCT,*    T          Ott'#          at's  MOtt'  mott          '        6"t  *
19'0            9'   Ut'C   0£*O    SIY'S    tC'S nt   O               000   OS    £0.0                  L1* 3Iap   '6  *uc18'
"96)          (Se     PSc)    "£6       16I    KCC      Stl91ICTC194                                         A     sq.
"fCee       t 01'             ST  ggO Ot OWN  1e    *.tgt              10     19t   c5n                  (2n 9C9t  L          qaset  't
9t _t    _t nt n09   Os n                      t      n                      L     a                *t
0900'0?        619'S?  1960'?  IWITS  060'i £SP'1t           c t L£?VST  £g1'1   £1?'??  96                (nu   "    00.)   39138 gsu-
,t:            "C      $0   91          ft M    tet     cottot         9      966    ftestm)SI
Il             F I     F Il
043"a~ ~ ~       ~ poodf                                            *lV OR     t;  LV
...~~~~~~~~~~39  .,aon  S.s                                           -
~~~~~~~~~~~1W0  t-t A C'_b 1
-~~~ -8  -sua                    seuu
O1tt~m
';g  Tqj



- 142
Table 5.5 a
1PC9   ao   aa              j3      19,4   1997   I19     3,   a1eo               a
1.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                            ~~      ~~     ~~      ~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .ak   .una)9 8       
3.aum W     h      4                                                aG    atE    a:         3,z    ".42    2*t't        stgo
4. Amau"s     bati d,a. avaiablAe                                   R.O  3980   2,880   3.W   3.W                       3.8
*.-Batik aetepaMy rate (1)                                         71      76    8s      83  ∞ 4   O4
4.VlSe   ie MtU6E,,                                                  0.0    0.0*   0.02   0.04   0.01    0.07            GSA4
r2e a                                                           U     ,2 U   3.57  2.308  13"   2.43   1           .
b. Ship  ii   d                                                    44     45      65     94    131    17M7
a.skiplio twng4                                                   0       a      0       0      0       * 
eTOU4 akp van day                                        3.311   3.301  S.et7  3.414  2.146   I.4"3           SAW
biesiug Steak seal Serthe. With Samnaftl
1, seethe (t  I)                                                       s       s       s   *          s      s              5
; ;OO; t At7 } >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ siXt                                           s1 3$4    t    +S* i
4. hma  ekipbafth 4.w                                           1.00131    .17 1.                                    1.413
bonk                                                 1-m7              80 I  16400      1,14500   3.0     1.400
5. seta  *e_0e    rte- t                                                                     81 so4a    a8                 Os
*.~ G a _                                                         0.10    0.11   0.3   0.18   0.23   0.0              O.S9
b kp                                                              Usng da,.  133    11l    167    23  110    411      857
a. Sip Oihern  Oar                           O                          O       O       O         0 
oa k  Pwo d                                              1.50   1.393  1.49   1447   1.447 1r79              3.S09
_-=-~~ -=-                                                                         -
*    Prpagd Wined see Sank.
1. seethe (I al"n )                                                    1       2       2      3.             1              2
3.  als. ('0000 tea.)                                               "49    a06    9    1,014   I,08    t.111           31674
2             batk     . e a4"0    470                                                8     491    SS       S19 
*             bak da  avaiable                                        40     see    40      600    40       "G 40
3. eak besaipemy rate n1)                                              77                    as      54      87            91
4. Waitingie  yaU  t69lete                                           0.01    0.02   0.03   0.04   0.0    0.07            0.18
7. ,M         o.o o.  o o o.oaoot &o.u
7. £L C4 d    *tI460    470    46t    49a    s0                                                      S1            14
--     aS *w-                                                                     14t  O         is O6 O  O O
fetal .hlp pen day.                                        47      479     0S    SU      s30      5s            43
Tatl  oui pa n y
_ _    r  a.s                      9,20    74,3     131S        9,537  90   9.97. 10.*194 10.4  #10.759            1t,38
al sipba " Y.                     49       43    4             46"   44       S81     11 ,017   1 .45             3.342
.. MO iauaringda4ye                    0       a     0              0      0       0      0       0       0             0
fetal ohur pect day         9.700     1.2   7.159        9.94) 10.193 10411I 11.005  11,531  13.311          14.631
IV)      *         t-                       - -                   -      -      -      -        - -
Sete.. (I)   amal .hl  bank days sehA !=            ralAhsati.al daily ea          b
(11   aina  .hl ba-i da.mial * _ er albai. akihWvea
(lii) bank eenpemay gate * ernl sipz    tem de. wgqet. for             ofM as d4o ao"
I) alb"n  time  j ettn teaser atfie Item let  Iwe3g.   USi 9.   a6   wbtmhWt.   -lot"l 198.
too"l hi walig  day. *t toel  hi baNk -aIlnMYtneea".u
eauein  thaP wau gw       a  U_b  *s.
wi           _daa.g                   I
sae.        -    lt lsaiye6  ahaaf



- 143 -
Table 5.5 b
-  iot m,su, a euuu  im
A. TM"c Daom  (I'Mo  TMN) IL               2.400   1.490  2.110          2.334   2.316   3.434   235711  2.708   28145         3.231
S. 11700T0 "A"WT
anissi    Oaaattuatiom Vautaila Sovth.
1seuth.(.inbst)                                    a                    a      -                          
2.  ai  to000 soss)                    2.400   1.490  10   3.U*2*24   3.33    1.454   3.17    2.79    3.8$5                S.32
. hp bvs                      951    5"   780              US       53
4. *alM ohip b.uth  aeavial 440 uu"        "      440   44             440     440      40    44*    440    440               440
5.othespa?ve  2                            (95)    85   (95)            (95)    (95)    (95)    05)1   (91)   (95)            (95)
4. W%Meig tim  quun   at                   .82    3040  64.8          4.42    4.83    4.82    4.82    4.83    8.83           4.83
7. Arm"l, oa                                                          u o      ueIas
a.A.   lsi bt   e                      0      S4"   408            G08      08s    40      S0"    408      40             40n
b. Ship waiting 4e7e      ~~4.145  1t0n2  4.145         4.145   4.3143   4.365   4.145   4.145   4,345         4.1us
a. Ship li~~~htsuing Eat.  488      0~  344            *14     44      58u    472      740   8S8            1.144
Total sup Pout days54    1.648  5.117                      5.18?   5.449   5.155   5.644   5.741  S.AO4.1
c. 017   80E
iaing caassuesies water"" ISo
1. SocU h(Vmeinb)                                                        2       2       a       3       a         
S. traIt  Voc tons)                      3.400   1.49  3.110          1.470   1.357   1.371   1.384   1.444   1.751         lo82"
.  a1 shiam p bh        ei5                    5"    in              541     949    499    t301     59    $S1              429
4. t  a  shi beuth d*sejoilable           440    440   440             440    440    440    44         440     4444
.S   vtsspsrate it)                       (95)    854  A95)              85      i7       s      79     03      $?            (S5)
4.ViA  tm   usigaSt                      4.a    1.0   4.$              1.34    0.48    0.73    0.77    1.13    1.41          4.44
7.    a1 total .hi pets daja_ _.. . 
*.Mual ship heath deja       4086  5S"    408              41     494    499    S01       5"      3s34          40
b. Ship welting deja      ~4.463   1.092 4.345            735     316    344    107    Ste    "95              3.814
o.Shiplight.vn04                                0    84              0        0      a       *       0       *             42
Total shi Pon da.".   1H.46  5.11                          1.344     030    :41    0"  1*.17   1.4s3             1.S30
. agad4*            *s$  *e * vsz                ..         ae .e. .e    en.  ce                        nan
1. S      (.u1                                                                    1      1       1       1      .1              1
2. TtaItst (p00  so")                                                  74       779     83    299   1.042   1.094           1.ent
S. AMMA SW  benb dsps weq                            ~234     233    234      14   2I"       240            295
3.    aSu   bet h         "a                                           S00S
S. Banka shipo brtde"a avaiaa                                                            78             $S      0?            CS
S. South osewpos r-uat. w2                                             1.34    0."0   0.73    0.77    111    1.41            44
4. weltin  sims q.J                                                           e.in   asS e;u                   .us
7A.S  ta    p pots $.-   da_es
a. h4tM5 ShiP ROutU d                                              24       33     314    3i4    2S"       20             ass
b: Ship waitingdej                                                  340    Is8      171   1in      28      419          1.330
a.  hp lighatenn  deja                                              0       *               *       *       *             s0
Total ShiP pos d"Ye                                          194     290    405    418    528       49           I'd"
Uss. I   aal ship beath 44pe reuiged t*asuafilshsogesisa dell eapsoity cen bouth.
I1u)  smma Sh   bank 4a,. "MAIlable *   bt el howts a beot ortig dap "
(ii) b"O  ooauao  vet. * emel  h  be              a ui" i a  a hip bou th           ai bleu.
t s_                                              "C *t e   .   t.ze_dleddwn* 
(v) waiting tim  q*oin  feosean are  urn                   . 0011  1970. ad be   cbmughpas. =C1D 1961.
(WI S ml ship waiti  daj * WM" si be*h "is rqed  a wailing sims ymuoin                    tou.
I   t.  l"*s1U4.sp berths opstasie  "LI.
ml. Tcaffl4 o     sag.d gms puessi*al 4paoitr of dhe beethw. Per lbs poaer"  of the esoessie vealuatio  it has baos
aaaaums that 10870 Wil be 944101. e.S.. thus41h Ilehieving. S to sav     ghoaaIl  th OMg ls potWith waiting ti-me
noteaoodngtine. .orogwempeang to 932 beetb oseupese  vats.
rnuoest Sbaugkat Ports Isthvity and 8mb *taff
$%p-Os



- 144 -
Table 5.5 c
6U30U  NULi ViaMas 44 VAM   Wutpo.a  MUMe
(COaL $etar"
I$49   1920  1991            1925   192     1"7    199$    It"    200              nos
A. ?aT?MC cows1 (p000 3931) 1.1            11.014  100.68  27.331       34.250  SS5.449  14.059  186#79  27.310  37,9S0        404100
S. W(?WW PIOJUc?
*.   tscu  o"sz  ¢*he  es  /               .ts^    l                    *"        . 40s          *t$.t    t$                  t
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~y                                                                                 y
&t.3tu  C4  3.3k                                                                  2       2       2      12      1
2. ralfic (.04  3.o)                     1.014  10,442  7.a221      314,50  35.4*9  36.059  34.472  17.310  37.9SO         40.20
.5. A    .lp sban             I te4              2 2314  1944         2. 11   a.554   a.40    3.64t   2.493    .142t        2.203
£  Aa*al ship on  4a .*t  kk           210  2.140  2.3140250 2.4  2.2.140   2.0  2                          2440           2*340
.Sak...upm    fsac  1)4                       4.    7 )                   (99)    (95))  (9    (9)  95 5 0)             (
6. V.131mg m 41. qWIMg  idt.t.            0.49   0.44   0.17           1.54    1.S4    1.14    1.14    L.14    1.S4           14461
7.             sligtlahp6    dapo
0. 4413*3. hlop uank"re               348   2.314  1.966          2.4*    2.413   2.t      2432 2*3   2   2 .432        2.41
-. S vau    4 .a              1.097    974    343          1.94  1,994        94   1     94  M     14             1.29
..sbp31gs.et "to~                    0      0      0            164    ass    340       438     530    412            922u
?.ual sup Pon  Sq .331  3.148  2.328                       4.90O  46.47    4.744   CM5   6.944   7.034            7.148
C. vrv VIOJCr
ulats" CoL South.
1 .S a,abta                                 8       8      8t 1U mbo4 a4                                   8     4              4
2. Tratff  (0s00 3.e)                   11.01s 30."6  27.u1          34.0  3S.44   3443  Z*5713  34.972  24.241            3.4391
-  *. Anual kp honk 4,- .   re d         2.24   2.14  l.ot4           23214   2.311   1.40   1.4 3   1.1S4   1.1S          10474
4. AnnuL SUiP bont  4.,. ava.le          2.1   40 2.1 40  2.410   344    3.140   2.140                  S"   2.34 0         240
.So   taoaw      %o(2)                   87           T7             (95)    44       44      64      62      4  OO
4.MlftI  rum. qUeun  fact              0.42    0".  0.17            1.34   0.S5    0." 0    0.0     0.04    0.01          0.05
7.  Cml ""L bhlp pact
a. *auAsI ethA dare                  2.238  2.314  1.944           42.4 2 2.35    L.680   1.411    *S 1.18       1.11    .74
". S"L vbttig47                    1.097    974   134            1.924   1 .31    10        2       a      444
..IhplAg t  tng*7                    0      0      0            144       a0      0       0a      a       a             0
TOtaL sulp "rea das,          3.133   3.104  2.324         4.S"0  3148    1.781   1.711   t.44    1.145           1.760
1.                )                                                                      3   2            2*ec    2 ,           2 I    2
2. ?r.Ut* (100@ Eas)                                                                 9194  10.947  1Z333  13.709           11.7M
3.                                                                                       O Ohp benk "To  ooq.4.4  54  S"  S"  S"  S"
4. Anml .hp bonk d7  a'a Oble                                                           6"      44  6O          44O           O4
S. sak tkoaiupiaqaitl)J I                                                                        45      45      05            0
8.V.1gu  sIn.  ueun  sftlaV                                                          0.40    0.00    0.00   0.00            0.00
a. s        p en    del sphon
b. S us w,epng -       7' "Ye
a. Sk     =tip lgung 4a700 
toetaL. *hp part dare                                                        S"       4"4    S"      S"             S
ft*.., (1)  annual ship benk 4.76 requided gw tt*Uiatk..gteiI a!L 41   .ap.y cc honk.
(Li)  4anu  .hp bank 4aw&LUble    ab  of becths a bank operatng   ae p  7...
(11  bert oa.paou  rtat   vamaL *hl  batgk "le requtrd I nnul p bank 4ye _ fC
(LVIv  alling t1*. qusaIn  faggots at. Ema P.t 2D.'.-o. WAC?A  1978. O"d baerk uhmgpt.30    1981.
(v) assual. ship wsttling days a as teeth tkrsaghput. 10D 1971. 00. Sew Teets. 948t 33.
Dome. stic NW forois  iqs am4I.
rs. Trouts WOM1d *=ead uka P=aaslaal   pa4*Ps  .Uy4 " sk i.. bank. for asb piups".  set adeaeoinl ew*1uatla s Itha baas
seaMMd that We     IJ ht    o fm.e.g.. * uksaO llxghsai. tof"we the mkaUS  Sbrgh sb thet FM    h weattin  3*oo
san eosa41  aum  Geews    d       s t  s: bankh aeowpany geaS.
I).8 U   a.       tanth   pir 0?a,    ha. &b. prinel£7 so bsamil th  oaa  ships with Is. almims hankh aonupmy usa" .3 GSh
thosuf.,.. thr.eian tokImpW valing "re for gm. peopowed bankh..
$Sam*$sa auShangt Porn Aaa£hvS  .4 S"aab staff3.
p~shttf



- 47 -
VII. &guuIS RLAMg    ANLuannuuN
7.1       During negotiations, agreement was reached with SPA that it will:
(a) complete by October 31, 1994, a cargo unitization study
according to terms of reference agreed with the Bank
(para. 3.12);
(b) submit to the Bank not later than six months after the end of
each fiscal year its audited financial statements (para 3.27);
(c) complete, by December 31, 1994, a feasibility study for
shifting the bulk fertilizer handling operations away from the
city center facilities, agree with the Bank on an action plan
by December 31, 1995, and thereafter implement it (para. 4.24);
(d) carry out all measures necessary to mitigate any negative
environmental impact of the project, operate appropriate
environmental protection facilities and monitor compliance with
GOC and SNG environmental laws and regulations (para. 4.25).
(e)  (i) based on the results of the PCMIS, install by December 31,
1994, a computer-based costing system in Shanghai port using
the latest operating and financial data; and (ii) by June 30,
1995, restructure tariffs and appropriately adjust tariff
levels in consultation with the Bank (para. 6.2);
(f) (i) take all steps, including controlling cost, adjusting
tariffs and improving productivity, to ensure that sufficient
funds will be gonerated to cover operating costs, debt service
charges and other financial obligations to achieve a self-
financing ratio of not less than 20 percent for 1993 and 45
percent thereafter; (ii) incur additional debt only if the
internal cash generation would provide a minimum debt service
ratio of 1.4 during 1993, and 2.5 thareafter; and (iii)
maintain an annual working ratio of 61 percent or better
starting fiscal year 1993 (para. 6.14);
(g) (1) carry out the agreed corporate action plan and achieve the
agreed financial and operating targets; (ii) send selected
managers to foreign ports to familiarize themselves with
corporate planning techniques; and (iii) with the help of a
consultant prepare and send to the Bank a proposal for a
corporate planning system by June 30, 1994, and, taking into
account the Bank's comments, implement it by June 30, 1995
(para. 6.19); and
(h) carry out a training program satisfactory to tie Bank (para
6.19).
7.2       Agreement was also reached with the Borrower that it will:  (a)
onlend the proceeds of the Bank loan to SPA through Shanghai Municipality on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.8); and (b) submit to
the Bank not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year the



.                       I    4                  4* Ig tE ! 3  iI - e i "  ite Z
In4'I,                             "    94  44    ^
.0                  '  e        -jE:g  f g g    [e :            i"* :!               I
_4                   94e a.       94                    9     -¢*@ oE  | 
|~~~~~~4. X                    - a-  ad
i|X|  |ß |a   aaS . a~~* 3              ~an$^   L.' 0' |  I3
3 99      .49.49949  9@    9     "; i44444  -c. *   . 



1      unowis usma    vmiy
$S%        ldb       SooSl    oot
48003 puloa, uIlah. lon
.rSto.  n      31.4IS 2Si 9 11it  2S,603  29.109  31.51  35.4   0,.04  45       3,"0  41.064 40.  J 1033   I.s    I.ts  2its3  .3             ns    Ai
0. Saab aa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1lo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0S0 osaspass) tat. VOW am),~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
*.    ltfba  t'Sljoas _               33.34   33.13 33113 3            .14   3    2  2.143 "011  310    31.304 3,.10   31 4 33,1l   39,34    .5640  .60   1,0   3n   I"a'   . "5           s
35^~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Lt                           O            in       m       131   1:4%    : " S   8:011ut2a  2:                                                       St I s   "4s   - 4$-1 *4
Slab ~~~r.paa                  35.010sess   35.*3" 21.030 3na0ls  35,030  25.31*  31.0*   18,204  41,04   s5.054 45.4  45.0514 5.6140  S54  3.385  1.334   3.383  1.JO3  1,3S  S,A33
a. wiasth fee  oac.  unto           S2,.13J  21300e3  28.413 22,231  3.4 3,4 21 413   2."4   33404  304"  S63.30  233.1   32.304  ",10   Sam   3.540  41.5    2.540  3,54   3.450  2,45
111.06141 n15.6  14."    31205   153A  32.01     .4      .5      ,3    .0        .4    .0    2446  S."   S."            1   800130    .
b. 895th        ,#o)ooa.  Saab  201.95  38.600  n,m431 33.313  3 s,503  39.10 * 34.448  ff440  #e.osO  3,51  n,2330 s  *1~I'll03100  5,U34  3 31 M*.458   *s.n  * 0 6,3 s.n4 . .43
L31ti*tb          0.ela:    COS   0       0             1       42l  10.a Is              0.    21.41   Was  S IX0 010         * 0  0  S  0 0  204    S.        0   S."
total       120.3  141.3 3148.41)   9..041  US.103  34.558   14.40   5.0"  31.42 91.12                      40A . 8."   4.14   Cal 5.41    5.41   S.#10  3.50   P."
S.  .oalagalaab  Crol sa Item            Ifu11111a)a            14r                                                                                                                     .4 
a. U      .t Pr.oa.  I.uA            918.00  349.10 345.41 840.54  313.03  8.385.0S."    4.S   54.3    3.30  44.10 5.1    65.93   3.0   2.00   2.00 .."   0s,       9.0"    3.0    2.00   5.0
5.Igbtoslq   0.00.06  .0    00          0.00 O.4 3.01    .40.1    30.       396.4.00 81 612.4    31.3 .00          9 .84   O.53     so0   d.4    3.00   64.0   5.0
fast         320.211  343.  341.41 410.54  811.31  140.00  10.S    4s.0   s1.0     1. 0           n 0*.1  0.83ss 04 .1.4    5.00   4.2  S."
~~~~~~~~~~. .lD Xga. e .   I.s I.9sI.s .Xsa.nI.XX. 1.F .a a. e .   *......u X.. . .1
B.  at looeds"guslead"s agmtoa                3S.00   14.30  34.5 134.051  31.20   26.31   44.31    0.n118.34   53.10  34.21   3.00, 31.00   8.14   1.03   3.18    S."    S.03   5.30   4.851
lisa. snu_b..__...). - - - - - -_._-   -----XU - -GU----                                                                                      ---
A. n    d             1    3  .me   a          0.4   30.3  04.9  05.8   043.0 t        I.3  I324          0   3.n    so.s11  9.05  3lj0   s4200
Ill~bm.a osaloat                      003.2  102.3  10.1  ^.3 .S 1 1.9 17 0   1          .3       0    .St?    3.II 3.all  3.3   3.31
Slab  ao1aot                ~~~~~~~~443.4  3003.3 3000.81 34001.8  M00.3I  300".   3005.8  0   324,  3.334  3.324   3.334  9.934
0. ~ ~      ~    ~      ^ notS  ban  la  4.00  1n3 *00  Sm).a        ts12.                            In      aoaaeS aloa
a. IllIboas psojowa  Saab    50~S1.2  101.2  20111.  101.3   $101.    501.3   $01.3     0   3.01    3.033  .20   9.30   38,13
5.Iobtoateg      351.3   094.0  34.1.  2".       51.56  400.4      n4                a       0  '0          0'  2
.Sa            M.4    M.1 6.  4.3  003.3   043.0   00        1324.4       0    .11   2.08l so05    3.30   9.900
9. Stlb psejots       1.b             54.5  16.3  041.1  001.8   042.0   001.3  I8.ts            0e     011   9.3   2.01    3800  2.200
Ugbtatlag       800.0   0.et *.6     .I.0 00.0            0.0   390.5 ,             0        0      0       0      S
tat"l          103.4   106.02.2  001.3   043.6   $1001.3  1324.4          0   8.0n   l3.0? ee5    3,"0   S.300
S.  d C.alowlabgm.lemas  lmUlln
a. Sltbrnaps.j        Saabh          330.11  3210.1% t -.1) 311.11  831.33 3-110.3   830.11    0.00   3S.ee   got 30.41   30.01  30e.1
Llgbiftos       MM 14.1631.01 3210.1  295.43  331.04  334.20  9100.0     0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.05
fata         534.011  65.11.3400.33 415.39  103.31  1114.01  160.101   0.00   30.40   30.05  30.41   80.0   33.20
W. Slab itonist       saab            500.913  234.14 341.19 953.34  211.35  209S.20  330.21    0.00   10.40   10.05  30.4510I."5  20.30
oAptoul         "00.10    0.00   .As   0.00    0.00    0.00  820.0       0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00  01.001
10l1         34.02  334.30 21.10 35.94   11.3  209.21  440.30    0.00   30.4   03.04  30.4    30.05  30.1
a. uae~~adjg1us)~udlos ooaoss     34.1   M2.1041M.44 803.00  395.40  386.04  93.50    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   S."0
l"U                           - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---~ oa-a -   - -   _  _                                                          
nflnOO aaftladb   Ca   n% .m            a     n        O         O .n 
a.   ~ ~ ~ ~ 6' ="-   Wg son at                                                                                                                                                         1!6
IsIos  .  ootaostesatetog eat aa 53 1  Sab  .00oa  b9MaJoslg 820



- 148 -
Table. 5.7
CHINA
INA   *IPT RUUTUUIIIN M  S SEWLOftIIT PUCT
............................. ......................
leraeOli0 Inft iets utmrY
.........................
O1992 pries, mitllion Yuin)
1995    1996     t7    1       1999   2000            20S
8ea"k Bulk
.......... 
Ports: Loading/unloding savings             13.80   14.18   14.57   14.96   17.39   26.7!         46.2
Ships pwut days savings                   1U2.31  141.71  173.79  220.06 271.36 280.10            271.78
Cargo Port don  savings                     10.23   13.74   23.01   35.08  50.79  s1.37           43c.9
Less: 84nsffts accruing to foreiners (102)   15.13   16.96  21.34  27.01  34.35   35.6              3S.9
Total                                 136.21  152.67  192.03  243.09 309.19 322.40          358.92
...... ........ ......  ......... ...... ......   . .. ...... .............. ......... ...
Ccatrution Mateiats
......................
Pots: Lo*dfngunloadifng savinss              1.54    2.02   2.33    2.66    3.02   3.39            4.15
Ships port days swings                      74.77   90.08  90.89  91.95   86.63  70.68             20.56
Cargo pont daes savings                      0.54    0.66    0.64   0.65    0.62   0.56             0.16
Totat                                  76.85  92.74   93.86  95.26  90.2V   82.13             264.7
... ......    ......    ......... ......    ........ ......  ............ ..... ........... ...s
coal
Portsx Lofdingntloading savings              0.00   8.75   11.24   13.78  16.37   18.99            27.80
Ships pot days savins                        0.00  86.21  115.28  119.64  123.71  12.93           131.53
cargo pot days savingp                       0.00    4.40   6.04   6.21    6.39   6.57              6.85
Totat                                   0.00  99.36  132.56  139.43  146.47  193.49          116.23
......  ........ ...... ......... ...... ......   . .. ...... .... .........._..... ...
ContaIner
Ports: Loadingfunloading savings            34.76  131.59  161.44  192.98 226.40 261.56           320.59
shfps port days savings                     -6.52  149.61  157.87  164.09 166.41 165.89           12.92
Cargo port days savings                      0.45   26.27  28.06   29.50  30.36  30.72             26.12
Lm:  snef its aoruing to fofoeiners (102)  2.87  30.75  34.74   38.66  42.32  45.82                  46.86
Total                                  25.82 276.72 312.63 347.91  380.85 412.35             421.77
. .... ....... ............ .................. ........ ...... ......... ...... .........  ......
Sulk Portilfie
............... .. 
Poats: Loadingunloading savings              0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00                0.59
ohips pwet days savifgs                      0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  36.61               41.25
Cargo pott dos savin                         0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    9.49           10.6
Lass: Omefits eacuino to forelgners (102)    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   4.61                  5.25
Total                                   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  41.49               47.2n
......    ........ ......    ......... ......    ...... . . ...... .... .................. ...
Totat Project:
Ports: Lodingunloadicn savings              50.10  156.54  189.58 226.38 263.18  310.69             7.34
ships port days saWings                    1ff.56 467.61 539.83 m.54 65.11  689.21                5B9.09
Caro pert days avings                       11.22   45.05  57.75   71.44  88.16   98.?1            85.69
Lms Snwff to acrufng to foreignefs C(O1)   18.00  47.71   56.06  65.67   76.67  86.5                 88.10
Grand Total                           238.88  621.49  731.08 825.69 926.78 1012.36           964.02
Notes: 1. Estinsted savings In reductin of loss and dmage.
2. ppwterity cost of capit tf or cargo is assuamd to be        9.0X.
Soures: Shnga Port Authority aid lank staff.
Sow"9



CHINk
SHANGHAI PORT RESTRUCTURING AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
---------------------------------------------------
Economic Rate of Return Summary
(in %)
Construc Conta Bulk
Break         -tion  -iner ferti-
bulk  Coal materials       lizer  Total
The existing districts    72.8   32.4   12.8  107.1  52.5   69.2
Waigaoqiao district      32.0    --    29.1  37.5    --   33.1
Luojing coal terminal     --    14.2    --       --    --   14.2
Total          36.8   17.5   27.6  49.9  52.5   36.7
Sep-92
I



CHINA
SNAIGHAI PORT ESTRUCTURtINR AD DAVELOPIENT PROJECT
...................................................
Ecenmaic Rate of Return (ERR) and Sensitivity nalysis
......................................................
( 1992 prices, illion Yuen )
.................................................................    ............................................................................................................ ...................................._
8ase Case               -         Sensfitivity -.-.-.Sase Case                                -         -Sensitivity . ------
--.. -f--l--------    --  ------enefits Bene . *  -.-.--.                          ---. ----------.--..enef its Sonew
.-----   Costs- .---.   lotal    Net       Bene- (-15)    fits   -.--- Costs .- --  Total    met               Sene-  (-15X)  fits
Capital Naint-        Bene-   Cash Costs   fits Costs   (Oetay  Capital Naint-             Senw-    Cosh Costs   fits Costs  (Delay
Tear  invest. enance Total   fits   Flom  (.151) (-15) (+IS%)  1 year)  Invest. enance  Total    fits   flow  (*151) (-151) (151) 1 year)
----------------------Total Project-.............................. ----.----------------------Break Bulk-----------------------------
1991 140.18        140.18        (140.18)(161.21)C140.2)(161.2)(140.18)  59.13           59.13          (59.13)(68.00) (59.13)(68.00)(59.13)
1992 186.83        186.83        (186.83)(214.SS)(186.8)(214.9)(186.83)  78.80           78.80          (78.80) (90.6)  (78.8) (90.6) (78.8)
1993  95.30         95.30         (95.30)(109.59) (95.3)(109.6) (95.30) 35.51            35.51          (35.51) (40.8)  (35.5) (40.8) (35.5)
1994 184.64        184.64       (184.64)(212.34)(184.6)(212.3)(184.64)  56.99            56.99         (56.99) (65.5)  (57.0) (65.5) (57.T)                 b
1995 293.69  13.03 306.72 238.88  (67.84)(113.85)(103.7)(149.7)(306.72)  60.82   10.90   71.72  136.21  64.49 53.13   44.06 33.30 (71.72)
1996 35S.40  18.97 374.37 621.49 247.12  190.96 153.90 97.74 (135.49) 68.87   10.90   79.77  152.67  72.90 60.93   SO.00  38.03 56.44
1997 428.44 36.12 464.56 731.08 266.52  196.84 156.86 87.18  156.93  104.46   11.48  115.94  192.03  76.09 58.70  47.29 29.90 36.13
1998 282.07 36.12 318.19 825.69  507.50  459.77  383.7  335.9  412.9  32.72   11.48  44.20 243.09  198.89 192.26  162.43 155.80 147.83
1999 209.57 36.12 245.69 926.8 681.09 644.24  S42.1  505.2  580.0  24.3t   11.48   35.79 309.19 273.40 268.03  227.02 221.65 207.30
2000         36.12  36.12 1012.4 976.24 970.82 824.39 818.97 890.66              11.48   11.48 322.40 310.92 309.20  262.56 260.84 297.71
2001         36.12  36.12 1006.6 970.50 965.08 819.51 814.09 976.24              11.48   11.48 322.70 311.22 309.50  262.82 261.10 310.92
2002         36.12 36.12 1000.9 964.80  9S9.38 814.66 809.24 970.50              11.48   11.48  323.01 311.53 309.81  263.08 261.36 311.22
2003         36.12 36.12 995.25 959.13 953.71 809.84 804.42 964.80               11.48   11.48 323.31  311.83 310.11  263.34 261.62 311.53
2004         41.97 41.97 989.62  947.65  941.35 7∂9.21 792.91  953.28            16.93   16.93 323.62 306.69 304.15  258.14 255.60 306.38
2005         43.59  43.59 984.02 940.43 933.89 792.83 786.29 946.03              16.93   16.93 323.92 306.99 304.45  258.40 255.86 306.69
2006         47.11  47.11 984.02 936.91  929.84 789.31 782.24 936.91             17.22   17.22  323.92 306.70 304.12  258.11 255.53 306.70
2007         50.64  50.64 964.02 933.38 925.78 785.78 778.18 933.38              17.22   17.22 323.92 306.70 304.12 258.11 255.53 306.70
2008         43.62 43.62 964.02 940.40 933.86 M92.80 786.26 940.40               11.48   11.48 323.92 312.44 310.72  263.85 262.13 312.44
2009         36.12  36.12 984.02 947.90  942.48 800.30 794.8 U947.90             11.48   11.48 323.92 312.U  310.72  263.85 262.13 312.44
2010         36.12  36.12 984.02 947.90 942.48 800.30 794.88 947.90              11.48   11.48 323.92 312.4  310.72 263.85 262.13 312.44
2011         36.12  36.12 984.02 947.90 942.48 800.30 794.88 947.90              11.48   11.48 323.92 312.44 310.72  263.85 262.13 312.44
2012         36.12  36.12 984.02 947.90 942.48 800.30 794.88 947.90              11.48   11.48 323.92 312.44 310.72  263.85 262.13 312.44
2013         36.12  36.12 984.02 947.90 942.48 800.30 794.88 947.90              11.48   11.48 323.92 312.4  310.72  263.85 262.13 312.44
2014         36.12 36.12 964.02 947.90 942.4  800 .30 794.88 947.90              11.48   11.48  323.92  312.44 310.72  263.85 262.13 312.4
2015         36.12  36.12 984.02 947.90  942.48 800.30 794.88 94T.90             11.48   11.48  323.92 312.44 310.72  263.85 262.13 312.4
Total 2176.1 764.61 2940.7 19.113 16232.2 15791.0 13,356 12,91S 15248.2 S21.61  262.30 783.91 6211.35 S42T.U 5309.9 4495.73 4378.2 S103.S            Q
ERR a                36.7X  32.7X 32.1X 28.41  29.5%                                       36.82 33.31   32.7X 29.41  30.31             0
WPV (121) a              2S98.7  2396.4 2006.6 1804.3 2124.1                                    890.4 834.2  700.7 644.S  737.9               u
Wa
Centoed
Sep-92



CRIMA
SUOM301I POT RESTUJCTWIINB AND  EVELOPIENT PROJECT
,...................................................
Econoamic Rate of Return (ERR) and Sensitivity Analysis
......................................................
1992 prices, million Tuan )
.................................................................    ............................................................................................................. ..............................................
Base Casue                      -S.nsitivity----y-                     Base Case                  ........Sensitivity---------
---  ---------  ---       - ---                   Benefits  Bene.- ---------------*-------------.--       -               Benefits Bone-
..------Costs- ----  Total    Vet            Bone- (-1S%)    fits   --------Costs-  --       Total      Not         Bene-  (-152)   fits
Capital Naint-        Bone-   Cash  Costs   fits  Costs  (Delay   Capital taint-              Bone-    Cash  Costs   fits  Costs  (Delay
Xear  Invest. enance total   fits   Flow  (*152) (-1S2) (0152)  1 year)  invest. enance  Total    fits    flow  (+152) (-15) (+1*S) 1 year)
-- -------------- -- - --Coal-st  ---------------                    ............................. Container. .-------. ---.--
1991   0.00          0.00            0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   45.01            45.01           (4S.01)(51.76) (45.01)(51.76)(4U.01)
1992   0.00          0.00            0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   59.94            59.94           (59.94)(68.93) (59.94)(68.93)(59.94)
1993  15.30         15.30          (1S.30) (17.60) (15.3) (17.6) (15.30)  23.40            23.40           (23.40) (26.9) (23.40) (26.9)(23.40)
1994  64.48         64.48          (64.48) (74.15) (64.5) (74.2) (64.48)  30.53            30.53           (30.53) (35.1) (30.53) (35.1) (30.5)
1995 155.19        155.19         (ISS.19)(178.47)CISS.2)C178.s)(155.19)  54.45    1.34   55.79   25.82  (29.97)c38.34) (33.84)(42.21)(S55.79)
1996 194.21   4.03 198.24  99.36  (98.88)(128.62)(113.8)(143.5)(198.24)  60.64    1.34   61.98  276.72  214.74 205.44  173.23 163.93 (36.16)
1997 182.28   5.89 188.17 132.56  (55.61) (83.84)(7S.49)(103.7) (88.81)  85.27   13.00   98.27  312.63  214.36 199.62  167.47 1S2.   178.45 A
1998 206.16   5.89 212.05 139.43  (f2.62)(104.43)(93.53)(12S.3) (79.49)  31.46   13.00   44.46  347.91  303.4S 296.78  251.26 244.59 268.17
1999 153.17   5.89 159.06 146.47  (12.59) (36.45)(34.56)(58.42) (19.63)  23.38   13.00   36.38  380.8S  344.47 339.01  287.34 281.88 311.53
2000          5.89   5.89 153.49  147.60  146.72 124.58 123.70  140.58             13.00   13.00  412.35  399.35 397.40  337.50 335.55 367.85
2001          5.89   S.89 156.04  150.15  149.27 126.74 12s.86  147.60             13.00   13.00  414.22  401.22 399.27  339.09 337.14 399.35
2002          5.89   5.89 158.59  152.70  151.82 128.91 128.03  150.15             13.00   13.00  416.10  403.10 401.15  340.69 338.74 401.22
2003          5.89   5.89 161.13  155.24  154.36 131.07 130.19  152.70             13.00   13.00  417.90  404.98 403.03 342.28 340.33 403.10
2004          S.89   5.B9 163.68  157.79  156.91 133.24 132.36  155.24             13.00   13.00 419.87  406.87 404.92 343.B9 341.94 404.98
2005          5.89   5.89 166.23  160.34  159.46 135.41 134.53  157.79             13.67   13.67 421.77  408.10 406.05  344.83 342.78 406.20
2006          8.40   8.40 166.23  1S7.83  156.57 132.90 131.64  157.83             13.67   13.67 421.77  408.10 406.05  344.83 342.78 408.10
2007          8.84   8.84 166.23  157.39  156.06 132.46 131.13  157.39             18.83   18.83  421.77  402.94 400.12  339.67 336.85 402.94
2008          7.56   7.56 166.23  158.67  157.54 133.74 132.61  158.67             18.83   18.83 421.77  402.94 400.12  339.67 336.85 402.94
2009          5.89   S.89 166.23  160.34  159.46 135.41 134.53  160.34             13.00   13.00 421.77  408.77 406.82  345.50 343.55 408.77
2010          5.89   5.89 166.23  160.34  159.46 135.41 134.53  160.34             13.00   13.00 421.77  408.77 406.82  345.50 343.55 4087n
2011          5.89   5.89 166.23  160.34  1S9.46 13S.41 134.53  160.34             13.00   13.00  421.7? 408.77 406.82  34s.50 343.SS 408.77
2012          s.s9   s.89 166.23  160.34  159.46 13S.41 134.53  160.34             13.00   13.00  421.77  408.77 406.82  345.50 343.55 408.77
2013          5.89   5.89 166.23  160.34  159.46 135.41 134.53  160.34             13.00   13.00  421.77  408.77 406.82  34S.SO 343.s5 408.77
2014          5.89   5.89 166.23  160.34  159.46 135.41 134.53  160.34             13.00   13.00 421.77 408.77 406.82 345.50 343.S5 408.77
201S          S.89   S.89 166.23  160.34  1s9.46 13S.41 134.53  160.34             13.00   13.00  421.77  40s.7  406.82 345.50 343.55 408.77
Total 970.79 123.07 1093.9 3139.3  204S.4  1814 1574.6 1410.5  1879.2  414.08  262.68  676.76  8063.9  7387.2  7286  6177.5  6,076  6965
ERR a                 17.52   14.41  13.92  11.22   14.32                                     49.9X 46.02   4S.32  41.6X 40.62
NPY (122) a                 159.S    78.2   S4.3  (27.1)   74.S                                  1,329.8 1285.2 1,085.7 1041.1 1133.3            I 1I
Contgd             Ut
Sep-2 9
we.



cam
SUAUUIAI PMnt RESUUCiURIU0 AID DEVELCPNERT POOJECT
...................................................
Economic Rate of feturn (ON) ud Snitivity Aalaysis
........................*..............................
C 1992 Pries, mithien uan 
.................................................................    ............................................................................................................. .................................
ease CaSe               ...-.e.s _      iti.vi ty----....            Bose Ca"e                -.......sensitivity- ...--.
...... ~ .................                *of ts  saw    ...................................8 new   its sawe
....--*Costs- ....  Total    not            Sam. (-.IS)    fits                 ......... Total    Mt           Be-  (-151)   fits
Capital Nnlat-        Oene-  Cash  Costs   fits  Costs  (DeVay  Capital balot-             Sene-   Cash Costs   fits Costs  (Belay
tear  Inewst. aneine total   fits   flow  (1S) (-1S%) O(11)  1 year)  Invest. nencs Total    fi ts   flow  (151) (-1S%) ('151) 1 year)
..................Construction Naterilts......................... .......................Bulk ferttlizer..-........................
1991  36.04        36.04          (36.04) (41.05)(36.04)(1.45) (36.04)  0.00             0.00            0.00  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00
1992 48.09         48.09          (48.09) (SS.30)(48.09)(SS.30) (48.09)   0.00           0.00            0.Q0  0.00   0.00  0.00  0.00
1993  21.08        21.08          (21.08) (24.24)(21.08)(24.24) (21.08)  0.01            0.01           (0.01) (0.01)  (0.01) (0.01) (0.01)
1994  32.63        32.63          (32.63) (37.52)(32.63)(37.52) (32.63)  0.01            0.01           (0.01) (0.01)  (0.01) (0.01) (0.01)
1995  20.17  0.79  20.96  76.85  ss.89  (24.10)(20.96)(24.10) (20.96)  3.06              3.06           (3.06) (3.52)  (3.06) (3.52) (3.06)
1996  25.23  2.70  27.93 92.74   64.81   60.62 SO.90  46.71  (27.93)  6A5    0.00    6.45    0.00   (6.4S) (7.42)  (6.45) (7.42) S6.4)
19"7 s5.90   2.70  S4.60  93.86  39.26   31.07 25.18  16.99  38.14   4.53    3.05    7.58   0.00   (7.58) (8.72)  (7.58) (8.72) (7.S1)
1998   6.60  2.70  9.30 95.26   85.96   84.56 71.6?  70.27  84.56   5.13    3.OS   8.18   0.00   (8.18) (9.41)  (8.18) (9.41) (8.18)
1999  4.90   2.70   7.60 90.27   82.67   81.53 69.13 67.99  87.66   3.81    3.05    6.86   0.00   (6.86) (7.09)  (6.86) (7.89) (6.86)
2000          2.70   2.70 82.63   79.93   79.2  67.54 67.13          87.57        LOS   3.05   41.49   38.4  37.98  32.22 31.76 (3.os)
2001          2.70   2.70  71.08  68.38   67.97 S7.72 S7.31   79.93              3.S   3.0   42.58   39.53 39.07  33.14  32.68 38.44
2002          2.70   2.70  59.53   56.83   S6.42 47.90 47.49  68.38               3.05    3.05   43.70  40.65  40.19  34.10  33.64  39.53
2003          2.70  2.70  47.97  45.27  44.86 38.0Q  37.67  S6.83                3.05    3.05  44.85  41.80 41.34  3S.07 34.61 40.6S
2004         3.10  3.10  '6.42   33.32  32.85  27.86 27.39  44.87                3.05    3.05   4.03   42.98  42.52  36.08 35.62 41.80
2005          4.05  4.f    4.87  20.82   20.21  17.09  16.4u   32.37              3.05   3.05   47.23  4.18  43u.2   37.10 36.64  4298
2006          3.27  3.    4.87  21.60   21.11  17.87  17.38  21.60               4.5S    4.SS  47.23  42.68 42.00  35.60 34.92 42.68
2007          2.70   2.70  24.87  22.17   NJ6  18.44  18.03   22.17               3.05    3.OS  47.23   4.18 43.72  37.10 36.64 44.18
2008          2.70   2.70 24.87  22.17   21.76  18.44  18.03  22.1?               3.05    3.05   47.23  44.18 43.72  37.10 36.64  44.18
2009          2.70  2.70  24.87   22.17   21.76  18.44  18.03  22.17              3.05    3.05   47.23    .1l  43.72  37.10  36.6  44.18
2010          2.70  2.70  24.87   22.17   21.76  18.4  18.03  22.17               3.0S   3.5   47.23   4.1l 43.72  37.10  6.6  4.18
2011          2.70  2.70 24.87   22.17   21.76  18.44  18.03  22.17               3.05    3.OS  47.23  44.16  43.72  37.10 36.6  44.18
2012          2.70  2.70  24.87   22.17  21.76  1s.4  18.03  22.17                3.05    3.05  47.23  u.18  43.72  3.10 36.64  44.18
2013          2.70  2.70  24.87   22.17   21.76  18.44  1L.03  22.17               .S    3.S0   47.23   4.18 43.n   37.10  36.64  4.l8
2014          2.70  2.70  24.87   22.17   21.76   8.44  18.03   22.17            3.05    3.0S  47.23  44.10 43.72  37.10  36.64 44.18
2015          2.70  2.70  24.87  22.17   21.76  18.44  18.03  22.17               3.05    3.0S  47.23   44.8 43.72   37.10 36.6  44.1l
Total 246.64  57.11 303.75 1020.2 716.43  593.95  98.10 452.4? 614.71   23.00  59.45   82.45   738.2  65.? 643.3  S54.1  S32.65  608.5
ElB  a               27.61   18.81  18.31  IS.3X  18.1X                                    S2.51  4.31  47.71  43.71  42.2n           '1Z
SPV (12K) a                144.3   75.1  60.0  34.4   70.4                                      115.1  110.9   93.7  S9.5  96.7
Iep92



SlSNItAIM  POMT RESTUCTURINO AID OEVELIMEIIT P60JECT
...................................................
Economic late of Ratumn (ER) and Sensitivity Analysis
............................................................................................ 
By Districts
C N1111cn Vumn)
asue                  ..........CSnsit        ts........e Co"                            ..........
........................-   -     v*--s.-........... .........................swt
----               Gboastits-eo -          --**-----------_fits
----..-Costs--.....   Total   t t               (-1S) Bese fits ----Costs "------   Total    Not                  (-15I) Benefits
Capital Raint-       Bero-  Cash Costs lBnaf its Cost6  (belay  Capital Nalnt-         Ben-   Cash Costs Benef its costs (Delay
Toow  Invest. onamn  Total  fits  Fltm  (1S1I) (-151) 0>  I Vwer) Invest. ance Total   f its   fl.o (OIS) (-151  (*151) 1 year)
sunau        clotal projectuuVuu-ue                            .anasminu             The Existing District
1991 140.18       140.18       (148.18)(161.21)(140.2)(161.2)(140.18)  0.00           0.00           0.00   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0
1992 186.63       186.83       (186.63)(214.85)(166.6)(214.9)86.83)   0.00            0.00           0.00   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0                    1
1993 95.30         ff.30        (95.30)(109.59) (95.3)(189.6) (95.30) 14.86          14.86          (14.86) (17.1) (14.9) (17.1) (14.9)
1994 164.64       14.64        (184.64)(212.34)(184.6)(212.3)(184.64) 52.08          52.08         (52.08) (59.9) (S2.1) (59.9) (52. 1)n
199 293.69  13.03 306.72 238.Bs  S67.84)(113.85)(103.7)149.7)306.72)  90.54   10.10  100.64  50.77 (49.87) (6S.0) (57.5) (72.6)(100.6)
1996 355.40  18.97 374.37 621.49 247.12  190.96 1S3.90 97.74 (135.49) 107.41   16.04  123.45  35.06 (86.39)(106.9) (93.65)(12.2K72.66)
1997 428.44 36.12 44.56 731.08 266.52  196.84 156.86 87.18  156.93  75.59  32.96  1O0.SS 235.42  1U6.67 110.59  91.S6  75.28 (73.9)
1998 282.0? 36.12 318.19 25.69 507.50 4S9.  363.65 335.92 412.69  85.49  32.96  118.45 3S0.37 231.92 214.15  179.36 161.59 116.97
1999 209.57 36.12 24S.69 926.80 681.11  644.26 5S42.09 505.24 560.00  63.52  32.96  96.48 S05.23 400.75 394.28 332.97 3u8.so 253.69
2000        36.12 36.12 1012.4 976.28 970.86 824.42 819.00 890.66            32.96  32.96 542.51 S09.SS S04.61 428.1? 423.23 472.27
2001        36.12 36.12 1006.6 970.48 965.06 819.49 814.07 976.28            32.96  32.96 548.14 515.18 510.24 432.96 426.02 509.55
2002        36.12 36.12 1000.9 964.78 959.36 814.6S 609.23  s70.4            32.96  32.96 553.65 S20.89 1.5 43u7.61 432.87 S15.18
2003        36.12 36.12 995.3 959.18 953.76 609.80604.46  964.78             32.96  32.96 559.67 S26.71 S21.77 42.76 4.82 520.89
2004        41.97 41.97 90.6 947.63 941.33 799.19 M9.89 9S3.33               38.01  38.01 s6s.37 527.36 521.66  42.SS 436.65 S21.66
2005        43.9 4.5  9614.0 940.41 93.87 7.81 786.27 946.01                 38.96  38.96 S71.18 532.22 S26.38   6.S4 440.70 S26.41
2006        47.11 47.11 94.0 936.89 929.82 r.2 782.22 936.69                 43.17  43.17 ST7.A  S28.02 s21.s4 42.34 435.66 s28.02
2M07        50.6"  50.6  964.0 933.36 925.76 7M5.76 71.16 933.36             47.37  47.37 571.18 523.61 S16.71 438.14 431.03523.8
2008        43.62 43.62 984.0 940.38 933.84 792.78 786.24 940.38             40.4   40.4  51.18 S30.72 52.6S 44S.04 438.7 S30.72
2009        36.12 36.12 984.0 947.88 942.46 00.28 794.66 947.88              32.96  32.96 s57.16 538.22 533.28 452.54 447.60 S36.22
2010        36.12 36.12 964.0 947.68 942.4 U00.28 794.86 947.68              32.96  32.96 s71.18 s38.22 533.28 452.54 447.60 536.22
2011        36.12 36.12 964.0 947.86 942.46 800.28 794.86 947.88             32.96  32.96  57.1s 53.22 s33.2s 4S2.S4 44r.60 s3822
2012        36.12 36.12 964.0 947.88 942.46 800.28 794.86 947.s8             32.96  32.96 s57.1a  s38.22 S33.28 4S2.S4 447.60 538.22
2013        36.12 36.12 984.0 947.88 942.4  600.28 794.86 947.68             32.96  32.96 57L.18 538.22 533.28 452.54 447.60 S36.22
2014        36.12 36.12 964.0 947.88 942.46 800.26 794.86 947.88             32.96  32.96 s71.18 s38.22 5S33.2  4S2.s4 447.60 538.22
20Ms        36.12 36.12 964.0 947.88 942.46 00.2s 794.86 947.88              32.96  32.96 571.18 S36.22 533.28 4M2.  447.60 s36.22
Total 2176.1  764.6 2940.7 19173 16232.0  1S791 133s6  2915  1S248 489.49 69s.s4 1165.03 10229.4 9044.3  8667 7509. 7332.2  6473
EMR a                36.71  32.71  32.11 28.41  29.51                                  69.2s 61.61  60.41 SS536  49.11         0
WPV 121) a              2596.7 2396.4 2006.6 1604.3 2124.1                                 1504.3 1446.6  1220.9 1163.2 1271.9
SapL92



CNhUA
SX IU t 1 FMrT  EStUIWtI   1 ORWELO M PROE CT
.......................... .............. ........................................ 
Eoonomic Rate of Return (ERR) and Sensitivity Analysis
......................................................
By Districts
............
( iltlion Yuan )
.................................................................    ................................................................................................................................................
Bas  Case             -.....-Sensitivity  ------                  Base Case               . ........Sensitivity- ...-
.. ...                                  gooenefits    .   ....................................              Beefits
.         CostsT ----  lotal  * met             (-15) Senefits  ----. Costs .T......   Total    Not                (-ISS) Bee tits
Capital "aint-       Bone-  Cash Costs Benefits Costs (Delay  Capital Nint-             Bone-   Cssb Costs Benefits Costs  etslay
Year  Invest. nac     Total  fits  filo  (015X) (-IS%)  t151) I year)  tnvest. enwnce Total   fits   Flow  (+1S) (-15) (+15) 1 yst)r
*   _=aauuuuauuuusanu allgaoqio  listrict l t                   u        aau-n-==uLuoJIns Coal Teminaluza=-m-=a
1991 140.18       140.18        (140.18) (161.2)(140.2)(161.2) (140.2)  0.00           0.00            0.00  0.00    0.0   0.0  0.00
1992   6 186.83863              (16.83) (214.9)(186.8)(214.9) (186.8)  0.00            0.00            0.00   0.00    0.0   0.0  0.00
1993 68.42         68.42         (68.42) (78.68)(68.42)(78.68) (68.4) 12.02           12.02          (12.02)(13.82) (12.0) (13.8)(12.02)
1994  79.58        79.58         (79.58) (91.52)(79.58)(91.52)  (79.6) 52.98          52.98          (52.98) (60.9) (53.0) (60.9) (S3.0)
1995 60.28  2.93 63.21 168.11  124.90  115.42 9S.68 87.20   (63.2) 142.87            142.8?         (142.87)(164.3) (142.9)C164.3)(142.9)
1996  65.82  2.93  68.75 463.4S 394.70 384.39 325.18 314.87   119.4  182.17          182.17         (182.17)(86.62) (27.6)(10S.0)(162.2)
199? 179.04  2.93 181.97 364.65  182.68  155.38 127.98 100.68  281.S 173.81   0.23  174.04  131.01  (43.03)(69.14)  (62.7) (88.8)(s1.06)
1998         2.93  2.93 358.17 355.24  354.80 301.51 301.07  361.7  196.58   0.23  196.81  I1M17S (79.66)(109.2) (97.2)(126.8)(65.80)
1999         2.93  2.93 346.05 343.L2  342.68 291.21 290.77  355.2  146.05    0.23  146.28  75.52  (70.76)(92.70) (62.1)(104.0)(29.13)
2000         2.93  2.93 377.80 374.87 374.43 318.20 317.76  343.1              0.23   0.23  92.09  91.86 91.83   78.05 78.02 75.29
2001         2.93  2.93 360.88 357.95 3S7.51 303.82 303.38  374.9              0.23   0.23  97.58  97.35  97.32  82.71  82.68 91.86
2002         2.93  2.93 343.98 341.05 340.61 289.45 289.01  3S8.0              0.23   0.23  103.07 102.84 102.81   67.38 87.5 97.35
2003         2.93  2.93 327.07 324.14 M.70 275.08 274.6   341.0                0.23    0.23  18.5  108.33 108.30  92.05  92.02 102.84
2004         3.73  3.73 310.18  306.45  305.89 2s9.92 2s9.36  323.3            0.23   0.23  114.05 113.62 113.79  96.71 96.6  108.33
2005         4.40  4.40 293.27 288.87 28B.21 244.88 244.22  30S.8              0.23   0.23  119.55  119.32 119.29  101.39 101.36 113.82
2006         3.60  3.60 293.27 289.67 289.13 24S.68 245.14   289.7             0.35   0.35  119.55  119.20 119.15  101.28 101.22 119.20
2007         2.93   2.93 293.27  290.34  289.90 246.35 245.91   290.3          0.35   0.35  119.55  119.20 119A1S  101.28 101.22 119.20
2008         2.93  2.93 293.27 290.34  289.90 246.35 245.91   290.3            0.23   0.23  119.55  119.32 119.29  101.39 101.36 119.32
2009         2.93  2.93 293.2? 290.34 289.90 246.35 245.91  290.3               0.23   0.23  119.5S  119.32 119.29  101.39 101.36 119.32
2010         2.93   2.93 293.27 290.34  289.90 246.3S 24S.91   290.3           0.23   0.23  119.55  119.32 119.29  101.39 101.36 119.32
2011         2.93   2.93 293.27 290.34  289.90 246.35 245.91   290.3           0.23   0.23  119.5S  119.32 119.29  101.39 101.36 119.32
2012        2.9   2.93 293.27 290.34 289.90 246.35 245.91  290.3              0.23   0.23  119.55  119.32 119.29  101.39 101.36 119.32
2013         2.93   2.93 293.27 290.34 289.90 246.35 245.91   290.3            0.23   0.23  119.55  119.32 119.29  101.39 101.36 119.32
2014         2.93   2.93 293.27 290.34 289.90 246.35 24s.91  290.3             0.23   0.23  119.SS  119.32 119.29  101.59 101.36 119.32
2015         2.93   2.93 29.27  290.34  289.90 246.35 24.91  290.3             0.23    0.23  119.SS  119.32 119.29  101.39 101.36 119.32
Total 780.15   .47 844.62 6666.3 5821.69 5695.0 4821.7 4695.0  5528.4  906.5   4.60  911.1  2154.1  1243.0 1229.4  1024.S W.8 1246.4
...... ...... ...... ...... ....... ...... ...... ......  ......  ...... ......  ...... ...... .....  .......... .          ...t
ERm u                33.11  29.7x  29.21  26.11  27.41                                   14.21  11.31   10.11   6.41  11.6"
W  (12X) a               1047.8  967.3 810.2  729.7  862.7                                    46.6  -17.S  -24.S -88.6  -10.5
0.*
Sep-92



sI }SS    g  qI 3pg-       - -
. -ds         4X       O.      ßl    
If Uuiaa..et b__" ig! w  
|aI:Xh    i:Si    X-.    -di    t -
ISI:bUe   t-g                 - t "*ß 
S            -E"   ""   -  tx"    I
- SI-.



- 58 -
Paop  of 2
PROPOSED SiANORAX RITRUCTUR3NC AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
fiaggg gf Work
1.          The Port of Shanghai, one of the ten largest ports in the world,
is the largest port in China, and the primary gateway to Eastern and Central
China. The SPA owns 143 berths, 68 of which have a depth alongside of 8 to
10.5 m. The berths totalling over 14 km in length, are located along both
banks of the Huangpu River and the Yangtze River, all In the Shanghai urban
area.
2.         With the exceptlon of Dlstrict No. 7, which specializes in bulk
coal handling, the other 13 Districts handle a variety of cargo types and may
be considered multipurpose terminals. Containers are handled at Districts 9
and 10 as well as Baoshan District. The remaining berths are used for semi-
dry bulk, break-bulk general cargo and passenger operations.  Break-bulk cargo
constitutes about 121 of the total port throughput. SPA realized that
unitization of this break-bulk cargo will enhance the efficiency of its
operations and reduce the cost of cargo handling.
Seaga of WrLl
3.          The study's scope of work covers the break-bulk general cargo
handling, more specifically it should include:
(i)        various methods of cargo unitization, including: containers,
pillets, slings, boxes, etc.;
(ii)       the cost of general cargo handling in the port, on ships
using un-unitized cargo, versus unitized cargo;
(iii)       the tim taken to load and unload the break-bulk general
cargo off/on the ships;
(iv)       the various types of ships carrying break-bulk general cargo
and their suitability for handling unitized cargo;
(v)         the cost of unitizing the general cargo to the shipper, port
and consignees;
(Vi)       methods of encouraging or promoting the use of unitized
cargo among shippers, source ports and consignoes;
(vii)      devise an action plan to inoas e the unitization of cargo
in the port; and



CHINA
SHIIAI PORT RESTRUCTIN  AD DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
SPA'S Cash flow Statuent
Forecast 1992 - 1997
(No8 Million)
I T E N S                      1992       1993       1994       1995       1996       1997             TOTAL
Sources:
Net Profit After Tax            302        308        389        488        602        728              2B17
Depreciation                    131        ISS        178        201        224        247              1136
Borrowings:
Domestic                        292        153         73         95         14                          627
Foreign - IBRO                   SS        220        310        220        110         55               970
Other                  83         27                                                           110
Total Sources  (A)              863        863        950      1.004        950      1,030              5660
Application:
Capital Expenditure             300        400        450        400        300        300              2150
Special Fund Expenditures       285        106        287        368        479        567              2092
Interest Pa)umnts                60         68         83        112         83         88               494
Loan Payments  Domestic)        220        253         73         66         29         15               656
Loan Payments  IBRO)                                   10         10         11         12                43
Loan Payents  Fore1gn)            7          7         18         18         18         18                86
Change in Uorking Capital       (19)        20         20         20         20         20                81
Total Applications              853        854        941        994        940      1,020              5602
Net Cash Flow (A-B)              10         10         10         10         10         10                60
Opening Cash Balance            297        307        317        327        337        347              1932
Closing Cash Balance            307        317        327        337        347        357              1992
Source: SPA and Nission Estimates
July 1992
It3
Es



CANADA
SHANGHAI PORT RESTRUCTURING AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SPA's Balance Sheet
Actual, 1990-1991i Forecast, 1992-1997
RNB ai  ion
ITEMS                          1990       1991       1992       1993       1994       1995       1996       1997
ASSETS:
Gross Fixed Assets  ^         2,310      3,022      3,522      4,022      4,522      5.021      5.522      6,022
Less Depreciation               440        526        $76        627        677        726        777        827
Sub Total                     1.870      2.496      2,946      3,395      3.845      4,295      4,745      5,195
Current Assets
Inventory                       106        II?        123        142        143        138        138        112
Receivables                     180        1i9        204        200        214        234        249        291
Cash                            185        t97        307        318        328        338        348        357
Sub Total                       471        609        634        660        685        710        735        760
Special Fund Assets             270        262        267        272        277        282        287        292
Total Assets                 2,611       3,367      3,84U      4,327      4,807      5,287      5,767      6,247
LIABILITY AND EQUITY:                                                                                                                                bo
State's Fund Contribution     1,540      2.129      2,387      2,590      2.778      3,02?      3,431      3,891
Long tenam Loans   IBRD          69        105        160        380        680        890        989      1.032
- Other         358        424        542        588        57O        581        548        515
Current Liability-              187        248        292        298        303        308        313        318
Special Funds                   457        461        466        471        476        481        486        491
Total Liability and Equity   2,611       3.367      3.847      4,327      4.807      5,287      5,767      6,247
Debt/Equity (%)             22/78      20/80      23/77      27/73      31/69      33/67      31/69      28/72
Current Ratio (X)               2.5        2.5        2.2        2.2        2.3        2.3        2.3        2.4
Liquid Ratio (X)                2.0        2.0        1.8        1.7        1.8        1.9        1.9        2.0
* Includes revaluation on handling equipment allowed by Shanghai Municipality
--_--.-----------------------------------_------------------.-__-------------__--------------------_------------_
Source : SPA and NIssion Estimates
July 1992
I-,
0



- 159 -
s
I
2S ; }S III,IIi, 11.11,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S 
,3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .
> S  ,   ...... 9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



CHINA
Typicat Organiation of Distict In Shanghai Port
DWC d 
[ L        y       I
Dreco of DlWr
.t.4   1 He     I                         ke[to
_  bbohTeam            _     uk Temnrarl        _      PMnr*V           F_Srk
oom~         GwwW Ca_                   Semmfkes                     evie
Educa*ba



MAP SECTION



IBRD 24093
\   \  \   >     \                                 _                        \s 31:~~~~~~~~~~~~~-1'
\~ \  \   \   \        -           zZHJIANGS Ug
0"olo0                   )
\ \   \   \         X                       ---ti;W~~~~~~~~~~---- CoMyoudais 
&nd.v~~~~~m~~uvau~~~~imiorac~~~w* q*irn1SE
Luodi_- ~                                  \ BaQ~l                     121,  /       11
~~~ A\                           \nho~~~~~~Bhn
Uuu'"'''
z    zat                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e,i
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EE O 
11 F    -             S G   P~~~~~~~ZuiOmen  RJK
Ag   .                                     ESS~~~~C INA  )rFaiE
s                      AA  ~~~~~~~SANHI POR PROJEC
r~~~~~~~~~~~-                           g    O   /   J   ZVESAD
~ _er_lhf    #th         Gwnan 
bniC  X_d?&I        c   tm                                          0     2    A    6    8    10
SEPMMBER IM∞9



IBRD 24101
-31t  -                                          NLO A DI~~~~~~~UNOANG
J I A N G S U t- ^- . . ~~~~~~~~BERTH
31                                   11  3 
JIANGSU   //
I    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I500Tt
HANG flAl //Hi
ACCESS10~~~                                                                        SrA.   " ^      N'
-'.   S'                  '  I
i;                                                                              \"'\\\lg~an 
ZHEJLANG                                                     CHIN'.N
SHANGHAI PORT 'ROJECT                                          ,,,r,_,,
LlJOJINGCOALlERMINAL 
0               250             500                                    T
L               I                I                              m*snqdpnotGop-
ME2 GATT
endwomuvcac"*used
SE aEn 199



/N                                                     ~~~~~~~~CHH~
I-N
X < ^ 5 X 6 .~~~WMC, f t PRO; JEa 
biC  7h<"dshn<n -X t _, ~~~~~~~~~~ArOOAOERNA    7
ENTPANCE                                                              -313P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
JIN SHU   G-Ak/f
*wh a2,ayb&fhsmp6Y8wu&'as~U     &.A_
wdw udm~w*.W4bmd,,f. S
IZ                                             P   e  1  2   T     2 tl          _ L



