Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3552-CHA
(Shanghai Port Restructuring and Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SHANGHAI PORT AUTHORITY
Dated January 14, 1993
LOAN NUMBER 3552-CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 14, 1993, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and SHANGHAI PORT AUTHORITY (SPA).
WHEREAS: (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People's 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred fifty 
million dollars ($150,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan 
Agreement, but only on condition that SPA agree to undertake such obligations toward 
the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and 
Shanghai Municipality (SM), and between SM and SPA, the proceeds of the loan provided 
for under the Loan Agreement will be relent to SPA on the terms and conditions set 
forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreements; and
WHEREAS: SPA, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set  forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) SPA declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to 
be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and SPA shall otherwise agree, SPA shall carry out the Project 
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods, 
works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. SPA shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating, respectively, to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. SPA shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement with SM. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SPA shall not take 
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning 
or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) SPA shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under 
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement with SM, and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
SPA shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of Loan, or the performance by SPA of its obligations under this Agreement 
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement with SM.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SPA
Section 3.01. SPA shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and engineering practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. SPA shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound administrative, 
financial and engineering practices.
Section 3.03. SPA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
Page  3
other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SPA shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
SPA shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited; and 
(B) the report of such audit by 
said auditors of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
Section 4.02 (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SPA shall not incur 
any debt unless a reasonable forecast of revenues and expenditures of SPA shows that 
the projected internal cash generation of SPA for each fiscal year during the term of 
the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.4 times for the fiscal year 1993 and 2.5 
thereafter, of the estimated debt service requirements of SPA in such year on all its 
debt including the debt to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
the term "debt" means any indebtness of SPA maturing by its terms 
more than 
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred;
 
(ii)
debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms 
of payment, on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been 
entered into;
(iii)
the term "internal cash generation of SPA" means the difference 
between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
and net 
non-operating income; and
 
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations, including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of 
such taxes, but excluding 
provision for depreciation, other non-cash 
operating charges 
and interest and other charges on debt;
(iv)
the term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) above;
 
Page  4
(v)
the term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt;
 
(vi)
the term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by SPA 
not earlier 
than twelve months prior to the incurrence of the debt in 
question, which both 
the Bank and SPA accept as reasonable and as 
to which the Bank has notified 
SPA of its acceptability, provided that 
no event has occurred since such 
notification which has, or may 
reasonably be expected in the future to have, a 
material adverse 
effect on the financial condition or future operating results 
of 
SPA; and
(vii)
whenever, for the purposes of this Section, it shall be necessary 
to value, in 
terms of currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another 
currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purpose of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SPA shall maintain, 
for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 1992, a 
ratio of total working  expenses to total operating revenues not higher than 61%.
(b)
Before November 15 in each of its fiscal years, SPA shall, on the basis 
of forecasts prepared by SPA and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would 
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next 
following fiscal year, and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon 
its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that SPA would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for SPA's fiscal years covered by such review, SPA shall 
promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of 
the structure or levels of its rates) in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "total working expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations, 
including administration, and adequate maintenance, but 
excluding depreciation 
and interest and other charges on debt; and
 
(ii)
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to 
operations, less sales taxes.
 
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SPA shall from time 
to time take, or cause to be taken, all such measures (including, without limitation, 
adjustments of the levels of its rates) as shall be required to produce:
(i)
for each of its fiscal years from 1993, net operating revenues 
equivalent to 
not less than the sum of: (a) its total operating 
expenses; and (b) the amount 
by which its financial obligations 
exceed the provision for depreciation and 
any other non-cash 
operating expenses; and
(ii)
net operating profit after tax equivalent to not less than 20% in 
1993 and 45% 
thereafter, of its annual investment program.
 
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "net operating revenues" means the sum of revenues from 
all sources 
related to operations, less sales taxes, total operating 
expenses and 
financial obligations.
 
(ii)
The term "total operating expenses" means the sum of all expenses 
related to 
operations, including maintenance, administration, and 
depreciation.
Page  5
(iii)
The term "financial obligations" means interest and other charges 
on debt, 
repayment of loans (including sinking fund payments, 
if any), all taxes or 
payments in lieu of taxes, allocations 
to special funds and other cash 
distributions of surplus 
(including mandatory transfers to the Borrower), and 
any other cash 
outflows (other than capital expenditures) related to 
operations.
(iv)
The term "net operating profit" means total operating revenues 
minus: (A) 
total operating expenses; and (B) financial 
obligations.
(v)
The term "annual investment program" means forecast capital 
expenditure for 
the year.
 
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of SPA 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify SPA thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other  address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For SPA:
Shanghai Port Authority
13 Zhongshan Road (E.1)
Shanghai
People's Republic of China
Page  6
Cable address:
Telex:
 
3966
33023 SHACO CN
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of SPA may be 
taken or executed by Director or such other person or persons as Director shall 
designate in writing, and SPA shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Bu /s/ Gautam S. Kaji
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SHANGHAI PORT AUTHORITY
By /s/ Zhu Qizhen
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.
Bidders for civil works shall be prequalified as provided in paragraph 2.10 of 
the Guidelines.
3.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
 
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, SPA may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in China in 
Page  7
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Except as provided in paragraph 2 hereof, items or groups of items for 
equipment, estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $300,000 per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount equivalent to $3,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
Items or groups of items for equipment, estimated to cost less than the 
equivalent of $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$3,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of 
price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, 
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part E:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of prequalification:
 
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part A.2 hereof, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. When payments for such contract are to be 
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the 
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. When payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such 
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract 
together with the other information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure.
3.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist SPA in carrying out the Project, SPA shall employ consultants 
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for 
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
SPA shall, by October 31, 1994, undertake and complete a cargo unitization study 
to identify measures to encourage unitization of general cargo in order to improve 
efficiency in Shanghai Port, in accordance with terms of reference agreed with the 
Bank.
Page  8
2.
SPA shall: (a) by December 31, 1994, undertake and complete a feasibility study 
for shifting bulk fertilizer handling to the Waigaoqiao terminal to be constructed 
under Part A.1 of the Project;
(b)
provide to the Bank by December 31, 1995, a plan of action, acceptable to 
the Bank, to shift bulk fertilizer handling away from the Shanghai city center; and
(c)
thereafter carry out such plan of action.
 
3.
Taking into consideration the results of the port costing and management 
information system study being carried out by the Borrower's Ministry of 
Communications under the Ningbo and Shanghai Ports Project financed by World Bank Loan 
No. 3006-CHA, SPA shall:
(a)
by December 31, 1994, install computer based port costing and management 
information system (PCMIS) in Shanghai Port using the latest operating and financial 
data; and
(b)
by June 30, 1995, restructure tariffs and appropriately adjust tariff 
levels in consultation with the Bank.
4.
SPA shall: (a) carry out a corporate financial action plan, agreed with the 
Bank, with a view to achieving the financial and operating performance targets laid 
down therein;
(b)
send selected managers for training in corporate planning techniques to 
foreign ports;
(c)
by June 30, 1994, prepare, with the aid of a consultant, and send to the 
Bank a proposal for a corporate planning system; and
(d)
by June 30, 1995, implement the said corporate planning system in 
consultation with the Bank.
5.
SPA shall carry out training under Part B.3 of the Project as described in 
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement in accordance with a program satisfactory to the 
Bank.
6.
SPA shall: (a) carry out all measures necessary or appropriate to mitigate any 
negative environmental impact of the Project; and
(b)
implement the mitigative measures, operate appropriate environmental 
protection facilities and monitor compliance with the Borrower's national and 
Shanghai's municipal environmental laws and regulations, all in accordance with the 
Environmental Impact Assessment
Report for the Shanghai Port Restructuring and Development Project.
