Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22390-TUN
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-36910; SCL-3691A; SCPM-3691S)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$27.5 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A
NORTHWEST MOUNTAINOUS AREAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
12/21/2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  |



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2001)
Currency Unit = Tunisian Dinar
TDI.00 = US$ 0.73
US$ 1.00 = TD1.38
FISCAL YEAR
January I December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AEP                   Association for Potable Water
Association de l 'Eau Potable
AFA                   Agricultural Land Titling Agency
Agence Fonciere Agricole
API                   Integrated Participatory Approach
L'approche participative integr6e
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
CDP                   Community Development Plans
CES                   Soil and Water Conservation
Conservation des Eaux et du Sol
CP                    Contractual Programs
Contrats Programmes
DC                    Development Comnittee
Conmites de developpement
ERR                   Economic Rate of Return
GDA                   Agricultural Development Group
Groupement de developpement agricole
GIS                   Geographic Information System
GOT                   Government of Tunisia
GTZ                   German Technical Assistance
Deutsche GesellschaftJfur Technische Zusammenarbeit
CAI                   Integrated Action Contracts
Contract action integr6e
INGREF                Institute of National Research in Rural Development, Water and Forestry
Institut National de Recherche du Genie Rural, Eaux et Forets
IRESA                 Institute of Agricultural Research and Higher Education
Institut de Recherche et de I 'Enseignement Superieur Agricoles
M&E                   Monitoring and Evaluation
MOA                   Ministry of Agriculture
Ministere de l'Agriculture
MTR                   Mid-Term Review
NGO                   Non-Governmental Organization
Organisation non-gouvernemental
NWRDP                North-West Rural Development Project
ODESYPANO            North-West Forestry and Pastoral Development Agency
Office du Developpement Sylvo-Pastoral du Nord-Ouest
PMU                   Project Management Unit



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PR                   Small-scale Animal Husbandry Farmers
Producteurs Relais
TD                   Tunisian Dinar
Vice President:  Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:  Christian Delvoie
Acting Sector Director:  Petros Aklilu
Task Team Leader:  Idah Pswarayi-Riddihough
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perforrnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






TUNISIA
NORTHWEST MOUNTAINOUS AREAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                              4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               10
6. Sustainability                                                                   12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  15
9. Partner Comments                                                                 17
10. Additional Information                                                          18
Annex I. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                25
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               32
Annex 8. The Participatory Methodology                                              34






Project ID: P005733                                      Project Name: NORTHWEST MOUNTAINOUS
AREAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Team Leader: Idah Z. Pswarayi-Riddihough                 TL Unit: MNSRE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: December 21, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: NORTHWEST MOUNTAINOUS AREAS                   L/C/TFNumber: CPL-36910;
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                         SCL-3691A;
SCPM-3691S
Countrv/Department: TUNISIA                                             Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/subsector: VM - Natural Resources Management
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   06/19/1992                            Effective: 04/30/1994         08/23/1994
Appraisal:  06/09/1993                               MTR: 06/30/1996           07/05/1997
Approval:  12/23/1993                             Closing: 06/30/2000          06/30/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVT./TBD
Other Partners:  GTZ
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jean-Louis Sarbib                        Caio Koch-Weser
Country Manager:     Christian Delvoie                        Harrinder Kohli
Sector Manager:      Petros Aklilu                            Odin Knudsen
Team Leader at ICR:  Idah Pswarayi-Riddihough                 Mathewos Woldu
ICR Primarv Author:  Idah Pswarayi-Riddihough;
Raffaele Suppa (FAO/CP)
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely. HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Per/brmance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the North West Mountainous Areas Development Project as stated in the Staff Appraisal
Report (Report No. 12431-Tun) was: to alleviate poverty, improve the well-being of the region's
population, and to arrest degradation of the natural resource base with active involvement of the
population. To this end it would: (i) promote measures to increase on-farm productivity and off-farm
income supporting activities; (ii) improve the management and productivity of range and farm land; (iii)
promote measures to reduce erosion, run-off, and reservoir sedimentation; (iv) improve social conditions of
the disadvantaged population by providing basic infrastructure and social services; and (v) promote
increased involvement of village organizations to take on development responsibilities.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The Project Development Objective was revised slightly to accommodate the requirement by the Quality
Assurance Group (QAG) to retrofit Development Objective key indicators for projects effective after 1994
to measure the extent to which the Development Objectives would be realized. The revised Project
Development Objective is to alleviate poverty, improve the living conditions of the population, and to
reduce the degradation of the natural resource base in the mountainous Northwest region. The project
would adopt a participatory approach to promote increased involvement of the local population. Key
indicators of development outcome/impact are:
1. Improve living conditions
Growth in agricultural incomes to: small scale < 5 ha - DT 2, 900/yr; medium scale < 20 ha - DT
5,700/yr
Reduction in illiteracy rate: from 60% to 45%
2. Reduce degradation
Increased perennial crop area : 11,200 ha
Total soil and water conservation works: 18,900 ha
3. Involve resource users in development programs
Number of development committees actively participating : 230
3.3 Original Components:
The original project components included:
*   Agricultural Development: designed to enhance farm productivity through improved crop
production practices, increase emphasis on livestock, and support land titling efforts through land
surveys;
*   Watershed and Rangeland Management: measures to reduce erosion, run-off, and reservoir
sedimentation, and to improve rangelands management by restoring and sustaining vegetative cover
with the participation of village communities;
*   Income Supporting Activities: support, on a pilot basis, the creation of credit unions for "douars"
(groups of settlements) to promote financially viable on-farm and off-farm rural enterprises with
the support of local NGOs which would establish, manage and supervise these credit unions;
* Applied Research: designed to support demand-driven short-term research on key technical and
socio-economic development constraints of the region;
* Rural Infrastructure: designed to support the construction of rural roads to provide access to
-2 -



isolated villages, schools, health centers and potable water sources to improve the social conditions
of the disadvantaged population; and
*   Institutional Strengthening: strengthening the technical and implementation capability of the
executing agency and the planning capability of village committees through technical assistance
and training.
3.4 Revised Components:
A key change at Mid-Term Review (MTR) involved the cancellation of the Income Supporting Activities
component which was designed to contribute to increasing family incomes. The component was cancelled
because of the lack of a legal status for the Douar Credit Union to set up and operate village micro-credit
financing. To reduce the impact of the component's cancellation, the Implementing Agency, the Northwest
Forestry and Pastoral Development Agency (ODESYPANO) arranged for the provision of micro-credit
from a newly created bank, Banque tunisienne de solidarite (BTS). In addition, the project created a grant
fund "Fonds d'appui a 1'APT', which was used to fund activities identified by local communities. The fund
was also used to finance the preparation of proposals for the beneficiaries to present to local banks for
financing. These new activities were financed under a newly created component "Income Generating
Activities".
The rest of the components remained the same throughout project implementation, although some minor
changes were made in the magnitudes of some activities within components.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory
This project was prepared prior to the Bank's formal performance rating for quality at entry (QAE).
However, the project's Peer Reviewers and Bank management endorsed the project design and considered
its quality at entry to be satisfactory. The satisfactory rating was based on the following main points and it
is endorsed by the ICR:
Strategic and project objectives.  The project objectives were consistent with the 1993 Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS). Of the CAS objectives, the most relevant were: (i) focus on poverty alleviation
and support for social sectors; and (ii) protection and improved management of the country's fragile natural
resources and the environment. The project also complemented other Bank operations, such as the Research
and Extension Project (Loan 3217-TUN), Second Forestry Development Project (Loan 3601-TUN), and
the Agriculture Sector Investment Loan (Loan 3661-TUN). The project design also included key elements
of the Country Environmental Study and National Action Plan, particularly in the areas of rangeland
management, land use practices, and soil and water conservation measures.
Project design and components. Project design was consistent with project objectives. The design
reflected many of the lessons leamt in previous Bank-assisted projects as well as projects that were being
implemented in the region at the time assisted by other donors. The emphasis on participation of local
communities in project design and implementation was of particular importance as it helped ensure project
sustainability. The project implementation unit was decentralized and this greatly enhanced interaction with
local communities. In addition, the project employed full-time subject matter specialists and extension
workers (animateurs/animatrices) who consulted with the target communities. Female extension workers
also helped reach more women beneficiaries. Additionally, contracting out research activities to existing
research organizations was appropriate and efficient rather than creating a unit dedicated to project-related
research. To ensure that the research topics addressed reflected areas of beneficiary interest, project
personnel carried out consultations with target communities.
Covenants. The establishment of a research committee to manage the research fund created under the
-3 -



project in accordance with a terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank was the only condition of
effectiveness. The condition was satisfied with no delay. Prior to the MTR the Borrower had agreed to
establish the Douar Credit Unions (DCU) since the required legal status to initiate work on micro-credit
was not in place, however the DCU were not established. All other covenants related to audit and
management, and counterpart funding requirements were also satisfactory.
Processing. The processing of the project was timely and satisfactory. Risk identification and the solutions
proposed were appropriate. The significant risks identified were linked to weak participation of
beneficiaries and slow adoption of farming practices. However the project's emphasis on participation, and
the integration of technical research into local farming practices largely alleviated these problems.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory
The ICR rates the achievement of the Development Objectives (DO) and the project outputs as satisfactory.
Most project achievements are likely to be sustained, and the net present value of economic flows are
positive at a discount rate of 10 percent. In particular, the reasons for this rating are: (i) growth in
agricultural revenue of small scale and medium scale farmers achieved 56 percent and 83 percent of target
respectively; (ii) illiteracy rates were reduced from 60 percent to 44 percent compared to the target of 45
percent; (iii) the increase in the area of perennial crops achieved 176 percent of target; (iv) soil and water
conservation works were carried out on 53,044 ha compared to the target of 18,900 ha; and (v)
development committee participation in the project achieved 70 percent of its target of 230 committees.
The project's rating for its achievement of objectives would likely have been highly satisfactory if the
project had been successful in implementing the Income Supporting Activities component which was
designed to increase local beneficiaries' capacity to manage their own resources. The alternative solution
implemented under the Income Generating component, using local bank financing and a specially created
fund to support integrated participatory activities, was relatively effective but it was not able to address the
capacity building issue. Section 10, Additional information, discusses the impact of the project on the
socio-economic status of the beneficiaries, and presents additional information for the satisfactory rating of
the project's Development Objective. Annex 1 presents key performance indicators and a description of the
physical achievements of each project component and activity.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Prior to discussing outputs by components, it is important to briefly mention the importance of the
Integrated Participatory Approach (API) in achieving these outputs. The approach was a key instrument in
encouraging participation of beneficiary local communities in the project's implementation. Several
evaluations were carried out on the appropriateness of the approach. Results confirmed the approach's
importance as an instrument for development and found that its use contributed to increased local
community participation, and to the population's benefits deriving from project activities. However, the
results also showed that continued efforts in capacity building activities, such as training, demonstrations
and workshops must be continued to encourage an enlarged role for the communities in decision making
processes. A detailed description of the approach and its assessed impact on beneficiary local communities
is provided in Annex 8.
Farm models
Three farm sizes considered during project implementation were: small farms, those under 5 ha; medium
farms, 5 ha and smaller than 20 ha; and large farms, 20 ha and larger, which will hereafter be referred to as
small, medium and large farms. However, in some instances data were not collected separately for the
- 4 -



medium and large farms and the two have been grouped under the same category. In these cases, the
results are presented as the average of the two farm sizes.
Agricultural development
This component was designed to enhance farm productivity through improved crop production practices,
increase emphasis on livestock, and support land titling efforts through land surveys. Overall, the
component largely attained its objectives and outcomes are expected to be sustainable. The component was
able to develop and adapt important management techniques that led to: (i) increased milk and meat
production through improved livestock breeds and nutrition, with at least 60 percent more milk production
from hybrid cows; (ii) improved agricultural income for small and medium farms by at least 50 percent
over baseline estimates; and (iii) increases in olive production by 31 and 47 percent from baseline estimates
for small and medium/large farms respectively. Survey results showed that the techniques developed were
appropriate for the socioeconomic conditions and ecosystems of project area. Implementation of the overall
component and each sub-component is rated highly satisfactory. Component design enabled the component
to contribute towards achieving overall project objectives and indicators were suitable for evaluating
objectives and outputs.
Specifically, the following results were realized:
(a) Livestock production. This activity successfully supported livestock improvement, particularly for
cattle through artificial insemination delivered initially by the project and gradually managed by private
enterprises. In total, the component supported 53,500 natural and 15,500 artificial inseminations. Local
breeds decreased by at least 20 percent while improved hybrid cattle increased by the same amount. To
complement the breeding program the component also financed improved fodder production which: (i)
provided better feed thereby increasing the quantity and quality of milk and meat; (ii) reduced grazing
pressure in natural forests; and (iii) reduced cereal production on unsuitable land and improved barley and
forage legume practices which in tum reduced erosion.
(b) Plant production. Production was improved significantly through improved techniques. For example,
wheat production increased (from baseline estimates) by 18 percent for small farms and by 51 percent for
medium to large farms. On average, barley production increased by 39 percent, food legumes by 27
percent, and olives by 31 and 47 percent for small and medium/large farms respectively.
(c) Demonstrations. Demonstrations on farmers' land were used to show the efficacy of improved
technical solutions. Farmer demand for them was high and their benefit as a tool for disseminating
research results and new techniques was significant. The comerstone for the success in the dissemination of
new techniques was the integrated participatory approach. In total, 609 of the planned 1,500 plant
demonstration plots were established for various crops, cereals, legumes, forage crops, and vegetables. The
lower number of demonstrations was due to higher establishment costs than those estimated, particularly
for fruit trees. Generally, the demonstration plots were of high technical quality. The project trained
fifty-five small-scale animal husbandry farmers who were used to disseminate improved livestock
production techniques to interested farmers in their local communities. These trainers were efficient but
some limitations were experienced when complex messages had to be relayed.
(d) Land consolidation. This activity, which was demand driven, was aimed at consolidating small
fragmented farns. The implementation of this activity was subcontracted to the Agriculture Land Titling
Agency (Agence Fonciere Agricole - AFA), which was responsible for carrying out surveys and mapping.
By the end of the project a total of 2,100 ha was under review or already mapped, and titles for
approximately 1,200 ha had already been issued. The balance is expected to be re-distributed before the
end of 2001.
-5 -



Watershed and Rangeland Management
The component was designed to reduce erosion and land degradation and improve rangelands,
environmental and natural resource management in the target area. Implementation of the component was
highly satisfactory and the impact of the component's activities on agricultural productivity and on farmer
incomes is high. Local beneficiary participation was high, which should increase the chances for
sustainability of the activities.
Implementation was initially slow but demand increased significantly for all activities. The results attained
were over 100 percent of estimates for 6 of the 8 activities, except for mechanical stabilization of ravines,
which attained 96 percent and vegetative stabilization of ravines which attained 74 percent. The vegetative
stabilization of ravines was included in the project only at MTR. Demand for the erosion reduction
measures remained very high until the end of the project. The component addressed water conservation
issues on approximately 53,000 ha, over 100 percent of estimates. Impact of the component was
maximized because of disciplined component coordination and, because of the high demand for component
inputs. Component cost reached $18.3 million compared to the budgeted $12.3 million. Agro-forestry
attracted the most interest, mainly because the improved soil infiltration rates allowed higher tree survival
rates. The improved soil management also allowed farmers to plant pastures and altemative crops on land
that would have otherwise been left fallow or planted to low yielding cereals. The increased demand for
agro-forestry species resulted in seedling shortages but this was overcome by ODESYPANO supporting
the establishment of thirty-six private small enterprise nurseries which produced approximately four million
seedlings.
Through this component, ODESYPANO contributed significantly to developing small enterprises in the
region. Also, because ODESYPANO supervised contractors, it contributed to building enterprise capacity.
Overall, some 1,040 contracts were signed with local contractors for soil and water conservation works
covering an area of about 31,700 ha or 54 percent of the area treated. The quality of these interventions is
rated as high.
Income Generating Activities
The original component, Income Supporting Activities, was designed to support rural enterprises which
could be financed under the existing credit schemes. The component aimed to support the creation of DCU
to finance studies to identify the potential and constraints of the informal credit sector. An action plan was
also envisaged to develop and define lending terms and conditions. However, it was not possible to obtain
the legal requirements and status for the Douar Credit Union to set up and operate village micro-credit
financing and the component was cancelled, and an amendment was made to the loan agreement. To
minimize the impact of the component's cancellation, ODESYPANO arranged for the provision of
micro-credit by a newly created bank, Banque tunisienne de solidarite (BTS), under the financing of a new
component, Income Generating Activities (being evaluated here). The project assisted local cornmunities in
identifying activities and preparing proposals that could be funded by this bank. Although this option
facilitated access to micro-credit for local communities, it had two limitations: (i) reduced capacity building
within the Douars; and (ii) because BTS set the minimum amount that could be borrowed at $1,000, it
restricted access to funds by the poorest segment of the communities. The first constraint was not
adequately addressed. To overcome the second problem ODESYPANO arranged for NGO to act as
intermediaries between BTS and small borrowers for sums lower than the BTS limit. However, the NGO
experience had its own drawbacks; borrowers experienced delays in obtaining funds and the criteria for
access to funds eliminated women and the young in some cases. ODESYPANO also created a fund, Fonds
d'appui a / API, to support micro-projects. The fund provided grants for priority micro-projects. These
- 6 -



grants also emphasized the participation of women and the young. The grant portion was complemented by
contributions from participants either in kind, financially, or by funds borrowed from BTS. Results show
that of the 657 applications reviewed by BTS, 320 were approved, and 174 were implemented prior to
project completion and 77 were still being implementation at project completion.
The Fonds d'appui a 1'API also supported the creation of cooperatives and associations. In total, the
project supported one beekeeping cooperative and six soil and water conservation associations. The project,
in establishing the cooperatives, was also cognizant of the experiences and complex dynamics of sustaining
cooperatives: the continued need for financial and technical assistance; the need for a minimum amount of
management capacity; and loyalty from the cooperatives' members, particularly in the initial stages.
Sustainability of the cooperatives will largely depend on these aspects as well as the quality and quantity of
technical and financial assistance that they will receive from ODESYPANO.
Applied Research
The applied research component was designed to support demand-driven short-term research on key
technical and socioeconomic development constraints of the region. The aim was to select research topics
the results of which could be readily implemented. Implementation of research was contracted out to
research organizations as part of their work programs. Some initial delays in implementation were
experienced, particularly because of difficulties in identifying research themes and preparation of
conventions between the research agencies and ODESYPANO. In 1998, the problem was solved when new
research management procedures were developed by the Institute of Agricultural Research and Higher
Education (IRESA). Overall, 13 research conventions/themes on improved technologies were satisfactorily
implemented. Twelve of these research themes were completed before the end of the project, and the last
theme will be completed in 2003. Two workshops to disseminate the research results have been held.
The most important applied research results are: (i) the development of a range of animal-drawn
agricultural equipment adapted to farming in mountainous areas; (ii) production of improved pasture seed
to satisfy ODESYPANO's demand, using local farmers as the multipliers; (iii) development of potentially
profitable caper plants in collaboration with the Institute of National Research in Rural Development,
Water and Forestry (INRGREF); (iv) development of techniques and demonstration of the impact of using
soil and water conservation methodologies; (v) preparation of land use mapping in some areas; and (vi) the
preparation of the technical reference guide which will be used by subject matter specialists in the
preparation of Community Development Plans (CDP) and in their general work with local communities.
A preliminary review of the adoption of research results was positive. The short-term nature of the
research, combined with the dissemination techniques, particularly demonstrations, resulted in reasonable
adoption rates. However, the adoption rates could have been better if the research had considered whole
agricultural systems as opposed to specific themes within a system. Nevertheless, it is clear that for uptake
of results to be quick, it is necessary for the results to be easily and quickly transferable.
Rural Infrastructure
The rural infrastructure works component was designed to provide isolated target communities with access
to roads, potable water and to basic services such as schools, health centers to improve their living
conditions. Overall achievement of the component was satisfactory. Implementation of most activities
attained or surpassed set goals.
(a) Rural roads. Over 383 km (128 percent of the original estimate) of rural roads were built in remote
- 7 -



areas and 638 km were rehabilitated (98 percent of the target). Sustainability of the roads sub-component
may pose some problems. A recent analysis of road maintenance costs by ODESYPANO estimated that the
agency was spending approximately DT 4 million/yr on this activity alone. This is unlikely to be
sustainable in the long-term. To date, no agency has been identified to carry out these maintenance
functions, although the issue is under study by an Inter-ministerial Committe.
(b) Water supply. Limited access to water supply in the region resulted in a very high demand. Over 50
springs were identified and equipped compared to 35 planned at appraisal. A total of 477 water tanks were
built exceeding the 300 estimated at MTR. The number of wells to be sunk was greatly reduced at MTR
from 28 to only 7 due to lack of ground water in the target areas but increasing the number of water tanks
compensated for this shortfall. Under the potable water distribution program (AEP), a total of 18
distribution systems were built, one short of the target. Target communities showed their interest in the
sub-component by their willingness to participate financially. Their contributions significantly surpassed
the original target of 20 percent of the total investment cost for the sub-component. The lack of favorable
sites for the construction of hill ponds, lacs collinaires, resulted in the construction of only 4 of the 15
estimated at appraisal. Overall, investment in drinking water supply facilities benefited approximately
7,800 inhabitants of which 5,400 were from the AEP and the rest from water tanks.
(c) Construction of schools and health centers. The physical targets were revised downwards at MTR to
reflect the higher unit construction costs than those estimated at appraisal. Based on the revised estimates,
at loan closure 50 percent of the schools and 72 percent of the health centers were completed. Maintenance
of the school and health facilities is entrusted to the Ministries of Education and Health respectively. These
Ministries were also consulted before the construction was carried out to ensure that the schools and clinics
constructed would be staffed with adequate personnel.
Institutional strengthening
Technical assistance and training were used to strengthen the planning, technical, and implementation
capacity of the executing agency and the planning capability of village development committees.
Interventions, which included: (i) training; (ii) monitoring and evaluation; (iii) geographic information
systems; and (iv) studies, were designed to ensure coherent planning and implementation in a decentralized
organization. The component is rated satisfactory.
(a) Training. Training was designed at two levels, for participating beneficiary populations and
ODESYPANO personnel:
Beneficiaries. This program was designed to familiarize target groups with principles of establishing and
operating group interaction and management programs because these techniques were seen as the key to
increasing local community participation, improved living standards, achievement of project objectives, and
improvement of the chances of project sustainability. Participating groups received training in the use of the
newly developed and adapted technical packages, management of natural resources, livestock rearing, bee
keeping, distillation of essences, tree pruning, forestry, and other income generating activities. Training
also specifically targeted women and the unemployed young and it benefited 980 people including 160
young women.
ODESYPANO. ODESYPANO personnel received training in subjects including the use of the integrated
participatory approach, improved technical packages, monitoring and evaluation of project activities, and
numerous specialized topics. Training also assisted ODESYPANO to strengthen its decentralized local
planning units as well as develop a management and geographic information system. At least 650
- 8 -



personnel, 591 of whom came from ODESYPANO, including 200 extension agents, benefited from
training. The Training Master Plan, completed in 1999, developed a coherent and efficient action plan that
allowed the prioritization of the training needs. GTZ co-financed a significant portion of these activities
and the result was a very satisfactory outcome. GTZ does not appear as a co-financier in the SAR as the
negotiations for their participation took place after project preparation was complete.
(b) Monitoring and evaluation (M&E). The project's M&E was satisfactory and it was enhanced by the
development of management tools, such as the Geographic Information System (GIS), Management
Information System (MIS) and audit systems. ODESYPANO, also carried out reviews to evaluate the use
of API and the impact of CDP on the beneficiary socioeconomic status. These evaluations allowed it to
make adjustments to API, personnel training needs and prioritize implementation activities. As part of the
M&E activities, ODESYPANO also carried out two surveys (1998 and 2000) to measure the achievement
of the DO from the baseline survey established in 1996.
(c) Studies.  Nine studies were satisfactorily carried out. Three studies were undertaken on the
improvement of API, three on the improvement of the MIS, and one on the topographical and pedological
features of some intervention areas to improve GIS data. Another study reviewed land consolidation
including the identification of beneficiaries and the last study, which will not be completed before the end of
2001, aimed to produce agricultural maps.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Project economic impact has been evaluated and the economic rate of return (ERR) estimated using the
methodology applied at appraisal. These analyses were based on the three farm sizes, small, medium and
large, and in the three agro-ecological zones of "Mogods/Khroumirie", "Oued Zarqua/Oued El Khil" and
"Oued Tessa Inferieur". The ICR calculation used actual prices, final project costs, data and information
on planted areas, yields and inputs. Detailed information on the analysis and assumptions is given in Annex
3. Project benefits are assessed on the quantifiable benefits from animal and plant production resulting
from project interventions. The ERR is estimated at 16.3 percent, compared to 14 percent estimated at
appraisal. This confirms the satisfactory economic performance of the project. This ERR is believed to be
underestimated however, because of the strong positive, but non-quantifiable, environmental impact of the
project. The ERR is sensitive to yield variation. If net benefits are reduced by 10 percent and 20 percent
the ERR falls to 10.8 percent and 5.2 percent respectively.
The results of the three socio-economic surveys show that families on medium and large farms benefited
slightly more than those on small farms. Family incomes from agricultural production on small farms
improved in real terms from DT1, 113 per year at baseline to DT 1,429 per year, a differential of DT3 16
per year or 28 percent. Family incomes for medium and large farms improved from DT3,141 per year at
baseline to DT4,135 per year at project end, a differential of DT994 per year or 32 percent. The
achievement represents approximately 83 percent of the target and real annual income growth rates of 6.3
and 6.8 percent for small and medium and large farms respectively. The key influencing factor in family
incomes between the two groups of fann sizes is the rate of adoption of improved techniques. Small scale
farmers were more reluctant to spend resources on agricultural inputs than were larger scale farmers and
therefore more likely to miss out on the benefits from improved techniques. It is anticipated that this gap
will close in time with the diffusion of technologies. Further discussion on the impact of the project on the
socio-economic status of the beneficiaries is presented in Section 10: Additional Information.
4.4 Financial rate o return:
The FRR at appraisal was reported to range from 20 to 45 percent for the nine models, but no specific
details per model were given in the SAR. At ICR, analysis of returns indicates that net value of production
-9-



would increase on average, at full development, by 50% generating financial rates of return on farm
investments ranging from 8.2% (Model 3) to as high as 37.1% (Model 1). The financial rate of return for
model 3 is lower possibly because of higher investment costs per unit, encouraged by the high potential of
the zone but low realized benefits. The financial rate of return for the project as a whole is estimated at
26%. The FRR analysis confirms, by and large, the financial viability of the project. The FRR values
range from 7% to 35% when the calculations are based on a decrease of 10% of the net incremental
benefits, indicating robustness of the financial viability of the project.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
As noted above, the project's development objectives were largely achieved. One major benefit from this
achievement is the impact the project had on strengthening the capacity of ODESYPANO as a development
agency, as well as the development of local institutions that are capable of contributing to local
development. Benefits have accrued to local communities, ODESYPANO, and other agencies which have
cooperated directly or indirectly with ODESYPANO. The API developed is flexible and adaptable, such
that it should benefit other agencies working in marginal areas elsewhere in Tunisia, and in the region.
Through the project's emphasis on including women in project activities, it contributed to women's
development in a region where women remain the key providers of agricultural labor, as men generally
migrate to the cities because of under/unemployment. The result of these efforts was a higher participation
of women in project activities, such as in micro-projects which significantly increased women's
contribution to family income and well being particularly of children.
Another impact derives from the use of a decentralized planning and implementing structure which
strengthened the development of national and local institutions to effectively implement and manage the
decentralization process. The project contributed to capacity building for decentralized project planning,
implementation and monitoring and evaluation, through its emphasis on training administration personnel,
both at the central and regional levels, as well as beneficiary populations. Furthermore, to improve
communication and strengthen the monitoring and evaluation of the project, several management tools were
developed: GIS, MIS and audit procedures, which are now being adapted and replicated in regional offices.
The project also contributed to the development of demand driven research projects the results of which can
be implemented expeditiously with an immediate impact on small holder incomes. In addition, the technical
reference prepared during the project's implementation is an important tool for the development and
adaptation of technical packages in the northwest.  The technical reference has also significantly
contributed to quality enhancement of investments, and with the constant update that is to be carried out
from field experiences, the document's value will only increase. The higher quality results should, in turn,
increase the likelihood for sustainability of investments made.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There were no major factors outside the control of the Government or implementing agency that
significantly affected project implementation and outcomes. However, the drought in 1998/99 and
1999/2000 was a contributing factor to lower agricultural production and a consequential reduction in farm
revenue from the associated harvesting periods.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Government ownership of the project was high throughout its implementation and it provided all financial
and human resources needed to implement the project. However, it was unable to provide adequate support
for the implementation of the Income Supporting Activities Component by adopting the requisite legislation
which would enable the Douar Credit Union to establish and operate village micro-credit financing. The
- 10-



alternative solution, to involve local banks and NGOs, contributed to increasing financial access by rural
enterprises and local communities, but it did not contribute to increasing capacity in local conmmunities to
manage their own resources.
The Government also made two key policy changes that contributed positively to activities aimed at
socioeconomic development of local communities. The first, Law No. 99/66 of 15 July, 1999, allowed the
formalization of the Development Committees (CD) to Agricultural Development Groups (GDA) which
have the mandate to manage their own resources. Given the relative newness of the law and the fact that
the conversion of CD to GDA was not part of the project's original objectives, this activity was
implemented on a pilot basis and lessons are still being documented. The second was the creation of the
Agricultural Land Titling Agency (I'Agence Fonciere Agricole "- AFA), which greatly facilitated the
project's land consolidation activities.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
ODESYPANO was adequately staffed and financed and implementation results are satisfactory. Through
its decentralized structure, ODESYPANO was able to involve a large part of the target groups in project
implementation. ODESYPANO was innovative and flexible and was able to find ways to deal with issues
which affected project implementation. ODESYPANO also placed emphasis on finding ways to increase
sustainability in investments: prioritizing training, and other capacity building activities; ensuring high
quality outputs; dissemination of improved techniques; and ensuring high level of maintenance activities.
ODESYPANO made a major effort to disseminate information it has gathered over the past 20 years on the
integrated participatory approach, thereby benefiting other agencies and communities which were not
necessarily in their zone of intervention.
5.4 Costs and financing:
The total project disbursement is $24.7 million, or approximately 90 percent of the total loan agreement of
$27.5 million. Following the recommendations of the MTR in 1997, the Income Supporting Activities
component, including the allocated $1.5 million was cancelled. The undisbursed balance of the loan is
approximately US$175,000. This amount could change slightly on account of the final recovery of the
special account. The remainder will be cancelled.
The difference of approximately US$1.3 million between the original loan amount and the total of the
disbursed and cancelled amounts is partly due to losses that occurred when the loan account was converted
from US$ to Euros, and partly due to a significant depreciation of the Tunisian Dinar during project
implementation; the exchange rates changed from US$1 = 0.9 TD at effectiveness in 1994 to US$1 = 1.38
TD by the end of the project.
There were some differences between original estimates and final project financing costs: (i) the Bank
financing for goods and works was slightly higher, a reflection of higher unit costs for some activities, in
particular roads; (ii) the beneficiaries' contribution was higher particularly due to higher participation rates
in the soil and water conservation activities. GTZ co-financed some activities, particularly those related to
training and in participatory approaches. However, GTZ declined to share the specific financial and
project data.
Several re-allocations between categories were made to take into account changes in project target
estimates and unit price changes. The project was granted a one-year extension, from June 30, 2000 to June
30, 2001. There were no major changes between the financing arrangements noted in the SAR and the
actual final outcome.



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
ICR rating: Likely
Development initiatives funded by the project are likely to be sustained, with a possible exception of the
roads, where a decision on the long-term maintenance arrangement is pending. Joint planning and
implementation of activities and project design contributed significantly to increasing the likelihood for
sustainability. Experience from other projects, regions and countries has shown that one of the most
important factors that contributes to sustainability is the inclusion and involvement of self motivated target
groups in project design, implementation, and project monitoring and evaluation. The Government of
Tunisia is committed to supporting the maintenance of project outputs as well as providing needed
technical assistance to beneficiary groups to enable them to maintain the group structure developed by the
project. Ultimately, ensuring sustainability of investments will require that project activities be integrated
into government development plans for the region and the country as a whole.
Generally, no major risks to sustainability are foreseen, except perhaps for the rural roads in remote areas.
To date, no agency has been identified to carry out these works and ODESYPANO will have to continue
maintenance operations while the inter-ministerial debate that is presently underway find a solution.
The project's sustainability rating is based on the following:
*   Government's commitment to ensuring sustainable economic development and natural
resources management. The Government has also included the goal of sustainable
economic development and natural resources management as a priority in the next 5-year
Development Plan (2002-2006), presently under preparation. Maintaining these activities
as a priority ensures that needed resources are allocated.
*   Government's overall commitment to ensuring a budgetary allocation for Operation and
Maintenance (O&M) costs.
*   ODESYPANO possesses adequate human and financial resources to ensure the required
maintenance for most of the investments made, with a possible exception of the roads
where maintenance costs can be high. Maintenance will also be integrated into
ODESYPANO's general work framework. This will ensure adequate budget support.
*   Local communities have a high level of ownership of project works initially identified by
them as having a high priority. Preliminary surveys on the maintenance of soil and water
conservation activities a few years after establishment shows that they were being well
maintained. Sustainability will be enhanced by shifting O&M responsibility to
beneficiaries.
*   Project outputs are of high quality.
*   Impact of the use of improved production and management techniques has been immediate
and, with the continued adoption of improved technology, the quality of production to
those adopting these techniques is expected to increase and be sustained.
*   A recently passed decree allowed CD to convert to GDA with a mandate and strong motive
to manage and maintain their own resources.
*   The 1999 Land Consolidation Decree commits govemment to continue with the land
consolidation program.
- 12-



*   Although not a justification for sustainability in itself, the follow-up project that is under
preparation will contribute to increased sustainability through its emphasis on capacity
building of target groups and administration personnel. Staff training is important for
ODESYPANO to ensure that the expected institutional transition will result in minimum
disruption of service provision to communities. The proposed project is expected to start in
2003. In the meantime, the government has allocated sufficient budget to fund activities
not completed prior to project closure.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Project design emphasized the selection of activities that make up part of government's regional rural
development activities. Accordingly, it is not expected that there will be a marked transition from project
activities to regular operations. However, some planning is still required to ensure that activities begun as
part of the project's implementation continue. In particular, several activities in CDP that were prepared
during the project are still under implementation, and a number of capacity building activities are still
under-way or have been planned for target groups, including, in part, those that are converting from CD to
GDA.
*   Arrangements have been made to ensure the continuation and consolidation of key activities. The
key arrangements involve: (i) programming all (including roads) remaining activities in the normal
ODESYPANO work program thereby ensuring their funding; and (ii) government's request to the
Bank, and its acceptance, to contribute to funding related activities in the time between projects to
build on the first project's effectiveness using financing from the Natural Resources Management
Project (Ln. 4162-TUN). In addition, a comprehensive action plan listing all key activities has
been prepared by ODESYPANO.
*   ODESYPANO has also been actively involved in the dissemination of information on the
participatory approach to interested personnel from various agencies. ODESYPANO has been
holding sessions to demonstrate how to adapt and use the approach both in a class setting and in
the field. With the use of the state of the art training center built with GTZ assistance, they would
like to organize courses on the application of the participatory approach in the future on a more
regular basis.
*   With regards to the Income Generating Activities, ODESYPANO, will continue to support the
preparation of proposals to BTS, as well as support NGO involved prior to project's closure.
*   Research activities, in particular the theme not completed during project implementation, and
further steps to continue knowledge gathering of other topics will be funded by ODESYPANO in
conjunction with affiliated research centers INRGREF or IRESA. In most cases agreements to this
effect have already been reached or are under negotiation.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Identification. Bank performance at project identification is rated satisfactory. The project was consistent
with the objectives of the CAS in effect at the time and the government's development objectives and
priorities for the region and country as a whole. Lessons learned from the first Bank-financed Northwest
Rural Development Project and from other related projects in the region were also taken into account
during the project's preparation.
- 13 -



Preparation and Appraisal. Project preparation was timely and is rated satisfactory. The Project was
prepared by the Government with the assistance of FAO/CP with the Bank providing needed technical
support and guidance. In addition, through its participation in the project, the Bank was able to gain the
support of GTZ which provided key technical and financial assistance to the project. All aspects of project
design were adequate to achieve the Development Objective and they were within the capacity of
Government to implement. Environmental and socio-economic aspects of project design were consistent
with the Bank's safeguard policies.
Preparation and appraisal teams correctly identified project risks and the solutions proposed were
consistent with the capacity of the implementing unit and the Development Objective. Although the legal
status for the Douar Credit Unions was not eventually achieved, it was correctly identified both as a
prerequisite for the component's implementation and as a risk. In addition, the Bank was reassured by the
Government that this would be obtained.
7.2 Stupervision:
Bank supervision performance is rated satisfactory. The Bank carried out necessary supervision mnissions
and financed local and intemational specialists as needed. It also assisted the development of local
consultants as a way to reinforce local capacity. In addition, the Bank sponsored a procurement and
disbursement workshop in 1994, and as requested by ODESYPANO, discussed with them general Bank
procedures and practices, problems and proposed solutions. The MTR was carried out with a
multi-disciplinary team which, with ODESYPANO, reviewed the project as a whole and revised
components as needed.
Because the integrated participatory approach was a key instrument for project implementation, the Bank,
with ODESYPANO, made a major effort to ensure it was used effectively. The Bank sponsored an
evaluation of API as a methodology to attain desired project objectives. The results, which are discussed in
Annex 8, were used to adjust targets and the application of the integrated methodology at the field level. In
addition, during supervision missions, the Bank also emphasized the improvement of quality in the CDP to
obtain higher quality results.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Identification. Government performance at project identification is rated satisfactory. The project was
consistent with the Government's development agenda for the region and the country and the project's
global objectives were outlined in the country's 5-year Economic Development Plan in effect at the time.
Preparation and Appraisal. Government performance at preparation and appraisal are also rated
satisfactory. Government was highly engaged in the preparation and appraisal processes. It was highly
committed to project objectives and provided all the logistical and technical support needed to facilitate
project preparation. It also ensured that the team that had worked on the first Bank-supported
ODESYPANO project was available for the follow-up project. By negotiations, GOT had already reviewed
and agreed to the project timetable and actions to be taken to meet loan effectiveness conditions.
7.5 Government implementationi performance:
GOT's performance during implementation is rated satisfactory. Throughout implementation it continued
to give priority to ensuring that there were adequate resources to achieve goals and senior GOT staff were
- 14 -



available to discuss identified issues at all times. However, as noted elsewhere, GOT could have been more
pro-active in obtaining the legal status for the Douar Credit Union which was needed to implement the
Income Supporting Activities. This would have contributed to increasing the capacity of local communities
to manage their own resources. Although ODESYPANO identified alternative measures that contributed to
increasing access to financing sources for local communities, the capacity building issue was not solved
and the project implementation rating was thereby reduced from highly satisfactory to satisfactory. The
borrower was in compliance with all management and audit covenants of the loan agreement.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of ODESYPANO is rated highly satisfactory. ODESYPANO had adequate capacity to
implement the project efficiently and effectively. ODESYPANO was able to fill key positions and it
adequately executed the required environmental and social assessments for activities as required. Their
procurement performance was also highly satisfactory as was their compliance with audit and other
management covenants.
The ODESYPANO team found innovative solutions to negate the impact of the cancellation of the Income
Supporting Activities component. The agency also consistently monitored and evaluated the project as
testified by the high quality supervision reports. In addition, it is to be commended for the numerous project
activity reviews and assessments it carried out.  These reviews made a major contribution to the
implementation of the project and the quality of its final output. ODESYPANO recognized the importance
of the participatory approach to achieving set objectives and it provided adequate capacity building
opportunities for its personnel and beneficiaries in this subject. In addition, it organized and funded a
workshop on the participatory approach. These activities contributed to the positive result of the review on
the approach's application in the project. ODESYPANO has also made a major contribution to other
agencies in the region and country by disseminating the information it has collected over a 20 year period.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, the Borrower's performance is rated satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Sustainable management of natural resources and the environment in the northwest region and in Tunisia
generally will remain important goals in the near future and the long term. The successful implementation
of this project has provided many important lessons which can contribute to the attainment of this goal.
The key lessons are discussed below:
Technical
*   To attain maximum impact, project funded research should be limited to topics which are an
integral part of project activities, demand driven and consistent with the Development Objective.
Short-term research allows results to be incorporated into project implementation. Once the results
are available, relatively intensive extension activities with focused practical demonstrations should
be used to disseminate the results.
*   Dissemination techniques that include local farmers can be successful if they are given adequate
technical assistance, particularly for complex topics. The project not only used demonstrations on
farmer's lands to disseminate improved techniques, but went a step further and trained local
livestock farmers to disseminate more complex messages to the local community. This permitted
regular dissemination on a per need basis, without awaiting the presence of extension officers.
*   When dealing with small-scale farmers, owning 5 ha or less, techniques that take into account the
-15-



entire production system are more likely to be adopted than those developed for a specific crop or
ecosystem.
*   When a project includes land consolidation it is important to provide incentives such as land titling.
Although the land consolidation activity was entirely demand-driven, the provision of titles on
consolidated lands was a major incentive as it offered security on the newly consolidated lands.
The new decree passed by GOT, which dictates that if 51 percent of the population are agreeable
to consolidation, the remaining 49 percent are obliged to participate will significantly contribute to
sustainable natural resources management in highly fragmented areas such as those in the project
zone.
Participation
*   Participation of all stakeholders, the implementing agency, local communities and civil society
ensures the success of the participatory approach from the early stages of project preparation.
Stakeholder ownership is strengthened when they participate in the project from the design stage.
Consultations also promote transparency in decision making processes which is crucial in a
demand-driven type project.
*   A participatory approach backed by multi-disciplinary teams must encourage work across sectors
to fully take into account beneficiary demands and achieve agreed development objectives.
*   The development and adoption of an integrated participatory approach must be accompanied by
adequate capacity building activities, particularly training, to ensure users and beneficiaries
understand their respective roles in achieving desired goals. The methodology must remain flexible
to allow field lessons to contribute to adjustments in project goals or beneficiary needs.
Adjustments made, if significant, must also be reflected in the training program.
*   Women extension agents are necessary to ensure women's participation in projects. Women
beneficiaries benefited from the project's emphasis on women's development. Communities
preferred activities that were integrated as a part of the overall project activities to those that were
women specific, and integration significantly reduced resentment for "women's activities" by the
rest of the population. However, the lack of specific targeting measures for other disadvantaged
sectors of the population, such as the landless and the young, meant that they remained fairly
vulnerable and their overall benefits were limited.
*   The participatory approach requires flexible project budgeting. Budgeting should be flexible to
allow both the Bank and the government to reallocate funds to support activities that may need
extra resources due to a higher demand by target groups.
Institutional
*   Decentralized institutional structures can be effective and efficient for implementing development
projects, particularly when adequate capacity is available to support communication between the
center and regions. The decentralized structure must be supported by adequate training, equipment,
and management information systems that permit for coherent data capture, analyses and
monitoring and evaluation at the central, regional and local levels.
*   Project implementation through an existing Government implementing agency can be highly
effective. The project did not create a Project Management Unit (PMU), instead the existing
structure, ODESYPANO was the designated implementing agency. The arrangement permitted
total integration of project activities into the existing regional and country programs, encouraging
- 16-



conformity with regional and national strategic objectives. This finding supports the view that
independent PMIU are less effective and tend to be dismantled after project closure.
*   Continuity of project personnel is important for effective project implementation and it reduces
implementation delays. The project inherited a team that had successfully implemented the initial
Bank-assisted Rural Development Project, which greatly facilitated procurement, disbursement,
and safeguards compliance.
*   Small private enterprises can implement project activities and works of a high quality at lower cost
provided they are given adequate guidelines. Giving target groups the opportunity to participate in
project activities creates employment and provides income from outside traditional areas.
*   Access to credit often requires adequate government support to overcome impediments in credit
delivery mechanisms. The lack of support for the legal framework for the DCU greatly
undermined the capacity of the local conununities to effectively access credit independently. The
new decree that allows the formalization of CD to GDA requires further study to determine
whether the issue has now been resolved.
*   Because planning for natural resource management should be considered on a watershed basin
level rather than on individual ecosystems, partnerships with other development agencies must be
fostered to be effective and optimize investments.
*   The issue of operation and maintenance of assets such as rural roads must be agreed prior to
project implementation. Implementing agencies, such as ODESYPANO, are unlikely to be able to
fund the maintenance of such high cost assets financed by the project once the project is completed.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
In 1980, GOT prepared a 15 year development program covering approximately 162,000 ha in the
northwest mountainous areas, and in 1982 it invited the Bank to fund a portion of the program, through the
newly created North-West Forestry and Pastoral Development Agency (ODESYPANO). The first project
was completed in 1989, and the second, which is being evaluated here in 2000. GTZ co-financed the
project, concentrating on training and the development of information systems. The fundamental difference
between the two Bank-assisted projects is that the former concentrated on the creation of rural
infrastructure, while the latter was a more integrated rural development project that used a participatory
approach as the key instrument to attain set objectives.
GOT finds that project design was appropriate and the identification of components and activities were
consistent with the set objectives. The project objectives were successfully attained, and the outputs were of
a high quality. The mid-term review carried out was thorough and adjustments made were consistent with
lessons learnt and with the implementation conditions at the time. The cancellation of the Income
Supporting Activities component was due to the incompatibility of the provision of a legal status for Douar
Credit Unions and the country's legislative requirements. To reduce the potential impact of losing the
component, ODESYPANO entered into a convention with a local bank to facilitate access to credit for
qualifying proposals, which they helped prepare. In addition, the Bank and GTZ also financed the creation
of a grant fund that financed eligible activities, under a new component, Income Generating Activities. All
other covenants related to the audit and management counterpart funding requirements were also
satisfactorily met. The implementation rate of the project significantly increased from around 1997. This
increased rate can be attributed to a better understanding of the API by the implementing team, as well as
the benefits from training given to the administration personnel and beneficiaries.
- 17 -



The project has had a positive impact on the socio-economic status of the beneficiaries and others living in
the northwest, particularly through its contribution to alleviating the issues of rural infrastructure (roads,
potable water, schools, clinics) and soil and water conservation activities. Another impact was on
institutional aspects, where the project contributed significantly to strengthening project implementation
through a decentralized structure. The decentralized structure permitted ODESYPANO to communicate
easier with local communities. The API, also significantly contributed to encouraging local community
participation, increasing their opportunity to participate in project activities and improve their
socio-economic status.  The environmental impact, particularly those deriving from soil and water
conservation activities are likely to be long-term given their low maintenance costs and immediate impact.
The economic impact of the project derives from various actions: (i) agricultural revenue from improved
farming practices for both vegetal and animal resources; (ii) increased rural employment among the local
populations deriving from improved agricultural production, participation in soil and water conservation
activities and improved livestock, due to improved genetic resources, better feeding from improved pasture;
and from (iii) micro-projects funded through a convention with a local bank. The social impact of the
project although qualitative, is perhaps the most important. The integrated participatory approach was
important in raising awareness of the community's impact on the environment, and also on their
self-development. However, capacity is still low and further training activities are required to increase
awareness to a minimum level that would allow them to dictate their development choices. Women also
participated actively in project activities, and they were reasonably represented on the Development
Committees (CD).
GOT is committed to ensuring sustainability of results. Because the activities in the project are integrated
in the regional program, ODESYPANO is able to finance their continuity and or completion. In addition,
ODESYPANO will continue to support the adoption of technical packages by local farmers through its
extension services. Furthermore, by using API, the project increased ownership of project activities which
should contribute to sustainability.
The Bank's participation in the project's preparation and implementation is rated satisfactory. The Bank
made available needed technical assistance. The relationship between the Bank and ODESYPANO was
one of confidence. Information was shared openly, including the selection of skills mix for any given
mission. The Borrower considers the relationship to be an excellent model for the kind of relationships that
should be built between the Bank and a Borrower.
(b) Cofinanciers:
No comments were received from GTZ.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
Impact of API on Beneficiary Populations
ODESYPANO was established in 1981 with the objective to fight poverty in a region where
socio-economic indicators were well below those of the other regions of Tunisia. Since 1982 the agency
has implemented two Bank-supported projects, several international donor projects and Government funded
activities. The objective of this section is to provide a synopsis of key project impact of the project on
beneficiary populations resulting from the northwest mountainous areas development project.
Several criteria, measured at three intervals during implementation were derived based on socio-economic,
- 18-



technical, and environmental factors. The first, or baseline survey, was carried out in 1996 and it was
followed by two surveys in 1998 and 2000. These surveys represented the "with" project scenarios and
were carried out in representative agro-ecological and socio-economic region. The indicators were designed
to measure the impact of the participatory approach and the project activities on the community and at the
farnily farm. Observations were assessed after considering the potential of the zone and agricultural
production systems. The 1996 and 1998 surveys covered 527 families in 51 Development Committees
(CD). In 2000, 259 families in 28 CD were surveyed (Table 1). Tables 2 and 3 below show the results of
surveys for the three years.
Table 1. Areas sampled in the 2000 survey, including the number of CD and families participating
Region                                          I                  I
No. of CD                   Number of families
<= 5 ha            > 5 ha         Total
Oued Zargua Oued El Khil        8              32                21              53
Mogods-Khroumirie              10              72                39              111
Oued Tessa Inferieur            10             54                41              95
Total                          28              158               101             259
Overall impact of CDP on the population
Although the impact on the beneficiaries differed among CDP, indicators showed steady improvement in
the target population's living standards. Several factors had a significant influence on the impact, the most
important being: (i) small-scale farmers were more reluctant to spend resources on inputs than larger
farmers and were more likely to miss out on potential benefits from improved techniques; (ii) labor
availability during the high agricultural season is often problematic and this may limit output or
diversification of agricultural systems; (iii) trained CDP were generally able to participate in project
activities more efficiently; (iv) CDP that were headed by active CD committees had a higher participation
in project activities and this resulted in increased benefits. In general, members of CDP emphasized
building a relationship with ODESYPANO and this benefited participatory efforts. The relationship built
between members of the CDP and ODESYPANO contributed to raising the profile for soil and water
conservation activities that had been overshadowed in earlier instances by the population's need for rural
infrastructure development. This work significantly contributed to the improved natural resources and
environmental management agenda.
The review on the impact of the project on the socio-economic status of beneficiaries also showed an
evolution in the number of households in the CDP surveyed. In a survey of 4 CDP, the number of
households increased from 183 to 258 within 5 years. This increase is presumed to be in response to
improved socio-economic conditions, better roads and other basic facilities. The increase in households also
shows that improving the living standards can reduce or ultimately reverse the high out-migration regions
have experienced recently. However, it is important to note that a significant increase in the number of
households will have the effect of reducing the effective area cultivated per family and, as a large number
of families in the region are operating on less than 1.5 ha already, altemative, non-agricultural based
activities to generate income will have to be identified.
Evolution in agricultural systems has been positive with a shift to systems that are more compatible with
natural resource management. Sustaining this evolution will require continued technical assistance, training
and extension services. Improved agricultural production also increased employment opportunities for
local communities. Additionally, employment opportunities increased further with the participation of
- 19-



communities in the implementation of soil and water conservation activities.
Although the landless benefited from community services such as roads, clinics, and schools, their direct
benefits from project activities were more limited because the project did not specifically target them.
Non-agricultural activities funded through the CDP were generally small investments the benefits of which
were limited. As the landless group is likely to increase in the future it will become increasingly more
important to expand non-agricultural activities to accommodate their needs.
Several recommendations on ways to increase the impact of short and long-tenn activities implemented in
CDP were made as a result of the review. It was recommended that implementation continue in CDP not
yet completed. Upon completion, these activities should be evaluated to determine impact, particularly
taking note of the implementation of soil and water conservation activities by small enterprises. In the
medium to long-term, it will be important to increase the participating population's access to financial
resources, whether by formalizing the CD, or by other means. However, access to financial resources must
be accompanied with adequate capacity building. Extension services must also be provided.
Mlore specifically, the impact of the CDP on the socio-economic development of beneficiary populations is
discussed below, under key socio-economic headings.
Incomes. The largest agricultural revenue contributions in the project were expected from improved plant
and animal production. However, increases were tempered because agriculture in the project area is
rainfed, generally on small-farms and is largely for subsistence. Family incomes from agricultural
production on small farms improved in real terms from TD 1,113/yr at baseline to TD1,429/yr at the end of
the project. Incomes from medium farms improved from TD3,141 per year to TD4,135 per year. These
represent real annual growth rates of 6.3 and 6.9 percent for small and medium farns respectively.
In addition to increasing income from agricultural production, the project emphasized diversification of
income source. Activities included micro-projects such as beekeeping and milk and meat production. In
the case of meat production, a major incentive was the higher market price for meat from hybrid cattle.
Figures on the income from these activities were not determined, but it is estimated that they would add
another 5 to 10 percent to agricultural incomes. The income impact could have been further improved if the
micro-credit component had been implemented as intended. Relatively limited access to credit and the
reluctance of small-scale farmers to spend on agricultural inputs has limited the adoption of improved
techniques.
Basic infrastructure. Key constraints in infrastructure were related to inadequate access to rural roads,
potable water, and water for livestock. The proportion of target groups having difficulty with access was
reduced from the baseline estimate of 48 percent to 18 percent by 2000 by project interventions. The lack
of potable water forced women to walk long distances to collect water that was often of low quality.
Among the beneficiary populations, the average distance from potable water was reduced from 1.5 km in
1996 to 0.8 km by 2000. The average distance to livestock watering points was reduced from 1.5 km in
1996 to 0.9 km by 2000. The construction and rehabilitation of rural roads contributed significantly to
increasing access to basic services in remote areas as well as increasing trading opportunities. However, a
potential problem of sustainability of the improvements made in the rural roads, particularly the remote
ones, has arisen because it has not been possible to identify an agency willing to carry out needed
maintenance.
Education. A key issue that was identified during project preparation was the high level of illiteracy
among communities, particularly young girls. The problem was largely attributed to lack of access to
schools. For young women the problem was worse when there were no schools nearby as parents were
- 20 -



generally reluctant to send them to schools which required them to walk long distances. The project
constructed several schools, and the surveys show that of the villages sampled, 39 percent were close to a
school in 1996. This increased to 46 percent by 2000. In all, it is estimated that the building of schools,
coupled with improvements in rural roads, contributed to reducing average illiteracy rates from baseline
estimates of 60 percent to approximately 44 percent among beneficiary populations.
Environment. The northwest region suffers from numerous environmental problems, the most serious of
which is soil erosion. The dense rural population and consequential over-exploitation of natural resources
together with low vegetation cover are major causes of land degradation. Degraded soils have inadequate
water retention capacity and this leads to reduced productivity. The project emphasized soil and water
conservation activities in an attempt to alleviate the problem. The impact of soil and water conservation
measures was observed in increased filtration rates and higher crop and tree survival rates. In addition, as
a result of the increased water retention capacity of the soils, the adoption of perennial crops increased
from a baseline estimate of 45 percent to 55 percent by 2000. The increased agricultural production also
raised on farm employment opportunities. For example, the number of days spent on-farm increased from
the 1996 baseline of 136/yr to 285/yr in 2000, an increase of 149 days or 109 percent. This is an important
result for a region where there is high unemployment and under-employment.
An issue that should increasingly gain importance in combating environmental problems and in attaining
sustained natural resource management will be joint management of forest resources by the administration
and local communities. These issues were not adequately addressed in the project, even in CDP where the
beneficiaries depended heavily on the forest for fuelwood and pasture. Addressing the issue should also
contribute to increasing opportunities for raising incomes either by working in the forests or harvesting
forest products. Adequately addressing this issue will also require certain changes to be made; in particular
those pertaining to local community access to forest resources. This issue is being examined in the context
of the follow-up project.
Institutional impact
Project design, the decentralized implementation strategy used by the project, and the interventions which
targeted an increase in the capacity in the implementing agency and the target groups made a major
contribution to improving the socio-economic status of project beneficiaries. The most important factors
relate to the use of women extension officers to increase women's participation in project activities. In the
northwest region, women are an important source of farm labor and integrating them into project activities
benefits them by providing an income and the chance of sustaining the utility of assets financed by the
project. Additionally, by organizing local communities into groups, the project was more efficient in
building beneficial relationships with the local communities as well as building their capacity to participate
in project activities. With sustained support for capacity building activities, local communities have the
opportunity to access needed financial resources to pursue their development priorities over the long-term.
An example of the direct benefits already accruing to groups formed by the local populations are the
income generating opportunities created as a result of the small private enterprises formed to participate in
soil and water conservation activities.
The ultimate test and indicator of the population's ability to drive their own development agenda will be at
the time of ODESYPANO's disengagement. When this occurs, an assessment of the population's capacity
to plan, implement and monitor activities will have to be carried out. Where these skills are lacking,
appropriate measures will need to be taken to ensure they are developed. In addition, local communities'
ability to attract finance and qualified technical assistance to ensure quality outputs will also need to be
assessed. Overall, the results of the surveys show that population groups are still fragile and will continue
- 21 -



to require capacity building to ensure realized gains are sustainable.
Table 2: Survey results - Socio-economic indicators
Indicators                   Unit    Results Results Results Difference  % change
1996    1998   2000    (00 - 96)   (00 / 96)
A2ricultural income(*)
holding size <= 5 ha                    TD       1 113   1 252   1 429      316         28
holding size > 5 ha                     TD       3 141   3 387   4 135      994         32
Contribution to total farm family income
(%)
holding size <= 5 ha                     %        47      58      48        + I
holding size > 5 ha                      %         65      79     67        + 2
Family aericultural emJloyment
Employment farm                         DW        136     229     285      + 149        109
Socio-economic infrastructure
(a) Improvement in access to basic
infrastructure                                %        48      30       18       -30          -
Communities have problems of access to
basic infrastructure
(b) Potable water and livestock drinking water
Distance from closest potable water point  Km     1.5      1.3     0.8      - 0.7      46.7
Distance from nearest livestock watering  Km      1.5      1.3     0.9      - 0.6       40
hole
(c) Basic education
Villages having/or being near a school   %        39       41      46       + 7          -
(d) Basic health
Distance from clinic                    Km        7       4.3     3.9      - 3.1      - 44.3
(*) Income data are based on real changes, using the GDP deflator
Key:
TD    Tunisian Dinar
DW = days worked
KM    kilometer
- 22 -



Table 3: Survey results - Technical indicators
Indicators                 Unit      1996    1998    2000  Difference  %
(00 - 96)   change
(00196)
Yields by culture
(a) Wheat                                qx/ha
holding size < 5 ha                             11.5   11.6    13.6      2.1       18.3
holding size > 5 ha                             10.7   12.1    16.1      5.4       50.5
Average                                                11.8    15.4
(b) barley                              qx/ha      11.1    11.7    15.4      4.3       38.7
(c) food legumes                         qx/ha       6      6.8     7.6       1.6       26.7
(d) olives                               qx/ha
holding size < 5 ha                             13     19.6    19.1      6.1       46.9
holding size > 5 ha                            14.7     19     19.3      4.6       31.3
Average                                                19.1    19.3
Productivity of bovine livestock
Composition of cattle                     %
local race                                       38     19.1    17.5    - 20.5
hybrids                                          62     62      67.5    + 20.5
pure race                                        0      18.9   - 15
Milk production                        Kg/animal/
yr
local race                                      260     308     401     + 141      54.2
hybrids                                         810    1390    1 469    + 659      62.2
pure race                                      2070    2 393   2 742    + 672       32.5
Meat production                        Kg/animal/
carcass weight                             yr
local race                                      42     60.8    68.6      26.6      63.3
hybrids                                         90     100.5   109.3     19.3       21.4
pure race                                      150     165.5   170.7     20.7       13.8
Calving' rate                             %
local race                                      53     63.8     61       + 8
hybrids                                         58     69.9     71       + 13
pure race                                       69     80.2     82       + 13
Key: qx = unit of forage
- 23 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
Improved living conditions           (i) small scale < 5ha = TD2, 900/yr    (i) small scale < 5ha = TD1, 633/yr
(ii) medium and large scale 5 ha and larger  (ii) medium and large scale 5 ha and larger
= TD 5,700/yr                        = TD 4,724/yr
(iii) Illiteracy rate reduced from 60 to 45  (iii) Illiteracy rate reduced from 60 to 44
percent                               percent
Reduced degradation                   Increased perennial crops: 11,200 ha  Increased perennial crops: 19,718 ha
Soil and water conservation works on 26,400 Soil and water conservation works on 53,044
ha                                    ha
Involve resource users in development  Number of CD actively participating: 230  Number of CD actively participating  162
programs
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
Milk Production (kg/yr/cow)
local race; hybrid; pure race         400;1260; 2600                        401;1469; 2747
Meat production: (kg carcass weighUanimal)
local race; hybrd; pure race          60; 105; 163                          69; 109;171
Cereals yield (MT/ha/yr)                                                    Wheat 15,4 q/ha
barley 15.5 q/ha
WATERSHED AND RANGELAND
MANAGEMENT
area under perennial crops (as percent of  45                               55
agric. land under use)
Soil and Water Conservation activities (ha)  45,000                         53,044
INCOME GENERATING ACTIVITIES
training of young bee-keepers (No.)   160                                   200 of which 129 are women
Soil and water conservation implemented by 80                               100
small private enterprises (%)
Promotion of micro-projects (No.)                                           320 approved; 174 completed; 77 under
implementation
APPLIED RESEARCH                      13                                    12
RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE
Communities having problems of access
(roads) (%)                           48                                    18
Distance to drinking water (km)       1.5                                   0.8
Distance to livestock water (km)      1.5                                   0.9
Communities not having problems of access 39                                46
to schools (%)
Distance to clinic (%)                4.3                                   3.9
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING           4                                     3
(a) Organization of the pop.
CD (No.)                              155                                   162
PDC (No.)                             95                                    103
CP (No.)                              280                                   290
(b) Rate of participation (% of total  8.5                                  9.1
investment)
End of project
- 24 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component            US$ million  US$ million
A. Agricultural Development                        6.00           3.70            62
B. Watershed and Rangeland Management              12.30         18.30           149
C. Income Generating Activities                     1.50          0.00             0
D. Applied Research                                 1.30          0.30            23
E. Rural Infrastructure                           21.30          21.80           102
F. Institutional Strengthening                     5.30           3.00            57
G. Unallocated                                     3.00           0.00             0
Total Baseline Cost                               50.70          47.10
Total Project Costs            50.70          47.10
Total Financing Required            50.70          47.10
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB          NCB         Other 2      N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00         10.00        23.50        0.00        33.50
(0.00)       (7.50)       (12.30)      (0.00)      (19.80)
2. Goods                    3.90          0.00        2.50         0.00         6.40
(2.60)       (0.00)       (0.60)       (0.00)      (3.20)
3. Services                 0.00          0.00        4.80         0.00         4.80
Consultancies              (0.00)        (0.00)       (2.00)       (0.00)      (2.00)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00        3.00         3.00         6.00
Recurrent Costs and        (0.00)        (0.00)       (2.50)       (0.00)      (2.50)
Unallocated
5. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00          0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                     3.90         10.00        33.80        3.00        50.70
(2.60)       (7.50)       (17.40)      (0.00)      (27.50)
- 25 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category        ICB           NCB uthod2                  N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                        0.00          7.80          30.10         0.00         37.90
(0.00)        (4.10)        (14.90)        (0.00)      (19.00)
2. Goods                        2.40          1.10          3.30          0.00          6.80
(1.50)        (0.70)        (2.00)         (0.00)       (4.20)
3. Services                     0.70          0.00           1.70         0.00          2.40
Consultancies                  (0.40)         (0.00)       (1.10)         (0.00)       (1.50)
4. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00          0.00           0.00         0.00
Recurrent Costs and            (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Unallocated
5. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                        3.10           8.90         35.10          0.00         47.10
(1.90)        (4.80)        (18.00)        (0.00)      (24.70)
The difference of approximately US$1.3 million between the original loan amount and the total of the
disbursed and cancelled amounts is partly due to losses that occurred when the loan account was converted
from US$ to Euros, and partly due to a significant depreciation of the Tunisian Dinar during project
implementation; the exchange rates changed from US$1 = 0.9 TD at effectiveness in 1994 to US$1 = 1.38
TD by the end of the project.
IFigures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
_.                     Percent~~1~~age of Appraisal
Component             Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank      Govt.     CoF.      Bank      Govt.     CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
1. Works                19.80     10.00     3.70      19.00     14.70     4.60     96.0  147.0  124.3
2. Goods                 3.20      3.20               4.20       2.60             131.3   81.3
3. Consultancy services  2.00      2.80                1.50      0.50              75.0   17.9
4. Recurrent Costs and   2.50      3.50                                            0.0    0.0
Unallocated
Please note that the CoF in the table above refers to the Beneficiaries contribution and not to GTZ
who, although they co-financed the project, preferred not to share their project details.
- 26 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Financial Analysis. The financial analysis to estimate the impact of the project on farmers' incomes
followed the same approach as in the SAR and three different farm models, small, medium and large scale,
for the different sub-project areas were taken into account. Data were based on surveys carried out by the
"Centre National d'Etudes Agricoles (CNEA)" initiated in 1996, and repeated in 1998 and in 2000. The
surveys covered the three agro-ecological zones of "Mogods/Khroumirie", "Oued Zarqua/Oued El Khil"
and "Oued Tessa Inferieur" and over a sample of 51 CDs with 527 farm families. The farm models
selected are given in a table below.
The financial rates of return were reported to range from 20 to 45 percent at Appraisal. No details by
specific model were given in the SAR. Financial rates of returns (FRRs) for these models have been
re-estimated on the basis of preliminary data on specific investments actually undertaken at farm level
which average at about TD 533/ha. ODESYPANO is still working on this analysis and detailed results
will be available for the preparation of the follow-up project. Some indications on farm incomes before and
after the project are summarized in the table below.
Model                Ha          Farm Income         Farm Income       Increase     FRR (%)
(TD)                 (TD)            (TD)
.______________________     Before Project        W ith Project
I                     1.0            1,620                2,375           775          37.1
Mogods/Khro
umirie
2 -                    4.5            2,730                4,090           1,360         20.5
Mogods/Khro
umirie
3 -                    16.0           3,815                5,738           1,923         8.2
Mogods/Khro
umirie
4-                      1.5           2,270                3,289           1,019         34.7
Oued
Zarqua/Oued
El Khil
5-                     6.0            4,680                7,014           2,334         24.4
Oued
Zarqua/Oued
El Khil
6-                     20.0           7,660                11,495          3,883         14.0
Oued
Zarqua/Oued
El Khil
7-                     1.0            1,290                1,896            606          32.4
Oued Tessa
Inferieur
8 -                    4.5            4,500                6,598           2,098         27.5
Oued Tessa
Inferieur
9-                     24.0           11,500               17,298          5,798         17.2
Oued Tessa
Inferieur
Analysis of returns indicates that net value of production would increase on average, at full development,
- 27 -



by 50% generating financial rates of return on farm investments ranging from 8.2% (Model 3) to as high as
37.1% (Model 1). The financial rate of return for model 3 is lower possibly because of higher investment
costs per unit encouraged by the high potential of the region, but with lower realized benefits. The
financial rate of return for the project as a whole is estimated at 26%. FRR estimates based on a decrease
of 10% of the net incremental benefits range from 7% to 35%, again indicating the financial viability of the
project even when benefits are reduced.
Economic Analysis. The overall ERR of the project is based on quantifiable benefits, mainly plant and
animnal production.  However, the ERR is considered understated, given the strong positive, but
non-quantifiable impact from improved environmental and natural resources management. Increases in
plant and animal production were expected from the adoption of improved techniques. In line with the
analysis presented in the SAR, economic farm-gate prices were calculated for tradable commodities and
inputs using border prices as given in the World Bank's commodity price projections. For non-tradable
items (mainly fodder and olives) financial farm-gate prices were assumed to represent economic prices. As
mentioned above, the benefits stream includes only the value of the incremental agricultural and animal
productions. On the basis of the above, the Economic Rate of Return of the project has been reassessed at
16.3 percent versus 14 percent which was estimated at Appraisal. An ERR of 16.3 percent is considered
satisfactory in view of the conservative assumptions used in the analysis as indicated above.
- 28 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty          Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count          Specialty                    Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
June 1990                   7   A, E, RI, EX, EE, AL,W
Appraisal/Negotiation
June 1993                   7   E,E,AL,EX,U(3)
Supervision
May 1994                    4   NRM, A, E, S                      S            S
December 1994               2   E, S                             HS           HS
April 1995                  3   NRM, A, E                         S            S
May 1996                    2   OA, E                             S            S
January 1997                3   E, AL, NRM                        S            S
June/July 1997              4   OA, E, A, FN                      S            S
(MTR)
May 1998                    3   OA, NRM, A                        S            S
February 1999               5   NRM, OP, AL, E, G                 S            S
September 1999              3   AE, OP, E                         S            S
May 2000                    3   NRM, E, E                         S            S
January 2001                4   NRM, E, S, W                      S            S
ICR
March 2001                  4    E, AL, FN, S                     S            S
(b) Staff7
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation             106.4                     118.7
Appraisal/Negotiation                  70.0                      199.5
Supervision                            178.0                     618.9
ICR                                     10.0                      30.0
Total                                 364.4                      967.1
AE = Agricultural Economist; E = Economist; EX = Extension Specialist; RI  Rural Infrastructure
Specialist; F = Forestry Specialist; FN = Finance Specialist; NRM = Natural Resources Management
Specialist; OP = Operations Officer; P = Procurement Specialist; U    = Unidentifiable; AL  =
Agronomist/Livestock Specialist; S = Sociologist; OA = Operation Analyst; G = GIS Specialist; W =
Women Micro-enterprise Specialist; MTR = Mid-term Review; N.A. = Not Applicable
- 29 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA-Not Applicable)
Rating
El Macro policies                       O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
Oi Sector Policies                      O H   * SU O M   O N   O NA
I OPhysical                              OH *SUOM ON ONA
Oi Financial                            O H   * SU O M   O N   O NA
LI Institutional Development            0 H   * SU O M   0 N   0 NA
Li Environmental                        O H   * SU O M   O N   O NA
Social
l Poverty Reduction               O H   *SUOM      O N   O NA
L Gender                          * H   OSUOM      O N   O NA
Li Other (Please specify)         O H   OSUOM      O N   O NA
Li Private sector development           0 H   * SU O M   0 N   0 NA
Li Public sector management             0 H   * SU O M   0 N   0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                O H   (D SU O M  O N   O NA
- 30 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
O Lending                                            OHIS     S   OU     OHU
E Supervision                                        OHS OS       O  U   O HU
O Overall                                            OHS OS       O  U   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
E Preparation                                        O HS * S     O  U   O HU
El Government implementation performance             0 HS 0 S     0  U   0 HU
El Implementation agency performance                 * HS O S     O U    O HU
El Overall                                           OHS *S       O  U   OHU
- 31 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Banque Mondiale. << Rapport d'evaluation - Republique de Tunisie - Projet de developpement des
zones montagneuses du Nord-Ouest - Rapport d'evaluation du projet >>. Rapport N.
12431 -TUN, 6 decembre 1993.
Banque Mondiale. Tunisie - Projet de developpement des zones montagneuses du Nord-Ouest
(Pret 369 1-TUN) - Rapport d'evaluation a mi-parcours. 15 octobre 1997.
Banque Mondiale. Office Memorandum. Tunisia - Northwest Mountainous Development (Loan
3691-TU) Supervision Mission - May 15-24, 2000.
Banque Mondiale. Tunisie - Projet de developpement des zones montagneuses du Nord-Ouest
(Prat 369 1-TUN) - Aide-memoire de la mission de concertation. 8 au 20 janvier 2001.
Debouvry Pierre. Evaluation de l'approche participative integree. 27 fevrier 2000.
Elloumi M. et Selmi S. Evaluation des PDC en voie d'achevement. Novembre 2000.
Nefzaoui A. Rapport de consultation en recherche. ODESYPANO. Fevrier 1997.
Khemiri Ezzeddine. Impact des programmes de vulgarisation sur l'amelioration de la production
animale. Memoire de fin d'etude. Novembre 2000.
ODESYPANO-GTZ. L'approche participative et integr6e. 1996.
ODESYPANO-GTZ. L'approche Participative et Integree - de la conception a la mise en euvre.
Novembre 2000.
ODESYPANO. Diagnostic participatif pour l'identification d'un programme de recherche
appliquee dans les secteurs d'elevage et de grandes cultures. 1997.
ODESYPANO. Plan de developpement de terroir Jmil. Juillet 1994.
ODESYPANO. Presentation des resultats de la recherche a 1'ODESYPANO. Actes du seminaire.
Mars 1995.
ODESYPANO. Plan de d6veloppement communautaire de Laarab, Nebeur, le Kef. Avril 1995.
ODESYPANO. Plan de developpement communautaire de Bellaich, Beja. Septembre 1996.
ODESYPANO. Plan de developpement communautaire Dradria. Septembre 1996.
ODESYPANO. Les effets des actions de 1'ODESYPANO en matiere de lutte contre la pauvrete.
Mais 1997.
ODESYPANO. Plan de developpement communautaire Chaabnia, Nefza. Juillet 1999.
ODESYPANO. Strategie pour la promotion de Groupements de Developpement Agricole et de la
Peche (GDA). 14 octobre 1999.
ODESYPANO. Plan de developpement communautaire Maddoura - Thibar. 2000.
ODESYPANO. Rapport d'evaluation de l'experience des producteurs relais. Mars 2000.
ODESYPANO. Projet de developpement des zones montagneuses du Nord-Ouest (Pret
- 32 -



3691-TUN). Rapport de synthese de I'avancement du projet au 30/4/2000.
ODESYPANO. Note d'orientation pour le developpement des activites des GDA. 17 juin 2000.
ODESYPANO. Projet de developpement des zones montagneuses du Nord-Ouest (Pret
3691 -TUN). Rapport de synthese de I'avancement du projet au 30/11/2000.
ODESYPANO. Plan de developpement communautaire Oued Bouzid. Le Krib. Decembre 2000.
ODESYPANO. Rferentiel technique. Version pre-definitive. 2001.
ODESYPANO. Direction technique. Version preliminaire. Rapport d'achevement du Projet de
developpement des zones montagneuses    du  Nord-Ouest (PDZMNO) 8/1994-6/2001.
Composantes techniques. Mars 2001.
ICR Mission's Aide-memoire
Resultats de l'enquete 2000
- 33 -



Additional Annex 8. Integrated Participatory Approach (API)
The participatory approach was the cornerstone of the project and this was emphasized in component
design. Following consultations between extension workers, subject matter specialists, and local
communities, the communities were assisted to form groups which were coordinated by Development
Committee (CD) members. The CD, which was selected by local communities, acted as the link between
the administration and the target groups. Priority activities were identified jointly with beneficiaries and
presented in a 5-year Community Development Plan (CDP). To implement the CDP, the beneficiaries
signed yearly contracts with ODESYPANO. The CDP was a crucial document as it: (i) outlined
community priority needs; (ii) presented the socioeconomic context of the community; (iii) and, most
importantly, specified how each party would participate to achieve set goals. In addition, the CDP also
outlined the improved technical solutions to be used by program implementers.
By project end, 162 CD had been established compared to the SAR target of 230; 103 CDP were prepared,
and over 290 contracts (Contrat Programme - CP) were signed and implemented or were under
implementation. A total of 361 Integrated Action Contracts (Contrats Actions Integrees - CAI), were also
signed. The CAI were not part of the original design and they were prepared as an interim measure in
response to the higher demand from local communities to participate once project results became known.
The CAI allowed implementation of priorities jointly identified with conmmunities to start without preparing
CDP which were more involved and took at least two months per CD. An evaluation of the CAI showed
that the results from the CD participating from CAI were likely to be less sustainable than those from CP
based on CDP. Apart from the lack of socio-economic and technical details, the CDs participating through
CAI received less technical assistance and training, therefore the sustainability of investments could be
more problematic. As such, after a two-year period, the implementing unit stopped the preparation of new
CAI and the numbers of CAI fell from a high of 104 in 1996 to only 48 in 2000.
Overall experience with the integrated participatory approach
Process. An animatuer/animatrice was able to prepare an average of five CDP per year with the
assistance of an average of four subject matter specialists. Each CDP was prepared in a space of four
weeks, spread over a two month period. The API was designed as a flexible tool that was adapted and
improved throughout project implementation, moving from an initial heavily socioeconomic context
document to one that more equitably integrated the socioeconomic aspects of communities and the technical
detail needed to achieve set goals. Initial problems were experienced with the quality of technical aspects in
the CDP. Problems were addressed by reducing the total number of CDP prepared per year, and increasing
the time spent in collecting information and adapting solutions to specific areas. The quality problem was
also in part alleviated after the preparation of a technical reference that served as a guide to the CDP
preparation teams for key technical aspects in the Northwest Region of the country.
Evaluation. The project financed a study evaluating the effectiveness of the API. The study was designed
to assess the success of API as a tool to enhance local community participation in the planning and
implementation of agreed project activities. In addition, the results would be an indicator of ownership of
the project by the community, and therefore the potential for the sustainability of investments. A related
study funded by GTZ evaluated the impact of the CDPs on the target groups. These studies indicated the
extent to which communities could continue to function independently after project end.
The studies found that API was an appropriate instrument and that communities had a high level of
awareness of project objectives. Awareness was also reflected by local communities' high demand for
- 34 -



participation in project implementation. The second study found positive impact of the CDP on target
groups but recommended that to make the impact long-term, communities would need additional training.
With increased capacity building, communities would also be empowered to participate more actively in the
decision making process. The impact of the CDP can also be drawn from the positive evolution of
socioeconomic indicators. To improve CDP effectiveness it was decided to carry out reviews of CDP on a
regular basis. However, because of animateurs/animatrices workload the reviews have not been carried out
regularly. Surveys carried out on the perception of the approach taken by animateurs/animatrices, subject
matter specialists and the target groups indicate that it is viewed as a valuable instrument. A parallel study
carried out to assess the extent to which target groups were likely to maintain investments they had helped
establish suggested that communities would maintain works and equipment provided by the project.
Effect of API on adoption of improved technical solutions. The participatory approach was also
successful in encouraging the adoption of improved technical solutions. The adoption rate was higher when
demonstrations were on farmers' lands, mainly because the farmers were able to exchange information on a
regular basis in their routine social gatherings. In addition, farmers were encouraged to participate in the
selection of the type of demonstration and site. This increased ownership. A particularly successful
experience with small-scale animal husbandry farmers (producteurs relais - PR) was the dissemination of
improved animal husbandry techniques. Subject matter specialists first trained small-scale animal
husbandry farmers who were required to relay the message to other community members. The effect was
noted in the increased use of improved techniques and improvements in the quality and quantity of milk and
meat production.
The success of the extension system is moderated by the problems experienced by extension workers in
following up demonstrations on a regular basis. To alleviate the problem, the number of demonstrations
per year was reduced from five to four. Experience also showed that the extent and quality of the message
relayed by the PR depended on their educational background. In the case of complex information, the task
of dissemination was best left to the subject matter specialists.
Future evolution of API. It is clear that the integrated participatory approach will continue to be a very
important instrument in achieving sustainable development objectives. However, the approach will need to
be accompanied by other measures, such as policy changes that increase capacity in community groups to
take charge of their own development. One such policy decision was made; a decree that allows informal
CDs to become official Agricultural Development Groups (GDA). This is an important step towards
creating groups that can participate in the decision making processes and control their own development
agenda, relying less on govemrnment agencies such as ODESYPANO. ODESYPANO has assisted with the
establishment of only a few GDAs, concentrating on CDs that have completed the implementation of a
5-year CDP. Preliminary results show some reluctance on the part of beneficiaries to become GDA
members particularly as they are still not convinced of the value of membership. The reluctance indicates
that the conversion process be carried out slowly to increase the sustainability of groups and investments.
In addition, the text guiding the operation of the GDA is still under preparation. Overall, the analyses of the
API show that to increase the likelihood of the group's sustainability, they should have adequate capacity
to develop their own proposals for presentation to financing institutions, to manage financial resources and
to monitor and evaluate their investments. The issues are presently being examined in the context of the
preparation of a follow-up project.
Women's role in participatory development
The project's contribution to women's development was significant. Project design, particularly the Income
Generating Activities Component, was aimed at highlighting women's development needs. Initially, the
- 35 -



project had a defined set of activities specifically targeted at women, such as beekeeping, poultry, rabbit
rearing, and other small enterprises. To ensure adequate participation of women, the project recruited nine
female extension agents to promote women's roles in development and ensure that their needs and priorities
were taken into account. As a result, of the 162 CDs formed, 120 had female representatives. However, as
project implementation progressed, emphasis shifted from the menu style of targeting to integrating
women's activities into overall project activities. Although this was a logical step in supporting the
development of women, it posed challenges in ensuring adequate expression of women's needs, even when
animatrices were responsible for maintaining a dialogue with the women. Experience with women's
activities showed that the degree of women's participation was determined not only by their awareness of
the possibility of their participation, but also by how the groups were formed. A case in point was the
virtual nonexistence of women's participation in the newly formed GDA, mainly because membership was
by household head - invariably men.
Through participating in various activities, women were able to increase their contribution to family
income. A total of 25 women beneficiaries prepared proposals for funding from BTS and were able to
obtain the required funding, mainly to buy and raise milk and meat producing cattle. Women also received
training on various activities, and approximately 160 young women benefited from targeted training. In
addition, women also benefited from demonstrations of improved techniques both in plant and animal
production.
A strategy exists on the integration of women into agricultural activities, but this is as yet to be made
operational. To ensure adequate integration and participation of women in planning, implementation, and
monitoring and evaluation this strategy will need to be implemented. The follow-up project under
preparation will utilize this strategy during the preparation phase.
- 36 -



