Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12431-TUN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
NORTHWEST MOUNTAINOUS AREAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
December 6, 1993
Agriculture Operations Division
Maghreb and Iran Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distrbution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(September 1993)
Currency Unit    =   Tunisian Dinar (DT)
UIS$1.00         =   D 0.987
D 1.00           =   US$1.01
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
API           Integrated & Participating Approach (Approche Participee et Integree)
ASAL          Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
ASIL          Agricultural Sector Investment Loan
BNA           Banque Nationale Agricolt
CDA          Centre de Dvreloppement et d'Animation (Extension-Development
Center)
CRDA          Commissariat R6gional de Developpement Agricole
(Regional Agricultural Development Commission)
DCU           Douar Credit Union
DDC           Douar Development Committee
DDP           Douar Development Plan
DG            Direction Generale (General Directorate)
DR            Direction Regionale
EDA           Extension - Development Agents
EEC           European Economic Community
FAO-CP        Food & Agricultural Organization - Cooperative Program
FA            Force Account
GIS           Geographic Information System
GOT           Government of Tunisia
GTZ           Deutsche  aesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
(German Technical Assistance)
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
KfW           Kreditasstalt fMir Wiederaufbau of the Federal Republic of Germany
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IDA           International Development Association
INRAT         Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique de Tunisie
IRESA         Institut de la Recherche et de l'Enseignement Superieur Agricoles
LCB           Local Competitive Bidding
M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
NWMADP    Northwest Mountainous Areas Development Project
NWRDP         Northwest Rural Development Project
O&M           Operations and Maintenance
ODESYPANO Office du Developpement Sylvo-Pastoral du Nord-Ouest
RC            Research Committee
RF            Research Fund
SMS           Subject-Matter Specialist
WFP           World Food Program



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPIBLIC OF TUNISIA
NORTHWEST MOUNTAINOUS AREAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project S    _mma
Borrower:          Republic of Tunisia
Beneficiaries:     Ministry of Agriculture
Office de Developpement Sylvo-Pastoral du Nord-Ouest
Rural population of the Northwest region
Amolunt:           US$27.5 million equivalent loan
Terms:             Seventeen years, with a five-year grace period, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
P'roject Obdectives:  The project addresses the important problems of rural poverty and natural
resource degradation. It would help restore sustainable range, forest and farming
activities, reducing soil degraedation, erosion and sedimentation in reservoirs as
well as increasing productivity and incomes in this impoverished region of
'unisia. By using a participatory approach, it would strengthen farmers' pling
and implementation capacity, and improve the responsiveness of rural service
agencies to farmers' needs.
Project DescriptLon: The project would support development of a participatory approach to watershed
rehabilitation in about 50 micro-atchments in the Governorates of Beja, El Kef,
Siliana, Jendouba and Bizerte over a six-year period. Treatments would be
into,grated across a micro-catchment, and selected and implemented with the
participation of the local population. Treatments would include improved range
management, improved fodder production, soil and conservation works. The
project would also provide such basic infrastructure as feeder roads, potable
water, health centers and schools. The projects would strengthen the planning,
coordination, and implementation capacity of the executing agency and village
groups. The project would provide for demand-driven, short-term applied
research to address key development constraints in the region. The micro-
enterprise development component would promote, on a pilot scheme basis, the
development of the informal sector and the establishment of village credit
associations. The Geographic Information Service (GIS) would support surveys
and inventories, selection and management of conservation areas and monitoring
and evaluation. The Project would finance land surveys needed for land titling.
This document has a restricted distribution and n.ny be .tsed by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherw'se be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
STAb_FF APASAL REPORT
REP"LIC OF TNIS:A
NORTHWEST MOUNTA0INOUS AREAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Low and Project Sunumary (continued)
Benefits and sks: Project benefits focus on poverty reduction and sustainable resource management.
The project would increase the incomes of poor farmers living in remote,
mountainous and hilly areas in the Northwest region by increasing output of
crops, fodder, and livestock products. It would also increase vegetative cover and
control soil degradation. By adopting a participatory approach in planning and
implementation, it would give village communities an important role in planning
and managing their own development needs. It would also make rural service
agencies r.ore responsive to village communities' priorities. Its success could
provide a model for participatory poverty reduction and natural resource
management in Tunisia and elsewhere. Nevertheless, the project has institutional
and technical risks: poor participation by beneficiaries, slower adoption of
improved farming practices and sustainability. The projects' participatory
approacr. is designed to gain the trust and involvement of the benefliciaries,
generate a sense of ownership, and ensure sustainability. Technologies have
already been successfully introduced in the project area. However, in areas where
this has not been the case, treatnents would be tested and adopted. The project
design incorporates relevant experiences from completed and ongoing projects,
adopts a conservative implementation schedule, and limits project interventions to
viable priority activities.



STAFF APPRA1SAL REPORT
REPIBLC OF TUNISA
NORTHIWEST MOUNTAINOUS AREAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Lean an, Prolect Summay
costs. FInda   and Disbursement Summary
FtuLated Proiect Costs
Local           Foreign.oa
-IJ        S$ million)-
COMPONENTS
Agricultural Development               3.1               1.8         4.9
Watershed & Rangeland                  7.7               1.2          8.9
Income Gen. Activities                 1.0              0.1           1.1
Applied Research                       0.5              0.7           1.2
Inst. Strengthening                    2.1              2.4          4.5
Rural Infrastructure                   9.6              7.2          16.8
Unallocated                            1.3              1.0            3
TOTAL BASE COST                     25.3              14.4         39.7
Physical Contingencies               2.2               1.4          3.6
Price Contingencies                  5.9             15           7.4
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                 33.4/             1.           50.7
*Totals may not add up due to rounding.
La including US$8.2 million of taxes and duties
Source                                Local           Foreign        Total
-=----(US$ million)-
World Bank                            10.2              17.3        27.5
Beneficiaries                          3.7                           3.7
Goverrnent                            11.3               -           11.3
Net Project Cost                    25.2              17.3        42.5
Taxes & Duties                       8.2               -           8.2
TOTAL                                33A              17.3        50.7
Fstimated Disbureot
IBRD Fiscal year
122.4  125  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002
Annual             0.04   2.7   3.2   5.5   4.4   5.5    4.4   1.0   0.5
Cunmulative        0.04   2.8   6.0  11.5  15.9  21.4   25.8  26.9  27.5
Economic Rate of Return: 14 percent
Staff ARRWrS  Report:   No. 12431-TUN
DUNs No.:              IBRD 25128
IBRD 25129



STAFF APrrASAL RERORT
REP ]BLIC OF        SIA
NORHWEST> OlUTAINOXUS AREAS DEVELOPMGMT PRQJX3T
Table of Contents
I. NTRODUCTION ..              ...................                                   I
II.  THE RURAL SECTOR  ...........................                .                   2
A. MainFeaures .................                             .3
B. Poverty and Basic Servim ...3
C. Constraints Relevant to the Projec                 ..4
D. Bank Lending in Agriculture and Lessons of Experience .................       5
E. Bank's Lending Strategy for the Sector ............................           8
M.  THE PROJECT AREA ............................,                                    8
A. Location and Resources       ...........................                      8
B. Farming Practices and Potential    ...........................                9
C. Population and Employment .............. .............    10
IV. THE PROJECT                  ...........................                         10
A. Objectives     ................                 ...............    10
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement .................................    11
C. Main Components        ............1...........    1
D. Detailed Features ....     ...................                               12
E. Cost Estimates               .......................                         16
F. Financing ......................   17
G. Procurement              .......................  18
H. Disbursements .........                .............    20
I.  Accounts and Audit     ...................       .....................    21
V.  ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION  ......... ..                   ..............   21
A. Inplementation Strategy  .....................................    21
B. Project Implementation ......................................    23
C. Project Organization ........................................    24
D. Monitoring and Evaluation ....................................    25
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS    ..26
A. Project Benefits .26
B. Economic Analysis .28
C. Project Risks ............................................    28
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ..........................   30
This report Is based on the finns  of an apprisal mision which viited Tunisia In June 1993, composed of
Messrs. M. Woldu (Task Manager), Stier (Bank), Doolette, Mlly, Lazier, UIberg and Tiller (Consultants)



(ii)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
NORTWEVST MOUNTAINOUS AREAS DFVELOPNENT PROJECT
Table of Contents (continuedj
Page No.
Supporting Tables
Table 1. Project Cost Sumr-ry .................................   32
Table 2. Project Components by Year, Base Cost .....................   33
Table 3. Project Components by Year, including Contingencies .... .........   34
Table 4. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements .......................   35
Annex 1. SupervisionPlan .........        ...........................   36
Annex 2. Implementation Schedule ..............................   43
CHART 1. ODESYPANO's Organizational Chart
2. Douar Development Plan Scheme
MAPS   1. IBRD 25128 - Project Area Boundaries
2. IBRD 25129 - Sub-Project Areas (micro-zones)
ANNEXES IN TIlE IM.LEMENTATION VOLUME
1. P.verty and Community Participation
2. Agricultural and Animal Production
3. Watershed and Rangeland Management
4. Organization and Management
5. Income Generating Activities
6. Financial and Economic Analysis
7. Project Cost Summary
8. Key Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
9. Summary of Implementation Schedule
10. List of Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
NORTHWEST MOUNTAINOUS AREhS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01         Despite impressive socio-economic progress, about 7 percent of Tunisia's population or
an estimated half-million people still live in poverty. The majority of the poor live in rural areas with
about one third of the rural poor situated in the Northwest region of the country. Average household
expenditures in this region are less than 60 percent of the national average. The cause of this poverty
is ,oth low productivity and lack of infastructure.  Agricultural yields are low-the result of
inappropriate farming practices, soil erosion, limited adoption of new technologies, and low levels of
investment. Soil degradation is widespread lowering agricultural productivity and causing siltation of
important dams in the region. Moreover, the region lacks productive-enhancing services such as
extension and applied research and basic infastructure as feeder roads, potable water, health centers and
schools. Unemployment is high resulting in large outmigration of male heads of household, further
contributing to the ranks of the poor in urban areas and other regions.
1.02         To increase the income and improve the living conditions of the population of the region
and to reduce future degradation of its natural resource base (thereby arresting the decline in agricultural
productivity and sedimentation rate of the Sidi Salem reservoir), the Govermnent prepared a fifteen-year
cievelopment program and launched in 1982, the Bank-funded Northwest Rural Development Project
(NWRDP) (Loan 1997-TUN). The project, which supported the first part of a 15-year pregram, was
completed in 1989. The Bank provided financing through the ASAL II (Loan 3078-TUN) for the interim
period 1990-93.
1.03         Poverty reduction and development of the Northwest region remain top Government
priorities. At a Government organized conference in Tunisia in July 1992, participants-including
government officials, farners, NGOs, and external development agencies-reconfirmed the importance
of the region and discussed poverty reduction strategies. The conference agreed on the need for: (a) an
integrated approach which recognizes the interrelationship between decline in agricultural productivity,
natural resource degradation, and rura! poverty; (b) a participatory approach to ensure the involvement
of beneficiaries in project selection, preparation and execution; and (c) provision of enabling
infrastructure and essential support services.
1.04          The Government requested that the Bank support a project that builds on the experience
of the NWRDP and follows the principles agreed at the July 1992 conference. The proposed Northwest
Mountainous Areas Development Project (NWMADP) was prepared by the Government with the
assistance of the FAO/CP and is based on the lessons learned from the NWRDP and other poverty
alleviation projects and utilizes, in particular, the successful experience of GTZ-financed pilot activities
in the same geographic region. It was pre-appraised by the World Bank in January 1993 and appraised
in June 1993. The project is consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy discussed at the
Board in May 1993. This strategy identifies poverty reduction and natural resource management as key
developmental issues for Tunisia in which the Bank will play a leadership role, helping the Government
through lending, analytical work, and donor coordinaticn.



- 2 -
II. TlE RURAL SC R
A. Mobheatg
2.01         Tunisia land area can be divided into three main ecological zones. The northern zone
covers 25 percent of Tunisia's land area, and is characterized by high rainfal (400-1000 mnm), the most
fertile land in the ccuntry. The Northwestern corner of this zone contains productive natural pastures and
forests, and is the area in which the proposed Northwest Mountainous Areas Development Project is
located. The central zone covers 15 percent of Tunisia and receives between 200-400 mm of rainfall and
is used agriculturally primarily for cereals, olive trees, and as pasture-land for grazing. The region is
dominated by alfalfa grass and large shrubs. The Southern region covers 60 percent of the country's total
land area and is a pre-desert zone receiving less than 200 mm of rainfal each year. Vegetation is sparse
consisting of primarily of low growiwg shrubs. h.ere is some extensive grazing, and some irrigated
agriculture based on the use of ground water obtained from wells.
2.02         Out of a total land area in Tunisia of about 16.4 millioI hectares, land for agriculture and
grazing totals 8.5 million ha (52 percent). Of this, the cultivable area covers 5.2 million ha; forests and
grass cover 1.2 mnillion ha, and 2.2 million ha are used for grazing. In 1990-91, 33 percen of the
cultivable area was planted in cereals, 33 percent under fruit trees, 5 percent under forage crops, 2
percent under pulses, 3 percent under vegetables and industial crops and 22 percent was left fallow.
Widespread soil degradation is one of the most serious problems threatening a large proportion of the
productive land. Most of the people who live in or around forests are dependent to varying degrees upon
forestry for employment, fuel wood, grazing, and other forest products. In the forest .reas, population
density ranges from 60 to 120 inhabitants per kIni exceeding the national average of 36 inhabitants per
kma2. Erosion threatens about 3 million ha, of which about half is already badly eroded.
2.03         An estimated 3.0 million people, or 37 percent of Tunisia's population live in rural areas.
For the majority of the rural residents, agriculture is the main source of income aud employment.
Farming practices are traditional, predominantly rainfed, and prone to production risks linked to variable
climatic factors. Mixed farming is common, with about 60 percent of the households raising livestock.
The size of Tunisia's livestock herd is increasing with cattle and poultry the most rapidly. Milk and meat
yields for cattle and sheep are low due to inadequate feed quality and quantity; a frequent lack of water;
and local breeds of livestock which, though hardly able to survive under harsh conditions, are poor meat
and milk producers, frequent incidence of poor livestock shelters, poor sanitary conditions, inadequate
livestock health services and general absence of milk marketing outlets.
2.04         Unemployment and underemployment are high, estimated at 16 percent and
50 percent, respectively, and rising, resulting in large outmigration of predominantly adult male heads
of household to urban areas and abroad. Migration has resulted in urban congestion, exerting pressure
on housing, sewage, waste disposal, water distribution, transportation, and energy. While emigration
has been a major outlet for surplus labor in the past and a source of remittances, prospects for significant
net out-migration in the years ahead appear limited.



-3-
B. Povertv and Basic Services
2.05         Tunisia has achieved substantial gains in the incomes and living standards of its
population, and the proportion of the population living in poverty declined significantly from 22 percent
to about 7 percent between 1975 and 1990. This reduction is attributed to the country's rapid economic
growth. Despite such an impressive progress, however, an estimated 0.5 million people live at or below
the absolute poverty level of US$200 of which about 50 percent are in rural areas. Average household
expenditurr  re less than 60 percent of the national average. Among the poor, women and the landless
are particu'ukiy disadvantaged. TLe concentration of the poor is significantly higher in the Northwest
region where 33 percent of the nation's rural poor live. Within the region poverty is concentrated in
mountaivous areas where erosion and deforestation are severe, the natural resource base is poor and basic
infrastrucrure and social services are lacking.
2.06         Poverty in rural Tunisia and degradation of natural resources are closely linked. One of
the most fundamental constraints to increased agricultural production and unproved well-being of the
people of the rural population is soil erosion and deforestFion. Despite the potential to improve crop and
animal production, agricultural yields remain low, the result of limited use of fa m technology, lack of
services, and soil deterioration. In addition, off-farm incc-ne and non-traditional activities that could
supplement agricultural incomes and employment have not been developed despite potential demand in
nearby cities and tourist centers.
2.07         Despite significant improvements in socio-economic indicators, access to basic social
services in the rural areas remams inadequate. Dnnking water remains one of the main constraints where
as much as 50 percent of the rural population lacks access to safe water. The great majority rely on
community wells, water peddlers, streams and reservoir which are usually unsanitary. The infant
mortality rate in the rural areas is 95 per 1000 live births, compared with 66 for all of Tunisia, and
illiteracy averages 60 percent, compared with 45 percent for the nation as a whole. The illiteracy rate
varies significantly by gender with twice the proportion of females as of males classified as illiterate.
Many villages do not have schools, and in those areas with schools, difficuldes renman in mainning
school attendance among rural children, particularly girls, due to, among other things, inadequate saitary
facilities.
2.08         The road network is linmted to rudimentary unimproved earth roads, most of which
becomt impassable in winter. Most vilage communities remain isolated. The main rural roads lack
maintenance and very often disintegrate shortly after construction due to poor workmanship. Most roads
are unclassified roads, unimproved earth tracks which are outside the responsibility of the Ministry of
Public Works. Limited access in the rural areas prevents efficient execution of agricultural extension
services and hinders marketing activities and delivery of inputs to farmers. Largely due to lack of
maintenance, an increasing proportion of the road network has deteriorated.
2.09         Agricultural services are organized at the regional (Govemorate) level in Agricultural
Commissions ("Commissariat Regional de Developpement Agricole," CRDA). CRDAs are responsible
to provide agricultural extension to farmers, undertake forest planting and management and coordinate
the various public organizations and project authorities working in agriculture at the Governorate level.
Because of weak institutional capability and limited resources, CRDAs are particularly ill-adapted to
serving areas such as that proposed to be developed under the Northwest Mountainous Areas
Development Project (NWMADP) characterized by mountainous terrain, a high rate of soil erosion, a
poor population dependent on small fragmented holdings, and large tracts of land more suitable for forests



-4 -
and pastures than for cereal production.  The proposed project would support and strengthen
supplementary support services specifically directed at the problems of the Region
C. C_rn,         Re-InLant tO th Prolec
2.10         The main natural resource and Institutional constraints facing the rural sector which are
of particular relevance to the project are: (a) scarcity of agricultural land; and (b) land tenure issues; and
(c) inadequate agricultural support services.
Scarity of ARIcuItura Land
2.11         The major constraint facing the rural sector in general and the Northwest mountainous
areas in particular is scarcity of agricultural land relative to the rural population (2.4 ha of cultivable and
pasture land per person). With a high household/land ratio, most farms are smal', often too small for
viable faming under rainfed conditions. As the rural population increases, so does the cropping of
marginal land and the size of livestock herds in pasture land.
2.12         About 1.5 millioni ha of arable land are seriously threatened by soil erosion and water run-
off due to inappropriate agricultural techniques and lack of vegetation. This has resulted in high levels
of sedimentation in the country's 13 major dams and a reduction of about 30 percent in their total storage
capacity. The rangelands and forest areas are undergoing serious degradation, caused by overgrazing and
uncontrollec tting for firewood. Marginal lands on steep slopzs which are prone to erosion are being
increasingly brought under cultivation, and expanded livestock herds increasingly overgraze pasture land,
destroying vegetative cover, and accelerating soil erosion. In the Region, the proposed project would
assist in raising productivity and hence the viability of small farms while addressing the deterioration of
the soil, pasture and water resources. Other efforts more broadly based in the country are being
supported by the Agricultural Sector Investment Loan (ASIL).
Land Tenure
2.13         Land tenure issues form one of the major constraints to agricultural developments. The
most important manifestations comprise (i) lack of security of tenure, (ii) fragmentation of holdings, and
(iii) poor management of resources by absentee landlords. Land tenure constraints lower the productivity
of land; an absence of land titles (only partially compensated for by certificates of possession) impedes
transactions in land, raises difficulties in using land as collateral for loans, and redtices incentives to
invest in land improvement; increasing firgentation of fanms due to the inheritance laws represents one
of the major constraints to improved environmental management by small farmers; and a long titling
process discourages land registration.
2.14         The Government has recognized the severity of these problem and has imposed a
maximum and niinimum farm size in irrigated areas, undertaken land consolidation, and issued titles. The
Governnent is developing a strategy for tackling these problems by defining the legal and institutional
framework for addressing constraints on agrarian land holdings in rainfed areas, particularly increasing
fragmentation. Plans are to follow up with a pilot land consolidation program which will be supported
by the ASIL. These issues are of particular importance in the Northwest region - the area in which the
NWMADP would be located. The proposed project would support pilot land titling effort by carrying
out land surveys.



-5-
Anictura  SUf    rSr
2.15         Agricultural support services remain weak, parnicularly in research, extension, and credit.
The major problem of agricultural research is its excessively theoretical orienitation and lack of
responsiveness to curren agricultural problems faced oy farmers. Ag-cultural extension is inadequate
particularly to small and medium-scale farmers. The Bank-financed Re' -arch and Extension Project
(Ln. 3217-TUN) is carrying out a nationwide restructuring of research and extension services with the
aim of improving efficiency of research and quality of extension througb training. The proposed project
would strengthen agricultural services in the mountainous areas (para. 4.054.10) and would support
demand-driven applied research to address specific development constraints of tie region (paras.
4.17-4.19).
2.16         Major issues in rural credit include limited accessibility to small farmers to finance farm
inputs, low loan recovery, long approval process and government-controlled low financing margins which
are making lending institutions unwilling and unable to cope with the high transaction cost in the
distribution and recovery of credit to small-scale farmers. The Government is taking action to remedy
the situation through a new uniform investmnent code and the decision to let the banks determine lending
terms in line with market forces. With assistance from the Bank through the proposed Rural Finance
Project which is under preparation, the Government would strengthen the BNA and, in particular, would
improve its monitoring and evaluation procedures.
2.17         Development of resource-poor rural areas facing problems of natural resource degradation
continues to be a major preoccupation of the Government. The Government is addressing these
constraints through appropriate policy measures and investment programs. These measures include:
public investnent in the rehabilitation and maintenance of natural resources and rural infrastructure with
participation of village communities, improving formal land titling and promoting the consolidation of
farms into viable economic units through legal reforms and economic incentives, improving the efficiency
of research and extension, strengthening rural financial markets, and strengthening agricultural support
services.
2.18          The proposed project aims at reducing rural poverty through sound project interventions
that integrate increases in agricultural productivity and support for non-farm production activities with
conservation of natural resources and the provision of basic social infrastructure. Projects and programs
which are well targeted focussing on priority activities and which also improve access by the poor to basic
social services (education, water, health care) have proven to be most effective in improving living
conditions of the poor.
D. Bank Lending in AricuIture and Lessons of E xeience
2.19          The Bank has supported and is continuing to support Tunisia's agricultural sector through
lending for agricultural credit, rural development, forestry, fisheries, irrigation, research and extension
projects, and sectoral adjustment. To date 101 loans and credits have been made in all sectors, supported
by US$4.4 billion Bank and IDA finds, net of cancellations. In agriculture, 16 projects have been
completed and five are being implemented, totaling US$573 million in Bank lending. These include: (a)
two loans for fisheries development (FY72 and FY80,both completed); (b) seven irrigation projecs, of
which five have been completed: Irrigation Rehabilitation (FY75), Sidi Salem Multipurpose Irrigation
(FY78), Southern Irrigation (FY79), Medjerda/Nebhana Irrigation (FY82), Central Tunisia Irrigation



-6 -
(FY83); two are on-going: Irrigation Management linprovement (FY86) and Gabes Irrigation (FY86);
(c) four agricultural credit projects (FY72, FY77, FY81, and FY88), all completed); (d) three area
development projects: Cooperative Farmn (FY67), Northwest Rural Development (FY82), and Northwest
Agricultural Production (FY85); (e) a grain storage and distribution project (FY82). all completed; (f)
two agricultural sector adjustment loans (FY87 and FY89), one of which has been satisfactorily
comnpleted; and (g) an on-going forestry development (FY88) and agricultural research and extension
projects (FY91). The Second Forestry Project has recently been approved by the Bank. The Agricultural
Sector Investment Loan (ASIL) has been approved by the Board on Novernber 18, 1993 and the Rural
Finance and the Rural Road Projects are in an advanced stages of preparation. In general, project
performance in the agricultural sector has been goed to excellent with only a few exceptions. The
agricultural portfolio is performing extremely well with all projects without significant problems. The
policy dialogue is excellent with Bank missions having access to important policy makers.
Performance of Related Projects
2.20         Performance of Bank-financed projects directed at the Northwest Region has been mixed.
Recently OED reviewed projects in Tunisia which are of particular relevance to the proposed project
include the Northwest Agricultural Production Project (Loan 2502-TUN), and the Northwest Rural
Development Project (Loan 1997-TUN). The Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) of the
Northwest Agricultural Production Project (Loan 2502-TUN) noted that the project suffered from a top-
down management structure and a frequent turnover of management and key staff. It highlights that for
extension programs to work and be sustainable, projects need to be well-designed and tailored to the
needs of the various categories of farmers who should actively participate in demonstrations of new
technologies and training. The audit emphasizes the importance of realistic project preparation, and the
need for technologies to have been tested in Tunisia before they are introduced on a large scale. The
Agricultural Research and Extension Project has used the lessons of this projec. to carry out a nationwide
reorganization of research and extension services.
2.21         The Northwest Rural Development Project (Loan 1997-TUN) was directed at poverty
reduction and environmental conservation. The project becane effective in 1982 and was closed in 1989,
two years behind schedule and after two extensions. The project successfully provided badly needed basic
services including water supplies and schools and raised consumption levels. Access roads financed by
the project made a big difference in the lives of the isolated rural people in the mountains. Efforts to
slow down degradation had mixed results: control efforts succeeded in ravines; installation of gully plugs
and plantings on banks exceeded targets; construction of stone terraces along contours met targets, but
vegetative contour bands disappeared later; stone contour terraces were accepted on fallow land because
the collection of stones made the land fit to cultivate; and targets on pasture improvements were met
partially; but measures on private lands were not accepted. Project activities to increase agricultural
production were less satisfactory due mainly to shortages of extension staff, frequent management changes
and weak farmer participation.
Lessons from Experience
2.22         The main lessons are: (a) sustainable development of resource-poor areas can only be
achieved through beneficiary participation in project planmng and implementation; (b) projects which
depend on a participatory approach through promotion of village groups require longer preparation
period; and (c) the need for a thorough understanding of prevailing farming practices and the importance
of testing technologies before they are introduced on a large scale.



-7-
2.23         Lessons from the above two projects, particularly the NWRDP, and from other relevant
international experiences with poverty and environmental projects have been considered in the design of
this project. Four features, derived from these lessons, have been incorporated in the design of the
proposed project. First, unlike the first project, a participatory approach has been adopted since the early
stages of preparation of this project, as evidenced by the participation of beneficiary representatives,
government officials and donors in workshops organized by the Govenmment. In  4ition, to methodically
include as wide a participation as possibte, the project was prepared over a four-year period of intensive
discussion and reflection. The resulting participation approach would ensure the commitment and
cooperation of the beneficiary population.
2.24         Second, in view of the project authority's "Office du Developpement Sylvo-pastoral du
Nord-Ouest" (ODESYPANO) overly centralized structure and top-down management approach, it has
been reorganized into a decentralized structure more adapted to the participation of village communities.
Furthermore, an action plan and timetable has been agreed with the Government on the disengagement
of ODESYPANO from certain activities (e.g., input supply, credit, milk collection) in order to meet the
challenges under the newly defined mandate of participatory development. The implementation strategy
envisages a participatory approach which promotes village organizations and local NGOs in decision
making and execution of project activities. In the course of planning and implementing, villagers would
be consulted and invited to participate in the definition of their priority development needs, detailed
investment opportunities and implementation arrangements. This strategy combines a centralized
definition of objectives, management and M&E within ODESYPANO, with a decentralized execution
including public and private organizations (NGOs and village organizations). This approach allows for
much greater flexibility than the strategy under the first project. Purthermore, by relying on the ability,
experience and motivation of village organizations, it would promote intensive participation of
beneficiaries at all levels.
2.25         Third, because of the implementation experiences gained in the NWRDP, ODESYPANO
staff have a better understanding of the ecological conditions in the project area's various micro-regions.
Furthermore, technical opportunities exist that could address major constraints in crop and animal
production in the project area. To improve the chances of adoption of imoroved farming systems, the
project would promote technological packages that have already been tested in the area. For certain
technical constraints for which no technological package exists, the project would support applied research
to address priority areas. The project would strengthen the agriculture extension network, by putting in
place subject matter specialists and extension agents (male and female) and by enriching their competence
with additional training.
2.26         The proposed strategy would demonstrate to the village community technological
opportunities in farming systems, soil conservation methods and range management practices. The
experience under a pilot scheme provided valuable experience in integrated farming systems approach
linking crop, animal production and soil conservation activities and in developing a participatory
approach. Furthermore, using the experience of the on-going Forestry project, pilot improved pastures
would be established on state land for use by herders and as compensation for traditional forest use which
is increasingly unavailable. Local participation is actively promoted in the establishment and use of these
improved pastures, which is proving successful.
2.27         Fourth, to promote the participation of women in the planning and management of their
resources, the project would recruit and train women development agents and wonld support specific
actions designed to improve their social conditions (potable water, school and health services) particular



-8-
women's needs and benefit women's groups in these rural areas. To supplement agrcultural incomes,
the project wculd support, on a pilot basis, off-farm and non-traditional activities the products of which
are demanded in nearby cities and tourist centers. The main beneficiaries are expected to be women and
the landless.
E. Bank's Lending Stea for the Sector
2.28         The Bank's lending strategy for the sector has aimed at increasing output productivity and
exports, and supporting the necessary policy and institutional refonms in the sector (Agricultural Sector
Assistance Strategy Brief No. 1 1579-TUN). This has included: (a) supporting institutional strengthening
and particularly technical support services of research and extension, improving implementation
capabilities especially at on-farm level and reforming government enterprises involved in agricultural
marketing; credit and input supply; (b) rationalizing the public sector investment program especially in
irrigation, forestry, soil and water conservation works; and (c) expanding credit supply, especially for
small and medium farms, together with increasing the efficiency of credit institutions, and improving
fnancial sector policies to encourage greater private investment in the sector.
2.29         Also important in the Bank's lending strategy are measures to reduce subsidies and price
supports to promote increased use of market forces, interest rate refonns and more private sector
involvement in agricultural marketing, increased focus on environmental concerns to ensure that in the
long-rnm Tunisia preserves the natural resource base for sustainable agriculture; and increased focus on
poverty reduction with the active involvement of the population by supportng measures to unprove the
income and living conditions of the disadvantaged population tirough improved agricultural productivity
and promotion of off-farm income supporting activities, and provision of basic social services (primary
education, potable water and health services) and access roads.
M. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Location and Resources
3.01         The NWMADP's development actions would cover an area of about 310,000 ha, mainly
in the Northwest region of Tunisia. The project area extends into five governorates: Beja, Bizerte,
Jendouba, Kef and Siliana with significant variations in rainfall and slopes. The area to be developed
contains three distinct agro-ecological zones named after significant geographical features, namely,
Kroumirie-Mogods, a mountain range, and Oued Zarga-Oued Khil and Oued Tessa, which are rivers.
The physical environment of the project area is described in detail in Annex 5.
3.02         The Kroumirie-Mogods sub-project area is the northernmost part covering 154,000 ha
of rugged mountainous terrain with extensive forests, high rainfall (600-1500 mm), limited arable land
(40%), and a population of over 100,000 people. The zone specifically targeted in the sub-project area
total 64,000 ha. This zone covers the northwest portions of the Govemorate of Beja, Bizerte, and
Jendouba. The lower slopes and plains are cropped intensively and have a good tree plantation potential,
while the cleared land on steeper slopes is heavily eroded and is most suited for pastoral or sylvo-pastoral
production systems.



-9-
3.03         The Oued-Zarga-Oued Khil sub-project area covers 65,000 ha in Beja and Bizerte
Governorates. It is mountainous, with an anmual rainfall of 500-800 mm, a large cultivated area (80%)
with serious erosion problems. The target zone covers a .4=1 of 49,000 ha. The proportion of cleared
land is much greater than in the Kroumirie-Mogods area. The scrubland has sparse vegetation, and
natural grassland is very limited. Much of the area is too steep for annual crops. The Lower Oued Tessa
sub-project area, which covers the middle and lower reaches of that river basin, is the soutiernmost of
the project area covering parts of Beja, Kef and Siliana Govemorates. It covers 91,000 ha of hilly
country, receives lower rainfall (400-550 mm), and it is extensively cultivated (65%). The area is
generally steep and heavily gullied. The zone targeted for project action totals 57,000 ha. The farm
types are mainly distinguished by size, being essentially the same from an agro-ecological standpoint.
In moving from the first to the third sub-zone, the extent of mountains, the natual forest and the average
rainfall decreases.
B. FEamr ng Practices and Potenal
3.04         Despite marked variations in agro-ecological conditions, the traditional farming systems
are surprisingly similar across the project area. The general pattem is subsistence agriculture on small
farms with cereal (durum wheat,barley), pulses, and some fodder cropping integrated with livestock
production. Soil preparation consists of light plowing. Manual weeding is common on small- and
medium-sized farms. The average yields of crops are low: wheat, 0.6-1.1 ton/ha; fodder crops of vetch
oats, 2.20-3.40 tons of hay/ha; and food pulses, 0.6 ton/ha. The lowest yields are in the lower Oued
Tessa region, while the highest are in the Oued Zarga and Oued hil regions.
3.05         Livestock management is extensive and semi-extensive. The relative importance of cattle
to sheep/goats varies with rainfall, with catde (mainly indigenous breeds) being more important in the
more hunuid regions and sheep and goats dominating in the semi-arid areas. Small farms possess an
average of half a cow, five sheep, and two goats. Medium-sized farms in general have only three times
those numbers, in spite of their proportionately greater land resources. Nutrition is the major constraint
to improved livestock production because natural pastures are degraded due to overgrazing and lack of
management. Major livestock productivity increases could be achieved by cross-breeding with more
productive stock, improvements in fodder availability, and animal health services.
3.06         The main sources of fodder are forests and naual pastures which have been degraded
by overgrazing and consist maily of herbaceous and shrubby species with low nutritional value. Fallow,
cereal stubble, and fodder crops also supply significant quantities of fodder. During the winter when
there is a shortage of natural fodder, grain, straw and hay are often fed as supplements. Applied research
is currently being carried out to identify management systems which can improve the nutritional value
of the natural pastures on forest lands.
3.07          Settlement is scattered and the villages contain a number of smaller settlement units or
"douars".' Land distribution is skewed, with the smallest farms often non-viable. About 83 percent of
farms in Kroumine-Mogods and 65 percent of farms in Oued Zarga/Oued Khil and Oued Tessa are less
[/    A "douar" is a rural settlement of interrelated extended families linked by tribal ties and
having its own defined territory. The "douar" represents the unit of intervention for the
project.



- 10-
than 10 ha as a result of considerable fragmentation. The project area was selected on the basis of the
criteria which consists of severe soil erosion and deforestation problems, lack of infrastructure and basic
social services and the willingness of the douar members to participate in the project. Of its 310,000 ha,
170,000 ha (or 55 percent) are seriously threatened. The remainder is already under forests and pastures
(30 percent), used for non-agricultural proposes (7%), cultivated in the plains (8%). Project's intervention
on soil conservation and agricultural intensiftcation would be undertaken on the 170,000 ha which are
threatened and can be improved with available technical packages .
3.08         Agricultural yields are low - the result of the cultivation of crops in unsuitable conditions
(high slopes, poor soil), and limited adoption of new technologies, and low levels of investment.
Livestock development is constrained by limited feed than can be supported. A large proportion of arable
land is being exploited beyond sustainable levels forcing cultivation in marginal lands on steep slopes
prone to severe soil erosion. Off-farm and non-traditional activities that could supplement income and
employment from traditional activities have not been developed despite potential demand in nearby cities
and tourist centers. The proposed project would strengthen extension services to promote adoption of new
technologies and increased feed availability and animal health services. It would also promote pilot
miicro-enterprise development schemes.
C. Population and Emplovment
3.09         Population density varies from 32 people per Km2 in Oued Tessa, 45 people per Km2 in
Oued Zarga/Oued Khil to about 70 in Kroumirie-Mogods. The project area has a total of about 170,000
people area, or about 20,000 farm families including the landless. There is a significant migration from
the Northwest to urban areas and abroad. About 15-20 percent of the male population leaves the region
at least once per year looldng for temporary work. As a consequence, the population of the region is
growing at about 1.5 percent per year compared to 2.2 percent per year for Tunisia as a whole. The
reason is poverty, with an estimated 25 percent of the area's rural families having incomes at or below
the absolute poverty level compared to 7 percent for Tunisia as a whole. Agriculture work occupies only
60 percent of the available work time of the area's agricultural labor, suggesting considerable
underemployment.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Obiectives
4.01         The principal objectives of the Proposed NWMADP are to alleviate poverty, improve the
well-being of the region's population, and to arrest degradation of the natural resource base with active
involvements of the population. To this end it would: (i) promote measures to increase on-farm
productivity and off-farm income supporting activities; (ii) improve the management and productivity of
range and farm land; (iii) promote measures to reduce erosion, run-off, and reservoir sedimentation; (iv)
miprove social conditions of the disadvantaged population by providing basic infrastructure and social
services; and (v) promote increased involvement of village organizations to take on development
responsibilities.



4.02         Other parts of Tunisia face problems of rural poverty and natural resource degradation
sminiar to those in the project area. The project is thus expected to provide a usefil model for a
sustainable poverty alleviation and enviromnental improvement which could be replicated in other regions
of Tunisia and in similar socio-economic conditions in mountainous areas elsewhere in North Africa.
B. Rationale for Bank Involrement
4.03         The proposed project fits well wit, the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy, discussed by
the Board in May 1993, and addresses four pillars of this strategy, which are: (i) focus on poverty
alleviation and support for social sectors; (ii) protection and better management of the country's fragile
natural resources and the environment; (iii) restructuring of the public sector; and (iv) development of
the private sector. Because of its broad experience with poverty reduction and natural resource
management projects, the Bank is well-placed to assist the government in guiding and supporting a rural
poverty reduction project with a strong emphasis on natural resource improvement. The Bank's
participation has served as a catalyst in mobilizing other donor's funds and assistance (e.g., GTZ and
EEC) to finance complementary activities in the same geographic region. Finally, this project
complements the Bank's operations under the ongoing Research and Extension Project (Ln 3217-TUN)
and the Second Forestry Development Project (Ln 3601-TUN) as well as under proposed projects: the
Agricultural Sector Investment Loan (ASIL) recently approved, the Rural Finance and National Rural
Roads projects, in an advanced stages of preparation. Each of these would support complementary
activities in the region. The Country Enviromnental Study and National Action Plan's (Report no. 8198-
TUN) conclusions and recommendations have been taken into account especially with respect to rangeland
management, land use practices, and soil and water conservation measures.
C. Main ComDonentS
4.04         The project is designed to address important problems of rural poverty and natural
resource degradation by assisting the population in making better use of the limited natural resources
available to them. The main components would include:
(a)    AgAicultural Development which would enhance farm productivity through improved crop
production practices and increase emphasis on livestock; it would also support land titling
efforts through land surveys;
(b)   Watershed and Rangeland Management which would involve, with the participation of
village communities, measures to reduce erosion, run-off, and reservoir sedimentation,
and to improve rangelands management by restoring and sustaining vegetative cover;
(c)   Income-Supporting Activities which would support, on a pilot basis, the creation of credit
unions for "douars' (groups of settlenents) to promote financially viable on-famr and off-
farm rural enterprises with the support of local NGO's which would establish, manage
and supervise these credit unions;
(d)    Applied Research which would support demand-driven short-term research on key
technical and socio-economic development constraints of the region;



- 12 -
(e)    Rural Infrastructure which would involve the construction of rural roads to provide access
to isolated villages, schools, health centers and potable water sources to improve the
social conditions of the disadvantaged population; and
(f)   Institutional Stren2theninu which would strengthen the technical and implementation
capability of the executing agency and the planning capability of village committees
through technical assistance and training.
D. PIW_fed FEMdU=
(1) Ariciutural Development (Base Cost US$4.9 milion)
4.05         To improve and sustain agricultural production within the project area's diverse agro-
ecosystems, the project would introduce and promote technical packages which increase sustainable
productivity and control erosion. These techniques essentially involve changing crop varieties; improving
fertilizer use; changing cropping patterns to reduce cereals and fallow and increase fodder crops;
cultivating on the contour. The technological opportunities and options are described in more detail in
Annex 5.
4.06         The project would strengtien ODESYPANO's agricultural extension service, particularly
its technical capability. The Department of Rural Development at headquarters would have six subject-
matter specialist (SMS) coordinators in the fields of community development, watershed and rangeland
management, crop production and horticulture, animal husbandry and fodder production, and rural
engineering, and women in development.
4.07         Regional offices would be staffed by a team of six subject-matter specialists (SMS) in the
areas of community development/training, watershed and rangeland management, agronomy, animal
husbandry and fodder production, women in development and rural engineering. Extension would be
undertaken through the deployment of male and female extension/community development agents
("animateurs-animatrices") who would be responsible for disseminating improved techniques, extension
messages and marketing information to villagers. With the support of the subject-matter specialists
(SMSs) based in the three regional offices and at the headquarters, the agents would assist in preparing
extension and training programs for village groups.
4.08         In order to reach as many village groups as possible, the service would rely on popular
participation through the training and management of male and female "douar extension agents" who
would be selected by the village and supported to carry extension messages from the animaurs and
subject-matter specialists direcdy to the douars. The project's approach to women's concerns is to
integrate them on all levels and in each aspect of the project's extension activities. Female extension
agents (animatrices) would be based at each of the CDAs (Extension-Development Centers) to facilitate
this process.
4.09         The project would provide short-term consultants of 18 person-months (p.m.) that would
be required during project implementation. The project would also provide training to strengthen the
extension service to enable the staff to carry out the above activities. Training would be mostly in-
country but would also comprise short overseas courses. Major emphasis would be on training extension
staff in the principles of the participatory approach, credit management, and improved animal production



- 13-
and husbandry techniques. Funding would be provided for a mobile communication unit, with extension
kits and materials, and video equipment.
4.10         The project would finance incremental extension staff salaries and recurrent cost; housing,
vehicles, mopeds and equipment for extension agents; seeds, fertilizers, materials and equipment for
demonstration; pilot animal insemination program, and surveys for land titling.
(if)   Watershed and Rangeland Maaement (ase Cost USSS.9 m9 ln)
4.11          Environmental degradation is a major problem in the project area. Because of the
importance of protecting the watershed areas and downstream infrastructure, the project would develop
and carry out soil conservation and erosion control activities on a total of about 19,000 ha in selected
areas of severe degradation to reduce run-off, soil erosion and downstream sedimentation, to improve
water infiltration into the soil, and to restore sustainable vegetative cover in areas capable of responding
to such treatments. The project would also promote on-farm conservation measures through the
application of simple erosion control practices. Project activities would be carried out within the area
of influence of the douar development committee with the participation and contribution of the
beneficiaries. The areas treated depend on the demands identified in the douar development plan (DDP)
and the douar action plan signed between the beneficiaries and the project executing agency.
4.12         Activities would consist of improved management, including enclosure and the use of
rotational grazing to allow regeneration of the vegetation; fertilization and grazing management of areas
with adequate seed populations and better soils to improve hay and forage production; seeding with native
forage species, and fertilization and grazing management in areas with degraded vegetation to reestablish
productivity and agro-forestry.
(iii) IH9comWe-Sunortina Activities (US$1.1 million)
4.13          The project would support rural enterprises which cannot be financed by the existing
formal credit schemes. As part of the douar action plan and with the objective of organizing self-
managed finacing schemes to promote productive activities in the informal sector and of building the
communities' capability to manage their own resources, the project would support the creation of Douar
Credit Unions (DCUs) and studies to identify potentials and constraints of the informal sector and to
devise an action plan for its development and to define lending terms and conditions of the DCU. The
proposed scheme is included in the project because existing formal financing schemes do not meet the
working capital and investment needs of the informal sector either because the loans are too small, or they
do not meet the standard lending criteria and collateral requirements of the lending institutions.
4.14         The proposed pilot scheme would be managed by a local NGO(s) under an agreement
with ODESYPANO. The NGO would be responsible for (i) the organization of the DCU, (ii) provision
of training and technical assistance to the DCU managers, and (iii) the identification and appraising of
investments (in coordination with ODESYPANO extension staff and monitoring the execution of the sub-
loans. The NGO would (i) ensure that lending criteria agreed with are adhered by DCUs; (ii) establish
the DCUs ability to appraise credit demands with sound financial criteria; (iii) develop simple accounting
procedure to record and monitor all transactions made by the DCUs. The NGO(s) would submit
quarterly progress reports to ODESYPANO. There are several good examples in Tunisia where local
NGOs working at douar level have successfully developed ways and procedures to orgamze credit
schemes to promote the informal sector.



- 14 -
4.15         The capital of the DCU would consist of participants membership fees and, in proportion
of these fees, funds allocated by the project executing agency for this purpose. The DCU would make
loans to members, under agreed procedures and criteria, to finance productive activities in the informal
sector not satisfied by the banking system. The project funds would be a one time allocation of funds to
build the working capital of DCU. Project funds would be made available to the DCU following a
confirmation by the DDC and NGO that a DCU has been created and membership fees collected, and
agreements have been reached by members that they accept the principles, their rights and obligations
of their membership in the newly created DCU. In the initial period of DCU development, the NGO(s)
would assist the DCU in considering and approving loans applications to members meeting agreed criteria
and if approved, loan amounts would be made available to borrowers under agreements signed between
borrowers and DCU. These loans would be repaid to DCU according to sub-loan agreements. With the
support of the selected NGO, DCU would be responsible for recovering these loans. Assurances were
obtained that the ODESYANO will conclude a contractual arrangement with local NGOs for the
management of the income sup.orting activities as described in this paragraph in accordance with terms
of reference agreed wit the Bank. and that at least one such NGO will be emnloyed not later than
December 31. 1994.
4.16         The establishment of DCUs would be a pilot operation. The Bank and Government have
agreed that DCUs should have a recognized legal statute and by-law and several existing laws may
provide a suitable legal structure. Based on the progress made by the project to organize DCU along the
lines described above, during the first interim review, the Government would determine which of the
existing laws would be more appropriate to define the legal structure of the DCU. The objective is to
ensure that douar communities would abide by the credit agreements with the DCU. To identify
potentials for and constraints to rural micro-enterprises development and to formulate an action plan
including training program, short-term studies would be undertaken by a consultant. Assurances were
obtained durin2 pe otiations that the ODESYANO will carr out studies, not later tAn Decemnber 3 1.
1994. in accordance with terms of reference satsfator to the Bank: (i) to define potential for.,n
constraints to the development of rural enterprises in the proiect area and formulate an action plan: and
(ii) to define lending terms and conditions of ggerations of the DCUs. Furthermore, assurances have
been-obtained that the recommnendations of such studies shall be imnletnented not later than June 30.
1995.
(iv) Applied Research (Base Cost USS1.2 million)
4.17         To develop, test, and disseminate relevant technologies suited to conserve the area's
fragile natural resources, to improve and sustain rural productivity, and to enhance farmer's incomes, the
project would establish a Research Fund (RP) to support applied research on topics of major concern to
the region, usually of short duration, with the objectives of realizing the results during the life of the
project.  The investigations would essentially test and adopt technologies developed in similar
environmental conditions elsewhere and generate information about the region and its resources. This
demand-driven, adaptive research would deal with a wide range of topics, such as the effectiveness of
the participatory approach as an extension and development tool, natural resource management,
agriculture, socio-economic matters pertaining to the role of women, and micro-enterprise development.
4.18         The research would be demand-driven and undertaken by contract with national
organizations, institutes, and individuals. The research topics would be developed initially from the
expressed needs of the DDCs as obtained through formal meetings and from the needs of the project



- 15 -
regional staff. Many simple, small contracts with individuals for the collection of data and descriptive
information are also envisaged.
4.19         To administer the RF, a committee would be established consisting of the General
Manager of ODESYPANO or his representative as its chairman, and representatives from CRDA,
IRESA, NGO, and ODESYPANO and an independent researcher. To support the research commnittee,
a full-time research administrator would be appointed to perform routine administrative functions. The
project would finance six (6) person/months research consultant who would review the work plan, the
progress of the research, and the resulting reports. Annex 7 provides details on the responsibilities of
the comunittee, its terms of reference, and reporting requirements for contracted research. Assurance was
obtained during negotiations that. as a condition of effectiveness, a Research Committee would be set uR
by the Government to manage the RF in accordance with ternms of refer_nce acceptable to the Bank.
(v) Institutonal Senfthenim! (Base Cost US$4.5 million)
4.20         The project would strengthen the planning and implementation capability of the executing
agency, ODESYPANO, to meet its newly defined mandate as well as support the promotion and
strengthening of village groups for active participation in planmng and execution of project activities. An
estimated 21 person-months of short-term technical assistance would be provided to assist in planning,
monitoring and evaluation, provide support in project implementation and to promote community
participation. Short-term consultants and local technical assistance would also be provided for training
in watershed and rangeland management (GIS) and community participation, and ls p-m of study tours
and 200 p-m of in-country training mainly for development agents. Provision is made for the
procurement of equipment, mainly bulldozers, compactors and tractors to strengthen ODESYPANO's
capability to maintain rural infrastructure works. The project would also strengthen ODESYPANO's
Geographic Information System (GIS) through provision of training, and technical assistance essental for
planning, monitoring, and evaluating project activities, including watershed and rangeland management
activities.
4.21         The project would fimance incremental staff salaries, vehicles, office equipment, and
incremental operating expenses and training. Six key staff positions would need to be filled to ensure
satisfactory implementation of project actions. These consist of the Director of Planning, Chief of
Accounts, and four subject-matter specialists, and seven male (animateurs) and 12 female (animatrices)
development agents. During negotiations. assurance was obtained that these key staff positions will be
filled according to the following timetable: Director of Plan. and Head of Accountants unit not later than
March 31. 1994: the necessary Subject-Matter Specialists not later than June 30. 1994: and 19 Extension
agnts: seven not later than December 31. 1994, other seven not later hn December 31. 1995. and five
not later than December 31. 1996.
(vi) Rural Infrastucture (Base Cost US$16.8 million)
4.22         To provide isolated villages access to markets and potable water and to improve basic
education and health services to the population of this impoverished mountainous region, the project
would finance the construction and maintenance of such basic infrastructure as rural roads, schools, health
centers, and potable water sources. Beneficiaries would contribute labor and in kind estimated at 10-15
percent of the cost of infrastructure works. The project would provide for the construction of some 300
km and mainace of 650 kms of feeder roads; 6 development centers and staff housing; the
construction of eight schools, 25 classrooms; 10 health centers; water supply systems consisting of 19



- 16-
wells equipped with a pump and a reservoir; the drilling of 28 wells in areas without water supply; the
installation of 60 water tanks; and the building of 15 farm ponds. The proposed farm ponds would have
a maximum capacity of 50,000 n3 and would not exceed 10 meters in height.. Given the size and likely
location of these farm ponds, expropriation of land and resettlement of population are not envisaged.
Specific proposals for construction woutd be evaluated by ODESYPANO before being included in the
douar action plan and qualifying for bank's financing. Assuances were obtained at negodiations that
ODE PANO woud prepag: (i) a detailed nrotram of construction, for the first year of the project by
June 30. 1994. aI d that the program for the remainin? years would be available by Se,tember 30. for
each of the followingyears: and (ii) for ah fann pond proposed to be const cted. a feasibility studv
covering teWhnical and -environmental aspects. including sUfety and socio-economic iustifications, will be
submtted to the Bank for revie  and arov. including confitmation that the ptoposed farm ponds to
be constructed would not cause any resettlenent of people in the area. In addition. ODESYPANO will
closely follow an environmentl guuideline a_red to with the Bank to screen and mitigate any potentially
adverse envitronmental effect in the construction of rural infrastructure Wworks
(vi) Unallocated (Bae Cost US$2.3 million)
4.23         Project implementation would be carried out through an interactive participatory planning
process where ODESYPANO staff together with villagers prepare and implement a DDP, defining project
interventions. The costs of these interventions cannot be determined in advance with any accuracy
because the specific interventions and their scope will be established progressively with the preparation
of DDP and under specific action plan between the douar members and project authorities. To provide
flexibility, US$3.0 million (representing about six percent of total project cost) would be set aside under
unallocated category. Based on progress made, the use of these funds would be determined during the
interim evaluation period.
E. CtF e
4.24         Total project costs, including physical and price contingencies, are estimated at
DT 50.0 million (US$50.7 million equivalent); the foreign exchange com-ionent represents about
34 percent (or US$17.3 million) of total project costs. The cost estimates are indicative figures based
on a work program prepared by ODESYPANO staff on the basis of experience gained from the first-
phase, and on projections from ongoing activities using the participatory stgy (para. 5.01). Taxes and
duties are estimated at 16 percent of total project costs. The project would be implemented over six years
(1994-99), while disbursement woud be over eight years. (1994-2001)



- 17 -
Table 4.1 PrQet Cost SuM r*
(US$ million)
Local     Foreign     Total    % Foreign  %Base
Exchange   Cost
COMPONENTS
Agricultural Development      3.1          1.8       4.9       37.4      12.4
Watershed & Rangeland         7.7          1.2       8.9       14.4      22.4
Income Supporting Activities  1.0          0.1       1.1       10.3       2.8
Applied Research              0.5          0.7        1.2      56.3       2.9
Instit. Strengthening         2.1          2.4       4.5       57.8      11.4
Rural Infrastructure          9.6          7.2       16.8      43.5      42.2
Unallocated                                                      . 18 2.3  A5  8  5.7
TotalBase Cost         25.3        14.4       39.7      36.4      100.0
Physical Contingencies  2.2         1.4        3.6      37.5        9.1
Price Contingencies     S.9         1.5        7.4      20.Q       18.6
Total PrXo ect Cost     Xh           X        V7 4                127.7
* Totals may not add up due to rounding.
F. tdnaisn
4.25         The financing plan for the project costs of DT 50.0 million (US$50.7 million equivalent)
would be as follows: The proposed IBRD loan of US$27.5 million would finance about
55 percent of total project costs or 100 percent of the estimated foreign exchange cost and 40 percent of
the local cost portion of the project cost net of taxes. The Government would provide US$19.5 million
equivalent in local currency, including taxes and duties estimated at US$8.2 million, while the
beneficiaries would contribute in the form of their labor esthmated around US$3.7 million equivalent,
repreenting 8 percent of total costs or about 14 pecent of watershed and rural infrastru   cost. The
financing plan is as follows:



- 18-
Table 4.2: Prolect Fin ai   Elan
So                u        r    ce                      Foreinn          Total              % of Net
..-.---..(US$ M  Equivalent)------                       Project Cost
World Bank                       10.2                    17.3            27.5                64.7
Beneficiaries                     3.7                     -               317                 8.7
Government                       11.3                     -              11.3                26.6
Net Project Costs                25.2                    17.3           42.5                100.0
Taxes & Dudes                       .                                     8.2                16.2
Total Project Costs              33.4                    17.3            50.7               116.2
G. Pfrwmx t
4.26              The table below summarizes the project elements and their estimated costs and proposed
methods of procurement.
Table 4.3 Summarv of Pronosed Procurement Ammements
(US$ million eqivalent)
Procurement Method
Poject Elements                   ICB              LCB          LSIPA           I            NBF         Toal
1. Works
1.1 Soil Conservation                                  12.3                                     12.3
(7.3)                                   (7.3)
1.2 Buildings                               1.1         2.0                                      3.1
(0.8)       (1.0)                                    (1.8)
1.3 Roads                   4.7             8.2                                     12.9
(3.6)       (4.0)                                    (7.6)
1.4 Water Supply                            4.2         1.0                                      5.2
(3.1)                                                (3.1)
2. Goods
2.1 Vehicles                1.2                         0.3                                      1.5
(0.8)                       (0.1)                                    (0.9)
2.2 Materials & Equipment    2.7                        2.2                                      4.9
(1.8)                       (0.5)                                    (2.3)
3. Consultancies
3.1 Coltants                                                           3.3                       3.3 /a
(1.0)                     (1.0)
3.2 Trainig                                                            1.3                       1.3
(1.0)                     (1.0)
3.3 Studies                                                            0.2                       0.2
4. Unallocated                                                                  3.0                        3.0/b
(2.5)                     (2.5)
S. Recurrent Cost
5.1 Incremental Staff                                                                1.1          1.1
5.2 Operatn Costs                                                                    1.9          1.9
Total         3.7                10.0           26.0         7.8            3.0          50.7
(2.6)          (7.5)      (12.9)          (4.5)         (-)         (27.5)
Note: figures in parndses are the amounts financed by the Bank loan. N.B F: Not Bank-Financed. Works and Goods shall be procured in accordance
with World Bank Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD and IDA t Cdits; and Services should be procured in accordance with World Bank
Guidelines: USe of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by World Bank as Executing Agency.
a/ includes US$I.1 million for conuract research and US$1.1 for income supportng activities component undecontract with NGO.
b/ use of funds to be determined during the interimevaluationperiod.



- 19-
4.27   Civil Works (US$33.5 million) include soil conservation works (US$12.3 million) and the
construction of project buildings such as CDA offices, primary school buildings, dispensaries, and staff
housing (US$3.1 million); construction and repair of access roads (US$12.9 million), and water supply
works (US$5.2 million). These works would be small, remote, and dispersed both geographically and
over time and, based on *xperience from the previous NWRDP, would be unlikely to be of interest to
foreign bidders. Only limited packaging of contracts is feasible and contracts will not exceed US$2M
each. These would -be awarded in accordance with local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures
satisfactory to the Bank. For small works, impossible to package, contracts not exceeding US$ 100,000
each, and in aggregate amounting to about US$1.7M for buildings, roads, and water supply would be
procured through local shopping, involving the comparison of at least three price quotations.  Soil
conservation works (US$12.3 million) and other civil works (US$9.4M) in difficult terrain and in remote
dispersed locations, which according to experience from the completed NWRDP project would not be
of interst to local contractors, would be carried out through force account by ODESYPANO, which has
established a capacity for this purpose with Bank support under the NWRDP and which has experienced
in these types of works. Force account would result, however, only if there is no local contractor
identified, and upon the Bank's prior approval. This approach is particularly important in the case of
rural roads.
4.28   Contracts for vehicles (US$1.2 million) and heavy equipment (US$2.7 million) would be procured
through international competitive bidding. Smaller vehicle packages, if needed urgendy, estimated to cost
the equivalent of US$50,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount not exceeding US$300,000, may
be procured according to local shopping.  Minor office, field and laboratory equipment,
computers,mopeds, farm inputs and materials (US$1.1 million) of an assorted nature and not exceeding
US$100,000 each, per contract required at different times in small lots throughout the project area, would
be procured through local shopping following Govermnent local procurement procedures acceptable to
the Bank. In cases of proprietary or highly specialized items, such as veterinary products, animal feed
supplements, seeds requiring special qualities, wax, bees, and beehives and books, direct purchase would
be used in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank; the amount involved is estimated at
US$1.1 million. Consultants, studies and training (US$3.5 million) would be procured in accordance
with Bank guidelines. Fund for the Douar Credit Union (US$1.0 million) and contract research (US$1 .1
million) would not involve procurement and would follow procedures set up under the project for this
purpose. Incremental staff salaries, operating and maintenance costs (US$3.0 million) would be Bank
financed by the Government and would be handled following normal Government practices.
4.29   Procurement of contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$1.0 million or more for civil
works,and US$300,000 or more for vehicles and equipment, and consultant, training and studies contracts
greater than the equivalent of US$100,000 would require the Bank's prior review. Consultant contracts
below US$100,000 which are critical or specific in nature would also require prior review. Terms of
reference for consultant services (contracts with NGOs) would require the Bank's prior review
irrespective of the contract amount. For civil work contracts procured under LCB procedures, the Bank
would make an ex-post review of all documents related to Bank financed sub-projects (goods and works)
for the first two contracts for each type of civil works. Furthermore, during supervision missions, the
Bank would review sub-project contracts, focusing on procurement arrangements. All other procurement
would be reviewed ex-post on a selective basis; thus ODESYPANO would be required to retain all
procurement documentation. Because most contracts would be small, the prior review process would
cover about 50 percent of total contract value procured under the project, but in view of arrangements
described above, review of the first two co.tracts in each project element, this percentage is considered
acceptable.



- 20-
4.30 Procurement would be carried out by ODESYPANO, which has demonstrated its capacity for
efficiently handling procurement matters in the context of the completed NWRDP. The project has a
small element of procurement of goods through ICB, a large element of civil works by LCB or by force
account, and direct purchase or purchase through local shopping of materials such as seed and fertilizers.
A large number of small contracts for civil works and purchase of materials and goods would be carried
out over the life of the project. Tunisian ICB and LCB procedures are generally acceptable to the Bank.
However, there are some aspects which need to be amended to be consistent with Bank procedures.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that,procurement for Bank-financed items would be carried out
under procedures accsptable to the Bank.
H. Dkb sent
4.31          The proposed Bank loan of US$27.5 million is expectd to be disbursed over eight years,
which corresponds with the historical disbursement profile of agricultural projects in Tunisia. The
proposed time span is also in line with the experience gained from the completed NWRDP, which
confirmed the satisfactory implementation capacity of ODESYPANO for physical investments. Project
completion is expected by December 31, 1999; however, in order to encourage efficient use of Bank's
resources, Loan closing is set forth on June 30, 2000.
4.32          The Bank loan would disburse funds for the following items at the rates indicated:
Table 4.4 Disbursements
Amount of Loan
allocated   % of Expenditure
(US$ milion)   To Be Financed
1. Civil Works
(a) Soil Conservaion              7.3       60 percent
(b) Buildings                     1.8
(c) Roads                         7.6
(d) Water Supply                  2.2
(e) Farm ponds                   0.9
2. Equipment, Vehicles and Materials  3.2      100 percent of foreign expenditures
100 percent of Local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and
80 percent of local expenditures for
items procured locally
3. Consultant services,
Traning, Studies                  2.0       100 percent
4. Unallocated                       2
Total         27.5
4.33        Disbursements against expenditures for the following items would be based on certified
Statements of Expenditures (SOE):



- 21 -
(a)   payments for civil works under contracts not exceeding US$500,000 equivalent and for
force account works;
(b)   locally procured equipment and materials under contracts costing US$300,000 or less; and
(c)   payments for consultants services for contracts not exceeding US$100,000 and training and
costs of studies.
4.34        Supporting documents for these items would be retained by the inplementation agency and
made available to the Bank mission for inspection. Withdrawal applications for other items would be
fully docunented. To ensure efficient and timely project implementation, a special account would be
established. The authorized allocation (initial deposit) to the special account representing about four
months of project expenditures, would be the equivalent of US$1.5 million. To the extent possible, all
loan disbursements would be channeled through the special account except for large expenditures
representing 10% of the initial deposit, which would be submitted for payment directly.
I. Acco and Audit
4.35        The Borrower and ODESYPANO will ma inn project-related accounts in accordance with
sound accounting principles. Project accounts (including the special account) and SOE used to justify
disbursements under the Bank loan would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank. The NGO(s) would supervise and maintain accounts of the village fund's credit/savings operation.
Assurances have been obtained to this effect and audited financial statements would be submitted to the
Bank within six months after the end of each fiscal year.
V. ORGANIZATION AND IMPITION
A. Imnlenmenton Strateg
5.01        To ensure active participation of the villagers and sustainability of project results, the
project would adopt an "integrated and participatory approach" (PA) - an interactive process which
involves village communities in the selection, planning, and iimplementation of project activities. To
promote Lhe particiration of women, the project would recruit and train women development agents. The
basic premise of this strategy is that development requires a long-term effort which hinges on the active
involvement of the concerned population in the development process. This experience grew out of the
lessons learned on a Bank wide basis and specifically from a pilot operation under the completed NWRDP
which has shown that through a participatory strategy, villagers who are aware of the benefits of
participating in project activities would actively engage in project actions once they are fully convinced
of their benefits and relevance of such actions to their own particular situation. The participatory strategy
involves a partnership between the project's executing agency - ODESYPANO - and the beneficiaries,
who would be organized in groups of "douars."
5.02        To achieve project objectives, the douar communities would be divided into effective agro-
socio-economic units - namely "douars" or a group of douars. The mnclei of such units are the families
who in their activities, individually or collectively, utilize land, the natural resources and the



- 22 -
infrastructure which is common to the unit. Such units cover 2-3 douars, corresponding to an area of
200-300 ha and comprising about 40 households each. For each intervention unit, resource use studies
would be undertaken and would require relatively little time. These studies, which are initiated through
rapid rural appraisal would permit the identification of the production systems currently practiced as well
as the major constraints and potentials. This would help guide the work and discussions with the
beneficiary population.
5.03        The IPA is an interactive process which involves:  (i) the organization of douar
conununities and the establishment of Douar Development Coumittees (DDCs), which are elected by the
population concerned. Members of the DDC would include all segments of douar population, in
particular farmers, herdsmen, women, and the landless; (ii) a survey of douar development potentials and
constraints to development; the survey identifies the needs in terms of basic infrastructure required (water
supply, feeder roads), environmental constraints (soil erosion), input supply, credit accessibility, and
extension services; (iii) preparation of a Douar Development Plan (DDP) which specifies actions and
specifically investments envisaged by the douar members with the project's support; and (iv) the
establishment of a douar action plan which spells out respective obligations of both parties (ODESYPANO
and population) to execute sub-projects agreed upon. This new approach has been well-accepted by the
por.lation in the area where it was tested on a pilot basis. Details on the participatory approach and the
functions and responsibilities of the douar and DDP appear in Annex 1.
5.04        The IPA process is expected to ensure that the interventions respond to the perceived local
needs and priorities and that a genuine commitment to and responsibility for the success of the project
is generated. The outcome of this interaction would be DDP and specific sub-project activities to be
implemented.  Specific sub-project investments included in the DDP would be evaluated by
DDESYPANO to ensure technical, economic and environmental soundness.  Detailed annual
implementation plans would be agreed on with the participating village organizations, and their
agreements would be recorded in writing. During negotiations. assurances were obtained that by
December -31 each ye-ar. an a_nnualwr  rga   ealn   roec ativities wyill be DRegared for
submission to the Bank covering trinin. procurement. formation of village ,roups. studies. and
research. The glan would be reviewed annually jointly with the Bank.
5.05        Project activities would be based essentially on the implementation of activities agreed upon
between the executing agency and the village organizations and recorded in douar action plans. The
agreement with the douars would specify specific work program, and the obligations of each party. The
douar's obligations would include construction and maintenance, of erosion control works; introduction
of new farming methods designed to reduce erosion and water run-off and to improve yields; partial or
full payment (in cash or in labor) for the activities undertaken by the project; and maintenance of basic
infrastructure constructed under the project.
5.06        In the selection of douars to be developed, isolation, non-availability of essential services,
and the willingness of the village groups to participate in project activities would be primary
considerations. Areas with a larger proportion of range and forest land would be given priority, and the
selection criteria would be largely based on the severity of problems in terms of vegetative degradation
and soil erosion and the prospects for achieving a satisfactory return on the treatments under the project.
Assurances have been obtained that in selecting douars. ODESYPANO shall utilize criteria acceptable
to the Bank throughout groiect implementation



- 23 -
5.07        Women play an important role in rural household economies in the project area, where,
due to low farm income, men are frequently involved in occasional, seasonal, or full-time employment
away from rural areas. Besides playing a leading role in the well-being of their families, women are
managers of farming operations. It is therefore important that women receive extension messages and
that those messages be received directly by them. Women extension agents ("animatrices") would have
the special responsibilities of assisting women in identifying their needs, of developing contacts between
women and the project, and of ensuring that the project responds to women's needs.
B. Proiect ImMlnemtation
5.08        The project would be implemented under the overall coordination of ODESYPANO, which
would be responsible for the project's technical supervision, procurement, and the beneficiary douar
communuities would be responsible for selecting sub-projects and would assist in the execution of project
activities under the technical supervision and guidance of the ODESYPANO's regional offices. Specific
investments carried out by the project would be evaluated by ODESYPANO to ensure their technical,
economic and environmental soundness. Technical assistance financed under the project would assist the
executing agency, the DDCs, local NGOs, and the research committee in implementing project programs.
5.09        The operation, and maintenance of the rural infrastructure and the watershed and rangeland
management components would be the responsibility of the Office and the beneficiaries through their
DDCs. The success of this operation and its sustainability would depend largely on the level of
beneficiary participation in the design and execution of specific measures. Therefore, the participatory
strategy will be incorporated throughout the project cycle. The project would provide for the training
of private auxiliaries who would carry out, within the context of the douar organization, simple animal
health care and artificial insemination services. Following the establishment of the DDC and two years
of operation, existing bulls of the genetic improvement program would be sold to the DDCs at reasonable
cost. Assurances have been obtained that ODESYPANO shall ensure that Douar Action plans which
include rural infrastructure works shall clearly specify villagers' contributions in the construction by force
account, and maintenance workts.
5.10        The research fund (RF) would be administered by ODESYPANO guided by a Research
Committee (para. 4.19). Research proposals on technical, economic and social issues would be demand
driven and of short-term nature focusing on priority development problems of the region. Technical
assistance and training provided under the project would assist the executing agency, the DDCs, local
NGOs and the research committee in implementing project activities.
5.11        The DCU would be established by one or several NGOs which have been involved in the
promotion of village credit/saving schemes. The NGO would be responsible for (i) the establishment of
DCUs, (ii) the provision of training and technical assistance, and (iii) the monitoring and execution of
the sub-comnponents including the identification, promotion and selection of informal activities for
financing. Contract agreements between ODESYPANO and the selected NGO(s) would be reviewed and
approved by the Bank. There are some local NGOs with experience in implementing small douar
investments financed under either govenunent funds or grants.



-24 -
C. Project Oraniton
5.12        To achieve satisfactory performance and sustainablity in project actions, the project would
be implemented by the ODESYPANO, but in a reorganized and decentralized structure - and through
beneficiaries' participation.  Based on the experience in the NWRDP, the reorganization of
ODESYPANO would be required to ensure that the executing agency's organizational structure would
provide the means and opportunities to fulfill its newly defined mandate and responsibility of executing
development actions with the active participation of the beneficiary conumunities. The reorganization
would involve decentralized decision making, reduction of hierarchical levels, reduction of administrative
staff and strengthening of ODESYPANO's technical, planning and monitoring and evaluation capability.
The reorganization woutd also mean that many functions presently perfonned by ODESYPANO such as
milk marketing and agricultural input supply would be transferred to the private sector; and rural credit
to the BNA. Assurances were obtained that the disengagement plan would be imolemented in accordance
with a timetable aureed with the Bank.
5.13        The reorganized structure would remove the 'agence" as a hierarchical level and would
consist of: the village level (the Extension-Development Centers -CDAs), the regional level ("Regional
Directorates) and central level (General Directorate). Details on ODESYPANO restructuring are
provided in Annex 4.
5.14        The extension-development centers (CDA) would serve as the main contact points at which
collaboration between village groups and the Office on specific project activities would take place. The
number of CDAs to be established would vary according to the population size and characteristics of the
particular micro-zone. In each CDA, there will be a team consisting of one male and one female
development agent and the head of the center. The team would also be responsible for establishing
fornal partnerships between the project and the population by collecting data for planning and
monitoring, helping the village groups to organize themselves and to set clear priorities and work
programs, and assisting in the development of the appropriate DDP. The team would also assist in the
establishment of douar action plan, provide technical assistance and interactive trauiing, and undertake
periodic monitoring surveys. The CDAs would be strengthened over the period of the project by the
recruitment of seven male ("animateurs") and twelve female ("animatrices") development agents.
5.15        The Regional Directora: is responsible for the preparation of plans and physical execution
and monitoring of project activities at the regional level. At each of the three regional offices in Beja,
Kef and Sejenane, a multi-disciplinary team of SMSs in community developmentltraining, animal
husbandry-fodder production, agronomy-horticulture, mral engineenng, and resource conservation
(watershed and rangeland management) would prepare the douar development plan and supervise
execution of project components. Their main responsibility would be to work as a team in assisting the
DDC in the preparation of DDPs and the resulting douar action plan between ODESYPANO and the
DDCs. The team would be responsible for the identification of priority areas, preparation of the DDPs,
coordination of field work, and the selection of treatment options including technical packages for
extension based on experience and the results of adaptive research. The team would also be responsible
for providing technical support and training for the field staff.  The regional offices would be
strengthened with the necessary SMS staff (para. 4.07) and the project would finance a training program,
vehicles, and equipment to assist these offices in implementing the project.
5.16        The General Directorate would be responsible for the overall coordination, management,
and monitoring of the project. ODESYPANO bas also been the executing agency for other projects in



-25 -
the same geographic area financed by GTZ, KfW, EEC, and the World Food Program (WFP). A team
of qualified and experienced staff (para. 4.06) would prepare work program and provide technical support
to the regional offices, prepare technical packages for trial in the field, and monitor progress in the
agricultural production and watershed and rangeland management components. The central office would
be responsible for keeping accounts and for monitoring and controlling the execution of contracts and the
flow of funds. An experienced accountant would be recruited to head its account unit. To assist in the
overall planning, and implementation of the project, a GTZ team consisting of an institutional
development adviser, a planning expert, and a rural sociologist has been assigned to provide technical
assistance and assist with staff training.
5.17        Technical staff at headquarters would operate as a team in providing support and training
for the staff based at the regional offices and CDAs, preparing training courses and training Materials for
beneficiaries, serving as a link between the project and research institutes, and disseminating information
on research developments. This technical staff would handle questions relating to their respective areas
of expertise in a farming system context and would be expected to spend considerable time in the field
assisting the regionally based subject-matter specialists (SMSs) and the development agents.
D. Monitors and Evaluation
5.18        The monitoring and evaluation M&E unit in ODESYPANO would be strengthened to
coordinate M&E activities at the regional level and to maintain records and monitor the physical and
fimancial progress of the project at the central level. Project management at the regional directorate level
would be responsible for the collection and compilation of data in the region ane for submitting annual
reports to the General Directorate to be prepared according to a specified format. The prinary objectives
would be to generate management information to guide project implementation and on-going planning,
and to provide the basis for an accurate evaluation of progress during implementation. Basic technical
and socio-economic data concerning the community in the micro-zone would be collected against which
project impact would be evaluated. The M&E unit would prepare annual reports which would include
covering all aspects of the project including potential implementation problems requiring corrective
action. Such reports would be submitted to the Bank, along with reports on project finances and
procurement. Assurances have been obtained that ODESYPANO shall establish a M&E system in
accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank not later than June 30, 1994.
5.19        Because of its nature, the project would be supervised two to three times a year,
particularly during the early stages of implementation. Bank supervision missions would visit in
particular villages where douar development committees are at different stages of fonnation.
Conmmnities in the process of forming development committees, identifying development priorities,
negotiating douar action plans with ODESYPANO would be visited. Supervision requirements are
estimated at 14 person-weeks per year in the first two years, 12 person-weeks in the next three years,
decreasing to 10 person-weeks in the last year of project implementation. These estimates take into
account the need for more intensive supervision at the beginning to ensure a successful start-up. The
supervision missions would include a monitoring and evaluation specialist, a rural sociologist, and
technical specialists as appropriate and would focus mainly on initial results with the participatory
approach and douar planning and on institutional, financial, techical and socio-economic project
constraints. A project launching workshop would be organized shortly after loan effectiveness.



- 26 -
5.20        To assess the success of the project in responding to community needs, two interim
reviews would be carried out by the Bank jointly with ODESYPANO, on the basis of an outline agreed
by the Bank the first after the project has been operating for two years and the second after five years
of implementation using surveys and M&E data as input. Targets, implementation methods adopted, and
sub-projects including the establishment and operation of village funds would be reviewed, and
modifications to the project would be made as necessary.
5.21        Evaluation. The project's impact on the development of the Northwest region would be
evaluated by the Bank, based on data collected by the M&E unit, Bank review missions, and other
agencies or institutions. The Bank would evaluate the degree of achievement of project objectives with
regard to increase in income and employment and impact on arresting or slowing down natural resource
degradation. Assurances have been obtained at negotiations that ODESYPANO will oranize such
interim evaluations and prepare and furnish to the Bank two reports: the first, not later than June 30.
1996 and the second. not later than March 31. 1998 detailing progress in project implementation.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
6.01        The project would improve the living conditions of about 170,000 people in the
impoverished Northwest region by increasing income and employment opportunities and by making
critical investments in rural infrastructure and conservation of natural resources. The main project
benefits would be: (i) increase in agricultural and non-agricultural incomes, (ii) improved enviromnent;
(iii) improved social services; and (iv) institutional impact of enhanced popular participation. The
project's success could also serve as a model for participatory poverty reduction and natural resource
management for possible replication in other regions of Tunisia and elsewhere.
6.02        Increased Income. The project would increase the farm income through increases in farm
productivity in crop yields and livestock production. Increase in farm productivity would derive from
the combined effect of improved technology and on-farm soil conservation works. The productivity
levels to be achieved are presented in Annex 5.
6.03        Analysis of returns for representative farm models indicates that the financial rate of return
for the farm models ranges from 20-45 percent, which would provide adequate incentives for farmers to
adopt the technical packages proposed by the project. Based on farm model analysis, all but the smallest
farms (2-4 ha) would be able to increase their annual net incomnes above the poverty level as the result
of this project. The appraisal mission estimates a net income of DT 200 for the small-scale farmers who
make up about 50 percent of beneficiaries, DT 350 for medium-scale farmers (4-10 ha), and DT 700 for
large-scale farmers (10+ ha). With an estimated 20percent supplementary income from non-agricultural
sources, average income would reach about DT 240, DT 420, and DT 840 for small-, medium-, and
large-scale farmers, respectively. These incomes exceed the poverty level for small-, medium-, and
large-scale farmers. Even when non-farm income is included, per capita total income of small and
medium farmers would still be lower than per capita income of about DT 1300 in 1993 for Tunisia as
a whole.



- 27 -
6.04        The project would also increase off-farm income by supporting the creation of DCUs, and
the formation of a pilot credit scheme to promote viable and productive informal sector activities. The
main beneficiaries are expected to be landless farmers and women who derive a large proportion of their
income from informal sector. It is estimated that about 2500 families would participate in the DCU and
would have access to DCU loans to finance viable productive activities which would result in
supplemental income and create more employment opportunities for the disadvantages population. The
rural roads would provide isolated villages access to markets, which would induce higher levels of
agricultural production and marketing. In addition, through construction of labor-intensive basic
infrastructure, the project would generate about 300 man-years of direct employment to area inhabitants.
6.05        Improved gEironment. The project would have a positive environmental benefit through
sub-project investments in improved watershed and rangeland management works, agro-forestry, and on-
farm soil and moisture conservation works which would reduce further degradation of the fragile
ecosystem, restore natural vegetative cover, reduce runoff and soil loss, and improve soil fertility. The
increase in fodder availability due to the project is expected to reduce pressure on the rangeland, thus
contributing to better conservation of natural resources. The project would promote environmentally
friendly interventions with minial negative environmental side effects.
The project has been classified "B", requiring limited environmental analysis.
6.06        Improved ,Social Services. The planned investment in basic social services such as schools,
water supply and health centers would provide basic education, health services and potable water thus
improving the quality of living of the population of this impoverished region. They would reduce the
burden on women by providing access to markets, health services, and - most importantly - drinking
water, reducing the time and labor which women are forced to spend. The rangeland improvement works
in the long run would reduce the burden on women by providing larger quantities of fuel and fodder
closer to home. This would also mean enhanced economic opportmities for women. Women would also
be able to earn supplemental income from rural enterprises such as beekeeping, poultry and rabbit
husbandry, and cottage and handicrafts which have traditionally been women's domain. In the project
design, particular attention has been given to ensuring that women are actively involved in the project
and derive positive benefits. The participatory planning process has been designed to give women an
important role in the defining of their development priorities.
6.07        Enhanced Popular Participation.  By adopting a participatory strategy in which the
villagers themselves would be responsible for the definition of their priority development needs; selection
of sub-projects at the village level; and community participation in sub-project implementation,
maintenance, management, and utilization, the project would promote and strengthen grassroots
organizations (village organizations, village funds and local NGOs). By supporting douars in the creation
and establishment of DCU, the project would have an important institutional impact of strengthening the
capacity of village organizations to manage dteir own resources. The village funds, once established and
consolidated, could become a key factor in rural savings mobilization, delivery of informal credit to their
members. The project would also encourage beneficiaries contribution in cost sharing in watershed
rehabilitation and rural infrastructure works.
6.08        In the construction of the rural infrastructure (e.g., rural roads and water points)
environmental mitigation plans and checklists would be followed which would carefully screen for
potentially adverse environmental effects. Financing of the construction of farm ponds would require
feasibility studies which would cover technical and economic justification including environmental aspects
and require prior approval by the Bank. Chemical fertilizers would be used in the vegetative



- 28 -
rehabilitation efforts, but application would be mainly of a one-shot nature and quantities would be small
and rapidly absorbed.
B. Economic Analysis
6.09        Economiic Pices. Economic farm gate prices were calculated for tradable commodities and
inputs using border prices as reported in the Bank's commodity price forecasts adjusted for tranSportation
and marketing margin. For non-tradable items, financial farm gate prices were assuned to represent
economic prices where markets are not regulated. The shadow wage rate for unskilled labor has been
estimated at 55 percent of the market rate, reflecting high unemployment in the project area.
6.10         Benefits and Cost Streams. The cost stream used for the economic analysis of the project
includes the agricultural production component, the watershed and rangeland management component
excluding the soil conservation aspects, and the cost of rural roads. It is assumed that two thirds of the
rural roads would have economic justification whereas the remaining are constructed to meet basic social
needs. Investment and operating costs were expressed in economic values through the application of
standard conversion factor of 0.94. A project life of 30 years is assumed. The benefits stream includes
benefits from (a) incremental agricultura production, (b) increases in output of fodder and (c) savings
in vehicle O&M costs as a result of the construction of rural roads. The benefit stream does not include
significant long-term environmental benefits from the watershed rehabilitation works, namely reduced run-
off and sedimentation with a likely increase in the economic life of the Sidi Salem dam. Calculations of
separate ERRs for each component was not considered useful since benefits from particular intervention
are freo'Jently complementary to other interventions.
6.11        Some of the important benefits not included in the benefit stream for the economic analysis
include improvements in the quality of life derived from the availability of basic infrastructure (water
points, primary health, and education) and the indirect effect of promoting and strengthening village
organizations (douar organizations and NGOs). The benefits and cost streams are presented in
Annex 6.
6.12        Rate of Return and Sensitivity. The economic rate of return (ERR) is estimated at
14 percent. Switching tests indicate that expected benefits would have to decline by 10 percent or costs
increase by 15 percent to reduce the ERR to 10 percent, the assumed opportunity cost of capital.
Furthermore, the ERR falls to 12.5% when it was assumed that the bene'Its would be delayed by a year.
C. Prect RisW
6.13        The project addresses problems of rural poverty and natural resource degradation. Project
actions require the integration of farming system changes including improved integration of crop and
livestock production and resource conservation through a participatory approach which would promote
the fill partnership between the project executing agency and the beneficiaries in sub-project planning
and inplementation. As such, such modes of operation wUIl always carry institutional and technical risks.
Risks include the possibility of weak participation by beneficiaries, a slower adoption of improved
farming practices,and sustainability of project actions.



- 29 -
6.14        The project's participatory approach is designed to gain the trust and involvement of the
beneficiaries and to generate a sense of ownership in project activities. The douar planning process
provides a franework for the involvement of the village in project activities, with the villagers defining
problemns and setting priorities. This approach has been successfully tested in the project area in a
NWRDP pilot progran, and the lessons of the completed NWRDP in this respect have been taken into
account in the design of the project, which seeks to focus on comnponents which meet the priority needs
of the population and promote their full participation.
6.15        Projects such as this one always risk a slower than expected adoption of improved farming
practices, resulting in slower realization of economic and enviromnental benefits. Many of the improved
techniques are well integrated with the local farming practices and require limited material inputs. The
intervention technologies have already been successfully introduced in the project area on a pilot basis.
The project's emphasis on strengthening the extension service through technical assistance and provision
of required subject-matter specialists, training for the development agents, and development of douar
extension agents is designed to minimize these risks.
6.16        The conception and preparation of this project have benefited from a high degree of
Government commitment and from the experience of the staff of the executing agency gained in the
implementation of the NWRDP. Beneficiary participation in the design and preparation has already
ensured strong political momentum at the grassroots level, already raising expectations in tle project area.
The sustainability of the project will depend heavily on the full participation of the rural commnunities,
including the integration of women in project activities through the participatory process. By promoting
and strengthening village-level organizations, putting emphasis on grass-roots participation and local
NGOs in project implementation, the project is expected to ensure sustainability. Pilot schemes supported
through NWRDP and bilateral assistance have successfully tested the approach and the use of both male
and female development agents in vesting ownership and decision making in village groups.
6.17        To assess progress toward implementation, two inerim reviews would be organized using
surveys and case studies as inputs, the first after the project has been operating for two years and the
second after it has been operating for five years. The review, which would be carried out jointly with
ODESYPANO, would cover implementation methods adopted and progress in implementation of sub-
projects, and appropriate modifications would be made as necessary.
VII. AGRE:MENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01        During negotiations, assurances have been obtained that ODESYPANO would:
(a)   conclude contractual arrangement with at least one local NGO, not later than December
31, 1990, to establish, manage and supervise the Douar Credit Unions (DCUs) on the
basis of terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and all other NGOs shall likewise be
employed under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.15);
(b)   carry out, not later than December 31, 1994, in accordance with terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank: (i) a study to define lending terms and conditions of operations
of the DCU; and (ii) a study to identify potental for, and existing constraints to the
development of rural enterprises in the project area and formulate a suitable action plan;



- 30-
and the recommendations of such studies as agreed with the Bank shall be implemented
not later than June 30, 1995 (para. 4.16);
(c)   put in place key project staff essential for project implementation in accordance with the
following timetable: director of plan, head of Accounts unit not later than March 31, 1994;
the necessary subject-matter specialists not later than June 30, 1994; and 19 extension
agents: seven not later than December 31, 1994, other seven not later than December 31,
1995 and five not later than December 31, 1996 (para. 4.21);
(d)   follow environmental guidelines and checklists for the implementation of the infrastructure
works to screen and mitigate for potentially adverse environmental effects (para. 4.22);
(e)   ensure that fann ponds to be constructed shall not: (i) exceed ten (10) meters in height
above stream bed; (ii) create a reservoir with a storage volume of more than 50,000 cubic
meters; (iii) involve expropriation of property or any resettlement of the local population;
or (iv) present unusual design features involving difficult geological conditions or be
situated so as to significantly be destructive to the population in the event of failure; and
prepare a feasibility study for Bank prior review and approval (para. 4.22);
(f)   procure goods and works and employ consultants in accordance with Bank Guidelines
and Government procedures acceptable to the Bank (para 4.30); and
(g)   have project accounts audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, and
audit reports would be sent to the Bank not later than six months after the end of each
fiscal year (para. 4.35);
(h)   prepare, by September 31 of each year, an annual work program for the following year
detailing project activities covering training, procurement, formation of douar groups and
DDCs and DCUs, studies, on-fann demonstrations and research; and would review the
plan annually jointly with the Bank (para. 5.04);
(i)   follow criteria acceptable to the Bank throughout project implementation in the selection
of douars for the purpose of carry out the project (para. 5.06);
(j)   ensure that infrastructure works to be constructed under the project would be dependent
upon the signing of the douar action plans which would spell out the specific obligations
of each party particularly in the constuction and maintenance of rural infrastructure works
(para. 5.09);
(k)   implement a suitable disengagement plan agreed upon with the Bank (para. 5.12);
(I)   establish and put into operation by June 30,1994 a monitoring and evaluation system
in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank (para. 5.18) and



- 31 -
(m)  carry out two interim reviews jointly with the Bank to assess progress in project
implementation, the first after two year, but not later than June 30, 1996 and the second
after five years, but not later than March 31, 1998 (paa. 5.21);
7.02        As a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan, the Government would:
establish a Research Committee to nage the research fund created under the project in accordance with
a terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.19).
7.03        As a condition of loan disbursement for civil works for farm ponds only, the Government
would carry out feasibility study covering technical and envirownental aspects and present to the Bank
for its review and approval before construction of farm ponds (para 4.22).
7.04        Based on the above agreements, the proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of
US$27.5 million to the Government of Tunisia. The project is expected to be completed by December
31, 1999 and closed by June 30, 2000.



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT                                   Table 1
TUNISIB
Northwest Mountainous Areas Development
Project Cost Sumuary
000 PT                            000 is$                         8 Total
___  __ __----_-_______-_______-____ -________------------   8 Foreign               Base
Lccal   Foreign      Total        Local  Foreign    Total        Bxchange      Costs
A.. Developpement Agricole
1. Appui product. vegetale            82.8      155.7     238.5          85.3    156.4    241.6           65.3        0.6
2. Appui product. anicale            s98.6      394.4      992.9        613.8    302.2   1006.0            39.7       2.5
3. Appui apurement foncier           135.2      127.4     262.6        138.6    127.5    266.1            48.S        0.7
4. Vulgarisation & Animation        2231.0    1144.9    337S.8        2276.4   1144.9   3420.3            33.9         0.6
Sub-Total                               3047.5    1822.3    4869.9         3113.1   1820.9   4934.0            37.4       12.4
B . Conservation/eau et sol            7S23.7    1261.6    8785.3         7659.7   1241.3   8901.0            14.4       22.4
C . Micro-enterprise Develop.           990.5      114.3    1104.8        1006.4    112.9   1119.3            10.3        2.8
D   Rechercheappliquee                  503.7      647.8    11S1.S         S19.1    647.5   1166.6            56.3        2.9
B . Renforcement/Institution
1. Plan, ME., GIS                    669.3      324.4     993.7         683.9    322.9   1006.7           32.6        2.5
2. Formation                         517.1      503.9    1021.0         531.6    502.8   1034.4           49.4        2.6
3. Assistance Technique               53.3      265.1     318.5          55.1    267.6    322.7           83.3        0.8
4. Rquipment Chantier (o4A)          827.7    1315.3    2143.0          843.4   1327.9   2171.2           61.4        5.5
Sub-total                               2067.4    2408.7    4476.1         2114.0   2421.1   4535.1            53.8       11.4
F . Infrastructures Rurales
1. Plstes                           6176.8    3790.9    9967.7        6328.8   3770.2  10099.0            38.0       25.4
2. Points d'eau                     1845.6    2309.9    4155.6         1891.8   2318.5   4210.3           5S.6       10.6
3. Datinents                        1324.9    1105.7    2430.7        1359.3   1103.4   2462.7            4S.S        6.2
Sub-Total                               9347.4    7206.5   165S3.9         9S79.9   7192.1  16772.0            43.S      42.2                                                          1
0 . Ponds appui (API)                  1219.6    1028.6    2248.2         1252.8   1025.0   2277.8            4S.8        5.7
Total BASBLINB COSTS                   24699.9   14489.8   39189.7        25245.1  14460.8  39705.9            36.4      100.0
Physical contingencies               2226.9    1333.4    3560.4        2256.3   1351.0   3607.3            37.5        9.1
Price Contingencies                  6060.2    1241.9    7302.1        5920.2   1478.1   7398.3            20.0       18.6
Total PROJECTS COSTS                   32987.0   17065.1   50052.2        33421.5  11289.9  50711.4            34.1      127.7
12/6/1993 16:29



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT                              Table 2
TUNISIE
Worthwest Mountainous Areas Development
000 DT
Project Components by Year
Ease Costs                                  Total
01       02       03        04       05        06   000DT   000US$
....... !.I ....... 0-.2 -.--...... ---- ....... --- ....... ---- ....... --. .... !0V   -.-08
A. Developpement Agricole
1. Appui product. vegetale          23.7      33.2     40.3      46.3     56.7      38.4    238.S    241.6
2. Appui product. animale           193.1    212.2    178.8    161.5    147.5       99.8    992.9   1006.0
3. Appui apurement foncier          86.0      50.4     50.4      24.7     24.7      24.7    262.6    266.1
4. Vulgarisation & Animation      1104.3    775.5    412.2    373.7    373.7    336.3   3375.8   3420.3
sub-total                             1409.1   1011.3    661.7    606.1    602.6    499.1   4869.9   4934.0
B. .onaervation/eau et sol              7.6   1700.3   1769.4   1769.4   1769.4   1769.4   8785.3   8901.0
C. Micro-enterprise Develop.          141.5    231.0    231.0    180.6    180.6    140.0   1104.8   1119.3
D. Recherche Appliquee                281.4    276.2    276.2    276.2       20.8     20.8   1151.5   1166.6
S. Renforcement/Institution
1. Plan, K&B, GIS                  515.4    312.0      15.9      30.1     30.1      30.1    993.7   1006.7
-2. Pormation                        15.1    657.5    148.9       66.5     66.5      66.5   1021.0   1034.4
3. Assistance Technique            113.9      68.2     68.2      68.2      0.0       0.0    318.5    322.7
4. Equipment Chantier             2143.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0   2143.0   2171.2
Sub-total                            2787.4   1037.7    293.0    164.8        96.6     96.6   4476.1   4535.1
F. infrastructures Rurales
1. Pistes                         1528.6   1707.4   2065.1   2065.1   2065.1    536.5   9967.7  10099.0
2. Points d'eau                      0.0    827.0    833.8    S40.5    877.6    776.5   4155.6   4210.3
3. Batiments                       691.8    723.5    279.3    297.8    232.4    205.8   2430.7   2462.7
Sub-total                            2220.4   3257.9   3178.2   3203.3   3175.3   1518.8  16553.9  16772.0
G. Fonds appui (API)                    0.0    102.2    459.9    562.0    562.0    562.0   2248.2   2277.8
Total BASJENB COSTS                  6847.3   7676.6   6869.3   6762.S   6407.3   4606.7  39189.7  39705.9
Physical Contingencies             562.7    681.2    639.6    626.3    615.6    434.9   3560.4   3607.3
Price Contingencies                322.0    847.9   1135.9   1506.6   1835.1   1654.6   7302.1   7390.3
Total PROJECT COSTS                  7732.0   9205.7   864.8   8095.4   8S85.0   6696.1  50052.2  50711.4
Taxes                             2104.4   1772.9   1620.2   1683.2   1709.8   1106.1   9996.5  10128.2
Foreign Rxchange                  3565.4   3095.7   2863.6   2880.1   2740.2   1920.1  17065.1  17289.9
12/6/1993 15:29



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT                                                        Table 3
TunISia
Northwest Mountainous Areas Development
Projects Components by Year
Totals including Contingencies                                       Totals Including Contingencies
000 DT                                                                000 US$
01       02       03       04        05       06    Total           01       02       03        04       05       06    Total
....................... ...........................                 ....................-.......                              .....
A. Developpement Agricole
1. Appui product. vegetale          26.9     38.9     48.9      58.4     74.4     52.8    300.3         27.3     39.4      49.5     59.2     75.4      53.5    304.3
2. Appui product. animale          225.6    257.9    226.6    212.9    202.8    140.9   1266.5         228.5    261.2    229.4    21S.7    205.5    142.8   1283.2
3. Appui apurement foncier         101.4     59.3      61.5     31.4     32.6     33.9    320.1        102.0     60.1      62.3     31.8     33.0      34.4    324.3
4. Vulgarisation & Animation      1177.1    878.4    507.8    482.3    505.0    480.3   4030.8        1192.6    889.9    514.5    488.6    511.6    486.6   4083.9
Sub-Total                             1531.0   1234.4    844.6    785.0    814.8    708.0   5917.7        1551.2   1250.6    8s5.7    795.3    825.5    717.3   C995.7
B. Conservation/eau et sol              8.9   2121.0   2320.2   2440.4   2566.9   2700.0  12157.3           9.0   2148.9   2350.7   2472.5   2600.7  2735.5  12317.5
C. Micro-enterprise Develop.          166.6    290.0    305.4    2S2.5    265.9    220.7   1601.1         168.8    293.8    309.5    255.8    269.4    223.6   1520.9
D. Recherche Appliquee                297.4    301.8    313.9    327.2      26.0      26.9   1293.1       301.3    305.7    318.0    331.5       26.4     27.2   1310.1
E. Renforcement/Institution
1. Plan, M&E, GI8                  595.0   375.6       94.2     38.1     40.1     42.3   1185.2        602.8    380.5      95.4     38.6     40.7     42.8   1200.8
2. Formation                        16.3    790.5    180.5      84.2     87.8     91.6   1250.8         16.S    800.9    182.9      8s.3     89.0      92.8   1267.3
3. Assistance Technique            128.5     79.1      81.7     84.6      0.0      0.0    373.8        130.1     80.1      82.7     85.8      0.0       0.0    378.8
4. Equipment Chantier             2417.7      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0   2417.7      2449.5       0.0      0.0      0.0     0al        0.0   2449.5
Sub-Total                             3157.4   1245.1    356.3    207.0    128.0    133.8   5227.6        3199.0   1261.5    361.0    209.7    129.7    135.6   5296.5
P. Infrastructures Rurales
1. Pistes                         1773.9   2057.6   2591.2   2706.2   2826.5    758.6  12714.1        1797.3   2084.7   2625.4   2741.8   2863.7    768.4  12881.5
2. Points deau                       0.0    971.3   1014.0   1062.0   1154.6   1064.0   5265.9           0.0    984.1   1027.4   1076.0   1169.8   1078.0   5335.3
3. Batiments                       796.8    862.3    346.3    384.9    313.4    289.4   2993.2         807.3    873.7    350.9    389.9    317.6    293.3   3032.7          1
Sub-Total                             2670.8   3891.2   3951.6   4153.0   4294.5   2112.1  20973.2        2604.6   3942.5   4003.6   4207.7   4351.1   2139.9  21249.5
G. Ponds appui (API)                    0.0    122.3    572.8    730.3    761.9    794.8   2982.1           0.0    123.9    580.4    739.9    771.9    805.2   3021.3
Total PROJECTS COSTS                  7732.0   9205.7  8664.8   8895.4   8858.0   6696.1  50052.2         7833.9   9327.0   8779.0   9012.5   e974.7   6784.3  50711.4
...........................................................          ................................-..............0........
------- __--- --------__--- --------_ ---- ------------- -_ --------__ - -------__ ---- -----_ ------- ------------- -------_I_ --- ---_ I-------- ------------- -------------
12/6/1993 15:30



-35-
STAFF APPRAISAL REPOKT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
NORTWEST MOUNTAINOUS AREAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Cumulative
IBRD                                Amount           Amount
Fiscal Year                      (US$ Million)     (US$ Million)    Percent
FY94       June 94                   0.04              0.04           1
FY95       December 94                0.8               0.8           3
June 95                   2.7               1.9          10
FY96       December 95                3.8               1.0          14
June 96                   6.0               2.2          22
FY97       December 96                9.3               3.3          34
June 97                  11.5               2.2          42
FY98       December 97               13.7               2.2          50
June 98                  15.9               2.2          58
FY99       December 98               18.1               2.2          66
June 99                  21.4               3.3          78
FYOO       December 99               23.6               2.2          86
June 00                  25.8               2.2          94
FY01       December 00               26.4               0.5          96
June 01                  26.9               0.5          98
FY02       December 01               27.5               0.5         100
Expected date of:
Signing:
Effectiveness: April 31, 1994
Completion:   December 3, 1999
Closing Date: June 30, 2000
The standard disbursement profile for counatwkde agricultural ptojects. Mme completion date is estimated to fall in the 32nd
qurter, and th closing date in the 34th quarter.



- 35 -
page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIO
NOR1MVES MMNAINQU AMS DEVEIOPIVNTPR.lC
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
VatershdL and Raleland Management
1.   The project would undertake watershed and rangeland management activities on about
18,900 ha working in collaboration with CDs and user committees. The areas for each activity
which are presented in Table 1 are indicative only as the actual areas involved will be partly
determined by the needs of the CDs.
Table 1
Rate of undertaking watershed and rangeland management treatments over the period of the
project, in ha unless otherwise noted.
Activity                          Year                    Total
1    2     3     4     5     6
Sylvo-pastoral          300   400   500   500  400   400          2500
Rangeland               100   300   600   600  600   500          2700
Ravines
vegetation        600  1000  1000  1000 700   700           5000
check dams*       450   750   750   750  500   500          3700
fascines           50   100   150   150  150   100           700
Stone walls             700   900  900   900  500   500           4400
Fish scale pits         300   450  450   450  450   300           2400
Contour banks           150   150   150   150  150   150           900
Agroforestry            100   200  200   200  200   100           1000
* per 1500 m of length
Extension and Training
2.    Under the integrated participative development strategy development agents based at the
CDAs would assist villagers to organize and develop themselves. Support would be provided
to these field staff by heads of center at the CDAs, regional subject matter specialists and
headquarters based subject matter specialist coordinators.



- 36
page 2 of 6
Technical support and CDA personnel required to be on staff by the end of project year I for
headquarters and the three regional offices.
Table 2
Position                   Head-         Rginl offices 
quarters (a)  Mogods- Beja   Kef
Kroumirie
Director
Subject Matter Speciali
Development/training                1           1       1      1
Planning and development*           1           1       1      1
Monitoring/evaluation               1           1       1      1
Crops w.id horticulture             1           1       1      1
Animal husbandry and fodder         1           1       1      1
production
Rural engineer                      1           1       1      1
Sociologist                         1-                 -       -
Women in development                1-                  -      -
Centre of Demonstration and Development (c}
Head of CDA                         10          6      7
Extension agents male                           10     6       7
female                           10     4       3
* specialist in watershed and rangeland management
(a) headquarters positions at the minimum levels of "Ingenieur Principale", MSc or DVM
(b) regional positions at the minimum level of "Ingenieur'
(c) CDA positions at the minimum level of agricultural college graduate



- 37 -
page 3 of 6
The numbers of field staff+ required at the CDAs for each regional office for each project
year.
Regional Office                     Year
-1*   1    2      3     4     5      6
Mogods - Kroumirie
Head of Centre           10    10    11    11    11    11    11
Animateur                7    10    11    11    11    11    11
Animatrice               3    10    11    11    11    11    11
BeJa
Head of Centre           6     6      8     8     8     8     8
Animateur                5     6     8      8     8     8     8
Animatrice               0     3     4      4     4     4     4
Kef
Head of Centre           7     7    10    10    10    10    10
Animateur                3     7    10    10    10    10    10
Animatrice               0     3     5      5     5     5     5
Tots
HeadofCentre            23    23    29    29    29    29    29
Animateur                15    23    29    29    29    29    29
Animatrice              3      16    20    20    20    20    20
Total staff             41    62    78    78    78    78    78
+ Animateur: male Development Agent
Animatrice: female Development Agent
* Pre-project



- 38 -
AN1
page 4 of 6
DevelopmX of CDAs
3.    The project would concentrate on development within the target micro-zones rather than
large scale expansion of the area to be serviced. Ihere will thus be only six new CDAs
established during the project.
Rate of creation of new CDAs and initial and final numbers of CDAs for each regional office
Regional Office                          Year                 Total
-1*   1    2     3     4      5     6
Mogods - Kroumerie      10   -      1    -      -     -     -      11
Beja                     6    -     2     -     -     -     -       8
Kef                      7    -     3     -     -     -     -      10
Totals                  23                                         29
new                     -     6     -               -
tol               23   23    29    29    29    29    29    29
* pre-project
Development of CDs
4.    While it is possible that a group of douas when approached by development agents may
be able to organize a CD, draw up a development plan and have a contract signed with
ODESYPANO in four months, many will take longer, and some will be reluctant to organize
and sign contracts. Indicative figures on the rate of motivation, organization and signing of
contracts are presented in Table 5.



- 39 
page 5 of 6
Rate of motivation and organization of douars for the formation
of CDs and the number of groups worked with signing contracts with ODESYPANO in the
initial year, or the following year.
TableS
Regional                    Year                            Total
offices           -1    1    2    3    4        5     6
Rate of motivation and
Mogods-Kroumirie        83   4      5    4    4       -     -     100
Beja                     5    12   21    26   6       -    -      70
Kef                      5    14   22   28   11    -        -     80
Total                   93   30   48    58   21    0        0     250
Number of CDs undertaking initial contras
Pre-project             93   -         -        -    -      -     93
Year 1 (50 %)           -    15   24   29    12   -         -     80
Year2  (30 %)           -    9      14   17   6       -     -     46
Total  (80 %)           93   24    38   46    18   -        -     219
5.   Training of staff, CD committee members, DEAs and beneficiaries would be an
important part of the project. Some details of the amount of taining are presented in Table 6
and 7.



- 40 -
page 6 of 6
Table6
Number of weeks of beneficiary training required per year
Weeks                       Year
Activity                       1    2      3     4     5    6
BeneMfldades(CD}
initi year        2           60    96    116   42    -      -
other years       1           93    123   171   229   250   250
total                         153   219   287   271   250   250
Table
Num' ,r of weeks of training of Douar Extension Agents, CD)A staff, and technical staff required
per year.
Weeks             Year
Activity          /person      1    2      3     4     5    6
Douar Extension Agents
initial year        4       372    120   192  232   84      -
other yeas          1         -    93   123  171  229  250
total                       372    213   315  403  313  250
a. fma1
initia year         4         -   372   120  192  232   84
other yeas          1         -      -    93  123  171  229
total                         0    372   213  315  403  313
staff of cmD
initia year        4         84     64      -    -    -    -
year 2             2         82    42    32    -    -    -
other yeus         0.5        -    22    31   39   39   39
total                       166    128    63   39   39   39
TechicaltrainbF (SMSC and SMS Staf)
initial year       2         58      -      -    -    -    -
other years         I         -    29    29   29   29   29



- 41 -
ANfX 2
page 1 of 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBIIC OF JIM
NORTHST MQUNTAINOUS AREAS DEVELOMENT PROJlECT
SUP13RVISIQPLAN
Project monitoring and coodination would be the responsibility of ODESYPANO's
Department of Planning and Evaluation which would prepare and submit semi-annual reports to
the Director General by mid-March and mid-September of each year for review and discussion.
These reports would cover, inter alia,:
(a)   a summary of the issues raised by the previous supervision missions and their
status;
(b)   the physical achievement of civil works and delivery of equipment;
(c)   the results of community planning activities and the formation of Douar
Development Committees (DDC), Douar Development Plans, Douar Action Plan,
Douar Credit Unions;
(d)   physical achievements in the participating communities per project component,;
(e) agricultural performance including livestock and rangeland;
(t)   watershed and soil stabilization performance both on and off farm;
(g)   the status of taining for farmers and staff, and technical assistance; and
(h)   the status of studies undertaken under the project.
uprvIwMd     i iWon. The project would be supervised by the Bank two to thee times a year,
particularly during the early stages of implementation. They would require the assistance and
participation of the staff of the executing agency at the levels of the General Directorate,
Regional Directorate and the Development Centers. evelopmentDirector General. The mission
would visit in particular participating villages where Development Committees are at different
stages of development and experience. Communities would be visited in the process of forming,
identifying development priorites, negotating Douar Action Plans with ODESYPANO, where



- 42 -
ANNEX 2
page 2 of 2
contract activities are underway and where they have been completed. Visits would also be made
to beneficiary groups formed for watershed and rangeland management activities; Douar
communities would also be would be visited where particular issues need to be aadressed. The
visits of the review missions to the participating villages would ensure appropriate feedback and
effective community participation during the prqject implementation.
The May Bank mission would be generally each of about two weeks duration in
the country; the first mission would normally be comprised of an agriculturalist, a watershed and
rangeland specialist and a civil engineer. One or two other specialists (a sociologist, or a
finmcial expert) as needed could join the mission.
The November mission would be of about 10 days duration in the country except
for the mid-project reviews. The missions would be comprised of the task manager and one or
two specialists as required but usually including either an agriculturalist or a watershed and
rangeland specialist or both.



CHART I
Page 1
PRESIDENT DIRECTEUR GENERAL
|SECAUrAFT oe LA  ||COzORMNAT    OM 
D|EPARTEMENT DE              DEPARTEMENT DE                    DEPARTEMENT DES
PLANIFICATION  J DEVELOPPEMENT RURAL   AFFAIRES ADMINISTRATIVES
O{ue -                                   =ET FIMANCIERES
OIsVISON det AfflafI
)0M5lVlU               D OIVISION                      Plnaf&Ma et ComptWbi  O
Anmlion Rurmb.
et OtgMIanhao
axVIis" de Sad          de b8 _m                       SreAce Finallcier|lS-Cm
at dma NWMfon om U
swij             m D N AJbire AdMin   _
I~~~~~~~~~~Arim S   Woma
;semce Geni Rwura|                         ---
[ Soe Admni*W ot aIft7u
Organigrqame                                             D       des _   Commun
OCESYPANO                                               s.env d. S8*nb.fl at du Mat4dM
I SIEGE CENTRAL                             , pVo         .     t
s~~~~~~~~~~~ --*  Co                         mia ao    ot Crf A ic  



CHART I
Page 2
DIRECTION REGIONALE : LE ROLE DU COORDINATEUR LOCAL
,.. .  ......DIRECTEUR REGIONAL:AIAONUA
ordonne leapu           su. 1aacjetprtp asI
feedback A          ~T
logistique avec       des plans d'o$ratloii    ptancDiVision         |
permanentes             de d6veloppement etRecherch
et des  NGped             SEaR VatICE.rs
ANIMATION RURALE
I  i, #--~~i  .......................... ..cO
<~~-- - ---  --                                                            f         
cooron l'appui           sufit Pavancement          partlidpe dans In      d
logisli4ue avec       des plans dlopiraliou    planificatlon annuelle avtc  o a
partenaires des                           .                          fin n
~~~~~~~-D...^_srcue                            ......   chef de centr t n
_permanentes              de developpement_           
_. tnONG ..___equipe des animateurs ;|



CHART 1.
Page 3
Centre de DNveloppement et d'Animation
Centre de D4veloppement et Animation |
l(CDA),... 
un anlmateur
1'6quipe CDA                     w       une animatrice
un chef de centre
Animateurltrice organisent
la population et s'occupent de
I'elaboration du PD.D.
(version populalre)
Chef de Centre:                    equipe pluridisciplinaire
fait la logistique et     .         u niveau Directions Regionales:-
!'administration du               donne input" professionnel
contrat-programme



CHART 2
Page - ,
| LA POPULATION C1IS8 FORME DS             Los prodults de LANIMATION RURALE
COMITES DE-    r- - P  DEDEVOPPEENT
DEVELOPPEMENT                    | DIALOGUE   DEDOUAR
. , . ............ CONTRATS- PROGRS0 
CENTRE DE DEVELOPPEMENT avec                [j     .          E
L'EQUIPE DE LANIMATION RURALE                                     l
I'6qulpe logistique       appul  i,  ACIWMES INTEGREES et  _
PARnCIPATIVES
appul loglstique  encadr.ment protesslonnal
I                                 appul
EQUIPE PLURIDISCIPUNAIRE
de X                            STRUCTURES PERMANENTES
DIRECTION REGIONALE                               ET
looordlnatlon/tlaieon   AUTORrrES POLMITIUES ET
I OrfntpaunmODWSSYPA4O: (



CHART 2
.Page 2
Cadre cl articulations du Plan           Niveaux de participation                    Structures impliqudes dans I'6laboration et la mise
de D6veloppement Douar                                                                   en oeuvre du Plan de D6veloppement Douar
Niveaux supra r4gional et regional
Pian direwSt
Iacaboa. mtozona-                                                           ODESYPANO     _
1    i    b]-~~API                          .s._                                                     . 
Scb6ttt de pbnfatic du p                                                                    %         ure*ra
MA.PP)       ._.                                                                                         nAs
Niveaux regional et local
-P.D;D._-, Dbr _ 
- dW.& 4 Z 
( 1 "mwn aPetnd)                                                          I"SYPAODO
4 enandol  ds ajgnc" jg
|6suhats   |     .EOrnladtion deo                                                                                     AO n
* Esofiawdo. \a                                                                                       Audrss et o g-'-b
*Idonlico does conttlwObaus        *\                                                      -3e       t   bsw.ti    .
L.~~~~                                                                               .
'SuMd 1v\h.___'
Gont,o - programme
* 6QhOotIbat do cptibutkalon
. C409weon do In pop,
*Cone             _ ds.                          ' a\,es                            Niveaux Microzonal el Douar
de d&abppemont
* Pula d'aclon
I(Meproebo"~-C - ---'--. . .oidn
1 Pb~~Fn d'OpU da - uSconf
. _ds$4--..__
tus sw la b"R duo
Std4vakM&M             I 
,  R6 &



TU'NISIA                                                                          I         -S'
NORTHWEST MOUNTAINOUS AREAS                                                                                       Li 1 ?  e r  n e a n
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                               - --
NORTHWEST REGION AND
PROJECT AREA BOUNDARIES                                4         / T                                             - -
37.                                                         I               r       -            1    -f   -o
r Hoa  _ ,, o                                                                                                      z~~~~r 
-                         ISl           /"'-t Z            "'H Cp    >-i
t~~~~~~~~1                         -<-<SJLXA                    /B I oE J2                                                      34.OSS e 
3'            {f ~'>  '~                                                       't-S' **'o+r.             i+~i @
_ | F% L~~~, , K_- ~KAIRODA?'                                      -      ,     O.{....................JNASTrR.
Or   (   ' ,-\S.v(                                                            -;       M -iI 
4    -KA S.SE RD)NE  7    ',                        j                         NAt. S   -  '
EN >UB A\ -3
-> *                            N+< 5D    O   I /      ~      SFAX          ;
K-,~ ~~~~~~~~~ .'A   -CL  K..,           ,.   -                                  55'.
35~' rZ.,GAF5A  ;
k N~~~~  <'N <~~~~~$/ ~~~~SE,                             X        SI
34!~~t.    %r04,*         s)          -  NN   (
0 ~ ~ ~ ~ 0
i, NN         \                                                           yf<illrl .*; :'
T .
SIDI BOUATAOZID
SPAIN                                     ITALY      GREECE
- PROJECT AREA BOUINDARY
-SUlB-PROJECT AREA BOUNDARIES                   BlOCUMATtC ZONES:                           [7unis
NORTHWEST REGION BOUNDARY                                                     P RD     rojec repion 
RtVERS                               _        l       SU-HMI    4TUNISIA
SiALT tAKESHUMtD
o,     23_       so       7,                                 ' /
o   CITES AND TOWNS                        Sr r   f              2       AtGERIAi
32'            *   GOVERNORATE CAPITALSio8sO~I                                                                                  1Y
*I  NATtONALtCAPITAL                    Q4.. Sd..oo.od                                                          LIRY
6        -^-~~GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES                CE>,p                                                  I
-*INTERNATtCNALtBOUNDARIES *.  
_ _   _  _   _  _   _   _  _  _    _  _  _    _  _  _   _   __'_                   __ _._w
8' 0                                                                                     )C
_______________________________________________                              -,  tt~~~~aCNr~..



BO'30                          9q'005                            9-'30'                          1000' 
TUNISIA
NORTHWEST MOUNTAINOUS AREAS
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUB-PROJECT AREAS (MICROZONES)
7    K     ~IE-mOreOD$ 
N                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aricrn.
---'T. A-nb.
~~~~~ r w7)                                              )                                                TUNI
A,n SFoan                                                                            'O ,       Ct_ {
36^00' ~            - 'r ' ~   ~          & "                        ,        Jt2  NAx
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~0
Jendou                                                                                                   Z    oJ n
56 55~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Siin                                                                                          60'
ebsWy Ew  16 K E FEIS\
T. rb.le- c                       A          E1 R6  I N    E
,AS  :.,   f                                                                                                                                        /rW l   a   ......    
> aorttdgu   -       . -[                                                                              9-t301                            10 0< 
kh. 0.,* /0.74ft :! 5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PAIN T GEC
O. C Ah        M    O                          RAILROAD
C   T ONSLDTIb.ON   9  93                    GOVER1NOAE CAITL
so6_;     srn..- ;:   .oHp, o.  ,.. .
PROJECT AREA ROUNDARY                     EXPRESSWAYS IPT
12!t5   NORTHWEST REOIONGBOUNDARY  -       MAINROADS  IB     A                  ATU SIA
SUR-PROJECT BOUNDARIES                    SECONDARY ROADS ARIE
SUB-PROJRCT AREAS tMICROZONESI               -    RAILROADS                                                l       i
r RIASE I11901-19R1                  0   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                   i 4/
Lii CON30IJSATION IIRO0-19931           0    GOVERNORATE CAPITALSI
>sNEW AREAS (1994-20001              *9   NATIONAL CAPITAL                                            .
GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES                   A L 0 E R I AI
SALT LAKE                          --INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIESi
PORT                                                                                                                   LI1B YA
3;            SEASONAt RIVERS          -      10    20       0      43      50.
|    DAMS                                    KIlLOMETERS
Lo             9                                B0 83                            9p00                                  o-) N I G E R''. .00



