Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3691 TUN
                          Loan Agreement
         (Northwest Mountainous Areas Development Project)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated February 23, 1994
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3691 TUN
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated February 23, 1994, between the REPUBLIC OF
TUNISIA (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;
      (B)   the Project will be carried out by the Office du
Dhungarumlautveloppement Sylvo-Pastoral du Nord-Ouest (ODESYPANO) with the
Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to ODESYPANO the proceeds of the Loan as
provided in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and ODESYPANO;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
Page  2
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Basic Legislation" means the Borrower's Law No. 81-17
dated March 9, 1981, pursuant to which ODESYPANO has been
established and is operating as an industrial and commercial public
institution, and the Borrower's Decree No. 81-975 dated  July 15,
1981, setting forth the administrative and financial organization of
ODESYPANO, as both may be amended from time to time;
      (b)   "Category" means a category of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan as set forth in the table in paragraph
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and the term "Categories" means
more than one Category collectively;
      (c)   "Central Bank" means the Central Bank of Tunisia (Banque
Centrale de Tunisie) established and operating pursuant to the
Borrower's Law No. 58-90 dated September 19, 1958, as the same may
be amended from time to time;
      (d)   "Development Center" or "CDA" means a Development Center
(Centre de dhungarumlautveloppement et d'animation) which represents ODESYPANO
at the village level for the purposes of the Project;
      (e)   "Douar" means a rural settlement consisting of extended
families in villages in the Project Areas (as hereinafter defined);
      (f)   "Douar Action Plan" means the agreement to be concluded
between ODESYPANO, represented by a CDA, and a Douar, represented by
a DDC (as hereinafter defined), setting forth the parties' agreement
to the execution of specific Sub-projects and each party's
obligations, including villagers' contributions, and commitments in
connection thereto;
      (g)   "Douar Credit Union" means a Douar Credit and Savings
Union to be established and managed by ODESYPANO under Part C (ii)
of the Project;
      (h)   "Douar Development Committee" or "DDC" means a Douar
Development Committee consisting of Douar settlers or inhabitants
which represent a Douar in its interaction with ODESYPANO for the
purposes of the Project;
      (i)   "Fiscal Year" or "FY" means the twelve (12) month period
corresponding to any of the Borrower's fiscal years, which period
commences on January 1 and ends on December 31 in each calendar
year;
      (j)   "informal sector" means income-generating activities
usually undertaken by Douars' members, and which include, without
limitation, cottage industries, such as beekeeping, in-house
processing and agroforestry byproducts, and handicrafts, such as
Page  3
weaving, carpentry and woodcarving;
      (k)   "Kroumirie-Mogods Sub-zone Area" means the areas of the
Borrower's in the Governorates of Bhungarumlautj
, Bizerte and Jendouba in
which the Project is to be carried out;
      (l)   "Oued Tessa Sub-zone Area" means the areas of the
Borrower's in the Governorates of Bhungarumlautj
, Kef and Siliana in which the
Project is to be carried out;
      (m)   "Oued Zarga and Oued Khil Sub-zone Areas" mean the areas
of the Borrower's in the Governorates of Bhungarumlautj
 and Bizerte in which
the Project is to be carried out;
      (n)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and ODESYPANO of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
      (o)   "Project Areas" mean the areas totalling about 310,000
ha consisting of the Kroumirie-Mogods Sub-zone Area, the Oued Zarga
and Oued Khil Sub-zone Areas and the Oued Tessa Sub-zone Area;
      (p)   "Regional Directorate" or "DR" means each of ODESYPANO's
Regional Directorates located in Bhungarumlautj
, Kef and Sejnane;
      (q)   "Research Fund" means the fund for applied research
which shall be established and operated by ODESYPANO pursuant to
Part D of the Project;
      (r)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (s)   "Sub-project" means specific activities identified in a
Douar Action Plan to be carried out under the Project.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of twenty-seven million five hundred thousand dollars
($27,500,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such
withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in its
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account, shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
Page  4
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                   ending on the date immediately preceding each
                   date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                   Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
                   which this Agreement is signed.
           (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                   as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                   outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                   after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                   or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to
                   fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans
                   which may be made by the Bank after July 1,
                   1989, bearing interest rates determined
                   otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                   this Section.
          (iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
                   second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                   "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
            from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
            of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
            (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
            2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
            accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
            preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
            applicable during such Interest Period."
                   "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
            Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
            such Quarter."
                   "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
            a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
Page  5
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall
cause ODESYPANO to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement all the obligations of ODESYPANO therein set
forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable ODESYPANO to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
      (b)   The Borrower shall promptly make the proceeds of the
Loan available to ODESYPANO through budgetary allocations.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by
ODESYPANO pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
                   with sound accounting practices, records and
                   accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)    ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures are retained until
                   at least one year after the Bank has received
                   the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which
                   the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
                   made; and
          (iii)    enable the Bank's representatives to examine
                   such records.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for
                   the Special Account for each Fiscal Year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six (6) months after the
                   end of each such year the report of such audit
                   by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                   detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                   requested, including a separate opinion by said
                   auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
Page  6
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals;
                   and
          (iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the
                   audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   ODESYPANO shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that ODESYPANO will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (c)   The Basic Legislation or any other law, decree or
resolution of the Borrower shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and
adversely the organization, powers, financial condition or
operations of ODESYPANO or its ability to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of ODESYPANO or for the suspension of its operations.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
(60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to
the Borrower; and
      (b)   the events specified in paragraph (c) and (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Borrower shall have established, under terms of
reference and guidelines satisfactory to the Bank, a Research
Committee to manage the Research Fund.
      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has been
duly authorized by ODESYPANO, and is legally binding upon ODESYPANO
in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the
date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Page  7
      Section 7.01. The Minister of International Cooperation and
Foreign Investment of the Borrower is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of International Cooperation
              and Foreign Investment
            149, Avenue de la Liberthungarumlaut\0d
            1002 Tunis-Belvhungarumlautd\1are
            Republic of Tunisia
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   MCIIE                     18060
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
                         By /s/ Ismail Khelil
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         By /s/ Caio Koch-Weser
                                           Regional Vice President
                                      Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
Page  8
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)   Civil works for:
      (a) Soil Con-              7,300,000      )
          servation                             )
                                                )
      (b) Buildings              1,800,000      )
                                                )
      (c) Roads                  7,600,000      )60%
                                                )
      (d) Water Supply           2,200,000      )
                                                )
      (e) Farm ponds               900,000      )
          under Part F                          )
          of the Project                        )
(2)   Equipment, Vehicles,       3,200,000      100% of foreign
      and Materials                             expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 80% of
                                                local expenditures
                                                for other items
                                                procured locally
                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(3)  Consultants'              2,000,000        100%
     Services,
     Training, and
     Studies
(4)  Unallocated               2,500,000
                               _________
      TOTAL                   27,500,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of Category (1) (e), until and
unless the Bank shall have approved the feasibility study referred
to in Section E.1 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:
(i) works under contracts not exceeding $500,000 and works to be
carried out by force account; (ii) goods under contracts not
exceeding $300,000; and (iii) services under contracts not exceeding
$100,000, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.
                           SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to alleviate poverty,
Page  9
improve the well-being of the Project Areas' population and arrest
degradation of the natural resource base in said Areas, and, to
those ends, to assist the Borrower in: (i) supporting on-farm and
off-farm income-generating activities; (ii) promoting measures to
reduce erosion, run-off, and reservoir sedimentation; (iii)
improving management and productivity of range and farm land; and
(iv) improving accessibility of the Project Areas' population to
basic infrastructure and social services; and (v) fostering
increased responsibility and involvement of the local population in
the planning and management of its own development.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Agriculture Development
      Carrying out of an extension program to increase and sustain
agricultural production in the Project Areas, by demonstration and
promotion of appropriate farming techniques and on-farm erosion
control measures adapted to local condition, through the
strengthening of ODESYPANO's agricultural extension service in the
Project Areas. This program will include:
      (a)   Strengthening of the technical capability of the
Regional Directorates through the provision of subject-matter
specialists in the areas, inter alia, of watershed and rangeland
management, agronomy, animal husbandry and fodder production and
rural engineering, as necessary to provide support and training to
development/extension agents (animateurs/animatrices) in extension
activities and training of village groups;
      (b)   Reinforcement of the Development Centers through the
provision of nineteen (19) development/extension agents, composed of
seven (7) men and (12) women; and
      (c)   For the purposes of carrying out the activities referred
to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Part A of this Schedule: (i)
construction of six (6) Development Centers and housing for the
development/extension agents; (ii) provision of training, inter
alia, in participatory approach, vehicles, mopeds, equipment, and
seeds, fertilizers, equipment and supplies for demonstration; (iii)
carrying out of a pilot animal insemination program; (iv) carrying
out of land surveys necessary, inter alia, for land titling; and (v)
establishment of a suitable mobile communication unit.
Part B:     Watershed and Rangeland Management
      Development and implementation, with full participation and
contribution of the beneficiaries, of soil conservation and erosion
control activities aimed at reducing run-off, soil erosion and
downstream sedimentation.
Part C:     Income-Generating Activities
      Carrying out, on a pilot basis, of a program to: (i) promote
financially viable off-farm and on-farm rural enterprises designed
to both generate employment and increase income; and (ii) enhance
the Project Areas' rural households' capacity to create and manage
their own resources, consisting specifically of the establishment
and operation of a suitable Douar credit/savings scheme based on the
creation and operation of Douar Credit Unions and the carrying out
of a study designed to define the terms and lending conditions and
the procedures necessary for the proper operation of the said Douar
Credit Unions and a study to identify potential for, and existing
constraints to, rural enterprise development in the Project Areas,
and, on the basis thereof, formulation of a suitable action plan,
including a training program.
Part D:     Applied Research
      Establishment of a Research Fund for the purposes of
Page  10
supporting short-term applied research to improve and sustain rural
productivity in the Project Areas, enhance farmers' income and
conserve the Project Areas' natural resources, and provision of a
short-term consultant to review research plans and implementation
and progress of these activities.
Part E:     Institutional Strengthening
1.    Carrying out of a program to strengthen ODESYPANO's planning
and Project implementation capability, primarily through
reorganization and restructuring, and provision of a Planning
Director and a Chief of Accounts, in-country training, short-term
consultancy, study tours, training of village communities to attain
increased participation and heavy equipment to improve ODESYPANO's
capability to construct, repair and maintain rural infrastructure,
particularly rural roads, in the Project Areas.
2.    Strengthening of ODESYPANO's Geographic Information System
through the provision of training and short-term consultancy to
permit the assembly and analysis of key data necessary for planning,
monitoring and evaluating Project activities.
Part F:     Rural Infrastructure
      Construction and maintenance of basic infrastructure,
including: (i) rehabilitation and maintenance of about six hundred
fifty (650) km of feeder roads; and (ii) construction of about three
hundred (300) km of feeder roads, eight (8) schools, twenty-five
(25) classrooms, ten (10) health centers, nineteen (19) potable
water supply systems, fifteen (15) farm ponds, drilling of twenty-
eight (28) wells in areas not provided with water and installation
of sixty (60) water tanks.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
               SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                      Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 1 and September 1
      beginning on September 1, 1999
      through September 1, 2010            1,145,000
And on March 1, 2011                       1,165,000
Page  11
_____________________________
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                         Premium
                                     The interest rate (expressed
                                     as a percentage per annum)
                                     applicable to the Loan on
                                     the day of prepayment
                                     multiplied by:
Not more than three years                        0.18
      before maturity
More than three years but                        0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                          0.65
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than 11 years but not                       0.88
      more than 15 years
      before maturity
More than 15 years before                        1.00
      maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of works, goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
Page  12
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.
           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested. On the basis of each such request,
                   the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been
                   shown by said documents and other evidence to
                   have been paid out of the Special Account for
                   eligible expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
Page  13
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
