Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20548
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(34960; 3496A; 3496S)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US $36.6 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JUNE 23, 2000
Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exc.hange Rate Effective June 2000)
Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp)
I Rp = US$ 0.0001
US$ I = Rp 8540
FISCAL YEAR
April I   March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APKG                  Alai Penilaian Kemampuan Guru(Teacher Performance Assessment Instrument)
BAKN                  Badan Administrasi Kepegawaian Negara (Civil Service Agency)
BAPPENAS              Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Nasional (National Development Planning Agency)
CAR                   Classroom Action Research
CPIU                  Central Project Implementation Unit
DATI I                Daerah Tingkat l(Provincial Level Govemment)
DATI 11               Daerah Tingkat 11 (Kabupaten/Kotamadya or District Level Government)
DGHE                  Directorate General of Higher Education
DGPSE                 Director General of Primary and Secondary Education
D2                    Five-semester post-Secondary Diploma Course
DIP                   Daftar Isian Proyek (Project Budget Allocation)
FKIP                  Fakulias kegtrtan dan llntu pendidikan (Faculty of Education and Teacher Training)
FPP                   Forum Pengarah Pusat (Central Steering Forum)
Guru WiyataBakii      Honorary teachers appointed by local authorities without civil servant status
Harian                Day staff work for Joint Secretariat and the Central Steering Forum
ICR                   Implementation Completion Report
IKIP                  Institut Kegutruan dan lilnu Pendidikan (Institute of Teacher Training and Education)
JGF                   Japanese Grant Funds
LPIU                  Local Project Implementation Unit
LPTK                  Lembaga Pendidikan Tenaga Kependidikan (Teacher Education Institute)
Menkowasbang-PAN      Alenteri Koordinator Pengawasan Pembangunan dan Pendayagunaan Aparatur Negara
(State Ministry for the Coordination of State Apparatus and Civil Service Agency)
MOEC                  Ministry of Education and Culture
MOF                   Ministry of Finance
MOHA                  Ministry of Home Affairs
MORA                  Ministry of Religious Affairs
NOL                   No Objection letters
Pemda                 Penmerintah Daerah (Local Govemment)
Pendidikan Kedinasan   Formal training for staff candidate
Vice President:    Mr. Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:    Mr. Mark Baird
Sector Director:    Mr. Alan Ruby
Task Team Leader:    Ms. Clementina Acedo



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEQIP                  Primary Education Quality Improvement Project
PGSD                   Pendidikan Guru Sekolah Dasar (Primary School Teacher Education Program)
PGSM                   Pendidikan Guru Sekolah Menengah (Secondary Teacher Education Program
RMU                    Research Management Unit
RQCU                   Research Quality Control Unit
RSI                    Resident Staff in Indonesia - The World Bank
S I                    Strata I (First degree, or undergraduate degree program)
S2                     Strata 2 (Second degree, or master's level program)
SAR                    Staff Appraisal Report
SGO                    Sekolah Guru Olah Raga (Four-year Primary Sport Teacher Trainine Schooll
SMP                   Sekilah Menengah Pertama (Three-year Junior Secondary School)
SPG                   Sekolah pendidikan Guru (Four-year Primary Classroom Teacher Training School)
Tim Pelaksana          A task force established in order to undertake day-to-day staff work for Joint Secretariat
and the Central Steering Forum
SPP-TK                Sistem Pengadaan dan Pembinaan Tenaga Kependidikan(System for ttie Provision and
Development of Education Manpower, the majority of whom are teachers)
UPP                    Unit Pengelola Program(Program Implementation Unit, former SPG/SGO units that are
integrated into the LPTK system
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Implementation Completion Report
- Republic of Indonesia
Primary School Teacher Development Project (Ln. 3496-IND)
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                12
6. Sustainability                                                                    13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   15
9. Partner Comments                                                                  17
10. Additional Information                                                          17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                28
3 Attachments in Annex 7






Project ID: P003969                                      Project Name: ID-PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACHERS
Team Leader: Clementina Acedo                            TL Unit: HDNED
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 23, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: ID-PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACHERS                    L/C/TF Number: 34960; 3496A; 3496S
Country/Department: INDONESIA                                           Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: EP - Primary Education
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  04/25/91                               Effective: 09/22/92           09/22/92
Appraisal:  12/26/91                                 MTR: 04/19/96             04/19/96
Approval:  06/24/92                               Closing: 12/31/97            06/30/99
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOl/DGHE
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     Jemal-ud-din Kassum                       Russell Cheetham
Country Manager:     Mark Baird                               Marianne Haug
Sector Manager:      Alan Ruby                                Clifford Gilpin
Team Leader at ICR:   Clementina Acedo
ICR Primary Author.   Clementina Acedo
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The overall objectives of the project were to produce an adequate number of well-trained primary school
teachers appropriately distributed. Teachers would be trained through a new tertiary level pre-service
teacher diploma program. Specific objectives were:
(a) strengthen the capacity of managers and teacher educators to provide quality primary teacher education
and build domestic capacity to train primary teacher educators;



(b) strengthen primary teacher education programs (pre-service and in-service);
(c) establish a coordinated system for teacher supply and deployment;
(d) build capacity for research and development in primary education;
(e) strengthen management of primary teacher education programs.
The objectives were ambitious but clear and supported an important Government policy. In 1990,
responsibility for the pre-service training of primary teachers was transferred from the Directorate General
of Primary and Secondary Education to the Directorate General of Higher Education. Indonesia's tertiary
level Teacher Education Institutes (LPTKs--Len7baga Pendidikan Tenaga Kependidikan) were faced with
a major challenge. Until the transfer, the LPTK had been responsible solely for the preparation of
secondary teachers, so little expertise in the methods of primary teacher education was available. The first
main objective of the project was to support this policy change by developing primary teacher educators
and strengthening primary teacher education programs.
The second overall objective, "to produce teachers appropriate in numbers and distribution," was more ill
defined. Whereas in the early 1970s there were severe shortages of primary school teachers, by the late
1980s the country's capacity to supply primary school teachers had outstripped demand. The final years of
the old secondary-level Sekolah Pendidikan Guru (SPG) teacher education program during the late 1980s
produced approximately 70,000 new primary teacher graduates each year. However, calculations carried
out during project preparation in 1990-91 indicated that the number of new teachers being recruited into the
civil service each year was no more than about 10-12% of this figure, and that recruitment rates were
unlikely to rise substantially in the short or the medium term. The median age of the teaching force was 34,
and less than 2% were reaching retirement age each year. Although numerous schools were short of
teachers, the national primary pupil: teacher ratio was generous 23:1. The critical issue at the time of
preparation was--and still is today-- the distribution of teachers, rather than overall teacher numbers.
In the light of these data, recruitment to the new tertiary-level D-2 pre-service program was restricted
drastically. The first intake, in 1990-91, amounted only to 7,000 students, while in subsequent cohorts
there were further reductions, to only 5,000 by 1995-96. Initially, this strategy seemed to be succeeding: as
many as 95% of the first group of D-2 graduates were recruited as primary teachers. But in the following
years, the absorption rate dropped steadily, to about 70% (in the 1995-96 graduation cohort), then to 56%
(1996-97), and finally to only 27% (1997-98). (See Figure 1). The main reason was that vacancies were
increasingly being filled by graduates from the earlier SPG program who had been working as voluntary
teachers (guru honorer, or widya bakti) in the primary schools. Working as voluntary teachers is widely
perceived as a form of queuing, through which unemployed teacher education graduates acquire an implicit
right to receive preferential consideration when new teachers are being recruited.
Therefore, from the start, there was a gap between the project objective and what the project was going to
be able to accomplish in termns of absorption of graduates, given the different government agencies that
dealt with teacher placement and the overflow of teachers in the field. This issue should have been dealt
with in preparation and initial implementation stages.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The Project Development Objectives (PDOs) did not change throughout the project and remained: (1) to
produce well-trained primary school teachers, through a new tertiary diploma course, in numbers matching
estimated needs; and (2) to place those teachers were needed. However, the recruitment scheme into the
D-11 program was revised and this revision represented an improvement in the project design. Clearly the
emerging situation, described in the previous section, placed the new D-11 program --and the Primary
-2-



Teacher Education Project through which it was being developed-- in considerable jeopardy. If most D-II
graduates were to remain unemployed, there was obviously little point in devoting substantial resources to
strengthening the quality of the training.hey received.
In response to this challenge, the project team, working together with the LPTKs (Teacher Education
Institutions) and the local PEMDA (Home Affairs) offices, devised a targeted teacher trainee recruitment
scheme. In the mid-termn review of 1996, the GOI and the Bank review mission agreed on a re-direction of
project implementation, focusing on quality of pre-service training as well as following a pro-active
strategy for maximum graduate absorption through targeted recruitment (see section 3.4).
3.3 Original Components:
To achieve the project development objectives, the project provided relevant civil works, equipment,
fellowships, technical assistance, staff development, grants, learning materials and operational support for
a wide array of purposes reflected in the following components:
1. Developing primary teacher educators (estimated cost: US$28.2 m). The staff development component
was designed to: (a) increase the knowledge and teaching skills of PGSD lectures; (b) strengthen the
capacity of in-service program developers and managers; (c) build domestic capacity to train primary
teacher educators; (d) improve the evaluation and monitoring skills of supervising teachers; (e) strengthen
PGSD management skills; and (f) provide trained library technicians for PGSD. To achieve these
objectives, the original project planned to support staff development (non-degree) programs and degree
programs. The degree programs included: the in-country second-SI degree program; masters-level S2
programs, both in-country and overseas; and doctoral-level S3 programs, also both in-country and
overseas.
2. Strengthening primary teacher education programs (estimated cost: US$15.6 m) by: (a) improving their
curricula; (b) developing effective teaching assessment strategies; and (c) providing appropriate field-tested
learning materials. This component would finance task force activities, workshops, writing and
field-testing curricular materials, collecting, translating and developing supplementary materials, provision
of equipment, library materials, and facilities. Facilities included dormitories for up to 3,200 students.
Technical assistance included, international and national specialists in curriculum development,
learning-teaching materials development, and curriculum evaluation. In addition, domestic specialists were
to support procurement of laboratory equipment and implementation of civil works.
3. Establishing a coordinated system for teacher supply and distribution (estimated cost: US$6.4 m) to
assure that: (a) new candidates were recruited in numbers and locations consistent with local needs, (b)
teacher education graduates were made aware of vacancies. The system would also (a) develop and
appropriate formula for determining the number of teachers needed in schools of various sizes, (b)
introduce an information system for tracking changes in teacher distribution, (c) target recruitment of
teachers training candidates from teacher shortage areas, (d) provide scholarships for needy candidates
from target areas, and (e) establish cooperative efforts between DGHE and related agencies to assure
appropriate teaching jobs for PGSD graduates.
4. Building research and development capacity (estimated cost: US$2.1 m). Specific objectives were (a)
create a rational basis for policy making in primary teacher education and distribution in Indonesia, (b)
promote better understanding among LPTK lectures of the real world problems and conditions of primary
school teachers as means for improving their courses, (c) draw university lectures into action-research
partnerships with primary school teachers in order to improve classroom teaching. Three major activities
- 3 -



were designed for these purposes: (1) large scale policy studies, at the national level but contracted to local
institutions; (2) small grants program for LPTK research teams; (3) action-oriented research studies
conducted by LPTK academic staff in Qollaboration with their primary school teachers counterparts.
5. Strengthening the primarv teacher education system (estimated cost: US$1.8 m). The objective of this
component was to strengthen management structures and procedures both at the central (DGHE) level, and
at the campus (LPTK) levels. At the central level, creating a Sub-Directorate for Teacher Education within
DGHE. In addition, the component would strengthen ties between: (a) pre-service and in-service teacher
education, and (b) the D2 training program and the SPP/CBSA activities supported by PEQIP.
3.4 Revised Components:
The revised targeted recruitment scheme, which was introduced as the result of the mid-term review, had
the following features: (a) recruitment to the D2 program was restricted to graduates from old SPG
program who were working as guru honorer in the primary schools, (b) recruitment was carried out
collaboratively by Local Government (Pemda) and LPTK teams, (c) recruits were selected from areas of
most severe teacher shortages, (d) numbers of new recruits were severely restricted, based on estimates of
numbers of civil service vacancies likely to be available two and a half years after enrollment, (e) all
recruits received project-funding of a bursary amount of Rp 200,000 per month. Earlier in the project only
20% of the recruits received an amount of Rp 65,000 per semester. Finally, recruits were given an
undertaking that upon graduation, they would have priority for appointment as civil servants, and would be
posted as teachers back in the schools were they had worked as guru honorer.
3.5 Qltalilt at Entry:
N/A
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4. 1 Otitcome/achievement of objective:
The first part of the general objective of the project was accomplished. The project supported the
establishment of a pre-service system of primary teacher education at the tertiary level in a successful way
and succeeded in developing primary teacher educators and in establishing a D2 curriculum of primary
teacher education for the whole country. Therefore, better prepared primary teachers were produced by the
system.
However, the second part of the objective, "in appropriate numbers and distribution" was not achieved in
the initial phases of implementation. Well-trained teachers were produced who did not find placement for
4-5 years. The system could not absorb the newly trained teachers, since there was a queue of voluntary
teachers who also sought civil service positions. The agencies involved initially lacked coordination.
During the mid term review of the project, the mission working with their Indonesian counterparts,
determined that the solution to the problem was out of the reach of the project unless the agencies involved
would redirect their recruitment policy and incorporate the local government in the decision process.
Therefore, at mid term, the implementation design was modified to allow that voluntary teachers from
poorer and remote areas could be recruited into the D2 program, with scholarships. Also they were
promised that upon graduation they would have priority recruitment into permanent teaching positions,
preferably in the places where they were originally teaching.
The targeted recruitment scheme thus, not only improved the results of the project by upgrading the skills
of teachers that were in the field, but also allowed for a more rational placement policy, in which new civil
servants would be placed as teachers in their own communities. Since the targeted recruitment scheme was
-4 -



conducted by the local government, it also contributed to the creation of an incipient institutional
framework for teacher management and deployment at the local level, in a system that used to be extremely
centralized.
Figure 1.
Recruits, graduates, placement
7,000
6,00C 
5,000
42000
2.000
4,000   -~rdae
200
1990-91   1991-92   1992-93   1993-94   1994-95   1995-96   1996-97   1997-98   1998-99   1990-00
4 2 Ozutputs by components.
1. Developina Primary Teacher Educators.
The main objectives and targets of this component (as set out in SAR) were fully accomplished. The
project increased the (SAR) target of the number of trainees for in-country staff development and
succeeded in its results. The modifications for overseas staff development programs showed sound
adaptation as better understanding of staff development needs was achieved, partly through preparatory
overseas exploratory visits with faculty members in partner institutions in the USA, Australia and the UK.
The Borrower's ICR provides details of the extent to which the quantitative performance indicators were
achieved. The results are impressive.
1.1. The second (SI) degree program. This second bachelor degree was designed as a staff retraining
program for staff of the teacher training implementing units (UPPs--Unit Pengelola Program). These staff
had originally been tutors in the old teacher training institutions (SPG/SGO), and their formal academic
qualifications were inappropriate for the new tertiary-level D2 program. These in-country second SI
programs were offered in four IKIPS, each program focusing on different specialties: mathematics and
science education (82 graduates), science and social studies education (143 graduates), language, arts and
mathematics education (148 graduates), mathematics and science education (91 graduates). This was the
largest staff development program, although the number of participants represented only 66 percent of the
target.
1.2. In-country masters (S2) programs. The project put in place S2 masters programs in 5 IKIPs
(Institutes of teacher Training and Education) with specialization in the following primary education areas:
language arts education (19), mathematics education (I9), social studies education (20) science education
(19) and early childhood development (22). The SAR target was accomplished by 99 percent. After
-5-



completion of the project these programs continue to operate and some offer scholarships. One important
performance indicator which could have been included from the start of the project would have been the
percentage of teacher educators from UWP that completed a S2 program. However, from field work
experience, we detected that in some provinces 50 percent of the UPP teacher educators were completing
the S2 programs (mostly without project funding).
1.3. Masters level (S2) overseas degree programs. These programs were run at 6 Universities; three in
the USA, two in Australia and one in the UK. They were of two kinds: (a) regular masters programs
offered by the host institution, (b) customized masters programs, tailored to meet the specific learning
needs of the Indonesian participants. The target was achieved by 97 percent (135 participated and 132
graduated successfully and returned to their home institutions).
1.4. Overseas doctoral (S3) programs. Twenty-four students took part in overseas doctoral programs. Of
these, 17 have already graduated, and a further three were expected to graduate by the end of 1999. The
target is expected to be achieved by 83 percent.
1.5. Non-degree programs. Teacher educators from LPTKs who have participated in the masters-level
staff development programs (overseas and in-country) have run a variety of short non-degree programs,
mainly for UPP staff. These programs included: (a) training in the use of the Teacher Performance
Assessment Instrument (APKG) (643 participants), (b) training of trainers in the use of the APKG
instrument (2 1 participants), (c) training of laboratory technicians (156 participants), (d) training of
internet users (46 participants).
1.6. Benefits and concerns from the staff development programs:
1) Benefits. The participants became familiar with new ways of thinking, engaged in current debates in
education, improved their teaching skills, developed a comparative perspective of their work, accessed
means of information, and observed various pedagogical styles and strategies. There was also an
improvement of D2 and S2 curricula.
2) Concerns. 2.1) UPP faculty members benefited from the masters-level programs less than they should
have, considering that they are the ones who are committed full-time to the D2 primary teacher education
programs. In the UPPs visited, less than one third of the teaching staff have completed an in-country
masters degree. Most UPP faculty members (450) completed a second bachelor degree (S 1) during the
project. However, after completion of this degree, the time available for undertaking masters programs was
very limited. For those wishing to pursue masters degrees overseas, lack of competency in English was a
further barrier. 2.2) Virtually all the recruits to the international masters and doctorate programs came
from among LPTK faculty members rather than from UPPs. This was due to initial preparation and
language requirements. The extent to which these new masters graduates were involved in the D2 primary
teacher education programs on their return from overseas varied considerably. Some took no part in the
D2 programs and others were only peripherally involved. Project Performance indicators do not measure
the extent to which the new masters graduates were involved in the D2 primary teacher education program.
2) Strengthenine Primary Teacher Education Programs.
Workshops for the development of the D2 and S2 (masters) curricula were held at The University of
Houston, Texas, and at the Ohio State University, between November 1993 and February 1994. This
workshops brought together teacher educators from Indonesia and faculty members from all the six partner
universities --including those in Australia and the UK. The draft curricula developed during these
workshops were further revised in Indonesia, before official release as the D2 Pre-service Primary
Teacher's Curriculum (1995), and the S2 Masters level Teacher Education Curriculum.
- 6 -



2.1. The D2 Pre-service Primary Teacher's Curriculum. The D2 curriculum extends over five semesters
(two and one half years). It is made up-of a total of 78 credit unit points (SKS), including 8 in basic
general courses (Pancasila, Religion, Citizenship); 16 in general education courses (educational
foundations, class management, evaluation, guidance, teaching and learning strategies); 47 in the subjects
of the primary curriculum; and 5 in teaching practice (PPL). The new curriculum has a number of
innovative features, which distinguish it sharply from its predecessor and represent marked improvements.
They include the following:
2.1.1. Subject content. In the subject content courses, greater emphasis is given to mastery of the material
the trainee plans to teach in the primary school. In mathematics, for example, students revise the concepts
of place value, fractions and decimals, and number operations. The amount of time devoted to the study of
more advanced topics, -especially topics which students do not meet until the senior secondary or tertiary
levels- has been considerably reduced.
2.1.2. Subject-specific pedagogy. Equally important, subject-specific pedagogy courses, which link
understanding of the concepts of each subject with skills in the methods of teaching this subjects in the
classroom, have been introduced. In the previous curriculum, this essential bridge was weakly developed.
2.1.3. Practical teaching skills. Similarly, greater importance is now attached to the acquisition of
practical teaching skills. Teaching practice begins in semester Ill, during which trainees take part in
simulated teaching, as an integral component of most courses. In semester IV, the focus moves out of the
training institution into the primary schools, where trainees observe lessons on a regular basis. Semester V
is entirely devoted to school-based teaching practice.
The trainees, divided into small groups, are attached to designated model schools --usually within easy
reach of the campus. In the model schools they rotate among the six grade levels, spending a minimum of
two weeks at each level, and teaching one lesson each day. They are supervised by class teachers from the
model school -gtru pemandit- and receive regular visits from a TEI tutor -dozen pembinmbing.
In the model schools visited, principals and guru pemandu were unanimous in their view that the current
arrangements for student teaching practice are much more effective than those they replaced. They singled
out particularly, the introduction of a systematic scheme for assessing teaching practice (Alat Penilian
Kernampuan Guiru, or APKG) as a major step forward.
Dormitories were built on each of the LPTK campuses, close to the UPP units. The dormitories were
reasonably built and occupied. In most cases, life in the dormitories added interesting peer life and fruitful
interaction among the teacher trainees.
2.2. Curriculum implementation issues:
2.2.1. Experiential knowledge of D2 teacher educators. The project made provisions for teacher educators
to spend time in the schools acquiring classroom experience. However, from the information gathered
during the ICR Mission, it appears that the time devoted to actual hands-on teaching was generally limited
--in some cases, to no more than one or two 40- minute periods.
2.2.2. Teaching practice. The only time D2 trainees practice supervised teaching in a real classroom is
during the fifth and final semester of the program. The possibilities of introducing classroom-based
teaching practice earlier in the D2 curriculum sequence --before the subject-specific pedagogy courses have
been completed-- should have been explored during supervision.
- 7 -



3. Establishins- a coordinated system for teacher supply and distribution
3.1. Targeted recruitment. This scheme improved the employment prospects of D2 graduates and
guaranteed that teachers would be placed in areas where they were most needed. One cohort has completed
D2 training since targeted recruitment started. These students graduated in 1999, and data indicates that
80% have been appointed as permanent teachers with civil service status that same year. During the
Mission, we discussed this scheme with teacher trainers, primary teachers and supervisors. Without
exceptions, all were unanimous in their view that the scheme has brought substantial benefits, such as: 1)
Targeted recruits entered the D2 program more committed to following a career in primary teaching,
because the period spent in voluntary teaching acts as a filtering mechanism; 2) the promise of preferential
treatment to the civil service and a teaching post after graduation further enhanced motivation; and 3) they
bring classroom experience especially in the applied components of the D2 course and, they are more
effective in classroom management and instructional techniques than students without prior teaching
experience.
3.2. Scholarship support. It was provided by the project for all students under the targeted recruitment
scheme (1996-97 and 1997-98). But the two successor cohorts (1998-99 and 1999-2000) have received no
project funded scholarship support. However, the teacher trainees enrolled claim that they would continue
their D2 program in order to become civil servants. Most maintain a part-time job while studying.
3.3. Inter-agency coordination for more equitable recruitment, appointment and deployment:
Recruitment was carried out collaboratively by Local Government (Pemda) and LPTK teams. The Local
Government detects the areas of shortages. Achievements are: 1) the creation of the Central Steering
Forum to address the coordination of recruitment, appointment and deployment of elementary school
teachers; 2) the Joint Secretariat to raise issues by the concerned agencies and facilitate decision making
process.
3.4. Concerns: Response to the ending of the project-funded scholarship program and the targeted
recruitment scheme has varied sharply among the six provinces visited during the Mission. Therefore a
collaborative review of the effectiveness and sustainability of the targeted D2 recruitment program should
be carried out by the LPTK and Pemda teams. In addition, the provincial-level review of targeted
recruitment should include an analysis of its effects on primary teacher distribution. New teacher trainee
recruitment plans, targeting the needs of the teacher shortage areas, should be developed. Finally, a
formula based on pupil numbers for calculating teacher needs should be developed to replace the existing
class-based formula. Some of these issues were addressed during the project but not enough progress was
made mostly for institutional reasons. This component has not had enough impact on policy making. The
institutional structure generated by the project however, can be used at the local level to develop a better
management of teacher distribution and appointment.
4. Buildine research and development capacitv
4.1. Large-scale national policy studies. Responsibility for managing the large-scale national policy
studies was developed at IKIP Yogyakarta, where a research management unit was established. A research
Quality Control Unit (RQCU) was also established at IKIP Yogyakarta. The RQCU was composed of
senior researchers and specialists from a variety of institutions (IKIPs Bandung Yogyakarta, Malang;
Gajah Mada University, the University of Indonesia, and a representative of DGHE). Its main
responsibility was to ensure the quality of the planning, implementation, and evaluation of
Project-supported research and development activities.
- 8 -



Seven large-scale studies were contracted to tertiary institutions, as follows:
a. Primary School Effectiveness (IKIP Yogyakarta)
b. Effectiveness of the D2 Primary Teacber Education Program (IKIP Bandung)
c. Systems for In-Service Training in Remote Areas (Open University)
d. Primary teacher Education Management (Univ. Sebelas Maret, Central Java)
e. Primary Teacher Incentives
f. Primary Teacher Appointment and Placement
g. Demographic Change and Primary Teacher Distribution.
These studies were completed,, and research reports prepared. In several cases, summary reports were also
published in the Primary Education Research Journal. However, real dissemination outside the academic
environment and impact in policy-making for primary teacher education and primary teacher supply in
Indonesia was very limited.
4.2. Small policy research studies. The main responsibility for the small policy research studies and action
research studies was carried by individuals and groups of individuals, located in various LPTKs offering
the D2 primary teacher education program. The small-scale policy oriented studies raised relevant topics
such as: "Improving the oral communication skills of elementary teachers," and "Modules for small groups
of elementary school pupils in isolated villages." In some cases they involved the community and the local
authority for continuation of the programs developed, in others they were mere academic exercises. The
exchange of ideas enriched the research culture of the institution as a whole. Research findings were
disseminated through centrally organized seminars, and through publication in journals linked to the PGSD
program.
Quantitative evidence of the achievement of the research component of the project can be found in Tables
9.1 to 9.3 of the Borrower's ICR. Seven large-scale policy studies, 20 small-scale policy studies, and 178
action research studies were completed.
4.3. Action research projects focused for the most part on classroom-based problems, such as "improving
the teaching of mathematics," "creativity in art and design," "how to encourage teachers to draw on a range
of material and approaches, in order to maximize learning opportunities for students," etc. Faculty
members were enthusiastic about their projects. The research capacity of faculty members was enhanced
and in some cases they incorporated lessons learned in their own teaching practice. However, the positive
impact of the action-research studies was more apparent in the teacher education institutions than in the
schools. In the participating schools, changes in the teacher's practice were less easy to see. Most school,
appear to have treated the studies as "one off' experiments, rather than ongoing activities or approaches
which could be integrated into their daily life. There were more extreme cases in which the school
principals and the classroom teachers saw the action research as an imposition, whose purpose they did not
understand. In one instance, a teacher regarded the research as a form of extended supervision of her
classroom practice.
In planning for future action research projects, bottom-up participatory approaches should be adopted, so
that classroom teachers and school principals are as fully involved in research design as are teacher
educators from LPTKs. In judging the success of future action research project, attention should be paid to
the impact produced on practice within the participating schools, as well as to the quality of the written
report.
4.4. The Primary Education Research Journal. Preparation and publication of this research journal was
undertaken by the research unit at IKIP Yogyakarta. The papers drew on the findings of both the
policy-oriented studies and the action research studies. The quality is variable, some papers were
-9-



informative and innovative, others were less original. A total of seven issues of the Journal were published,
with print runs of 500-1000. Copies were sent to the 89 UPPs in the Republic, the 36 LPTKs, the three
centers for masters-level primary teacher education programs, and the National Research and Development
Center (Balitbang Depdikbud). Members of the editorial team were however, unsure as to whether funds
for continued publication will be available after the project culmination.
4.5. Overall, the connection between research, policy and practice does not appear to have been strong
within the PGSD project. The policy-oriented studies do not seem to have been utilized to make policy
recommendations or to promote policy dialogue. The topics (distribution of primary teachers, teachers
incentives, teachers appointment and recruitment, in-service training) are extremely relevant, however,
dissemination of research results outside of the academic environment and impact in policy-making were
minimum.
5. Strengthening the Primary teacher education system
5.1. Management at the central level. The need to establish a Sub-directorate of Teacher Education
within DGHE had been recognized for some time prior to the inception of the project. But for a variety of
reasons, the achievement of this goal proved elusive during the project period. Financial resources for
setting up the sub-directorate were not available; and furthernore approval from BAKN (Civil Service
Commission), required changes in civil service structures, that were not forthcoming. The Borrower's ICR
gives more details (see para. 31).
However, current developments are likely to resolve this impasse. During the ICR Mission wrap-up
meeting the Director General of Higher Education informed us that as part of the major reorganization of
MOEC and other Ministries currently under way, agreement had been reached for the establishment of a
body to take responsibility for teacher education within DGHE. This body would be at the Directorate
rather than Sub-directorate level, as initially planned. The functions of the new Directorate have yet to be
fully specified, but clearly it will have a major role to play in setting up and implementing a coherent set of
policies for the strengthening of teacher education, both at the primary and secondary levels.
5.2. Management at the local level. During the course of the project, the Central Steering Forum (Forum
Pengaruh Pusat, or SPP) took an active role in formulating policies for the more effective management of
teacher education on a number of occasions. Perhaps most important was its initiative in setting up the
targeted recruitment scheme for primary teacher trainees. This scheme, already discussed, established for
the first time mechanisms for the joint involvement of LPTK and Pemda staff in the recruitment of primary
teacher trainees. This fruitful collaboration between teacher educators and government officials in
resolving local teacher supply issues is of course consonant with the wider initiative towards the devolution
of many decision making powers to more local levels of Government administration. Such institutional
mechanisms for teacher management must be further developed at the local level under the policy reform
initiatives of the basic education projects and the general implementation of the Laws 22 and 25.
Several institutional mechanisms have been put in place: The Central Steering Forum, the Joint
Secretariat, and the Working Team of the Coordination Forums for the System of the Provision and
Development of Educational Manpower (SPPP-TK) at the central, as well as province (DATI-I) and
District (DATI-II) levels.
53. Management at the institutional level. During the early days of the project, concerns were
expressed as to the status of the primary teacher education program within the formal organizational
structure of the Teacher Education Institutions. A letter from the DGHE instructed the TEls to establish
Primary Education as a Department (Jurusan) within the Faculty of Education (Fakultas Ilmu Pendidikan,
- 10 -



or FIP). This arrangement would provide the Primary Education Program with a full-time Head (Kepala
Jurusan) and an independent budget. In many cases, implementation of this directive was delayed,
apparently for the reason that a suitably-qualified Head (with a masters or doctorate qualification) could
not be identified. At four of the five institutions a full-time Head is now in place, in the fifth, an
appointment is expected soon.
5.4. Strengthening ties between in-service and pre-service.
In addition, the component would strengthen ties between: (a) pre-service and in-service teacher education,
and (b) the D2 training program and the SPP/CBSA activities supported by PEQIP.
During the preparation of the D2 pre-service curriculum, a productive dialogue was developed with
colleagues at the Open University who were working at the same time on the D2 curriculum for serving
teachers (D2 penyetaraan). The pre-service teams from the LPTKs benefited from the much wider
experience of Open University staff in developing and implementing programs for teachers in remote areas.
In particular, they were sensitized to the need to incorporate multigrade approaches to primary teaching
into the pre-service curriculum.
Unfortunately, nothing was done to strengthen the links between pre-service (PGSD) and in-service World
Bank supported projects, such as PEQIP. Important investments were made in both areas but the lack of
coordination both among Bank supported projects and among MOEC agencies did not favor
cross-fertilization. Currently, three basic education projects have an important in-service component to
improve quality of education. These projects directly address problems of in-service professional
development for teachers at the provincial and district levels. However they do not make use of the
institutional capacity that currently exists in the provincial LPTK and UPP units. Links among the two
would be beneficial for both, LPTK and UPP could be closer linked to the schools to improve their teaching
practice programs and they can be a useful resource for the professional development of the teachers that
operate in school clusters.
A proposed study aimed at developing closer linkages between pre-service D2 project and the
Bank-supported PEQIP Project was never launched. Reasons are outlined in the Borrower's ICR.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of ret urn:
No net present value (NPV) or economic rate of return (ERR) were calculated for the project in the SAR.
4.4 Financial rate of ret urn:
No financial rate of return (FRR) or other financial indicators were calculated for the project in the SAR.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project has improved the institutional capacity of pre-service teacher education institutions (LPTK-
UPPs) in a significant way. The project was instrumental in developing an initial district and provincial
capacity for teacher supply and management that should be utilized and further developed by the joint
effort of local authorities and the three basic education projects. Links between the teacher education
institutions and the teacher management system should be further developed. The new Directorate of
Teacher Education should have a lead role in promoting these institutional links.
Under the new decentralization plans, the main responsibility for primary teacher recruitment and
placement will probably be devolved from the provinces to the districts (kabupaten and kotamadya). But
primary teacher training will remain, for the most part, provincially-based. For the joint procedures to
remain valid, it will be essential for each LPTK to set up effective working relations with district-level
- 11 -



authorities --not just the provincial authority as at present. For continuing teacher development, it would
be important to develop closer links between LPTK pre-service and in-service teacher training agencies and
closer links to the training needs of the-primary schools teachers.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of governnment or implementing agency:
Long administrative processes and the lack of procurement manuals translated into bahasa Indonesian
limited implementation or precluded the possibility of corrective measures. Delays in providing the no
objection letter for the overseas comparative study and the mis- procurement of commercially published
library books are two examples of these problems.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government cont-ol:
Policy of wider mandate of teacher education institutions: The implementation of the wider mandate
formally initiated under the Secondary Teacher Development project (PGSM) was originally intended to
provide students a more flexible option of obtaining a teacher education degree or a subject-based science
degree. Primary teacher education programs and secondary teacher education programs were supposed to
benefit within the context of a multi-mission institution. These LPTKs, would nevertheless, keep teacher
training as their prime commitment. A slow transition was envisaged; the LPTKs that had appropriate
resources, mainly in mathematics and sciences, would be given the wider mandate first. This meant that
they would offer "pure science" programs besides "teacher education" programs. But the wider mandate
resulted in the immediate conversion of IKIPS (teacher education institutions) into regular Universities in a
very short period of time without sufficient preparation. This fast conversion has meant simply a change of
labels without the required organizational and academic change. Therefore, there appears to be a strong
chance that this conversion may hamper the development and improvement of their teacher training
programs, both primary and secondary.
Lack of coordination of sector policies such as the absence of a coordinating body for teacher education
and teacher allocation and management was a major draw back in the first years of project implementation.
Prior to the project, the selection, training and certification of new teacher trainees and their subsequent
selection, recruitment and placement as new teachers were entirely separate exercises in the hands of
different agencies without coordination or clear policy. Agencies involved in teacher training and
management are: Civil Service Commission (BAKN), central and local offices of the Ministry of Home
Affairs (MOHA), central and regional offices of Ministry of Education (MOEC), DGHE, DGPSE,
Dikgutentis, and teacher education institutions (LPTKs and UPPs). The project made a significant
contribution by creating some institutional spaces for the coordination of teacher policy and teacher
training. These instances should be further used and developed in the implementation of decentralization
ruled by Law 22 and 25.
Sector coordination in academic matters: Quality in the implementation of the PGSD curriculum varies
greatly among the provincial LPTKs and the 87 UPPs. Institutional mechanisms are needed that allow
institutional autonomy in higher education but also require academic accountability and quality assurance
among teacher education institutions.
5.3 Factors generally suibject to implenienting agency control:
The project took a wrong procedural step that resulted in mis-procurement of commercially published
library books. The Borrower's ICR argues that such problem could have been avoided if the appropriate
information and rectification would have come in time; instead the procurement of the needed reference
materials was canceled.
- 12 -



5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Only the portions financed by the Bank loan were included in project cost by procurement arrangements
and project cost by category. Government has not provided actual project costs by component, by
procurement arrangement or by category.
There is a balance of $ 390,064.67 in the special account pending to be recovered. Disbursement Analyst
is expecting documentation of refund for this amount. Once this amount is recovered the available
undisbursed balanced of the loan will be canceled.
On the basis of total cost by component:
Cost per-staff trained: $727 per year.
Unit cost per teacher trained: $ 57 per year.
Total project unit cost (direct and indirect) per primary student reached: $ 55.7 per student.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability raling.
In terms of curriculum. professional development and research: The project put in place a new primary
tea,cher education curriculum which is a marked improvement over its predecessor. This curriculum is
been implemented by all LPTK (through their 87 UPPs). The salary incentives deriving from the
functional credit system will encourage primary teacher educators to continue professional development
efforts and applied research activities once project funding ends.
In terms of teacher supply and management: The project put in place a set of procedures bringing together
the institutions responsible for training new primary teachers (the LPTKs) and those responsible for
recruiting them (the PEMDAS offices). Provincial level joint committees were set up to discuss local
teacher supply issues, and to reach mutually-agreed decisions as to how they should be resolved. This
innovation has been effective in developing a sense of purpose between the two agencies. Implementation
is likely to become more complex with current Government decentralization plans for transferring decision
making-powers from central to more local administrative levels of operation. Under these decentralization
plans, the main responsibility for primary teacher recruitment and placement will probably be devolved
from the provinces to the districts (kabupaten and kotamadya). But primary teacher training will remain,
for the most part, provincially-based. For the joint procedures to remain valid, it will be essential for each
LPTK to set up effective working relations with district-level authorities --not just the provincial authority
as at present. For continuing teacher development, it would be important to develop closer links between
LPTK pre-service and in-service teacher training agencies and closer links to the training needs of the.
primary schools teachers.
In summarv, institutional capacity has been developed both in teacher training institutions and in
mechanisms for teacher supply and management. Govermment commitment is high as is clearly shown by
the recent creation of the Directorate of Teacher Education within DGHE. There are continuing incentives
for voluntary teachers to pursue the teacher education program, e.g. the possibility of becoming a civil
servant even after scholarship support has ended. Finally, the government movement towards
decentralization and autonomy is in tune with the advances achieved by the project, so further progress is
expected.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The project contributed to regular operations and the future implementation is in the hands of operating
institutions. Further recommendations for regular operations are:
- 13-



I . In each province, a collaborative review of the effectiveness and sustainability of the targeted D2
recruitment program for SPG graduates working as guru honorer should be carried out by the LPTK
and Pemda teams.
2. The provincial-level review of targeted D2 recruitment should include an analysis of its effects on
primary teacher distribution,
3. In provinces where the review of targeted recruitment indicates that the demand for D2 training from
SPG graduates working as guru honorer is close to being met, new teacher trainee recruitment plans,
targeting the needs of the teacher-shortage areas, should be developed.
4. A formula based on pupil numbers for calculating teacher needs should be developed to replace the
existing class-based formula.
5. The impact of the recent conversion of the IKIPs into general universities should be monitored
carefully, both at the central level by the new Directorate of Teacher Education and at the Central
Steering Forum, and at the local level institutions themselves. It will be important to ensure that the
development of non-education programs does not lead to marginalization of the primary and secondary
teacher education programs, in terms of access to financial and professional resources, with consequent
negative effects on the quality of the teachers produced.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. I Lending;
Bank's performance in identification, preparation assistance and appraisal of the project were barely
satisfactory. The project design should have anticipated the need to build-up some institutional
mechanisms to recruit teachers from the field (voluntary teachers) into the primary teacher education
program from the beginning. Data showing surplus of SPG/SGO teachers were available during project
preparation but seemed to have been overlooked in design. Project appraisal should have included
cost-effectiveness criteria to analyze alternative courses of action tojustify the chosen one.
7.2 Szupervision:
The project implementation progress was accurate as well as adequately and timely reported after
supervision missions. Bank staff and consultants with appropriate mix of expertise in teacher education,
economics and procurement assisted positively the project's planned programs. There was continuity in
terms of task managers and bank staff supporting the project. Implementation problems were identified at
mid-term review and Bank staff offered helpful support in the "redirection" of project design. Performance
indicators measure the inputs and outputs of the project, but are not conducive to monitor performance
towards development objective and real impact of the project. The weakest points in supervision are
related to establishing sound performance indicators and monitoring performance of the project. Also,
project management and government claimed that they did not receive enough support from the Jakarta
office. Despite the proximity to the field gained by greater authority of the country office some
administrative procedures have not become more efficient, e.g. delays in NOL.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The project has a sound design that integrates the different components: quality improvement components
of teacher education programs and teacher supply management. However, preparation should have taken
into consideration early inter-agency coordination and the recruitment of voluntary teachers into the D2
program from the beginning. Other technical preparation was adequate.
- 14 -



7.5 Government inmplementation peiformance:
Considering the amount of inter-agency_coordination needed to implement the different components of the
project, government performance was satisfactory. Initially the draw back of the project had to do with
lack of institutional mechanisms of coordination but the project and government went through a learning
process in this regard.
7.6 Imiplementing Agency:
In general, there was an effective coordination and management of the project. However, project
management centrally and provincially, focused essentially on administrative matters, placing more
attention on procurement and administration than on quality management'aspects of the project. For this
reason the project relied too strongly on technically qualified consultants for various components. Even
though this helped the direction and overall performance of the project it made it also more expensive.
Provinces' project managers also proved to be efficient administrators of the project but not strong in
academic matters. Academic and quality matters were carried out by the Director of the Primary
Education Program on the provincial Teacher Education Institutes. In this case, institutional capacity
remained in the TEI institutions once the project ended. Financial management of the project was weak.
7. 7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance was satisfactory. Inherent to the project design was the idea of
jump-starting reform efforts that would be taken over by the borrower in a sustained matter. Institutional
development therefore was exercised both by LPTKs, and by the local Pemdas. Initial LPTK and school
linkages were establish but in order to maintain and develop a successful Primary Teacher Education
Program this link needs to be stronger to benefit both institutions, as well as teacher training and teacher
performance. Further attention to monitoring and to influencing policy making with the results of policy
research is necessary. Careful attention should be placed in the LPTKs conversion into university in order
not to hamper the Primary and Secondary Teacher Education Programs. Even though the teacher supply
system and the management of the teacher education system got unsatisfactory rating at certain point in the
process the rating improved towards the end of the project to satisfactory. The policy of targeted
recruitment should be carefully monitored and replicated in provinces were it was not implemented. Staff
development was rated superior at most stages of the project, because it achieved higher than planned
targets and high completion rate. However, the project did not trace the direct involvement of
internationally trained staff in the Primary Teacher Education program and implementing UPPs.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1. Targeted recruitment: The targeted recruitment scheme was an innovation of the project from which
both the Government and the Bank learned several lessons: a) targeted recruits enter the D2 program more
committed than previous candidates to following a career in primary teaching, the period of voluntary
teaching has operated as a filtering mechanism; b) the promise of preferential treatment to the civil service
and a teaching post upon graduation operates as an incentive to the voluntary teachers to enter and
complete the D2 program; c) the scheme was instrumental in upgrading the skills of teachers that were
already in the field; d) but most importantly, targeted recruitment addressed the equity objective: it
became an incentive for teachers from deprived and remote areas to enter the program and to go back to
these rural areas where they were most needed; e) when voluntary teachers were recruited into the primary
teacher education program (D2) from areas of teacher shortages, once they got a position as a civil servant,
they willing to teach in their home town and they were more committed to their community than other
graduates, f) there is an additional advantage to this program, and is the teacher's knowledge of the local
language (important in early grades) and furthermore the teacher's acceptance by the community where she
or he belongs.
- 15-



Finally, since the targeted recruitment scheme was conducted by the local government, it also contributed to
the creation of an incipient institutionaltframework for teacher management and deployment at the local
level, allowing for greater accountability in a system that used to be extremely centralized.
The targeting of ex-SPG/SGO graduates was not intended to be a permanent measure; but a temporary
way to clear the backlog of trainees from the earlier teacher education program still waiting to be recruited
as primary teachers. However, as shown in the previous points a strong case can be made for continuing to
give preference to applicants employed as voluntary teachers (guru honorer). Teacher trainers, primary
teachers and supervisors interviewed were also unanimous that the scheme has brought some benefits: a)
targeted recruits were more motivated; b) the fact that they bring extensive classroom experience makes
them more rewarding students to teach, especially in the applied components of the D2 course; c) they are
also more effective in classroom management and instructional techniques than students without prior
teaching experience.
Even though the targeted recruitment scheme is a more reliable method of attracting teachers to teacher
shortages areas (and therefore aims at reducing the wide inequalities in primary teacher distribution in most
provinces) this component has not been widely implemented and in some cases proved short lived.
Prioritization of teacher-shortages areas was maintained for two intakes cohorts (1996-97 and 1997-98),
but since then has been discontinued in five of the six provinces visited. The reason offered was that it was
hard to maintain because recruiters preferred the highest scoring candidates and those did not necessarily
come from the teacher shortages areas. Voluntary teachers in the teacher-shortage schools (which were in
isolated rural areas), perform on average less well in the selection tests than those from schools were
teachers are plentiful (mainly in urban and peri-urban areas). This places recruiters in a dilemma of either
give priority to the candidates of teacher-shortage areas, or to higher-scoring candidates from non-shortage
areas.
8.2. Quality improvement: The project successfully accomplished the project objectives of the quality
improvement: It put in place a new primary teacher education curriculum, which is a marked improvement
over its predecessor. Further, large numbers of teacher educators were enabled to strengthen their formal
qualifications through professional development and were engaged in a applied research program.
However, from the evidence of the mission's visits, these initiatives have had, to date, only a limited impact
on the quality of the learning actually experienced by primary teacher education students in the LPTKs and
in the schools.
Many of the benefits from the quality-improvement components of the project will not be sustained unless:
a) Teacher Education Institutions (LPTKs) take responsibility for ensuring that project gains are fully
utilized. LPTKs need to be encouraged to develop action plans aimed at maximizing the benefits from the
project by utilizing staff and supporting their continued development. Also by linking the findings of
PGSD (Primary School Teacher Development Program) initiatives to those of other projects. To be most
effective, this action plan would need to be drawn up as a collaborative exercise by a broadly based group,
including participants from PGSD, other staff within the Teacher Education Institute, and external
contributors from the local education community (e.g. representatives from the local head teachers).
b) Teacher Education Institutions (LPTKs) model good practice. What is most striking to the external
observer of primary teacher education at LPTKs is the gap between theory and practice. Staff who have
been involved in professional development or action research spoke of the need for active learning and the
importance of finding a variety of ways of engaging young people in learning. However, teaching rooms at
- 16 -



the UPPs were lacking in visual stimulation --children's work, and student-teachers' work were missing. In
the D2 lessons we observed, the prevalent teaching style was teacher focused, chalk and talk. Unless the
pre-service program models a range of4ffective pedagogic approaches, it is unlikely that trainees will
become practitioners of these approaches when they take up their teaching careers.
c) Stronger connections are made between LPTK activities designed to improve primary education and
local school-based initiatives. Strategies aimed at improving primary teacher education are one element,
albeit an important one, in improving the quality of teaching and learning in primary schools. New
teachers need to be supported within schools. Serving teachers need to be encouraged to reflect on their
practices. Primary school head teachers are key figures in the changing process. However, it appears from
interviews carried out for this review that head teachers see themselves primarily as administrators, rather
than educational leaders, responsible for curriculum implementation and practice. The role of the head
teachers needs to be redefined in the new and changing Indonesian context. New training programs need to
focus on serving and new heads to prepare them for this new and expanded role.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 17-



Annex 1. Key Performance IndicatorsALog Frame Matrix
Table 1: Performance Indicators
SAR                                            Redirection
(November 1996)
A.   Developing Primary Teacher Educators:             1. Produce well-trained primary school
teachers through five semesters tertiary diploma
1.   The number of PGSD personnel successfully        course, in numbers matching estimated needs.
completing the various kinds of study/training programs.
2.    The number of PGSD personnel returning to PGSD   1. Teacher-candidates' satisfactory performance
management or teaching positions after completing short - or  during student teaching; and
long-term overseas training and local undergraduate
programs (S 1, S2).                                    2. Teacher-candidates' satisfactory completion of
3.    The number of supervising teachers (guru pamong)  five semesters diploma course.
successfully completing their training program; and
4.    The number of primary school teachers completing  11. Sufficient number of teachers posted to needy
the domestic SI training program in primary teacher    areas:
education.
1. 90 % of graduates hired as teachers.
2. 100% of project scholars (teacher with SPG
qualification) are posted to their home province.
3. Project graduates continue at post two years
after initial appointment.
B.   Strengthening Primary Teacher Education
Programs:
1.   The kinds, quantities, and timing of materials and
equipment distribution to UPPs.
2.    The completion and quality (according to expert
opinion) of curricular revisions (pre-service and in-service).
3.    The number, titles and quality (according to expert
opinion) of curricular materials (textbook and modules)
produced, tried-out, and revised; and
4.    The number, titles and quality (according to expert
opinion) of supplementary PGSD materials (for students and
lectures) translated, adapted and created.
- 18-



C.   Establishing a Co-ordinated System for Teacher
Supply and Distribution:
I.    The creation and use of formula for determnining the
number of teachers needed.
2.    The number of times Coordination Forums (National,
Provincial, and Regional) met and the major decisions they
made.
3.    The number of times and the places per year teacher
distribution maps/chart were produced, distributed and
discussed.
4.    The numbers and geographical origins of target
students recruited per year and the number of scholarships
awarded to needy students, by LPTK.
5.    The number of dormitory rooms built and the
occupancy rate by targeted students; and
6.    The number of PGSD graduates appointed to teaching
jobs, indicating job locations and waiting time.
D.   Building Research and Development Capacity:
I.    The completion and quality (according to expert
opinion) of policy studies: the number of policy review
seminars held; a listing of policy recommendations from the
studies, which were accepted and put into practice.
2.    The number of small grants and applied research
workshops held; the locations and number of participants in
each.
3.    The number and topics of small grant research studies
completed; their quality and utility (according to expert
opinion).
4.    The number of action-oriented research pilot studies
completed; their quality and utility (according to expert
opinion).
5.    The number of Research Journal editions and
Seminar Proceeding published and distributed;
6.    The number and titles of other research books,
articles, manuals, and bibliographies and abstracts published
and distributed.
- 19 -



E.   Strengthening the Primary Teacher Education
System Programs.
I.   Progress in establishing a Sub-directorate for Teacher
Education.
2.    Completion and quality (according to expert opinion)
of study on PGSD management reforms.
3.    The number of PGSD managers successfully
completing management training.
4.    The impact of PGSD management reforms (in terms
of improved organizational management and instructional
quality).
5.    The completion of workshops for the coordination of
pre-service and in-service PGSD.
6.    The completion of pilot study on PGSD-PEQIP
integration; and
7.    The completion of preparations for future projects
(secondary teacher education; second phase primary teacher
education).
- 20 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ millon equivalent)
Appraisal     Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
Project Cost By Component               US$ million     US$ million
Developing Primary Teacher Educators                   28.20
Strengthening Primary Teacher Education Programs       15.60
Establishing a Coordinated System for Teacher Supply and  6.40
Distribution
Building Research and Development Capacity              2.10
Strengthiening the Primary Teacher Education System     1.80
Total Baseline Cost                                    54.10             0.00
Total Project Costs                54.10            0.00
Total Financing Required                54.10             0.00
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category      ICB       Procurement Method2           N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00          9.80         0.00          0.00          9.80
(0.00)       (4.90)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (4.90)
2. Goods                     0.00          2.00         2.20          0.90          5.10
(0.00)       (1.40)       (1.20)        (0.00)        (2.60)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00          1.70         0.00          1.70
Technical Assistance         (0.00)        (0.00)       (1.70)       (0.00)        (1.70)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         32.00         0.00         32.00
Fellowships &                (0.00)        (0.00)      (24.70)       (0.00)       (24.70)
Scholarships
5. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         3.80          0.00          3.80
Research & Studies, and      (0.00)       (0.00)       (2.70)        (0.00)        (2.70)
In-country Training
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00          0.00         1.70          1.70
Project Management           (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                      0.00         11.80        39.70         2.60          54.10
(0.00)       (6.30)       (30.30)       (0.00)       (36.60)
- 21 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category          ICB            NCB           Other2         N.B.F.        Total Cost
1. Works                         0.00            9.80           0.00           0.00            9.80
(0.00)         (3.80)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (3.80)
2. Goods                         0.00            2.00           2.20           0.90            5.10
(0.00)         (1.26)         (0.63)         (1.89)          (3.78)
3. Services                      0.00            0.00           1.70           0.00            1.70
Technical Assistance             (0.00)         (0.00)         (1.60)          (0.00)         (1.60)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           32.00          0.00            32.00
Fellowships &                    (0.00)         (0.00)         (19.00)        (0.00)          (19.00)
Scholarships
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           3.80           0.00            3.80
Research & Studies, and          (0.00)         (0.00)         (3.90)         (0.00)          (3.90)
In-country Training
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           1.70            1.70
Project Management               (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.30)          (0.30)
Total                         0.00            11.80          39.70          2.60           54.10
________________________        (0.00)          (5.06)         (25.13)         (2.19)         (32.38)
Note: We do not have figures for overall project investment. We are only providing the Bank financed
portions.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Category of Expenditures (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Appraisal Estimate            ActuaULatest Estimate
Bank      Govt.      CoF.      Bank       Govt.      CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
Civil Works               4.50       4.50                 3.76                          83.6    0.0    0.0
Furniture                 0.00       0.90                 0.00                          0.0    0.0    0.0
Equipment                 1.10       0.10                 1.31                          119.1   0.0    0.0
Learning/Teaching         1.40       1.40                 0.57                          40.7    0.0    0.0
Materials
Technical Assistance      1.70       0.00                 1.56                          91.8    0.0    0.0
Fellowships                                                                              0.0    0.0    0.0
Overseas                13.90      0.00                 11.80                          84.9    0.0    0.0
In-Country               5.20      5.30                 2.34                          45.0    0.0    0.0
Research and Studies      1.60       0.00                 1.48                          92.5    0.0    0.0
In-Country Training       1.10       1.10                 2.37                         215.5   0.0    0.0
Scholarships              3.80       1.60                 4.89                          128.7   0.0    0.0
Project Management        0.00       1.70                 0.00                           0.0    0.0    0.0
Unallocated               2.30       0.90                                                0.0    0.0    0.0
TOTAL                     36.60      17.50               30.08                          82.2    0.0    0.0
-22 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
A cost benefit analysis was not done for this project. The project was prepared in 1990.
- 23 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty               Performa nce Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count       Specialty                        Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
6/19/91-                      4    1 Economist                          S                 S
7/23/91                             2 Educators/Consultants
I Education Research Assistant
Appraisal/Negotiation
01/13/92-                     3    1 Economist                          S                 S
01/29/92                            1 Educator
I Project Assistant
05/06/92-                     5    1 Economist                          S                 S
05/07/92                            1 Lawyer
I Disbursement Officer
I Project Assistant
I Educator
Supervision
02/09/93-                      2   1 Economist                          S                 S
02/23/93                            1 Educator
08/18/93-                      3   1 Operations Officer                 S                 S
08/28/93                            1 Architect
I Procurement Specialist
10/15/94-                     2   1 Educator                            S                 S
10/24/94                            1 Operations Officer
04/06/94-                      2   2 Educators                          S                 S
04/14/94
05/22/95-                      3  2 Operations Officer                  S                 S
05/31/95                            I Educator
08/21/95-                      1  1 Economist                           S                 S
09/16/95
11/6/95 -                     3  2 Economists                           S                 S
11/16/95                            1 Educator
04/10/96 -                     4  2 Educators                           S                 S
04/19/96                            2 Operations Officers
06/30/96 -                     I  I Educator                            S                 S
07/29/96
11/11/96 -                    4  2 Educators                            S                 S
11/15/96                           2 Operations Officers
09/15/97 -                     2  2 Educators                           S                  S
10/03/97
09/01/98 -                     2  2 Educators                           S                 S
09/18/98
03/08/99 -                     3  2 Educators                           S                 S
03/25/99                            1 Economist
S
S
- 24 -



ICR
11/01/99 -                  3    2 Educators                        S                S
11/19/99
(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                 Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks            US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation            107.7                    213,800
Appraisal/Negotiation                  31.3                     64,000
Supervision                            81.7                    234,000
ICR                                     n/a                        n/a
Total                                 220.7                    511,800
- 25 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
@Macropolicies                             O H  OSUOM   O N  * NA
Z Sector Policies                          O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
@ Physical                                 O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
El Financial                               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
@ Institutional Development                0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
@Environmental                             O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
Social
@ Poverty Reduction                 O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
Z Gender                            OH OSUOM O N O NA
Z Other (Please specify)            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
@ Private sector development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
F Public sector management                 0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
E Other (Please specify)
-26 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, iJ=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
Z Lending                                             OHS *S OU OHU
Z Supervision                                         O HS * S  OU  OHU
Z Overall                                             OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
Z Preparation                                         OH S O S   *  U  O HU
IX Government implementation performance              0 HS O S   0  U  0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                   0 HS 0 S   0  U  0 HU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS  OU  O HU
- 27 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Govemment of Indonesia. Contribution.to the Implementation Completion Report on the Primary School
Teacher Development Project (Loan 3496-Ind) Summary.
@3                           E3
Summary of ICR PSTE Project IBRD 3496-LND.c Tables of ICR PSTE Project IBRD 3496-IND.c
Indonesia. Primary School Teacher Development Project Aide Memoire. Project Implementation
Completion Mission. November Ist to November 19th, 1999.
E3
AideMemoire PGSD3496.DO(
Other references:
Nielsen, D. and Somerset, A. Primary School Teacher Education Study. National Consortium of Teacher
Education. Ministry of Education and Culture/ World Bank, Jakarta, 1991.
The World Bank. Staff Appraisal Report. Indonesia- Primary School Teacher Development Project. May
13, 1992.
- 28 -



Indonesia
Primary School Teacher Development Project (Loan 3496-Ind)
Aide Memoire
Project firiplementation Completion Mission
November I st to November 19th, 1999
A. Introduction
A Project Completion Mission was carried out between November I" and November 19 h. Members of the
team were Clementina Acedo (WB, Team Leader), Kathryn Riley (WB, Education Specialist), Anthony
Somerset (WB, Consultant) and Raka Joni (MOEC Consultant). The Mission team met with the Project
Director in Jakarta and part of his team to plan the field visits and establish the objective of the Mission.
Field visits were paid to PGSD implementation sites in Jawa Timur between Nov. 3rd and 5th (Acedo, Riley,
Somerset and Raka Joni); Bali between Nov. 8th and 10th (Acedo, Riley and Raka Joni); and Sulawesi Utara
between Nov. 8 and 12th (Somerset). Subsequently, Somerset carried out two further field visits: to
Sumatera Barat (Nov 25th to 27h) and DI Yogyakarta (Nov 29th to Dec 1').
The Teacher Education Institutions (TEI) visited were IKIP Malang, (now the University of Malang), IKIP
Manado, STKIP Singaraja, IKIP Padang (now the University of Padang) and IKIP Yogyakarta (now the
University of Yogyakarta) together with their respective Primary Teacher Education Implementation Units
(UPPs) and practice schools. We also visited the PEMDA offices in each province. In each TEI the team
met with the PGSD project manager, senior academic staff, heads of UPPs, faculty members involved in
primary teacher education, and primary teacher trainees. At the practice schools we met with principals,
teachers and pupils. We carried out classroom observations at both the UPPs and at the primary schools.
From the above list it will be clear that we have taken up many people's time during the course of this
Mission. To all of them we express our warmest thanks for their courtesy and kindness, and for the
numerous insights they provided us.
This Aide Memoire is subject to review by Bank management.
B. Statement of Purpose
The analysis presented here is selective in character. It does not attempt a full evaluation of all Project
activities, but rather gives an assessment of their impact, and of the factors which are likely to support or
impede their longer-term sustainability.
C. Significant Achievements and Major Issues of Concern
1. Teacher Supply
Among the numerous issues confronting the Primary Teacher Education Project (PGSD) implementation
team, perhaps the most intractable have been those concerning the teacher supply system. The final years
of the old secondary-level Sekolah Pendidikan Guru (SPG) teacher education program during the late
1980s saw approximately 70,000 new primary teacher graduates being produced each year. However
calculations carried out during Project preparation in 1990-91 indicated that the number of new teachers
being recruited into the civil service each year was no more than about 10-12% of this figure, and that
recruitment rates were unlikely to rise substantially in the short or the medium term. Although numerous
schools were severely short of teachers, the national primary pupil:teacher ratio was a generous 23:1. The
most crucial issue concerning primary teacher supply was - and still remains - the issue of distribution,
rather than of overall teacher numbers.
Furthermore, at the time the vast majority of the existing primary teachers were still very young, so that
replacement needs for retiring teachers were low. The median age of the teaching force was only about 34;
and less than 2% were reaching retirement age each year.
I



Table 1. D2 Pre-service Primary Teacher Education:
National recruitment, graduation and scholarship data, 1990-91 to 1999-2000
Year           Recruitment        Scholarship        Number         Number        % placed
provision          recruited     graduated      by 1999
1990-91        Open: Mainly       None               7,000
1991-92        SMU and SPG                           7,000
1992-93        graduates          20% received       7,000          6,359         95.6
1993-94                           Project-funded                    6,888         88.9
1994-95                           scholarships                      7,028         87.2
1995-96                           (Rp65,000 per      5,000          7,248         70.9
___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ __ sem )                                  _ _ _ _ _ _ _
1996-97        Targeted: guru     100% received      2,500          7,003         56.2
1997-98        honorer only       Proj-funded        2,500          5,001         27.0
scholarships
(Rp200,000 per
_______________          ~sem )__               _ _ _ _ __  _ _ _ _ _ _ _
1998-99        Variable: JaTim,    Variable: Pemda    Not known     2,664         79.6
1999-00        Bali targeted;     schols for 21% in   Not known     Still in course  -
SulUt open        JaTim
Total                                                               42,191
In the light of these data, recruitment to the new tertiary-level D2 pre-service program was restricted
drastically. The first intake, in 1990-91, amounted to only about 7,000; while in subsequent cohorts there
were further reductions, to only 5,000 by 1995-96. Details can be seen in Table 1.
Initially, this strategy seemed to be succeeding: as many as 95% of the first group of D2 students to
graduate were recruited as primary teachers. But in the following years, the absorption rate dropped
steadily, to about 70% (in thel995-96 graduation cohort), then to 56% (1996-97), and finally to only 27%
(1997-98) (See Table 1) The main reason was that vacancies were increasingly being filled by graduates
from the earlier SPG program who had been working as voluntary teachers (guru honorer, or widya bakti)
in the primary schools. Working as a guru honorer is widely perceived as a form of queuing, through
which unemployed teacher education graduates acquire an implicit right to receive preferential
consideration when new teachers are being recruited.
Targeted teacher trainee recruitment.
Clearly, this emerging situation placed the new D2 program - and the Primary Teacher Education Project
through which it was being developed - in considerable jeopardy. If most D2 graduates were to remain
unemployed, there was obviously little point in devoting substantial resources to strengthening the quality
of the training they received.
In response to this challenge, the Project Team, working together with the LPTKs (Teacher Education
Institutions), and the local PEMDA (Home Affairs) offices, devised a targeted teacher trainee recruitment
scheme. Implementation started with the 1996-97 D2 intake cohort. The scheme had the following major
features:
I. Recruitment to the D2 pre-service teacher education program was restricted to graduates from the
old secondary-level SPG program who were working as guru honorer in the primary schools.
Previously, graduates from other senior secondary programs (SMU, SMEA), together with SPG
graduates who had not been working as guru honorer, were also eligible to apply.
2. Recruitment was carried out collaboratively by Local Government (Pemda) and LPTK teams.
Criteria varied: in Bali, recruitment was restricted to guru honorer from the three districts
2



(kabupaten) with the most severe teacher shortages; whereas in Jawa Timor, one guru honorer was
accepted from each sub-district (kecamatan).
3.  Recruitment numbers were severely restricted. Intakes were based on estimates of the numbers of
vacancies for new teachers likely to be available when the trainees graduated two and one-half
years later. Exact matching was not, of course, possible, because the number of primary teacher
slots (the formasi) is set annually and changes from year to year.
4.  All recruits received a generous Project-funded bursary amounting to Rp 200,000 per month,
equivalent to Rp 1.2 million per semester. (The Project had in fact funded bursaries since its
inception, but in earlier years they had amounted to only Rp 65,000 per semester, and only 20% of
D2 recruits had received them).
5. Recruits were given an undertaking that upon graduation, they would have priority for
appointment as civil servants, and would be posted as primary teachers back in the schools where
they had worked as guru honorer.
Only one cohort has completed D2 training since targeted recruitment started. These students graduated in
early 1999, but the data indicate that already (November 1999) nearly 80% have been appointed as
permanent teachers with civil service status. Clearly, targeted recruitment has brought about a massive
improvement in the employment prospects of D2 primary teacher trainees.
During the Mission we discussed targeted recruitment with a number of D2 teacher trainers, together with
several primary teachers (guru pamong) involved in the supervision of practice teaching (PPL). Without
exception, all were unanimous in their view that the scheme has brought substantial benefits:
I . Targeted recruits all enter the D2 program committed to following a career in primary teaching.
In effect, the period spent in voluntary teaching acts as a filtering mechanism: over time those who
are less enthusiastic about becoming primary teachers find alternative means for earning their
living. Students recruited directly from senior secondary school, by contrast, have often come
into primary teacher education as a last resort, having failed to gain admission to preferred
alternatives (usually a university degree program or secondary teacher education).
2. Similarly, the fact that they have a promise of preferential recruitment to the civil service and a
teaching post after graduation further enhances motivation. Students in previous cohorts, by
contrast, faced the prospect of a long period of unemployment after graduation, with no guarantee
that their wait would ultimately be rewarded with a posting.
3. Finally, the fact that the targeted recruits bring extensive classroom experience with them makes
them more rewarding students to teach, especially in the applied components of the D2 course. At
the schools where targeted recruits were engaged in teaching practice (PPL), every guru pamong
we asked was emphatic that they are more effective in classroom management and instructional
techniques than students without prior teaching experience. A caveat must, however, be entered:
the apparently superior performance of the targeted recruits in PPL may be simply a reflection of
their longer teaching experience, and have little to do with what they have learned during the D2
course.
As to subject content mastery, opinions were divided. In the view of some informants, trainees recruited
directly from senior secondary (SMU) courses have a better grasp of subject content than the targeted
recruits, who were all, of course, originally trained as teachers after completing formal education to only
the junior secondary (SLTP) level. This is, of course, a question which could be settled through analysis of
student grade records, but to our knowledge no such analysis has as yet been carried out.
Scholarship support for the targeted recruitment scheme was provided by the Project for all students in the
first two cohorts - those entering D2 training in the years 1996-97 and 1997-98. Students from the first
cohort graduated in early 1999; those from the second cohort are still (November 1999) in their final (fifth)



semester. But the two successor cohorts - those for 1998-99 and 1999-2000 - have received no Project-
funded scholarship support.
Response to the ending of the Project-funded scholarship program has varied sharply among the six
provinces for which data were collected during the Mission. The contrasting pattems are summarized in
Table 2. The data are for the most recent intake (1999-2000).
In Jawa Timor, the targeted recruitment of SPG graduates working as guru honorer has continued, with
provincial Pemda funds supporting a partial continuation of the scholarship program. Approximately 20%
of the 1999-2000 intake will receive scholarships amounting to Rpl 55,000 per semester, although at the
time of our visit (Nov 1999) payments had yet to start. The remaining 80% must pay their own fees and
meet their own living costs; but apparently the promise of priority in primary teacher recruitment after
graduation is a sufficiently strong incentive to keep them enrolled in the program. The PGSD team at the
University of Malang (IKIP Malang) arranges the D2 schedule so that all activities take place between
Monday and Thursday each week, leaving students free to return to their schools and continue working as
guru honorer on Friday and Saturday. Recruits are initially screened by Kabupaten-level Pemda officials,
with final selection carried out jointly by the Pemda and IKIP teams. In Kabupaten Malang, one recruit is
accepted from each kecamaten (sub-district): no attempt is made to prioritize kecamaten with the most
severe teacher shortages.
In Bali, as in Jawa Timur, targeted recruitment of SPG graduates working as guru honorer has continued;
but no program of scholarship support has been planned. All come from three regions of Bali identified as
those with the severest teacher shortages: two kabupaten, together with a single kecamaten in a third
kabupaten. No special timetabling arrangements are made to allow D2 trainees to continue working in
their schools on a part-time basis.
In Sumatera Barat, the targeting of SPG graduates working as guru honorer for training places has
essentially continued, but for the 1999-2000 intake they took up only 80% of the available places, with the
remaining 20% going to senior secondary graduates without teaching experience. Places are allocated on
a district-quota basis: 25 places go to each kabupaten, irrespective of the number of primary schools it
contains or the degree to which it experiences teacher shortages. There are plans to provide all recruits
with financial support, amounting to Rp 195,000 per semester - sufficient to cover fees (SPP) but not
living and travel costs. Funding will come from the district-level Pemda offices - not the provincial
offices as in the case of Jawa Timor and Jawa Tengah.
4



Table 2. D2 targeted recruitment
Patterns in six provinces since Project-funded scholarship support ended
(Data for the 1999-2000 intake)
Jawa Timur               Bali                Sul. Utara        Sumatera Barat         Jawa Tengah*           Yogyakarta
(IKIP Malang)      (STKIP Singgaraja)      (IKIP Manado)         (IKIP Padang)          (IKIP Yogya)         (IKIP Yogya)
Targeted D2           Yes. All D2         Yes. All D2 recruits are   No. Majority of D2   80% of D2 recruits are  75% of D2 recruits    25% of D2 recruits
recruitment of SPG    recruits are SPG    SPG grads with teaching  recruits are recent    SPG grads with     SPG grads; 25%        SPG grads; 75%
grads continued since  grads with teaching  experience            senior sec. leavers;   teaching experience;    senior sec leavers  senior sec leavers
Project support       experience                                  few or none are SPG   20% senior sec.
ended?                                                            grads.              leavers
D2 recruits from      No. Quota of one   Yes. Two teacher-        No                  No. Quota of 25 per    No. Quota of 20      N6t. Quota of 20
teacher shortage      recruit per         shortage kabupaten and                      kabupaten; 14 for Kod  from each of 4        from each
areas?                kecamatan. No       one kecamatan targeted;                     Padang. No account    kabupaten.             kabupaten/
account taken of    no recruits from other                     taken of current                             Kotamadya
current teacher    areas                                       teacher distribution.
distribution.
Who selects D2        Pemda + IKIP staff  Pemda + STKIP staff    IKIP staff only      Pemda + IKIP staff     Pemda + IKIP staff    Pemda + IKIP staff
recruits?
Scholarships          Yes. 20% will      No                       No                  Yes. All will receive    Yes. All will receive   No
available?            receive Provincial                                              District-level Pemda    Provincial Pemda
Pemda support:                                                 support: Rp 195,000    support, but only
200,000 per                                                     per semester.          Rp 75,000 per
semester.                                                                             semester.
Priority recruitment   Yes                Yes                     No                  Yes                    Yes                  No
to permanent
teaching posts on
graduation?
* Kabupaten Purbalingga, Banjamegara, Purworejo and Banyumas only. Four other TEls in Jawa Tengah recruit primary teacher trainees from the other 23
kabupaten.
r



In Jawa Tengah, as in Sumatera Barat, the majority of places continue to be reserved for SPG graduates
working as guru honorer, but in the most recent intake (1999-2000) about one-quarter of the places went to
recent secondary school leavers. Bursaries from the provincial Pemda office are expected to be available,
but will amount to only Rp 75,000 per-recruit - less than half the sum required for SPP fees alone. Despite
the low level of financial support, competition for D2 places is strong: for the 1999-2000 intake, more than
300 applications were received for 80 places. Applicants are rated on a 100-point scale, based on scores on
a set of cognitive and attitude tests, the results of an interview, and a measure of the isolation of the school
from which the applicant comes. In practice, however, the school-isolation measure has little effect on
recruitment decisions, because it accounts for only 5 points on the 100-point scale (applicants from the
most isolated schools receive 5 points; applicants from inner-city schools, one point)
In Sulawesi Utara, however, the targeted recruitment of SPG graduates working as guru honorer ended
with the 1997-98 intake, when Project support for D2 scholarships came to an end. D2 recruitment
procedures have reverted to those in place before the inception of the targeted scheme. Applications for the
D2 course are made to the teacher training institution (IKIP Manado or STKIP Gorontalo), and come
predominantly from recent senior secondary graduates. In a group of 35 trainees from the most recent
intake at IKIP Manado, about 70% had completed senior secondary school within the past two years, and
not a single student was an SPG graduate with teaching experience.
Similarly in Di Yogyakarta, targeted recruitment of SPG graduates came to an end when Project support
terminated. In the most recent intake, only about one-quarter were SPG graduates. It was explained to us
that the need for targeted recruitment has now passed, as most SPG graduates working as guru honorer in
Yogyakarta primary schools had either been recruited as permanent teachers (guru tetap) or been absorbed
into D2 training.
Issues in teacher supply
1. Sustainability of targeted D2 recruitment.
As we have seen, Project-funded scholarships played a major role in promoting the introduction of targeted
D2 recruitment; but evidence as to whether the scheme can be sustained without scholarship support is
ambiguous. In four of the six provinces from which information was obtained, targeted recruitment has
been maintained, albeit with modifications; whereas in the remaining two provinces (Dl Yogyakarta and
Sulawesi Utara) recruitment procedures have reverted to those being followed before the targeted system
began.
In Dl Yogyakarta, as we have noted, the pool of SPG graduates waiting for permanent employment has
apparently almost dried up, so targeted recruitment is no longer needed. But in Sulawesi Utara the
circumstances are different, and the consequences of the abandonment of targeted recruitment may well be
serious. Data made available to us during our visit indicated that in 1996-97, there were throughout the
province a total of nearly 600 SPG graduates working in the primary schools as guru honorer. Of these,
only about 120 have received training through the D2 targeted recruitment scheme.' To these must be
added about 800 trainees who graduated from the D2 program before targeted recruitment started.
In all probability, these SPG and D2 graduates will receive preference for appointment as permanent
teachers once the last batch of targeted recruits, due to graduate in early 2000, have been placed. This in
turn is likely to have major backwash effects on the functioning of primary teacher education in the
province in the years to come. If employment prospects for new graduates are poor, it will be difficult to
attract well-qualified applicants to primary teacher training, and to maintain the motivation of those already
enrolled.
In each province, a collaborative review of the effectiveness and sustainability of the targeted D2
recruitment program for SPG graduates working as giuru honorer should be carried out by the
LPTK and Pemda teams.
At IKIP Manado and STKIP Gorontalo. The proportion of these SPG graduates below the age of 35 -
and hence eligible for D2 recruitment - is not known.
6



2. Targeted D2 recruitment and teacher distribution
As we have noted, the targeted D2 recruitment scheme has done much to strengthen primary teacher
education by enhancing student motivation. However its effects on the distribution of teachers in the
schools remain to be explored. In many parts of Indonesia, a high proportion of primary schools employ no
guru honorer at all, and thus cannot receive new teachers through the targeted recruitment scheme.
Although data are lacking, it is likely that these schools are located predominantly in the more isolated
parts of the country, where communities lack the resources to hire guru honorer. If this is the case, the
effects of targeted recruitment might tend to exacerbate the already massive disparities in teacher
distribution, rather than to reduce them.
The provincial-level review of targeted D2 recrzitment should include an analysis of its effects on
primary teacher distribution
3. Longer-term planning for primary teacher trainee recruitment
The targeted D2 recruitment scheme was conceived of essentially as a short-term measure, to relieve the
pressure on primary teacher appointments resulting from the huge surpluses of SPG graduates created by
the massive expansion of pre-service teacher education programs during the 1980s. In the medium or
longer term, however, this pressure is likely to ease, as SPG graduates are either absorbed into the regular
primary teaching force through targeted D2 recruitment, or find employment outside the profession. It is
said that in some provinces, including Jambi, the supply of SPG graduates for the targeted recruitment
program is already drying up.
In provinces where the review of targeted recriitinent indicates that the demandfor D2 training
from SPG graduiates working as giuru honorer is close to being met, new teacher trainee
recruitment plans, targeting the needs of the teacher-shortage areas, shouild be developed
4. Calculating teacher needs
The use of a class-based formula to calculate primary school teacher needs creates difficulties in identifying
schools where teacher shortages are greatest. The current formula allocates to each school a teacher for
each class, plus a principal, a sports teacher, and a religion teacher. Thus a primary school covering all six
grades requires a minimum of nine teachers - irrespective of how many pupils are enrolled.
Data from Sulawesi Utara illustrate the problems in applying this formula. Most primary schools in
Sulawesi Utara are small: 1998-99 Pemda data indicate a total of 2,961 primary schools, 18,006 classes,
22,897 teachers and 338,559 pupils. Thus the average school has an enrollment of 115 pupils, the average
class consists of 18.8 pupils, and the overall pupil:teacher ratio is 14.8.
Despite this substantial provision, the teacher needs analysis prepared by the Pemda team shows the great
majority of schools as being still short of teachers. The reason, of course, is that the class-based formula is
extremely generous to small schools. To take an example: a school with an enrollment of 41 pupils in 6
classes taught by 6 teachers (and hence an average class size of only 6.7 pupils, and similarly a
pupil:teacher ratio of 6.7) is shown in the statistics as being 'short' of three teachers. If these three
additional teachers were supplied, the PTR for this school would drop to a mere 4.5! 2
2 Consolidation of smaller primary schools into larger units, already under way in many provinces, will
provide a partial solution to the problem; but nevertheless a high proportion of small schools are too distant
from other schools for consolidation to be feasible.
In Sulawesi Utara, decisions as to which schools should receive new teachers are based on summarised
tables in which only class numbers and teacher numbers appear. Pupil numbers are not given. Hence a
school such as the one discussed in the text will receive the same priority for new teacher allocation as a
much larger school, with six teachers and six classes, but three or four times as many pupils in each class.
7



A formula based on pupil numbersfor calculating teacher needs should be developed to replace
the existing class-basedformula
2. Strengthening Primary Teacher Education Programs
When responsibility for the pre-service training of primary teachers was transferred from the Directorate
General of Primary and Secondary Education (DGPSE) to the Directorate General of Higher Education
(DGHE) in 1990, Indonesia's tertiary level Teacher Education Institutes (the IKIPs, FKIPs and STIPs,
known collectively as LPTK) were faced with a major challenge. Until the transfer, the LPTK had been
responsible solely for the preparation of secondary teachers, so little expertise in the methods of primary
teacher education was available.
Working to extremely tight deadlines, LPTK teams produced a curriculum for the new D2 primary teacher
education program during 1990, but it was recognized from the outset that the resulting materials were
inadequate in many respects, and would require early replacement. Soon after the commencement of the
Project period, seven two-member teams of senior teacher educators visited a total of 26 TEls in five
countries (Australia, New Zealand, Japan, the United States and the United Kingdom), to seek possible
linkages through which technical assistance might be made available. After these visits, six institutions
(three in the USA, two in Australia and one in the UK) were invited to collaborate with Indonesian teacher
educators in a range of staff and program development activities.
As one major result of this initiative, workshops for the development of curricula for both the D2 and S2
(Masters) programs were held at the University of Huston, Texas, and the Ohio State University, USA,
between November 1993 and February 1994. These workshops brought together teacher educators from
Indonesia and faculty members from all the six partner universities - including those in Australia and the
UK. The drafts developed during these workshops were further refined in Indonesia, before official release
as the D2 Pre-service Primary Teachers' Curriculum (1995), and the S2 Masters level Teacher Education
Curriculum.
The D2 Pre-service Teacher Education Curriculum
The D2 pre-service teacher education program extends over five semesters (two and one-half years). It is
made up of a total of 78 credit unit points (SKS), including 8 in basic general courses (Pancasila, Religion,
Citizenship); 16 in general education courses (educational foundations, class management, evaluation,
guidance, teaching and learning strategies); 47 in the subjects of the primary curriculum; and 5 in teaching
practice (PPL).
The new curriculum has a number of innovative features, which distinguish it sharply from its predecessor
and represent marked improvements. They include the following:
1. Subject content. In the subject content courses, greater emphasis is given to mastery of the material
the trainee will teach in the primary school. In mathematics, for example, students revise the concepts
of place value, fractions and decimals, and number operations. The amount of time devoted to the
study of more advanced topics, - especially topics which students do not meet until the senior
secondary or tertiary levels - has been considerably reduced.
2.  Subject-specific pedagogy. Equally important, subject-specific pedagogy courses, which link
understanding of the concepts of each subject with skill in the methods of teaching them in the
classroom, have been introduced. In the previous curriculum, this essential bridge was weakly
developed: subject content courses were taught by subject specialists, often with little if any reference
to pedagogy; whereas pedagogy courses were taught by education specialists, often with little if any
reference to subject contexts.
The loadings given to the subject-specific pedagogy courses signal clearly the importance now
attached to them. In science and social science, the subject-specific pedagogy courses carry the same
credit-unit loading as the subject content courses; whereas in Bahasa Indonesia and mathematics, they
carry double loading (six credit units compared with three, in both subjects).
8



3. Practical teaching skills. Similarly, greater importance is now attached to the acquisition of practical
teaching skills. Teaching practice begins in Semester 111, during which trainees take part in simulated
teaching, as an integral componeitt-of most courses. In Semester IV, the focus moves out of the
training institution into the primary schools, where trainees observe lessons on a regular basis.
Semester V, which concludes the D2 program, is devoted entirely to school-based teaching practice.
The trainees, divided into small groups, are attached to designated model schools - usually schools
within easy reach of the campus. In the model schools they rotate among the six grade levels,
spending a minimum of two weeks at each level, and teaching one lesson each day. They are
supervised by class teachers from the model school - guru pemandu - and receive regular visits from a
TEI tutor - dozen pembimbing.
In the model schools we visited, principals and guru pemandu were unanimous in their view that the
current arrangements for student teaching practice are much more effective than those they replaced.
They singled out particularly the introduction of a systematic scheme for assessing teaching practice
(Alat Penilian Kemampuan Guru, or APKG) as a major step forward. Furthermore, visits to the school
by dozen pembimbing are now more regular - and more professional - than they were previously.
Curriculum and curriculum implementation issues.
Issues concerning the 1995 D2 curriculum and its implementation which emerged during the Mission
include the following:
1. Experiential knowledge of D2 teacher educators
As we have noted, the introduction of a substantial subject-specific pedagogy component into the D2
curriculum is a major step towards the development of a primary teacher education curriculum suited to the
learning needs of the trainees. However the effectiveness of the subject-specific pedagogy courses is
likely to be jeopardized if the faculty members who teach them have themselves had inadequate experience
of applying in the primary school classroom the instructional approaches they advocate to the trainees.
It has long been recognized that the majority of Indonesia's teacher educators lack sufficient hands-on
classroom experience. During the late 1970s and early 1980s, when the TEls and SPGs were being
developed rapidly to meet the teacher shortages brought about by massive expansion of educational access,
new teacher trainers were generally recruited directly from among recent batchelors-level (SI) graduates.
Practical teaching experience was not a pre-requisite.
In response to this issue, the Project made provision for teacher educators to spend time in the schools
acquiring classroom experience. However, from the information we were able to gather during the
Mission, it appears that the time devoted to actual hands-on teaching was generally limited - in some cases,
to no more than one or two 40-minute periods.
Primary teacher educators should be provided with opportunities to strengthen their knowledge
and understanding of primary instrctional approaches through hands-on teaching experience in
the classroom. A minimum of one month every three years is suggested
2. Subject content knowledge of D2 recruits
As we have noted, the new (1995) D2 teacher education curriculum places a great deal more emphasis on
the teaching of basic concepts - including those covered in the primary school curriculum - than did its
predecessor. Nevertheless, faculty members frequently commented to us about the low competency levels
of many D2 recruits.
The results of an informal number-skills test which we conducted with one third-semester trainee group in
Sulawesi Utara were certainly consistent with these perceptions. When we entered the classroom the
trainees were just completing a session on the teaching of operations with fractions - part of the
9



Mathematics Education 11 course. We asked them to arrange the following groups of numbers in order,
from smallest to largest:
smiallest  l...             argest
I.         6       2       7->
2.        1/6      1/8     1/3     i
3.        0,55     0,8     0,14       i                      =
Of course the trainees had no difficulties arranging the whole numbers in correct order, but the fractions
and decimals both caused problems.
Fractions. Although the trainees had just completed a lesson about operations with fractions,
most of them lacked understanding of fractional values. Of the group of 36, only 11 (28%)
ordered the fractions correctly from smallest to largest (1/8. . . 1/6 . . .1/3). The remaining 25
(72%) reversed the order,
(1/3. . .1/6... 1/8); clearly, they ignored the numerators and treated the denominators as if they
were whole numbers.
Decimals. Not a single trainee from the group of 36 ordered the three decimal numbers correctly.
The commonest ordering (smallest to largest) was
0,8... .0,14. . . 0,55, given by 29 students (81%). These trainees treated the decimals as if they
were whole numbers - as most of them had done with the fractions. The remaining seven trainees
ordered the decimal numbers
0,55... 0,14. . .0,8. Interestingly, all these trainees, without exception, ordered the fractions
correctly, suggesting strongly that they had attempted to apply a correct rule for ordering
fractional values (the larger the denominator, the smaller the value) to the ordering of decimals -
where, of course, it is invalid.
These and other misconceptions about number values are widespread among primary pupils, in Indonesia
as in many other countries. But if the teachers who are responsible for their instruction make the same
errors, there is indeed little chance that the pupils will ever develop correct understanding.
Immediately after enrolment, primary teacher trainees should be given diagnostic tests of basic
concepts and skills in the main primary subjects, including in particular Bahasa Indonesia and
mathematics. Depending on the results of these tests, the first several weeks of the D2 training
program shozuld, where necessary, be devoted to targeted remedial work.
3. Teaching Practice.
As we have seen, the only time D2 trainees practice supervised teaching in a real classroom is during the
fifth and final semester of the program - although they take part in simulated teaching during the third
semester and observe classroom processes during the fourth. In consequence, there are no opportunities for
trainees to draw on their classroom experiences as a source of insight to inform their study of the more
theoretical aspects of the training program. Now that the program places such heavy stress on subject-
specific pedagogy, such opportunities for reflection on practice could prove most fruitful.
The possibilities of introducing classroom-based teaching practice earlier in the D2 curricutlum
sequence - before the subject-specific pedagogy courses have been completed - should be
explored.
3. Developing Primary Teacher Educators
One of the main Project objectives was to strengthen the pre-service training of primary school teachers. A
new tertiary-level, five-semester primary teacher education program had been introduced in 1991, two
10



years before the Project began, but few of the available professional staff had themselves received training
appropriate for running such a program. Hence a substantial staff development initiative was required.
These teacher educators fell into two-m-ain groups:
1.  UPP (Unit Pelaksanaan Program) staff. The UPPs are the implementation units through which the
D2 program is taught. They are organizationally linked to, and dependent on, the Teacher Education
Institutions (LPTK). Virtually all full-time UPP staff are ex-Sekolah Pendidikan Guru (SPG) or
Sekolah Guru Orla Raga (SGO) tutors, previously involved in teaching the old primary teacher
education program, which was at the senior secondary (Grades 10-12) rather than the tertiary level.
The SPG/SGO tutors were all SI graduates, and thus were formally qualified to teach at the tertiary
level, but too few had specialized in the main primary school subjects (especially mathematics and
science) and too many in general subjects (educational administration, guidance and counselling,
curriculum planning etc). To establish a more appropriate specialization profile, the Project supported
a massive in-country 'second SI degree' program for ex-SPG/SGO tutors who had become UPP staff.
2. Teacher Education Institution (LPTK) staff. Faculty members from the LPTKs were also enlisted
to assist on a part-time basis in the teaching of the new D2 primary teacher education program. These
staff had all been involved in tertiary teacher training, but for secondary rather than primary teachers.
Hence their professional development needs were different. They fell into two sub-groups:
a. Secondary subject content specialists from the subject faculties (mathematics and science,
language etc) of the IKIP or (in the case of the FKIPs) university.
b. Education specialists with a secondary background, from the Faculty of Education (FIP) who
were similarly involved in the D2 PGSD program.
As set out in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the objectives of the staff development component of the
Project were:
a) increasing the knowledge and teaching skills of PGSD lectures,
b) strengthening the capacity of in-service program developers and managers,
c) building domestic capacity to train primary teacher educators,
d) improving the evaluation and monitoring skills of supervising teachers,
e) strengthening PGSD managerial skills, and
f) providing trained technicians for PGSD                 (SAR, p. 14).
To achieve these objectives, the original Project plans called for II staff development programs; some
domestic, others overseas. During the early years of the Project these plans were modified in a number of
ways, to render them better-suited to staff learning needs. (See Borrower's ICR, p. 2-3).
The degree programs included the in-country second-SI degree program for inappropriately-qualified UPP
faculty members which we have already mentioned; masters-level (S2) programs, both in-country and
overseas; and doctorate-level (S3) programs, again both in-country and overseas.
Achievements
The main objectives and targets of the Project as set out in the SAR were accomplished. The modifications
showed sound adaptation as better understanding of staff development needs was achieved, partly through
preparatory overseas exploration and dialogue with faculty members in the partner institutions in the USA,
Australia and the UK. The Borrower's ICR provides details of the extent to which the quantitative
performance indicators have been achieved. The results are impressive.
Quantitative targets:
I The second SI degree program, as already noted, was designed as a staff retraining program, for
those who had originally been tutors in the old teacher training institutions (SPGs and SGOs), and
11



whose formal academic qualifications were inappropriate for the new tertiary-level D2 program.
These in-country second SI programs were offered in four institutions, all of them IKIPs:
IKIP Padang: Mathematics and science education (82 graduates)
IKIP Bandung: Science and social studies education (143 graduates)
IKIP Malang: Language, arts and mathematics education (148 graduates)
IKIP Ujung Pandang: Mathematics and science education (91 graduates)
In terms of participant numbers, the second S I program was by far the largest staff development
activity undertaken by the Project, although the number of graduates achieved (464) was well
below the original target (700).
2. The masters-level (S2) overseas degree programs. These programs were run at six universities;
three in the USA, two in Australia, and one in the UK. They were of two kinds:
a. Regular masters programs offered by the host institution, in which the Indonesian students
joined with local students and (in most cases) students from other countries. Sixteen students
participated in these programs, and of these, ten successfully graduated and returned to their
home institutions.
b.  Customised masters programs, tailored to meet the specific learning needs of the
Indonesian participants. A total of 135 students took part in these programs; of these, 132
graduated successfully and returned to their home institutions.
3. Overseas doctoral (S3) programs. Twenty-four students took part in overseas doctoral programs.
Of these, 17 have already graduated, and a further three were expected to graduate by the end of 1999.
4.  In-country masters (S2) programs. The 99 graduates (from 100 participants) in these prgrams
specialized in the following primary education areas:
language arts education ( 19),
mathematics education (19),
social studies education (20),
science education (19), and
early childhood development (22).
After the ternination of the Project these programs continued to operate, and some offer
scholarships.
5. Non-degree programs. Teacher educators from the LPTKs who have participated in the masters-
level staff development programs (overseas and in-country) have run a variety of short non-degree
programs, mainly for UPP staff. These programs have included:
-Training in the use of the Teacher Performance Assessment Instrument (APKG) (643
participants)
-Training of trainers in the use of the APKG instrument (21 participants)
- Training of laboratory technicians (156 participants)
- Training of internet users (46 participants)
Benefits from the staff development program:
(a) Knowledge gains
Participants in the doctorate and masters-level programs who we met during the Mission all welcomed
the opportunities which had been opened to them, and had derived much professional and intellectual
benefit. The programs had enabled participants to:
12



- become familiar with new thinking about different ways of dealing with knowledge content (e.g.
integrated learning);
- become engaged in current debates within education (e.g. the concept of emotional intelligence)
- improve their teaching skills tespecially mentioned by the Head of a UPP, referring to faculty
members that had completed masters degrees in-country).
2   . The opportunity to travel overseas has been particularly appreciated, although for some, this benefit
had been gained at a considerable cost to family life. Overseas students were enabled to:
- develop a comparative perspective on their work;
- observe various pedagogical styles and strategies;
- gain access to ideas and information from sources to which there is only limited access in
Indonesia;
- improve their proficiency in the use of the English language, which in turn gave them access to
information from a wider range of sources.
(b) Other benefits
1. Material included in the customized international master's degree programs provided many ideas
for developing the in-country D2 and masters-level primary teacher education programs.
2. Many faculty members who participated in staff development activities contributed to various
program development initiatives, such as the improvement of the D2 and S2 curricula, and the
running of the Research Management Unit at IKIP Yoyakarta.
Issues concerning staff development
The main issues relating to the staff development component of the Project concern access to masters-
level programs for UPP staff members, and utilization of LPTK staff on their return to their institution after
completion of masters-level or doctorate programs.
I. Access to masters-level programs for UPP faculty members.
UPP faculty members benefited from the masters-level staff development programs much less than they
should have. Considering that it is only the UPP staff who are committed full-time to the D2 primary
teacher education program, this is a matter for concern. In the UPPs visited, less than one third of the
teaching staff have completed a master in-country masters degree. The remaining two-thirds have only a
batchelors-level (Sl) qualification. Further, only one UPP faculty member has undertaken a masters degree
program abroad.
For many UPP faculty members, a major barrier restricting access to the masters-level programs was the
need to undertake a second batchelors degree as a preliminary qualification. As we have noted, more than
450 UPP staff completed second batchelors degrees during the Project. After completion of their second
SI s, the time available for undertaking masters programs was severely limited.
For those wishing to pursue a masters degree overseas, lack of competency in English was a further barrier.
English was not taught as a subject in the old SPG primary teacher education program; in consequence,
only a very few UPP tutors have more than a rudimentary knowledge of the language.
2. Utilization of LPTK staff after return from overseas programs.
Because of the English language barrier just noted, virtually all the recruits to the international masters and
doctorate degree programs came from among LPTK faculty members, rather than from the UPPs.
The extent to which these new masters graduates were involved in the D2 primary teacher education
program on their return from overseas varied considerably. Despite the evident enthusiasm of many of
them to apply what they had learned from their overseas experience, some took no part in the D2 program,
13



and others were only peripherally involved. At one TEI visited, eleven staff members, all from non-
education faculties, benefited from primary teacher education masters programs overseas. None of them
currently teach in the D2 primary teacher education program
At least three reasons contribute to this state of affairs:
First, many if not most UPPs are already heavily staffed with ex-SPG/SGO faculty members, and
thus have little need to draw on staff from the mother institution, except on occasion for some of the
more specialized subjects. At one of the UPPs visited, the staff:student ratio was as low as 5:1.
Second, in some cases Heads of Department in the LPTKs have apparently been unwilling to
release their more highly-qualified staff members to teach in the D2 primary teacher education
program. Until very recently, the majority of secondary teacher educators at most LPTKs held only
a batchelors (SI) degree, so that posession of a masters degree - particularly from an overseas
university - denotes a high level of qualification.
Third, perceived status differences between the primary-level and secondary-level teacher
education programs are also important in many cases. Faculty members with high-status masters
degrees often prefer to teach on higher-status secondary teacher education programs rather than on
lower-status primary programs - even if their masters qualification was specifically in the field of
primary teacher education.
Whatever the reasons, the failure to fully utilize the expensively-acquired primary education expertise of
the graduates of the masters-level degree programs is a major weakness of the Project.
As a matter of urgency, a rapid review of the current involvement in primary teacher education of
graduatesfrom the Project-supported masters and doctorate-level professional development
programs should be carried out. The review should cover all TEls with D2 programs in the
Republic.
Based on the results of this review, strategiesfor u1tilizing morefiully the primary education
expertise of these graduates should be devised
3. English language proficiency
The extent to which UPP staff members were debarred from taking part in the overseas professional
development programs by their lack of competency in English has already been noted. However language
difficulties were not confined to UPP staff; they also affected recruits from other LPTK departments.
Although applicants for the overseas programs were screened for their English language proficiency, and
successful candidates received some additional training, the general view of participants was that language
standards were insufficient for studying overseas, and that a further intensive English language program,
prior to departure, would have been beneficial. Late entrants to the programs encountered particular
difficulties.
Iffurther overseas professional development programsfor teacher educators are mounted,
intensive English language instruction shoould be providedprior to departure.
1. Joint national-international masters programs
For participants in the overseas masters programs with family responsibilities (particularly women) the
prospect of an extended period away from the country was often a problem. A program which included
both within-country and overseas components would have been an attractive option for many students.
The possibilities of mountingjoint national-international professional development programs/or
masters-level students should be explored
14



Three case studies illustrating contrasting effects of professional development programs are given in Box 1.
They are based on observations of UPP teaching carried out during the Mission.
Box I
Contrasting effects of professional development programs: three case studies
Case 1. An UPP staff member who had been been directly trained by LPTK faculty members who studied
abroad had incorporated a range of new teaching and learning methods into his repertoire, including:
- peer teaching;
- problem-solving activities with simulated "primary school students";
- using appropriate experiments for primary school children;
- offering constructive feedback to the student teacher and encouraging feedback from other
students;
- using innovative techniques of classroom management.
Case 2. However, another UPP teacher with an in-country S2 degree maintained his old teaching habits.
When he tried to incorporate new teaching techniques, he did it in a mechanical way without understanding
their purpose. Clearly, exposure to new teaching methods is not, by itself, enough; opportunities to develop
understanding and skill through practice are also needed.
Case 3. Distance between theory and practice is further illustrated in a third example. In a composition
class:
- The lecturer is located in the front of the class writing on the blackboard, or rhetorically asking
questions to the trainees. They sit passively at their desks, chanting responses mechanically.
- The lecturer explains the objective of the class, and starts with a statement about expressive writing
and the differences between prose and poetry.
- He then goes on to explain the method that students should follow when teaching primary school
students. But his 'explanation' is a list of precise instructions, relevant for technical writing but quite
inappropriate for expressive writing, either in prose or poetry.
- Finally, in order to 'practice' what they 'learned' he asks them to form groups and write a poem
collectively. The students in each group copy a poem that had already been prepared by one of them.
Obviously, no learning took place in this class. Wrong messages were transmitted to the students. No one
questioned the method imposed by the teacher. The class was boring for everyone. Finally, there was even
a component of 'cheating', accepted by both the students and the lecturer.
4. Building local capacity for research and development
This component of the Project focused on building local research capacity, with the specific objectives of:
(a) creating a more substantial basis for policy-making in primary teacher education and primary
teacher supply in Indonesia;
(b) promoting better understanding among LPTK lecturers of the real-world problems and conditions
of primary school teachers as a means for improving their PGSD courses; and
(c) drawing lecturers into action-oriented research partnerships with primary school principals and
teachers, in order to improve classroom teaching and to solve problems related to primary school
teachers.
15



To achieve these objectives, three major sets of activities were designed and carried out:
I . Large-scale policy studies at the national level. Implementation was contracted to local
LPTKs and universities.
2.  Small-scale policy studies, at the local level. These studies were carried out by LPTK research
teams, typically consisting of five to eight members
3. Action-oriented research studies usually conducted by individual LPTK staff members
working in collaboration with primary school principals and teachers.
Responsibility for the planning and implementation of Project research and development activities has been
shared between institutions and individuals.
Institutions. Responsibility for managing the large-scale national policy studies was devolved to
IKIP Yogyakarta, where a Research Management Unit (RMU) was established. The team is led by
three faculty members, all of whom took part in a short-term overseas program in Research
Management.
A Research Quality Control Unit (RQCU) was also established at IKIP Yogyakarta. Composed of
senior research workers and specialists from a variety of institutions (IKIPs Bandung, Yogyakarta,
Malang; Gajah Mada University, the University of Indonesia, and a representative of DGHE), its
main responsibility is to ensure the quality of the planning, implementation, and evaluation of
Project-supported research and development activities.
Individuals. The main responsibility for the small policy-oriented studies and the action research
studies was carried by individuals and groups of individuals, located in the various LPTKs. All
LPTKs offering the D2 primary teacher education program took part.
Achievements
1. Quantitative evidence of the achievements of the Research component of the Project can be found in
Tables 9.1 to 9.3 of the Borrower's ICR. Seven large-scale policy studies were completed, 20 small-
scale policy studies, and no fewer than 178 action research studies.
2. The seven large-scale policy studies were all contracted to tertiary institutions, as follows:
a.  Primary School Effectiveness (IKIP Yogyakarta)
b.  Effectiveness of the D2 Primary Teacher Education Program (IKIP Bandung)
c.  Systems for In-service Training in Remote Areas (Open University)
d.  Primary Teacher Education Management (Univ. Sebelas Maret, Central Java)
e.  Primary Teacher Incentives
f.  Primary Teacher Appointment and Placement
a.  Demographic Change and Primary Teacher Distribution
All these studies were completed, and research reports prepared. In several cases, summary reports were
also published in the Primary Education Research Joumal (see para 8 below).
3. LPTK staff involved in small-scale policy-oriented studies who we met during, the Mission were
enthusiastic about their work. As already noted, each study was carried out by a group of about 6 - 8
research workers. In many cases, the exchange of ideas among the team members enriched the
research culture of the institution as a whole. Research findings were disseminated through centrally-
organized seminars, and through publication in journals linked to the PGSD program. Some teams
also gave feedback to colleagues in their own institutions, through locally-organized seminars.
Box 2 outlines the approach and main findings of one small-scale policy study.
16



Box 2
Sniall-scale policy oriented research:
Improving the Oral Communication Skills of Elementary Teachers
The study examined the skills and capacities of teachers from different subject areas ( e.g Bahasa
Indonesia, mathematics) and teaching in different contexts (urban/rural) to communicate orally with
children. The researchers found considerable variations. For example, teachers of Bahasa Indonesia
communicated more effectively than teachers of mathematics, because of the attention they paid to
language itself. Teachers in urban areas appeared to be more effective than those from rural areas - partly
because they were more likely to understand the local context as they themselves tended to come from
urban areas. Researchers offered a range of policy and practical solutions to improve the oral
communication skills of teachers. These included the introduction of specific courses within the IKIP (to
develop oral communication skills and better understanding of pupils' background and experience) and a
focus on oral communication in student teaching practice.
4. Another small-scale policy study tackled a set of serious local problems in an isolated rural area. Four
key issues were addressed:
(a) heavy dropout rates among young children (in grades 1, 2 and 3) because of the long distances
they have to walk to get to school;
(b) the need to prepare teacher trainees for multi-grade teaching in isolated schools with teacher
shortages;
(c) the need for the development of learning modules suited for use in small student groups; and
(d) the need to involve parents and other community members as teacher-helpers in such learning
groups.
Box 3 gives more details.
Box 3
Small-scale policy oriented research:
Modules for small groups of elementary school pupils in isolated villages
This research project attempted to demonstrate the effective use of the environment in improving the leaming
achievement of young pupils and in reducing drop-out. Small groups of children (SD-KKs) were established
in remote communities at a distance (up to three km) from their closest primary school (SD-Induk). One
teacher from the SD-lnduk was assigned to each group. The research project trial involved seven SD-KKs in
three remote settlements: (Asah Gobleg (mountain area), Kayu Putih Melaka (dry plain) and Tembok (dry
beach village). It continued for a period of two semesters.
SD-KK teachers were D-2 graduates originally from areas near the villages, who had been trained in multi-
grade leaming processes and encouraged to promote community participation in supporting the small-group
initiative.
Researchers carried out comprehensive observations of the teaching and leaming process, interviewed
teachers, parents, pupils and members of the community, and tested leaming outcomes. The use of the
physical and social environment through the incorporation of people and resources from the community had a
positive effect on students' attitude towards leaming. Drop-out rates were reduced by 12%.
The community favoured the continuation of the project and were ready to meet the cost of the classrooms
and facilities. The study team calculated the additional costs, and presented a proposal to the local
govemment and the regional MOEC. The proposal included the training of D-2 candidates to undertake this
task and showed the benefits of the program to the completion of the 9 years of compulsory education in poor
remote areas.
17



Local authorities were interested and willing to carry the additional costs, but the regional authority never
responded to the initiative.
5.  Faculty members interviewed by the Mission who had taken part in action research were enthusiastic
about their projects, and demonstrated a good understanding of the theory and practice of this
approach..
6. The action research projects focused for the most part on classroom-based problems, and in some cases
the participating LPTK lecturers had incorporated lessons leamed into their own teaching practice.
Topics related to the teaching of mathematics and science were particularly popular. Box 4 gives an
example.
Box 4
Action Research: Improving the Teaching of Mathematics
The issue addressed by the study was that 4th grade students in the schools used for teaching practice had
difficulties in understanding fractions. Classroom observations carried out by the study team, and by
teachers, identified the source of the problem as the failure of teachers to build up mathematical concepts
systematically. The study team developed a phased approach to the teaching of fractions, beginning with
concrete examples and building up to theoretical concepts. Findings were disseminated through workshops
with teachers, staff seminars and a journal publication.
7. Several other action research studies addressed a related issue: how to encourage teachers to draw on a
range of materials and approaches, in order to maximize learning opportunities for students.  Box 5
provides an example.
Box 5
Action Research: Creativity in Art and Design
The problem identified was that children were not using their creativity in art and design. A series of
structured classroom observations were carried out by teachers and lecturers to examine why this was the
case. One conclusion was that children had limited access to a range of materials and mediums in school.
Teachers and lecturers combined to develop an activity which would encourage children to draw on a range
of materials and approaches in all stages of the process: from designing an item to making and decorating
it. This approach was used by the children to design and make small baskets, using plastic cups as the base
and covering these with varied colors and patterns.
8. The Primary Education Research Journal. A major activity undertaken by the Research Unit at
IKIP Yogyakarta was the preparation and publication of the Primary Education Research Joumal
(Jumal Penelitian Pendidikan Dasar). The papers drew on the findings of both the policy-oriented
studies and the action research studies. They are written in Bahasa Indonesia, but abstracts in English
are provided.
Given that policy-oriented and action research approaches were unfamiliar to most members of the
research teams, quality is understandably variable. The best of the papers read were innovative and
informative. One, for instance, presented observations concerning the difficulties pupils have in
mastering basic number concepts, and would provide invaluable case-study material for primary
mathematics education courses. Other papers were less original. In several cases, the research teams
18



seemed to have learned a sequence of steps for carrying out action research, and to have applied them
without full understanding of their meaning.
A total of seven issues of the Jou7nal were published, with print runs of 500-1000. Copies were sent to
the 89 UPPs in the Republic, the 36 LPTKs, the three centers for masters-level primary teacher
education programs, and the National Research and Development Center (Balitbang Depdikbud).
Members or the editorial team were, however, unsure as to whether funds for continued publication
will be available, now that the Project is corning to an end.
The Primary Education Research Journal constitutes an invaluable medium through which the
emerging group of teacher educators and research workers involved in the development of primary
education in Indonesia can maintain professional contact. Every effort should be made to identify
funds to ensuire its continued publication after Projectfiunding has ended
Issues in policy studies and action research
1. Policy-oriented studies
It is difficult to assess the overall impact of the policy-oriented studies carried out during the Project, as
much depends of the enthusiasm and commitment of the individuals responsible for themn. The research
team which conducted the study outlined in Box 4, for example, pursued energetically the implementation
of the project with the local administration - albeit without success. The project had achieved its primary
goal of increasing school attendance and reducing drop-out among children in isolated villages. It had been
welcomed by parents, had generated community involvement.
It seems, however, that the level of commitment demonstrated by this team was somewhat unusual. Most
teams appear to have focussed on producing a research report, paying relatively little attention to issues of
implementation and dissemination, and usually remaining unaware of the extent to which their research
findings, or those of other researchers, had been utilized to shape policy or practice.
2. Action research.
Similarly, the positive impact of the action-research studies was more apparent in the teacher education
institutions than in the schools. Clearly, the research capacity of the participating faculty members has
been enhanced, and (in some cases) the content of their lectures has been enriched by experiential
knowledge gained in the classroom. But in the participating schools, changes are less easy to see.
Many schools engaged in the action research with some enthusiasm. However, in most cases they appear
to have treated the studies as 'one off experiments, rather than ongoing activities or approaches which
could be integrated into their daily life.
The school which took part in the action research outlined in Box 5 was visited by a Mission member. The
principal spoke enthusiastically about the study, showed examples of the pupils' work and explained how
she had discussed the study with her staff. However, the examples of the students' work were kept in a
cupboard in the staff-room. The walls of the classrooms were bare and there was little evidence that the
approach adopted in the action research had been sustained. The study appeared to be an isolated
experiment, remembered with some nostalgia by principal, teachers and LPTK research workers alike.
There were more extreme cases in which the school principals and (more particularly) the classroom
teachers saw the action research as an imposition, whose purpose they did not understand. In one instance,
a teacher regarded the research as a form of extended supervision of her classroom management, carried
out jointly by the school principal and the LPTK research worker. She had not been shown the observation
schedule they had used, nor had she seen the final report.
Overall, the connection between research, policy and practice does not appear to have been a strong one
within the PGSD Project.
19



In planning future action research projects, bottom-up participatory approaches should be adopted, so
that classroom teachers and school principals are as fully involved in research design as are teacher
educatorsfrom the LPTKs
Injudging the success offuture action research projects, attention should be paid to the impact
produced on practice within the participating schools, as well as to the quality of the written report
3. The use of information technology to support professional development and research.
The PGSD program provided computer packages to the UPPs. Access to these facilities appears to have
been limited. The primary usage has been basic word-processing and limited email contact by senior staff.
Both the scarcity of computers and the prohibitive cost of on-line access has meant that academic staff have
been unable to use the rich resources of the Net. This has restricted the opportunities for staff to continue
their development and has meant that staff who studied oversees have been unable to maintain the
professional links which they made during their studies
2. Strengthening the management of the
primary teacher education system
This final component of the Project set out a set of objectives for the strengthening of the management of
primary teacher education in Indonesia, both at the central government level (specifically, the Directorate
General of Higher Education or DGHE), and the institutional level (the Teacher Education Institutions, or
LPTKs) The changes, it was expected, would institutionalize mechanisms for soundly-based policy
decision making, leading to improvements in the quality of teacher education programs.
These objectives included:
1. The establishment of a Sub-directorate for Teacher Education within DGHE;
2. Carrying out a policy study on PSTE Management Reforms;
3. Workshops for the co-ordination of pre-service and in-service PSTE programs; and
4. Carrying out a pilot study on PGSD-PEQIP integration.
Achievements
1. Management at the central level.
The need to establish a Sub-directorate of Teacher Education within DGHE had been recognised for
some time prior to the inception of the Project. But for a variety of reasons, the achievement of this goal
proved elusive during the Project period. Financial resources for setting up the sub-directorate were not
available; and furthermore approval from BAKN, required for changes in civil service structures, was not
forthcoming. The Borrower's ICR gives more details (see para 31).
It seems, however, that current developments are likely to resolve this impasse. During this Mission we
learned that, as part of the major reorganization of MOEC and other ministries currently under way,
agreement has been reached for the establishment of a body to take responsibility for teacher education
within DGHE - at the directorate, rather than the sub-directorate, level. The functions of the new
Directorate have yet to be fully specified, but clearly it will have a major role to play in setting up and
implementing a coherent set of policies for the strengthening of teacher education, at both the primary and
secondary levels.
During the course of the Project, the Central Steering Forum (Forum Pengaruh Pusat, or SPP) took an
active role in formulating policies for the more effective management of teacher education on a number of
occasions. Perhaps most important was its initiative in setting up the targeted recruitment scheme for
primary teacher trainees. This scheme, already discussed in some detail in Section C I of this Aide
Memoire, established for the first time mechanisms for the joint involvement of LPTK and Pemda staff in
the recruitment of primary teacher trainees. Recruitment to the D2 program was restricted to SPG/SGO
graduates working as honorary teachers (guru honorer) in schools with teacher shortages; the trainees
20



selected were promised priority recruitment into permanent teaching positions on graduation; and generous
scholarship support was provided.
This fruitful collaboration between teacher educators and local government officials in resolving local
teacher supply issues is of course consonant with the wider initiative towards the devolution of many
decision-making powers to more local levels of the Govemment administration. It will be important to
ensure that it is maintained into the post-Project period.
2. Management at the institutional level.
During the early days of the Project, concerns were expressed as to the status of the primary teacher
education program within the formal organizational structure of the Teacher Education Institutions. A
letter from the DGHE dated . .. instructed the TEls to establish Primary Education as a Department
(Jurusan) within the Faculty of Education (Fakultas Ilmu Pendidikan, or FIP). This arrangement would
provide the primary education program with a full-time Head (Kepala Jurusan) and an independent budget.
In many cases, however, implementation of this directive was delayed, apparently for the reason that a
suitably qualified Head (with a masters or doctorate qualification) could not be identified. We enquired as
to the current state of affairs in the five institutions visited during this Mission. At four of the institutions a
full-time Head is now in place; while in the fifth, an appointment is expected soon. If the institutions visited
are representative of TEls throughout the Republic, this issue is now close to resolution.
3. Coordination of pre-service and in-service D2 primary teacher education programs.
During the preparation of the new D2 pre-service curriculum, a productive dialogue was developed with
colleagues at the Open University who were working at the same time on the D2 curriculum for serving
teachers (D2 penyetaraan). The pre-service teams from the LPTKs benefitted from the much wider
experience of Open University staff in developing and implementing programs for teachers in remote areas.
In particular, they were sensitized to the need to incorporate multigrade approaches to primary teaching
into the pre-service curriculum.
4. Management studies.
A large scale policy study of management reforms in primary teacher education was contracted to the
University of Sebelas Maret, Central Java, and successfully completed. However, for reasons outlined in
para 38 of the Borrowers ICR, a proposed study aimed at developing closer linkages between the pre-
service D2 project and the Bank-supported PEQIP Project was never launched.
Issues and concerns
The most important matter of concern related to the management of teacher education springs from the
recent change in the status of the ten IKIPs from teacher education institutions to more general universities.
This change is likely to have major consequences for teacher education at both the primary and secondary
levels.
Since their inception in the 1 960s, the IKIPs have been effectively mono-technics: the degree programs
they offered fitted graduates for a single type of career - in secondary teaching only. The later
incorporation of D2 programs for primary teachers during the early 1990s did not essentially change this
situation.
During the 1970s and early 1980s, when secondary teacher shortages were acute, this focussed mandate
was, if anything, a source of strength. New students understood, when they accepted an IKIP place, that
they were destined to become secondary teachers; and the secondary schools were assured of an annual
supply of new teaching recruits. However during the late 1980s the balance between supply and demand
changed radically: within a few years, severe shortages of secondary teachers were replaced by severe
surpluses (except in a few subjects such as physics and chemistry, where the shortages persisted into the
21



1990s). At one IKIP, the chances of a new graduate being recruited as a secondary teacher had dropped to
less than 2% by the early 1 990s.
In response to this crisis, the Seconda-tyTeacher Education Project, which began operation in 1994, two
years after the Primary Project, included provision for four IKIPs to begin enquiries into the management,
curriculum and budgetary implications of a possible move towards a broader institutional mandate.
Students would have the option of following a general arts or science bachelors degree, as an alternative to
the traditional bachelor of education degree, thus opening to them a wider range of career choices. It was
planned that the preliminary studies would continue for at least five years, so that the actual changes would
take place only after the end of the Project period - if they took place at all.
Events, however, moved much more swiftly than had been anticipated: by late 1999, all ten institutions (not
just four, as originally planned) had been formally converted from IKIPs into general universities.
The rapidity with which the changes have come about has meant that there has been insufficient time to
consider their implications for the future of teacher education programs. The central cause for concern
relates to the status of these programs within the new institutional structures. This is not of course an issue
which is confined to Indonesia: world-wide, teacher education programs frequently rank near the bottom of
university status hierarchies. They tend to attract recruits with lower scores on the selection tests; their
faculty members tend to be less well qualified, and they often tend to be less well resourced.
In the old IKIPs, the various faculties shared a common mandate: the preparation of new teachers for the
schools. The subject faculties (math and science education, language education, social science education
etc) were responsible for developing the content knowledge of the teacher trainees; while the education
faculty was responsible for developing their professional knowledge and skills.
Within the new structures, however, the subject faculties will acquire a dual mandate. The math and
science faculty, for example, will be responsible for degree programs in pure mathematics and science, as
well as the current mathematics education and science education programs. Only the education faculty will
remain dedicated exclusively to teacher preparation.
Over time, it is likely that many staff members in the subject faculties will become pure subject specialists,
involved full-time in the academic degree programs and playing no part in the teacher education programs.
In these changed circumstances it will be important to ensure that the staff of the education faculty, and the
staff responsible for the teacher education courses within the subject faculties, continue to have an
influential voice within the decision-making bodies of the institution, and do not become marginalized in
terms of access to financial and professional resources.
The impact of the recent conversion of the IKIPs into general universities should be monitored
carefuilly, both at the central level by the new Directorate of Teacher Education and the Central
Steering Forun, and at the local level by the institutions themselves. It will be important to ensuire that
the development of the non-education programs does not lead to the marginalization of the primary
and secondary teacher education programs, in terms of access tofinancial and professional resources,
with consequent negative effects on the quality of the teachers produced
C. Recommendations for Sustainability
1. Teacher supply
1.1 ) In each province, a collaborative review of the effectiveness and sustainability of the targeted
D2 recruitment program for SPG graduates working as guru honorer should be carried out by the
LPTK and Pemda teams.
1.2) The provincial-level review of targeted D2 recruitment should include an analysis of its
effects on primary teacher distribution.
22



1.3) In provinces where the review of targeted recruitment indicates that the demand for D2
training from SPG graduates working as guru honorer is close to being met, new teacher trainee
recruitment plans, targeting the needs of the teacher-shortage areas, should be developed.
1.4) A formula based on pupil numbers for calculating teacher needs should be developed to
replace the existing class-based formula.
2. Strengthening Primary Teacher Education Programs
2.1) Primary teacher educators should be provided with opportunities to strengthen their
knowledge and understanding of primary instructional approaches through hands-on teaching
experience in the classroom. A minimum of one month every three years is suggested.
2.2) Immediately after enrolment, primary teacher trainees should be given diagnostic tests of
basic concepts and skills in the main primary subjects, including in particular Bahasa Indonesia
and mathematics. Depending on the results of these tests, the first several weeks of the D2
training program should, where necessary, be devoted to targeted remedial work.
2.3) The possibilities of introducing classroom-based teaching practice earlier in the D2
curriculum sequence - before the subject-specific pedagogy courses have been c.ompleted - should
be explored.
3. Developing Primary Teacher Educators
3. I) A rapid review of the current involvement in primary teacher education of graduates from the
Project-supported masters and doctorate-level professional development programs should be
carried out. The review should cover all TEls with D2 programs in the Republic.
3.2) Based on the results of this review, strategies for utilizing more fully the primary education
expertise of these graduates should be devised
3.3) If further overseas professional development programs for teacher educators are mounted,
intensive English language instruction should be provided prior to departure.
3.4) The possibilities of establishing joint national-international professional development
programs for masters-level students should be explored (to encourage more female participation in
higher degrees).
4. Building local capacity for research and development.
4.1) The Primary Education Research Journal constitutes an invaluable medium through which the
emerging group of teacher educators and research workers involved in the development of
primary education in Indonesia can maintain professional contact. Every effort should be made to
identify funds to ensure its continued publication after Project funding has ended.
4.2) In planning future action research projects, bottom-up participatory approaches should be
adopted, so that classroom teachers and school principals are as fully involved in research design
as are teacher educators from the LPTKs.
4.3) In judging the success of future action research projects, attention should be paid to the
impact produced on practice within the participating schools, as well as to the quality of the
written report.
5. Strengthening the management of the primary teacher education system.
5.1) The impact of the recent conversion of the IKIPs into general universities should be
monitored carefully, both at the central level by the new Directorate of Teacher Education and the
23



Central Steering Forum, and at the local level by the institutions themselves. It will be important
to ensure that the development of the non-education programs does not lead to the marginalization
of the primary and secondary teacher education programs, in terms of access to financial and
professional resources, with tonsequent negative effects on the quality of the teachers produced.
5.2) Coordination of pre-service and in-service primary teacher education, and the development of
stronger links to the schools is necessary to improve quality of teaching and of primary education.
5.3) An in-service program of support for new teachers should be established in coordination with
the schools in which new teachers are placed. PGSD and the Basic Education projects could work
jointly towards this end. Head teachers would have an important leading role in encouraging a
reflective practice from the teaching staff.
24



GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA'S CONTRIBUTION
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 3496-IND)
SUMMARY
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
01       Background  The issuance of the MOEC decree dated December 30, 1989 reference number
0854/U/1989 transferred the responsibility of the role as the provider of pre-service training of primary
school teachers from the Directorate General of Primary and Secondary Education (DGPSE) to the
Directorate General of Higher Education (DGHE) whose responsibility had heretofore been to conduct pre-
service training only for secondary school teachers. The new responsibility was taken up instantly: the first
cohort of students of the D-11 program - a 5-semester tertiary level pre-service teacher training program -
arrived on the campus of the teacher training institutions in early September of 1990.
02       With this sudden additional responsibility, before the inception of the Project (i.e., Primary School
Teacher Development Project), the DGHE found itself not only severely handicapped by lack of experience
in primary teacher education in terms of both academic staff and curriculum, but also being in the midst of
daunting issues and problems related to the primary school teacher supply system such as inadequately
coordinated system for teacher supply and deployment which resulted in severe mal-distribution of primary
school teachers across the country.
03       Therefore, beside improving the pre-service training program while discharging its usual duties, in
its new role as a major stakeholder of the primary school teacher supply system, the DGHE also took the
initiative in facilitating coordination among the relevant agencies to ensure the proper handling of the issue.
The Project was effective on September 22, 1992 and was initially scheduled to end on December 31, 1997.
With a one-time 1.5-year extension, the Project remained at service until June 30, 1999.
04       Objectives and Components of the Project The overall objectives of the Project as stated in the
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), Report No. 1039, are to produce well-trained teachers, through a new five-
semester post-secondary level teacher diploma course, appropriate in numbers and distribution. To achieve
these development objectives, the Project provided relevant civil works, equipment, books and instructional
materials, technical assistance, staff development, and operational support for a wide array of purposes.
These purposes -hereafter referred to as "components" - are (A) developing primary teacher educators, (B)
strengthening pre- and in-service teacher education programs, (C) establishing a coordinated system for
teacher supply and deployment, (D) building indigenous capacity for research and development (R&D) in
primary education, and (E) strengthening the management of the primary teacher education system.
05      In the Component A, for clarity and responsiveness to the changing calls for project input, three
major modifications were made in the course of project implementation. The first modification took the form
of fine-tuning of some of the short-term programs: (a) breaking down of the group of 270 participants of the
3-month overseas training programs into several more task-specific categories - Research Managers (3
participants), D-ll Curriculum Developers (14 participants planned, 13 participants departed), S2 Curriculum
Developers (18 participants), Primary School Teacher Education (PSTE) In-service Trainers (100
participants), and Primary School Teacher Educators (135 participants); and (b) reorganization of the 730
participants of the in-country training programs for the Primary School Teacher Educators into two phases of
implementation: a centralized phase (3 weeks, with 90 participants), and an in-house phase, with an extended
schedule and financial support from the project. This in-house training program was conducted at each of the
89 UPPs (Unit Pengelola Program or Program Implementation Unit) and was attended by academic staff
members working for the particular UPPs.
06       The second modification concerned with the Customized Master's Degree programs. Most of the
candidates were lecturers who were secondary education subject teacher educators, while the potential
program hosts abroad had only master's degree programs that were suitable for first degree holders that were
I



prepared as primary classroom teachers. Upon completion of these overseas programs, the retumees are
expected to play the role of primary school subject teacher educators, who are at the same time well inducted
to the primary school setting. In order to accomplish this objective, a series of programmatic exploration and
negotiation were undertaken involving representatives of the six potential overseas program hosts (La Trobe
and Deakin Universities in Australia, the Institute of Education and the University of London in Great
Britain, and the University of Iowa-,Ohio State University and the University of Houston in the United
States) aimed at both academic program customization as well as the fulfillment of all of the requirements of
the degrees applicable in each host institution.
07       The third modification concerned with the length of the time for some in-country training
programs. More specifically, the time line of some programs was shortened because the originally set periods
of time were considered too long for in-country training from the points of view of both participants and
trainers.
08       The fine tuning made during the course of implementation - some of which was mentioned in the
previous paragraphs - was made possible after lessons were productively drawn from the preparatory
overseas resource exploration visits made by 7 two-member senior teacher educators to 26 teacher training
institutions in Australia, New Zealand, Japan, England and the United States. Besides exploring technical
assistance resources available in the respective institutions visited, the visits were also capitalized in
congealing a conceptual framework for the various quality improvement initiatives envisaged in the newly
established Project. The resulting design of technical assistance integrated (a) overseas and in-country
training programs especially between the Overseas Customized Master's Degree Programs and the In-
country S2 Programs, and (b) staff development and program development initiatives e.g. the overseas short-
term fellowships and D-1l and S2 curriculum development and the running of the Research Management Unit
at IKIP Yogyakarta. All of this was documented under the title of Terms of Reference for Technical
Assistance Management Scheme, dated  May 25, 1993 which further guided  the planning  and
implementation of the technical assistance component of the project.
09       To give a fuller picture of what has been accomplished thus far, some highlights need to be made
here which bring to the fore major achievements as results of the design modifications. The fine-tuning of
the three-month overseas program mentioned earlier resulted in appropriately qualified staff members with
more specific job orientation consistent with the needs felt in the system. For example, to support the
development objectives mandated in the SAR document, there now existed in the system the following
resources: 3 research managers (who are specifically charged with the management of the Research Center
for the Development of Elementary Education, which is part of the major objectives of the Project); a set of
curricula for Master's level programs in elementary education in 5 subject areas (language arts, mathematics,
science, social studies, and early primary subject teaching that was later transformed into early childhood
education); a set of curricula for the D-ll program; 135 academic staff members with better familiarity with
elementary education as result of their participation in the overseas Refresher Program for Primary School
Teacher Educators; 136 academic staff members who were graduates of the Overseas Customized Masters
degree programs in Primary School Subject Teaching; and other graduates currently assuming the role as
instructors in the D-ll program in their respective institutions; and other graduates from various overseas and
in-country programs-10 graduates of overseas Non-customized Masters Programs; 20 Ph.Ds graduating
from various universities in the USA, UK, and Australia; 99 PSTE teaching staff with an S2 degree from the
domestic S2 Program in Primary School Subject Teaching in five different focus subjects; and 464 staff
members with a Second SI degree from the domestic St programs in Elementary Education ( in
mathematics, science, social science, and language arts). In addition to this long list of achievement, the
following five different types of training had also produced graduates: supervising teachers 'and college
supervisors (15 days, 1591 participants), laboratory technicians (2 months, 156 participants), internet users (I
week, 46 participants), trainers of APKG (Teacher Performance Assessment Instrument, for I week with 21
participants), utilization of the APKG (I week, 643 participants).
10       In the Component B, to accomplish the development objectives specified in the SAR document
(i.e., "Strengthening Primary Teacher Education Programs" by way of improving their curricula, developing
effective teaching and assessment strategies, and providing appropriate field-tested learning materials),
relevant enabling activities were designed and carried out: dormitories were built and other educational
facilities developed and/or made available. More specifically, major achievements of this project component
include (a) improvement of D-11 curriculum by incorporating the Developmentally Appropriate Practice,
2



reducing the excessive number of scheduled activities in order to allow more independent exploration and
digestion by students, and coupled with provision of other support materials to facilitate program
implementation such as manuals (for the curriculum, field experience, and integrated teaching-learning
processes), handouts, samples of syllabi, textbooks, and a series of training sessions to update staff members
knowledge and skills in using the novel instructional approach to elementary school teaching; (b)
development of a new set of S2 curmicula in five focus subjects (i.e., mathematics education, language arts
education, science education, social studies education, and early childhood education) together with
supporting materials and activities similar to what is made available and held for the implementation of the
D-11 curriculum; and (c) establishment of 43 dormitories to help accommodate those D-ll program
participants coming from areas located far away from the location where the program is offered and
provision of equipment (for teaching and lab work) and other educational facilities (e.g., science kit, and
internet access).
II      In the Component C, whose development objectives include (a) teacher candidates recruited in
numbers and locations appropriate to local needs, and (b) teacher education graduates are made aware of
vacancies, and able to find teaching jobs and placed in locations where they are needed, the Project has
successfully established formal, inter-agency working forums and carried out important coordinated meetings
which resulted in a promising mechanism to ensure more equitable recruitment, appointment and deployment
of elementary school teachers across the country.  More specifically, among the Project's major
achievements in this project component is the re-activation of (a) the Central Steering Forum which can
address in a coordinated and systemic way issues and problems related to the recruitment, appointment, and
deployment of elementary school teachers across the country, (b) the Joint Secretariat which can serve the
function of some kind of a clearing house that conducts inventories of problems and issues being felt and
voiced by the concerned agencies, analyze the problems and package them into formats which should
facilitate decision-making by the Central Steering Forum, (c) the Working Team which assists the Joint
Secretariat in addressing the various issues in the teacher supply system at a more administrative, technical
level with day-to-day staff work provided by a specially established Task Force, and (d) the provision of
scholarship support for pemda-nominated teacher trainees in remote areas to ensure that these often-avoided
areas are taken care of.
12      In the Component D, which focuses on building research and development capacity with the
specific objectives of (a) creating a rational basis for policy-making in primary teacher education and
distribution in Indonesia; (b) promoting better understanding among LPTK lecturers of the real-world
problems and conditions of primary school teachers as a means for improving their PGSD courses; and (c)
drawing lecturers into action-oriented research partnerships with primary school teachers and administrators
in order to improve classroom teaching and to solve problems related to primary school teachers, three major
activities were designed and carried out:  (I) Large-scale Policy Studies at the national level whose
implementation was contracted to local institutions, (2) Small Grants Program for LPTK research teams; and
(3) Action-oriented Research Studies conducted by LPTK academic staff in collaboration with their primary
school teachers counterparts.
13      In the course of project implementation, as a response to changing calls for project input in the
field and with approval from the Bank, some modifications - especially in the form of specific targets of
individual activities - were made. Presented here are activities and achievements of this project component.
(a) The establishment of a Research Management Unit (RMU) at IKIP Yogyakarta whose specific
responsibility is to manage research and development activities carried out under the Project; (b) The
formation of a Research Quality Control Unit (RQCU) to ensure the quality of the planning, implementation,
and produwts of the research and development activities carried out under the Project with a panel of senior
researchers and specialists in different disciplines from IKIPs Bandung, Yogyakarta, and Malang, the
Universities of Gajahmada and Indonesia, and a representative of DGHE, (c) the conduct of seven
interrelated large-scale policy studies various by bodies external to the Project to address a wide array of
issues and problems related to elementary school teachers in the country and the impacts of the reform efforts
initiated by the Project together with the conduct of a series of follow-up activities to the findings and
recommendations of these seven large-scale policy studies; and (d) the improvement of LPTK lecturers'
understanding of the real-world problems and conditions of primary school teachers by drawing those LPTK
lecturers into action-oriented research partnership with primary school teachers and administrators in order to
improve both PGSD courses and classroom teaching.
3



14      In the Component E, which is in the SAR document called "Strengthening the Management of
Primary Teacher Education System" with an overall objective of strengthening management structures and
procedures at both the central (DGHE) and campus (LPTK) levels., a number of major activities were carried
out with the following performnance indicators (a) progress in establishing a Sub-directorate for Teacher
Education; (b) completion and quality (according to expert opinion) of study on PGSD Management
Reforms; (c) the number of PGSD maniagers successfully completing management training; (d) the impact of
PGSD management reforms (in terrns of improved organizational management and instructional quality); (e)
the completion of workshops for the co-ordination of pre-service and in-service PGSD; (f) the completion of
a pilot study on PGSD-PEQIP integration; and (g) the completion of preparations for future projects
(secondary teacher education; second phase of primary teacher education).
15      The establishment of a sub-directorate in a ministry amounts to a most complex enterprise as it
involves not only technical matters which can be resolved mainly by convincing data and logical persuasion,
but it also requires the political mood and will of the top decision makers. Even these ingredients are not
sufficient. Because of the consequent financial ramifications, the realization of this effort requires the
support of other agencies, such as the Ministry of the Utilization of State Apparatus (MENPAN). What
follows are some examples. First of all, before the inception of this Project, through a letter dated March 22,
1990 (Ref. No. 1420/D/90), the Director General of Higher Education brought to the attention of the Minister
of Education and Culture this urgent need for the establishment of a sub-directorate whose specific job is to
manage teacher education. Receiving no response, a second attempt was made in 1994. Through this Project,
the proposal was renewed by sending another letter, which was signed by the Director General of Higher
Education and addressed directly to the Minister of Education and Culture (Ref.No. 5691/D/T1994 dated
December 22, 1994), also without any signs of encouraging response. Therefore, the Project has then taken
the initiative to "reactivate" and support the sustained function of the Central Steering Forum, the Joint
Secretariat, and the Working Team of the Coordination Forums for the System for the Provision and
Development Educational Manpower (SPPP-TK) at the central as well as province (DATI-1) and District
(DATI-II) levels. Additionally, the Project - on behalf of DGHE - has also served as a "facilitator" to the
issuance a MOEC Decree for "The Provision of Primary School Teachers" (dated July 12, 1999 number
157/P/1999) and of the Secretary General in his capacity as Coordinator of the Central Steering Forum (dated
June 30, 1999 number 042618/A.A6/HK/1999) establishing the Task Force that shall attend to the day-to-day
tasks of the Joint Secretariat. All of this is to assist DGHE in addressing the issues and problems related to
the provision of primary (and secondary) school teachers since, as it were, the current organizational
structure of the DGHE had apparently not been designed to undertake such a comprehensive task. In other
words, the organizational structure of DGHE is such that each directorate only addresses so-called functional
dimensions in the management of higher education institutions e.g. academic affairs, student affairs, research
and public service that cut across institutions.
16       Contracted to and conducted by FKIP Universitas Sebelas Maret at Surakarta, the study on PGSD
management reforms provided empirical evidence of the impacts of the Project's input on the management.
For instance, the policy recommendations drawn from the study provides a support to the idea of establishing
one single structural working unit which can take a full responsibility in facilitating the management of the
elementary school teacher supply system that involves many agencies and some are even outside of the
MOEC each seemingly with its own agenda: pre-service training, appointment and placement, utilization and
in-service care.
17       For the Component E, Overseas Training on educational management was conducted for PGSD
managers (38 participants). And ninety (90) others completed in-country training program.  Using a
comparative framework, the overseas-trained group of 38 managers focused their study on searching for
ideas and program features for possible adaptation to Indonesian context. While the in-country-trained group
were more attuned to the programmatic needs of the UPPs, including the anticipation of the in-house
activities that are expected to "keep things going" at the institutional level.
18      As mandated by the SAR, a study on impacts of PGSD Management Reforms (in terms of
improved organizational management and instructional quality) was also carried out. While impacts of the
reform efforts might have been felt (or even driving some working mechanism) on different spheres such as
political, bureaucratic and social - each with a different timeline, suffice it now to say that the following have
been evidenced: (a) The 1995 D-ll Curriculum is in place, sustaining the offering of the D-ll program in all
LPTKs; (b) a number of SPG and SGO buildings have been "converted into" PGSD UPPs; (c) a number of
4



qualified SPG/SGO teachers have been admitted into LPTK faculty; (d) learning-teaching processes have
been taking place in each of the UPPs since September 1990; (e) different levels of mutual leaming through
academic and social processes have taken place between "old" LPTK academic staff and those former
SPG/SGO teachers who have now been admitted into the LPTK academic circle as well as between academic
staff who had been exposed to overseas experiences and those who had not; (f) the S2 programs in
elementary education are in place-in 3 LPTK Graduate Schools with different foci (IKIP Malang for
Mathematics and Language Teaching, IKIP Jakarta for Lower Primary Subjects Teaching, and IKIP Bandung
for Science and Social Studies Teaching); (g) a series of overseas and in-country training programs which are
intended to bring about desired changes have been conducted; and (h) provision of facilities in various forms.
All of this series of project inputs should impact on how these colleagues think and work, especially in the
way they perceive elementary education and how they can contribute to the development of this previously-
taken-for-granted field of profession.
19       Additionally, a series of workshops for the Coordination of Pre-service and In-service PGSD have
been carried out. To ensure the achievement of the development objective of this project component,
multiple modes of coordination have been carried out which should lead to a better coordination between pre-
service and in-service programs of PGSD. As an illustrative example, the following account can serve as a
set of evidence.
(a) The revised D-11 Curriculum - known as the 1995 D-ll PGSD Curriculum - had been instituted; the
implementation of the revised curriculum was started in September 1995, which is the beginning of
Indonesia's academic calendar, five months after the final draft of the curriculum itself was completed.
(b) During the D-11 curriculum revision process, invaluable input was drawn from various parties most
noteworthy being that which was provided by representatives from the Open University. Capitalizing
upon insights gleaned from a much richer field background including experiences from elementary
schools in remote areas with almost unimaginable conditions, their proposal to include multi-group
and/or multi-grade teaching in the D-ll pre-service program was gratefully adopted.
(c) The program monitoring exercises being launched by the Project consistently contained pre-service and
in-service elements, which should provide a natural context for interaction.
(d) The relevant senior academic staff of the Project who have been instrumental in the development of the
pre-service D-l1 Curriculum were also involved in the process of the revision of the in-service D-l1
program curriculum and its associated instructional modules.
20       One important note should be made here which explains why A Pilot Sriu4d on PGSD-PEQIP
Integration, which is mandated by the SAR, could not be realized. Despite its noble intentions, bureaucratic
barriers precluded the Project to embark upon this area of activities. Although mainly concentrating on the
SMPs, in the same line it is also interesting to note at this point that a flurry of Basic Edzucation Projects have
been incepted in the last few months. Directly addressing problems of in-service professional support of
serving teachers at the provincial level, they did not seem to have involved pre-service teacher training
institutions that would allow desirable interaction and cross-fertilization between the two, and thus
hampering sustainable development of both.
21       Another important explanation should be presented here with regard to the SAR-mandated
Preparations for Future Projects (Secondary Teacher Education; Second Phase of Primary Teacher
Education). Two initiatives should be elaborated on here. First, using internal funds since the Government
did not approve the utilization of loan proceeds, the Project supported one of the preparatory studies for the
Secondary Teacher Development Project. Secondly, preparation of a proposal for the Second Phase of PSTD
was included in the 1996/1997 fiscal year DIP. A 6-month foreign consultation service was also to have been
invested for this purpose. However, beyond the Project's control, BAPPENAS declined to approve it. For
financial support, it suggested the exploration of a JGF support, however, it turned out to developing into
some kind of a chicken-and-egg argument and therefore it did not get anywhere.
B.       Achievement of Objectives
22       The Project as originally designed rested on the assumption that - by conservatively setting the
annual intake at 7,000 as against the annual average retirement rate of approximately 15,000, the D-ll
program graduates would easily be absorbed by the schools in the various provinces which are short of
5



teachers. However, although for the first cohort of graduates the absorption rate was about 91%, for the
subsequent cohorts the rates sharply declined (down to 72%, 58%, 52%, 27% and 9,3%). Obviously, this
low rate of appointment of the project D-ll program graduates caused a great concern to the Project in
particular and the DGHE in general, who are charged with the task of providing support to LPTK programs
which produce elementary school teachers under the new five-semester post-secondary program.
23       One major cause for this low graduate absorption rate is the preference of the local authorities to
hire SPG graduates who then served as guru wiyata bakti or honorary teachers. Although the figures were
not firm - and later on in some areas the claimed numbers even fluctuated rather wildly - at the time when
the SPGs and SGOs were phased out at the end of 1989 as a consequence of the Ministerial decree of the
MOEC mentioned earlier, reportedly there existed about 250,000 SPG graduates some of whom were then
rendering "voluntary" service in elementary schools in different places, in the hope that they would be hired
as civil servants in the near future. This was not addressed during project preparation.
24       Lest it created the wrong picture, some clarification is required at this point. Before the phase out,
there existed 209 public SPGs and 55 SGOs along with 400 private SPGs with an annual output of
approximately 70,000 and an average absorption rate of between 10 - 15%. Therefore, this situation of gross
imbalance between supply and demand had apparently created opportunities for less-than-entirely-transparent
practices in the recruitment of new primary school teachers. However, in order to present a fair picture of the
situation, it should also be noted that graduate mobilization has indeed been generally low perhaps to a large
extent due to low financial promises. The requirement of cultural compatibility between the newly appointed
teachers and the local community especially for the lower grades would be another factor that hampers free
graduate appointment and placement that might have been more of the rule in many other areas of
employment.
25       Consequently, despite positive actions that had been taken by the Ministry of Education and
Culture (MOEC), the Civil Service Agency (BAKN), and the Ministry of Utilization of State Apparatus
(MENPAN) through the Central Coordination Forum, unless the relevant factors stated earlier are taken into
consideration, the employment prospects of the D-ll program graduates remained uncertain. Therefore, in
order to respond to the changing calls for the Project's contribution in the provision of primary school
teachers, during the midterm review of the Project in April 1966, both the government of Indonesia and the
Bank Review Mission agreed to make a "strategy redirection"-that is, shifting the emphasis from only the
strive for quality pre-service training to also include pro-active strategy for maximum graduate absorption
through targeted recruitment.
26       During this midterm review, the project's performance indicators listed in SAR were reviewed vis-
&-vis the project objectives, components, inputs, outputs, and outcomes. This resulted in the "retrofitting" of
key performance indicators to each project objective. Other smaller-scale adjustments in the form of specific
objectives were made in the course of project implementation. A few good examples for this need-driven
modification could be cited: the linking between Overseas Customized master's degree and the In-country S2
programs, the re-direction from sole emphasis on quality pre-service training to the inclusion of targeted
recruitment, the addition of 178 classroom-based action research studies which also resulted in better LPTK-
school linkage, although these were not explicitly programmed in the SAR. In other words, in most cases,
then, the modifications of design were made in an attempt to best respond to the changing calls for Project
inputs.
27       Using the "retrofitted" key performance indicators to assess the Project's relative success in
achieving its mandated goals, one would come to a conclusion that except for a couple of program items
which failed to win the necessary support from the related national agencies in whose hands the approval to
implement the programs rests (e.g., a pilot study on PGSD-PEQIP integration, preparations for future
projects, and establishment of a new sub-directorate within DGHE), all of the programmed activities were
carried out as planned. In some cases, the specific modified targets of individual programs even exceeded
the number originally set out for the programs (e.g., classroom action research; creation of the S2 curricula,
and some guide lines). As these achievements resulted from some modifications of the original design (i.e.,
SAR version), the successes clearly are attributable to productive collaboration between the Bank on the one
hand, and the Project leaders and the government on the other. More specifically, represented by the Review
Mission teams, the Bank seemed to have seen the stipulations in the SAR document in a more user-sensitive
6



stance. For their part, capitalizing upon its intellectual resources, the Project was bold in its exploration for
opportunities that would more productively serve the attainment of project objectives.
C.       Major Factors Affecting the Project
28       Numerous factors have atfected the implementation of the Project both in supportive as well as
dis-empowering manner. Some of these contributing and/or decisive factors are under the control of the
Project, some others are under those agencies external to the Project, such as BAPPENAS, and the World
Bank. To cite only a few, some contextual forces and/or conditions, which have favorably and unfavorably
affected the Project, were as the following.
(a) Managerially, the primary school teacher supply system could best be described as an anomaly. On the
one hand, centralization has been the powerful underlying spirit, however, careful observation would in
many cases inescapably project the impression that in practice each seems to be doing his/her own
thing. Academically, the formal primary school curriculum has been established at the national level. It
is only for the 1994 curriculum - actually officially decreed on February 23, 1993 through the MOEC
decree number 060/U/1993 - was what has since been known as "local content" was first introduced.
However, its implementation has been anything but reflecting nationally standardized practices.
Managerially, teacher allocation has been determined at the national level, with the BAKN serving as
some kind of a watchdog. On the other, the defacto autonomy was everywhere for everyone to see -
the district-level authorities to appoint and transfer teachers have not been accompanied by the
associated accountability to ensure that they were equitably distributed, resulting in great disparity, not
to mention the out-of-control practice to appoint the so-called wiyata bakti teachers. It is this anomaly
that greatly hampered the absorption of the D-11 graduates after the first cohort mentioned in earlier.
(b) On the other hand, the idea of "regional and institutional autonomy" seemed to have offered an
opportunity for improvement both academically and managerially. Academically, as the central-level
authority. DGHE could relinquish part of its fDrmer all-inclusive academic responsibilities and rights to
the LPTK level and concentrate on coordination and accountability issues at the national level. In this
way, more local-need-sensitive programs could be developed and more concerted efforts could be
initiated with respect to quality assurance. In other words, academically there should be a mechanism
that represents an interface between institutional autonomy and systemic accountability. From the
managerial point of view, despite the relevant laws on regional autonomy (i.e. public laws number
51/1951 and number 05/1974), living through the atmosphere under the centralized system for the past
five decades or so, it seemed that has never crossed one's mind that the idea of granting a greater
amount of authority to lower-level agencies would be possible or useful. Now that the spirit of regional
autonomy has been well underway - in fact a brand new public law (dated May 7, 1999 number 2/1999)
on regional govemment had been enacted most recently - it would therefore be most opportune to much
more carefully and responsibly defined district-level autonomy by appropriately linking authorities and
accountability. The "strategy redirection" that was agreed upon between the Review Mission and the
Government during the mid-term review in April 1996 that subsequently bore the scheme of targeted
recruitment that deeply involved the district-level authorities indeed represented an initiative that is in
line with the reform movement in the country. However, in view of the low mobility of the D-11
graduates and the relatively low economic resources of their parents, it remains to be seen how much
the regional governments would match their wider authorities with higher commitment in supporting
their teacher candidate nominees by providing the necessary scholarships.
(c) From a more administrative point of few, the restructuring of authorities at the World Bank also seemed
to have significantly impacted project management, and consequently, the attainment of Project
objectives. From what have been told, the granting of more autonomy to the RSI was reportedly
intended to allow more expeditious administrative processes by shortening the administrative distance
between the borrower and the Bank e.g. in the issuance of the required No Objection Letters. A number
of examples that apparently did not bear the desired fruition could be mentioned.
i)   The first example was the discussion on the criteria for Single Source Selection procedure related
to the already approved package of Classroom Action Research. A more user-sensitive approach
would have salvaged that the initiative that promised a lot of grass-root user benefits.
ii)  A second example is the sluggish process of the issuance of the Bank's "No Objection Letter"
(NOL) that had effectively killed the Overseas Comparative Study that had already been approved
during one of earlier Review Mission visits.
7



iii) A third example was the mis-procurement of commercially published library books. While
admittedly the Project had taken a wrong procedural step, the procurement of the badly needed
reference materials would have been salvaged, had some kind of an early warning was made
before January 15, 1999. Parenthetically, the bidding document was approved on September 17,
1998, and a request for a NOL for award was submitted on December 3, 1998. After many formal
and informal interactions,-it was only on March 4, 1999 that the RSI recommended re-tendering
which obviously precluded any appropriate corrective measure.
iv) And a fourth example was the mixing up of the funding categories between the overseas
fellowships program for the proposed Overseas Comparative Study mentioned earlier and the
already approved in-country scholarships that threatened to cancel the full support for the second
cohort of the D-ll awardees in the last few days of the Project term.
(d) The implementation of the policy of wider mandate formally initiated within the Secondary Teacher
Development Project (Proyek Pengembangan Guru Sekolah Menengah, PGSM) had developed a new
twist along its processes of unfolding. First of all, due to an unfortunate semantic slip, it had been
known as institutional conversion - from teacher training institutions into universities - which had
diverted attention from evolution of institutional processes and their associated organizational structure
to instantaneous change of labels. Secondly, judging from the experiences with the Faculties of
Education and Teacher Training (Fakultas Keguruan dan l1mu Pendidikan, FKIP) that are parts of
universities in the country, the teacher training programs run the real risk of becoming more and more
marginalized in the newly converted LPTKs. Consequently, unless more concerted efforts are exerted
with and/or through the Secondary Teacher Development Project in the dimension of organizational
development, the converted IKIPs could lose their effectiveness in operating and continuously
improving their teacher training programs, both secondary as well as primary.
D.       Project Sustainability
29       Inherent to the Project design is the idea of institutional empowerment. That is, the input provided
by the Project was intended to serve as a jump-start to set into motion some reform efforts which, upon
completion of the Project, should be taken up by its beneficiaries in a more sustained manner. In this way,
sustained self-institutional development can be exercised by LPTKs both as a collective as well as individual,
independent institutions.
30       The sustainability of impacts - both academically as well as managerially - of the various kinds of
activities being initiated and/or inputs invested by the Project can be seen in what follows:
(a)  The D-ll curriculum - which was assigned to the Project to further fine tune - is now in place;
(b) Together with the associated academic staff and educational facilities and equipment, the set of project
inputs aimed at the enhancement of D-ll primary school teacher pre-service training program, has now
been implemented for a number of years. Obviously, further refinement is required as the years pass
by, however, the necessary "capital" especially in the forms of human resources and institutional
processes are already there.
(c) The S2 curriculum, which was developed by the Project's more focused short-term program returnees
despite the fact that it was not required by the SAR, has by now been in use for several years.
Spearheaded by the 18 S2 Curriculum Developers who collaborated with Overseas Customized
Master's Degree Program host institution representatives, and later on joined by the master's and
doctoral degree program returnees sponsored by the Project, the S2 program in elementary subject
education has established its niche within the LPTKs, ensuring indigenous sources of primary school
teacher educators.
(d) Although it might not be instantly obvious to outsiders, the classroom-based action research - which
was collaboratively carried out by LPTK staff members and their classroom-teacher counterparts - has
resulted in by-products which seem to be sustainable. That is, although the original target was the D-1l
academic staff, however, classroom-based action research as a mode of academic inquiry is gaining an
increasingly wider acceptance among the in-country S-2 program participants and lecturers as well as
the elementary school teachers. Furthermore, the relationship between academic staff members of
LPTKs and their classroom-teacher counterparts has reportedly been increasingly positive as the time
passes by, leading to a better LPTK-School linkage even though it was not formally established as a
Project objective.
8



(e) Despite somewhat disappointing results and expressed doubts in the beginning, the Central Steering
Committee, and Regional Coordination Forum at the provincial (Dati-1) and district (Dati-l1) levels
seemed to have shown a heartening progress. At the central level the coordinating forum has managed
to serve useful liaison and clearing house functions that allow the various agencies-- some of which are
outside of the MOEC-- to collaboratively and therefore more effectively address problems and issues of
the teacher supply system. ALso boosted by the strong movement toward regional autonomy, the
mechanism of targeted recruitment that directly involves the LPTKs and the user agency counterparts
mainly the provincial and district level authorities has also seemed to have borne gratifying results.
E.       Bank Performance
31       Overall the Project is satisfied with the assistance and support provided by the Bank. The Project
grafully acknowledges the serious efforts made by the Bank staff (e.g., supervision missions) in assisting it
with the implementation of the Project's planned programs. This helpful stance of the Bank staff was most
noticeable in the case when the mid-term review was carried out, which later resulted in "redirection" of the
project design. Another impressive way the Bank staff assisted the Project was their flexibility in seeing the
SAR vis-a-vis the emerging needs felt in the field. The way the Bank staff presented themselves to the
Project could be characterized as user-sensitive.
32       Among the many favorable notes, however, there has been a less-than-satisfactory supports. That
is, the function of the RSI office - which now has a greater authority than it had before - has tended to slow
procedures down rather than speed them up. For a number of specific cases, see section C.
F.       Assessment of Outcomes
33       Except for certain program items which failed to win the necessary support from the related
national-level agencies in whose hand the approval to implement the programs rests (e.g., a pilot study on
PGSD-PEQIP integration, preparations for future projects, and establishment of a new sub-directorate within
DGHE) and the programs whose proposals did not get timely favorable or corrective responses for their
implementation from the RSI (e.g., overseas comparative study on institutional transformation and
procurement of commercially published library books), all of the programmed activities were carried out as
planned. In some cases, the specific modified targets of individual programs had even exceeded the number
originally set out for the programs (e.g., classroom action research; creation of the S2 curricula, and some
guidelines). As these achievements resulted from some modifications of the original design (i.e., SAR
version), the successes clearly are attributable to productive collaboration between the Bank on the one hand,
and the Project leaders and the government on the other. More specifically, represented by the Review
Mission teams, the Bank seemed to have seen the stipulations in the SAR document in a more user-sensitive
stance. For their part, capitalizing upon its intellectual resources, the Project was bold in its exploration for
opportunities that would more productively serve the attainment of project objectives.
G.       Future Operation
34       Consistent with the Project's grand design which has incorporated the spirit of "sustainable
developmenf', the impacts of the Project inputs are expected to last long enough to trigger inner-mechanisms
in the Project's beneficiaries to augment the impacts by incorporating the activities and resources into their
routine scheme supported by their own recurrent budget so that the development efforts made during the life
of this project could be sustained.
35       In a more systematic way, some plans have been developed which should ensure continuity of the
management of certain reform efforts, which have been initiated by the Project. These planned future
operations take various forms, including the following.
(a)  At the central level, the Project support the reactivation of the coordinated system for elementary school
teacher recruitment, appointment, and deployment originally stipulated through the MOEC decree no.
0461/U/1990 dated July 28, 1990.  Through this decree the "Central Steering Forum", "Joint
Secretariaf', and "Working Team" have been drawn into the processes of jointly identifying problems
encountered and negotiating solutions in the efforts to implement the teacher supply system.
9



(b) Failing to win the necessary supports to establish a distinct organizational unit within the DGHE that
would be charged with the responsibilities to attend the day-to-day businesses of the teachers supply
system and therefore provide the required staff work for the Central Steering Forum, as the Coordinator
of the Central Steering Forum, the Secretary General decreed the establishment of a standing Task
Force within DGHE (see Para. 27.e).
(c) At the regional level, the MOEC-decree dated July 12, 1999 number 1571P/1999 mentioned in Para. 14,
specifically stipulates how elementary school teachers should be recruited, appointed and then
deployed. With controlled intake through targeted recruitment, the said MOEC decree also stipulates
that D-I1 program graduates shall not be required to sit in civil service selection examination as was in
the traditional procedure, because the selection assessment has been incorporated into the pre-service
training curriculum. Not unlike the case of the so-called service training programs (pendidikan
kedinasan) of certain ministries e.g. Home Affairs, Finance and the Armed Forces, this built-in
selection mechanism exempted the D-I1 program graduates from sitting for the traditional civil service
entrance examination that has been sometimes fraught with in-transparent practices.
H.       Key Lessons Learned
36       Experiences from long years of the Project implementation have brought to the Project leaders'
conscious attention some positive and negative lessons in a variety of magnitudes and degrees of importance.
Some of the most notable lessons learned can be described as follows.
(a) Public service versus market-driven endeavors
Teacher training, particularly primary teacher training, is mainly a public service due to the low
financial promises. In other words, the private sector is not likely to invest in this area, except perhaps
in the limited scale of what might be best characterized as expensive schools. On the other hand, with
the high stake in human resources development, the government could not simply "leave the market".
This means that the government should be prepared to loose some money in managing the teacher
supply system. Obviously, this does not mean that primary school teacher education operation and
development should not strive for efficiency. On the contrary, a lot could and should be done in this
dimension.
(b) Flzuid versus rigid directness
Obviously sound planning is imperative for large and complex endeavors such as the Primary Teacher
Development Project. Furthermore, different from projects that focus on the construction of physical
structures whose planning and design should be set firmly before implementation, quality improvement
efforts in education should be ready to expect the unexpected. Examples abound during the course of
this Project on the unfolding of events that required on-going adjustments, both academic as well as
managerial. The breaking down of the bulk of overseas 3-month into more task-focused programs
stated in Para. 5 and the customization of the major portion of the overseas master's degree program
package and their linkage to the domestic S2 program for primary subject teacher education outlined in
Para. 6 could be cited on this line that are more academic in nature. While the redirection toward
targeted recruitment with its associated measures (working mechanism that deeply involve provincial-
and district-level, the raising of scholarship rates to facilitate honorary teachers from the remote areas to
join the D-11 program, the inclusion of civil service entrance test into the pre-service program) are a few
of the user-sensitive adjustments that were more managerial in nature.
(c) Centralised verszus delegated decision making processes
The events in decision-making processes also offered valuable lessons. For about 5 decades since
independence the country has been cultured in tightly centralized mode of thinking. And with the
reform  movement that was most significantly signaled by the succumbing of the then president
Soeharto, the pendulum  seemed to have swung to the other pole.  However, as shown by our
experiences in the Project, in order to be successful in making any significant contribution to the
enhancement of the teacher supply system, political support from the central as well as regional
authorities is an imperative ingredient. That is, both the Central Steering Forum and the Coordination
Forums at the district and provincial levels play their unique and complementary roles.
(d) Substantive versus managerial leaderships
In order to forge the various inputs into a set of coherent and fruitful initiatives, the implementation of
complex quality improvement investments like the Primary Teacher Development Project require
10



substantive as well as managerial leaderships. As has been pointed out earlier, teacher training,
particularly primary teacher training, is mainly a public service. While managerial leadership seems to
be obvious, the issue of substantive leadership perhaps require some elaboration. In the last few years,
within the DGHE there exist projects that have been more or less aimed at providing the necessary
coffers to support quality improvement initiatives. Other than generic landmarks that are academic in
nature such as relevance and academic atmosphere, the substance is pretty much wide open so that
managerial leadership is required more than substantive (or academic) leadership i.e. serving the
function of gate-keepers. The situation is vastly different when one is dealing with investments in areas
that are unitary in nature, such as teacher training (or, if one wishes, to be enlarged into the teacher
supply system). In this last category of projects, productive (and imperative!) inter-linking among the
various inputs could only be successfully accomplished if the leadership of the projects possesses a
fairly clear vision on the future direction desired of the area.
(e) Project-based initiatives versus routine program activities
As one of the project-based initiatives in the various areas of development in the country, the substantial
investment made through the Primary Teacher Development Project is aimed at building a critical mass
of institutional resources so that primary teacher education operation and continuous development could
be sustained. Firstly, this means that the set of project inputs to be provided should be viewed, planned
and implemented in some coherent manner, requiring more systemic rather than fragmentized
approaches. Finally, measures ought to be taken at the outset in order to ensure not only acceptability
but also ownership of the novel initiatives by the project beneficiaries. Among the various aspects of
the project mission, this could be the hardest to work on.
(f)  Academic versus organizational development
Although not programmed in the SAR, like the wider-mandate policy which was initially spawned
within the secondary school teacher education program charged to the Secondary Teacher Development
Project (Proyek PGSM, loan 3979-IND), institutional transformation has emerged also as a crucial issue
with regards to the primary school teacher education program, in this case the D-lt PGSD. Staff and
program development efforts initiated through the Project has come to productive fruition. However,
these valuable resources obtained through expensive investment has not been properly housed within
the LPTKs, both before and especially after the institutional conversion - nay, the change of labels -
that is currently being vigorously pursued had been completed. An opportunity to involve key LPTK
academic personnel in exploring similar experiences abroad through an overseas comparative study that
could further stimulate thinking and actions toward effective institutional transformation reflected in the
restructuring of academic resources to ensure better utilization, and the necessary adjustments in
priority setting and decision making processes to ensure the continued "iprotection" of the teacher
training programs vis-a-vis the forthcoming multi-mission institutional set-up created through the
implementation of the policy of wider mandate, had been lost due to bureaucratic snags in the required
processes of approvals.
II



Table 1: Staff Development (Distribution of Training Program Participants)
Original Distribution (SAR. Annex 5)                               Modified Distribution                                           Realization
No.             ..    .                          Target                                                     'I'arget          Number of   Duration       In-     Completed    Shortage   Remarks
Programs                Number of'  Duration               Programs                Number of   Duration   Participants              Program
-Participants                                               Participants
_=__   .__________ ______                                          I. .VRSA                           _ ___                   ___ __
-  1. OVERSEAS                                                  1. OVERSEAS                                _ 
I    PSTE Development & Management            16         t       PSTE Resource Exploration               16                               _ i  14  tin                14           2
2.   PSTE Training for Trainers               38         I mI    PSTE IIPP Managers                      38         M In          38          II                      3            0
3.   PS'T-E Teachuig StaIT(MA)                                   Customized Master's Degree
Programs:
a. Mathematics Teaching                        25       30 in    a. Mathetnatics reaching                 30        30 m           20        18 nt                     20          10
b. Science 'eaching                     25       30 m      h. Scicnc T''caching                    30       30 ni          27        I8 m                       27           3         a)
c. Social Study Teaching'   25                    30 i      c. Social Study Teaching                30       30 m            28        18 m                      28           2         b)
d. Language Teaching                     25       30 nm     d. Language Teaching                    30       30 n1           40       18 im                      40         (10)        C)
c. Lower Primary Subject Teaching        10       30 m      e. Lower 'rimary Subiect Teachinig      I        30 In           17        18 m                      17          (2)        cj
I' Moral Civil Education                 20       3i) in
g. Physical Education Teaching5                   30 ni
h. Distanice Learning                     3       30 n                   .
i. Teaching Special Education             5       30 m
4.   PSTE Teaching Staff(Ph.D.)        .         .        __   Regular Doctoral Programs:
a. Mathiemitics Teaching                  3       36 m      a. Mathematics Teaching                  5       36 mn            4       36 mi                       3           1         d)
b. Science Teaching                       3       36 in     b. Science Tcaching                      3       36 nm            3       36i           I             I           0         d)
c. Social Study Teaching                  3       36 i      c. Social Study Teaching                 3       36 m             3 .     36 m
d. Language Teaching                      3       36 m      d. Language Teaching                     4       361n1            4       36 m                        3           0         d
C. Lower Primary Subject Teaching                           e. Lower Primary Subject Teaching        4       36 n      _     4        36 nm                _ _ 4 _ 4          0
t: Distance Learning                      I       36 m      f. Distance Learning                     I       36 m        _            36 m                                    0        d)
g. Moral Civil Education                  2 ~'    36 m._
5.   Primary Education (MA)
=  a. Practice-oriented                       5       30 m_
b. Research-oriented
6.   Primary Education (Ph.D.)                                   Primary Education (Ph.D.):
a. Practice-oriented                      4       36 in    a. P'ractice-oricinted
b. Research-oriented                      6       36 m      b. Research-oriented                     5       36 In            5       36 m          I             4           0
7.   M.l.S. (MA)                               3       3() nm
8.   PSTE Educators Training                 270         3 n1    PS'I'E Educators Training              135         3 In         135        3 m                      135           0
9                                                                       -Research Managers                3         3 In           3         3 m                       3           0
10.                                                              S2 Curriculum Developers                 18        3 in          18         3 In                     IS           0
II.                             _                                 D-ll Curriculum Developers              14        3 In          13         3 m                       13           i
12.                                                              PS'I'E In-Service ''rainers            100         3 mi         100         3 mi                    100            0
13.                                                               Regular Master's D)egree
Programs:
a. MIS/Plolicy Analysis                 3        30                       24 in3                                  0
b. Distance Learning of'l'E             3        30Il             I       24ni m                                  2
..______  c. Physical Education                             330                       24 m                                    3
d. Spccial Education                     5       30 In           4        24 m                       4            I        b)
Sub Total I                 500      participants                                      501                      487                     3           480           14



Original Distribution (SAR, Annex 5)                            Modilied Distribution                                          Realizati_on
No.                                             Target                                                  'I'arget         Number of   Duration      In-      Completed   Shortage   Remarks
Programs               Number of   Duration              Programs               NumbLr of   Duration   Participants             Program
Participants                                            Participants
I. IN-COtJNTRY                                           I1 IN-COtINTRY                                                                                                .
1.   PSTE Teaching Stall (Non-Degree)                          PSTE  Teaching  Staff  (Non-
Degree):
a. Mathematics Teaching               100         6 w     a. Mathematics Teaching              100         6 w         230         18 d                   230 (_130)             c)
b. Science Teaching                    100        6 w     b. Science Teaching                   100_6_w                                  226 18 d_226_              (126)        c)
c. Social Study Teaching               100        6 w     c. Social Study Teaching             100         6 w         216        IS d                    216       (I16)        c)
d. Language Teaching                  100         6 w     d. Language 'eaching            -     _100       6 w         220         18 d _                 220       (120)        c)
e. PMP Teaching                        100        6 w     c. PMP Teaching                      i00         6 w         206         18 d                   206       (106)        c)
f. Physical Education Teaching        100         6 w     f. Physical Education Teaching       100         6w           99        18 d                     99
g. Arts Teaching                       10         6w      g. Arts Teaching                      30         6 w          78        18 d               __78             (48)       c)
h. Lower Primary Subject Teaching      100        6 w     h. Lower Primary Subject Teaching     100        6 w         210         8 d                    210       (I 10)       c
i. Distance Learning                                      ___6 w
j. Teaching Special Education           10        6 w
2.   PSTE Teaching Staff (S2)                                  PSTE Teaching Staff (S2):       ________                          _   ______
a. Mathematics Teaching                20        24 m     a. Mathematics in PE                  20         30 n_ 19               _                   __   19- 
b. Science Teaching                    20       24 m      b. Science Teaching in PrE.           20       30_m            19     _ m_                       19
c. Social Study Teaching               20       24 m      c. Social Studies in PE               20        30_ m         20        30 m                     20_
d. Language leaching                   20        24 m     d. Language Arts in PI'               20       30 in     _     9        30 m                      19 
.                                         c. I.ower ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pr~imary Subjcct Teachiing  20  30 mn  22  30 m                      22 ~    ()            c)
3 I'rimary Education _ 
-  a. Practice-oricnted                    20       24 m.
b. Research-oriented
4.   Second SI Program                      700       24 w     Second SI Program                     700       24 m          464       24 m            .       _464        236
S.   UPP Managers                           196        3 w     IJPP Managers                         196        3 w          180        I I d                   180         16
6.   Library Technician                      98       24 in    Library Technician                    98        24 m           96       24 m                      96 
7.   Training of Guru Pamong              1,600          m     TrainingofGuru Pamong               1,330        I m        1591            d(261)                                     c)
8.                                                             l'raining of Laboratory               196        2 mi         156        I m                     156         40
9.                                             _TrainieingoInentsUr                                  48         i w          46         I w                     46           2
10.                                                            l'raining of PGSD College             270        15 d         270        15 d                    270          0
Supervisors
Training of Trainers of the           2 1        I w          21         1 w                     2 1          0
APKG                             _  _ _  _     _  _  _   _  _  _                  _  _  _  _  _  _  _     _  _  _   _  _  _
12.                                                            I'raining il thc Uttilization of the  648        i w          643         I w                    643          5
APKG                                                                                   .
Sub Total II              3,424                                                    4,33 7                  5 ,051                              05,0SI     (71 )
TOTAL (I + 11)             3.924                                                    4,838                   5,538               1    3          5,531      (700)
Note: m indicates month (s); w indicates week (s); d indicates day (s)
a)  3 of them died in fatal tralTte accident
b) I ofthenm died in fatal tratrie accident
c) over the target
d) I of them; scholarship supports terminated, because thlerc was no appreciable progress aller 2 extensions.



Table 2.1: Educational Facilities and Equipment
No.            SAR                Program Modified               Realization
l.  Civil work:                                        '34.400 m2
(IKIP/FKIP dormitories):                           note: 40 dormitories
32,000 M2                                               (@800 m2/dom) and
2 dormitories (2.400 m2)
by internal fund
2.   Furniture                Furniture:
1. Household furniture    42 packages
2.  Recreational facilities   42 packages
3.   Equipment:               Equipment:
a.  Laboratory           a.  Laboratory Equipment  78 packages
Equipment                Of MIPA-PGSD
b. KIT-IPA                90 packages
c.  Computer              89 units
b. PC and Printer        d.  Printer               89 units
e.  Stabilizer            89 units
f.  OHP                   89 units
c.  OHP and TV/VCR       g. TV                     89 units
h. Video Player           89 units
i.  Video Camera          36 units
d. Video Camera          j.  Ditto Machine         89 units
e. Ditto Machine
4.  Learning/Teaching         a.  Project sponsored text  28 titles; 93,060 exemplars
Materials:                  book production
b. Commercially-          75,600 exemplars
published
text books acquisition    8,700 exemplars
c.  Production of revised
APKG instruments       It titles x 5 copies x
d.  Production of software  89 UPP = 4,895 copies
for PPL D-II PGSD      49,000 exemplars
e.  Curriculum SD
Production            5,640 exemplars
f.  Curriculum D-II
PGSD
Production



Table 2.2: W-I1 Program Textbooks Prepared
No.                            Titles
1.  Principles of P.S.E.
2.  Pancasila and Citizenship
3. Social Studies at P.S. (Integrated Learning)
4.  Science Education at P.S.
5.  Mathematics
6.  Mathematics Education I
7.  Language Skill Education
8.  Language Educational and Indonesian Literature at Lower Classes
9.  Performing Art Education
10. Physical Education and Health
11. Development and learning of student
12. Guidance in P.S.
13. Teaching Learning Strategy
14. Classroom Management
15. Educational Evaluation
16. Basic Concept Social Studies
17. Global Perspectives
18. Basic Concept Sciences
19. Mathematics Education II
20. Language Education and Indonesian Literature at Higher Classes
21. Music Art Education
22. Dance Art Education
23. Pembelajaran Kelas Rangkap
24. Pengembangan Kegiatan Ko dan Ekstra Kurikuler
25. Pengembangan dan Pemanfaatan Sumber Belajar Pendidikan Dasar
26. Penelitian Tindakan Kelas
27. Pengembangan Muatan Lokal
28. Performing Art Education (Color)



Table 2.3: Average GPAs before and after Project Inputs
GPA
Cohort            Statistics  Basic   Specific | Student
Courses Courses  Practice
90/91 - 92/93           Average  2.619    2.596          3.29
(no input from project)          SD   0.435       0.34    0.572
Subject  6523        6498      6503
93/94 - 94/95           Average  2.627    2.659    3.376
(limited input from project)        SD   0.441    0.328    0.525
Subject  4718        4710      4708
95/96 - 96/97           Average  2.721    2.807    3.491
(project input)              SD   0.477    0.349    0.538
Subject  2173        2168      2256
Table 3.1: Scholarship
No.   Batch               SAR            QuotaDikti   Project Modified    Realization
01.  1993/1994  Max. 8,000                  7,000    Scholarship 20%        1,416
student per-annum                   of student body
02.  1994/1995  Max. 8,000                  7,000    Scholarship 20%        1,400
student per-annum                   of student body
03.  1995/1996  Max. 8,000                  5,000    Scholarship 20%         1,000
student per-annum                   of student body
04.  1996/1997  Max. 8,000                 2,500    Scholarship 100%         1,910
student per-annum
05.  1997/1998  Max. 8,000                  2,500    Scholarship 100%       2,442
student per-annum
06.  1998/1999  Max. 8,000                  2,500    Scholarship              180
student per annum                   dependency on Pemda
Notes:
* 30 student in Sumbar available from Deptrans & PPH
* 30 student in Kalbar available from Deptrans & PPH
* 120 student available from Pemda Jawa Timur



Table 3.2: Number of PGSD Scholars Graduated and Appointed
(as of March 1999)
GRADUATED YEARS                              TOTAL
1992/   1993/ 1 1994/    1995/   1996/   1997/   1998/
1993     1994  j 1995      1996    1997      1998      1999
Total Graduated      6,359    6,888    7,028    7,248    7,003    5,001   2,664       42,191
TAC November 1997    5,940    3,868    2,300    2,483         679                        15,270
93.41%   56.16%   32.73%   34.26%    9.70%                       36.19%
_~~~~~ =   .1 _                                   _1 _  _ ___
TAC May 1998         5,963    4,918    3,195    3,088    2,045      432               19,641
93.77%   71.40%   4-.46%   42.60%   29.20% 8J64%                 46.55%
TAC November 1998    6,011    4,997    4,214    3,812    2,307         5821             21,923
94.53%   72.55%   59.96%   52.59%   32.94%   11.64%1             51.96%
.~        ~      =__  _=ll
Means of percentage    0.56%    8.20%   13.62%    9.17%   11.62%    3.00%
on 3 previous periods
appointment    L___ll                                         l__
% of Increase      0.56%    8.20%   13.62%    9.17%    1.62% |7.69%
Estimates                          1 l  I_ _L       1    1.62%
TAC May 1999         6,047    5,562    5,171    4,477    3,121       967    1,910    27,253
95.09%1 80.74%1 73.58%   61.76%   4457%   1933%   71.70%    64.59%
TAC November 1999    6,082    6,126    6,128    5,141   3,935    1,352    2,122    30,886
95.64%   88.94%   87.19%   70.93%   56.19%) 27.02%   79.65%    73.20%
Notes: TAC = Total Appointed Cumulative
1.  TAC May 1999 & November 1999 in the years of graduation 1992/1993 to 1996/1997 based on the
average increase in appointment in the previous three periods
2.   TAC May 1999 & November 1999 in the years of graduation 1997/1998 based on the following
calculation: (0.56% + 8.20% + 13.62% + 9.17% + 11.62% + 3%): 6 = 7.69%
3. TAC May 1999 & November 1999 in the years of graduation 1998/1999 based on recruitment target.



Table 4.1: Completion of Research and Studies
;; ~ ~    ~    Scp                        Target;;  00l;0;78>0y   : ::C-::t5 -    0      Accomplishiment
Large Scale Policy Studies                       7            7
Small Scale Policy Studies                      20            20
Action Research                                  12           12
Classroom Action Research (Modified Program)     -           178
Total                       39           217
Table 4.2: Research Publications
SAR         Target                        Accomplishment
Edition            Theme            Articles  Copies
1. Journal   Unspecified  Volume I   Small Scale Policy Studies      9     1.000
Volume II   Action Research               6     1.000
Volume III  Small Scale Policy Studies   10       500
Volume IV   Action Research               6       500
Volume V   Classroom Action               9       500
Volume VI  Research                       8       500
Classroom Action
Research
2. Books,    Unspecified  Volume I   Introduction to Classroom       -       303
articles,                              Action Research (CAR).
manuals,
Bibliographi               Volume II  Plan Design and                        303
es,                                    Implementation of CAR.
and abstract.              Volume III
Supervision of                      3303
Volume IV  Implementation of CAR.
Analysis and Reflection in           303
CAR.
Note:
1. Recipients of Journal: 89 UPPs, 3 S2 PSE Program, 36 LPTKs Research Centre, PPM Ditjen
Dikti, Balitbang Depdikbud, and LIPl.
2. Recipients of Manuals: 89 UPPs @ 3 exemplars, and 36 LPTKs Research Centre @ I
exemplar.



Table 4.3: Workshops and Seminars on Research
SAR           Target                             Accomplishment
Locations and    Number
Topics and Participants            Tixne ontdof
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ptp
1. Small grants   Unspecified   I . Workshop on Proposal         Yogyakarta:
and applied                    Improvement, and Monitoring     - February 1994       20
research                       and Evaluation of Large Scale   - September 1994      20
workshop                       Policy Studies. Participants:   - June 1995           20
held; the                      Consultants, WB Consultant (Mr.  - December 1995      20
locations and                  Tony Somerset), RMU-RQCU,    - June 1996              20
the number of                  and CPIU Consultants.           - June 1997           20
participants                                                   - March 1998.         20
in each.
2. Workshop on Small Scale Policy   Padang, Dec 93    40 & 27
Studies and Action Research    Uj.Pandang, Nov93  40 & 27
Batch 1. Participants: LPTK    Yogya, Nov 93       39 & 27
Lecturers (Prospective
Consultants), RMU-RQCU and
CPIU Consultants.
3. Workshop on Small Scale Policy   Malang, Nov 94    35 & 36
Studies and Action Research    Palembang, Des'94   35 & 35
Batch 11. Participants: LPTK   Yogya, Nov 94          35
Lecturers (Prospective
Consultants) and RMU-RQCU.
50
4. Workshop on Classroom Action   Yogyakarta,
Research (CAR). Participants:    July 1997
Director of Research Center of
35 LPTK as internal supervisors,
RMU-RQCU and CPIU
Consultants.



SARA                                                    ishment
Number
Locations and      o
Th opics and Particits            TimePr
2. The number  Unspecified   1. National Seminar on Findings of  Bogor, Oct. 1995     50
of policy                      Small Scale Policy Studies and
review                         Action Research Batch 1.
seminars                       Participants: Consultants, LPTK
held.                          Research Center, RMU-RQCU,
Dikti, Dikdasmen, Balitbang,
Kanwil, Deptrans PPH and
CPIU.
2. National Seminar on Findings of  Bogor, Jan. 1997    76
Large Scale and Small Scale
Policy Studies, and Action
Research Batch 11. Participants:
Consultants, LPTK Research
Center, RMU-RQCU, Dikti,
Dikdasmen, Balitbang, Roren
Dikbud, Kanwil Dikbud, Dinas
P dan K Jabar, Deptrans PPH and
CPIU Consultants.
3. LPTK Seminar on Findings of    35 LPTK              30 in
Classroom Action Research.                        each
Participants: Consultants,                        LPTK
Lectures D-1l PGSD, and LPTK
Research Center.
4. Regional Seminar on Findings of  Magelang, Jan 98    125
Classroom Action Research.     Palembang, Jan 98     60
Participants: Consultants, LPTK    Uj.Pandang, Jan 98  66
Research Center, RMU-RQCU,
Dikti, Dikdasmen, Balitbang,
Deptrans PPH and CPIU
Consultants.
5. National Seminar on Findings of  Magelang, Aug 98    47
Classroom Action Research (33
Selected Topics). Participants:
Consultants, LPTK Research
Center, RMU-RQCU, Dikti,
Dikdasmen, Balitbang, Kanwil,
Deptrans PPH and CPIU
Consultants.
Note:
RMU-RQCU = Research Management Unit - Research Quality Control Unit.



Table 5: The Reconfigure Consultancy Input
No.             Area                SAR Version   1st Modification  Modification    Realization
No.  Area                         (October 1994)  ~~~~~(May 1995)
F    D    T    F    D    T    F   D    T    F   D    T
01. Training Development            18   36   54    3   24   27   2   24   26   0   44   44
(12) (12)      (12) (12)       (5)  (5)
02. Subject Area Training           60   60  120   60   48  108  42   48   90  55   65  120
(12) (12)      (12) (12)
03. Training Program Evaluation      3    3    6    6    6   12   4    6   10   0    6    6
(5)  (5)
04. Curriculum Development           9    9   18    6    6   12   5    6   11   0   16   16
(5)  (5)
05. Learning Materials               6    6   12    6    6   12   4    6   10   0   23   23
Development
06. Curriculum Evaluation            3    3    6    3    3    6   2    3    5   0    7    7
07. Laboratory Equipment             0    3    3    0  (3)  (3)   0  (3)  (3)   0    3    3
08. Civil Work                       0    6    6    0  (6)  (6)   0  (6)  (6)   0    4    4
(5)  (5)
09. Information System               6    6   12    0    0    0   0    0    0   0    0    0
10. Student Selection                3    3    6    0    0    0   0    0    0   0    0    0
11. Research                        16   16   32   16   16   32   8   16   24   6   46   52
(5)  (5)
12. SPP/CBSA Management              3    3    6    0    0    0   0    0    0   0    0    0
13. Higher Education Management      0    6    6    0    0    0   0    0    0   0    0    0
Contracted             127  160  287  100  109  209  67  109  176  61  214  275
Self-Managed               0    0    0   27   51   78   0   51   51   0   25   25
Total              | 1271 1601287| 127  1601 287  67  1601 227| 611 2393 300






CARTE






IRED 23460
tandako*                        LAND                                        'in '                                                 'for  - Q A                                                                 INDONESIA
s S..fth^lfcsiC X <                                                                                                   6 PHILIPPINES    PRIMARY TEACHER DEVELOPMENT
-                                                                So3th China Sea                 BRUNt                                   2  PHILIPPINES                                 PRIMARY                 PROJECT
kLMLASIA                             OuooTYPES OF LETKI                                                                                                                                          a    SELECTED TOWNS
04a                                                                                                                                                                    ) t         ;             fUALAhIA / kaA / Cehi  W  }  @ IKIP  A    PROVINCECAPITALS
0 0 ' f  9ow W   W    /   2                f            fAnIA               (             X                                         Q        /      fS         A    PR:ATEIKIP/IP            0     NATIONALACAPITAL
1 2                                                                                 IA)                                                                                      U    PRIVATE IKIP/EKIP       -      PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
L >5 12 i tCf %  SINGAPORE                             f^tanado                                                                       'UPPLOCATEDINADIFFERENT                                INTERNATIONALBOUNDARIES
N' .kREo,                                                                                                                                      2CITY THAN THE IKIPIFKIP.
I)  k     -b-                                                                                                              A21 7                                                              NORTH PACIFIC OCEAN
|   >a   f  -  W                        i        < A I  4    MAn   N T A)N   S .S ',a4o;s
*   sacF^sUlark   < ;   A'drsvsf LfP" f  0                                                      J)rfieaA,o o -o
VIWRAA                     ha6 dE l itFo! e 0   Arguae
3  ShATENOOOI  ..                    0EL2Q'~~~~~~~~~~~A LI 
.   a.21 AflMYi          u@ of wh Wab 'n  ro.rr(>?<D?hl?ed?*d                                                                                       r                     9
1     eFI.Y IAMT                      F     I                                 9 
2 IAKAPMEDRN                       8               FKPUIL                         12 aESOWs: n                        1. F         A             2r                          I A
6 LM940                           7                                                                       0L0-
2. OURf                                    6                                                                                             26 U
a, SIMATIBM SEATA4                   B.R.A.,
ITo  WARa                                             1Laaoan    .
15  sIKma P  pADI A                                   JAKARTA                                                                                                                 ..
3.2MNAOBOA ESa:Pr=g9                                         nPGneang Ar=1.1Cnrr1UP.Srbry                            0  KPUNA                                       5. aGOGTI= oonr                          ^    KP KW  SLTG
1KAAOAINOAHI*30
16  KAJIPMU N SE1ATA                                                                                                                                                                                                  S., A I   KM A  r  aror  3
57 FK93P0UN 3                         1030  5 EraP                                                                                                        Abang Se=a/4   li     tr;ES PRo        =7 nrl e
2   . SULNWESP TEngAMS                                                                        UPP  Jb                      221  Ct      U                          -' 2 3          0          P
19  FIPLEII UNTAMA                     INDIAN OEN:A  W
a  1                                                                                                                                      24AWESG   J=m  14pg a
23  NUSA1RNGOAPMThRUR   10.. map Ira. been prau.are by The World  o   a9A
35  MALUK 1 5d1 t,laoronetedro dieeolt!y for  elalero-
26  104 OATh            o. atfTh WorldROokCrop. The derenaoalon ted ard th.                                                     -V4 3_a S..Rli
1 FKIP UNYSIAH-                    7. FKIP UNORI                              12  IKIP YOGYA KARTA                     I7T  FKIP UNUD                            23. FKIP UNMUL                                29  FKIP UNPATTI
.1Central UPP: BandaA-eh         7.1 Central UPPo Paembang                   12.1 Central UPP: Yogya Karl             17 1 Corra1 UPP: Si,ngraja                 23.1 Central UPP: Saa-or:ao                   29.1 Centra UPP: Anton
1.2 ESED: Banda Ace              7.2 EOSPO: Pale-bong                        12.2 E.rSPG II Yagya- Yagya Kat          17.2 Eo.3PG2 Siag-ral: Singarja            23.2 Eo.SPG Sa-rinda: Samarnda                29.2 EacOPG Anrbon Abon
1.3 EISGOD: Banda Aoeh             7.3 Eo.SDO: P.lambag                       12.3 EoSGOD Yagy.: Yogya Karta             73EeO    apsr   epsr                      33ESDSmrna  arrno2.  uO    jkn    io
I KIt MEDAN                      13FKIP UNILA                                   124E1G6W-Wt                             . FKIP UNRAM                            7 24. [KlP MANADO                             30. FKIP UNCEN
2.1 Central UPP: Madan             81I Cantra UPP: Lamp-ng                13. PFKt UNS                                  18.1 Central UPP: Mtataan                  34.1 Central UPP: Man-da                      30.1 Central UPPA Abeporo Joyap-r
3.2 EocSPG: Mtda-                  8.2 ELeSPG: Metra                           13.1 Central UPP: Solo                   18.2 E. SPGhtaM rarn  Mtara-               34.2  aSGOOManada: Mtanada                    30.2 ELOPO Joyapora: Jayop-ro
3.3 BrcSOO: Medan  8.3 ROOD: TOarang"                      1~~~~~~~~~3.2 E..SPO Sorakart. Solo                                                 24.3 EaSPD T-rh-an To-ha-r                    30.3 Eo.SGO Joyopura J_ap.r.ro
2.3 ELSGO: Md-  8.3 E.530: TKr-g'    ~         ~            3.3 E.. SGO Sorakara: Solo           9 FKIP UNDANA
l,IIP PADANG                     o  IKIPEJAKARTA                                13.4 EauSGO KCeb--n Keb-men              19.1 Central UPP: Kopang               25. PKlE UNSRAT                               31. FlIP UN. NOMENOEN. MEDAN
3.1 Central UPE: Padarrg           9.1 Ce-rrl UPPA Jakarta                                                              19.3 EaSPO Kopang: Kopang                  35.1 Cearra UPP. 0arairtla     ~      ~       II  U. AAT
3.2 E.SPG: Padang                  9.2 ELSPG Serbiakui Jakarta             14. lKIP SUKRAAYA                                                                       25.2 E.SPO GOTac: Garatalo                    KPMJ. AAT
3.3 EoOGO: Paaag                   9.3 EaSED Ha'li-nu: Jakarta                 14.1 Cenrya UPP: S-rakya            20  FlIP UNTAN                                  25.3 Ea.SGOD GOTal: G-rorlal             33 FKOP UKOW: SALATIGA
3.4 EOOED: toiigl9.4 E.OSGO Jakarta: Jakarta                                   14.2 E.oSPG I SEapa.: Sorakap           20.1 Central UPP.- P-andanakNAG                                                        4  KI  AA7DAMA  OY
14.3 E.OOO S'Baya: Sarakya              20.3 EOSPG Pantiana.k: P-ntiank        26. IKIP UJU EADN3.  lSNTAHR :YOA
2FKIE UNRI                      10. IKIP BANDUNG                                                                         30.3 EOSGO Pontank: P-nrank                24.1 Central UPP: U'P-noan
4.1 Central UPP: Pekanbaro 10.1 Catrdra UPP: Banau9               11 5  KI MALAND                                                                         24.2 E,SED Uandang: ULETnd-r              35  FKIP EGRI: MALANG
4.2 EacGOD: Poak-ru                10.2 EOOED Badug Cikir-                     15.1 Centra UpE. Malang             21. FKIP UNPAR                                  36.3 EOSPO Par-Pare Par-Pare"
10.3  OPG Pjrokara Powkra                 5.  aP    aan:ttag211Cnr   PPPlnkr                                                 26.4 E. SPG Wonapan- Waamp-ne            3I. FKIP MUH.: UJUNG FANDANG
5. PKIP UNIB                          10.4 E.SGOOSoard-g: Sorndang'               15.3 E..SGOOMalan Malarg               21.2 Ea.SGO P'Raya: PaTankarapa          7FIPUNA
5.1 Central UPP engkolo            10.5 E.SP Serang: Spag15.4 EOSPO Blitar B liar'                                      31.3 EOOED P'Ryta: Plang croya         1RPUHL
5.2 E..SOD: en kalo                10.6 EOSPG Tasikmalya. Ta-kmalya                                                                                                27.1 Central UPP: KondornP  OAE I      IFRN
5.3 5.SPD: Bsngkaolo                                                       16. FlIP UNEJI                          22. FKIP UNIAMd                                 27.2 E.SPO Kendari Kadari                      UPPY LOCANTHED INAF DIFRN
11. IKIP SEMIARANG                             14.1 Ce-rra UPP: Jember                  22.1 Central UPA  ajrrai                   27.3 Eo.SGO  Kendari: Kanda-iCIYTATEKi/E
6. FKIE UNJAM                         1 1.2 B-OED Ueraan: O- arag                                                          22.2 EOSPG BIao Banjarkaro
6.1 Cantra UPP: Jainbi                           --g 5        -g22.3 EacOGO B.Baro: 1anjaroa-u                                                                28. FlIP UNTAD
4.2 E.OOD: ia-bi                   11 .3 EOO SeGnerang: erang28.1 Central UPP: Palo
11.4 EOOGO Tegal: Tega1"
r02 1992



