/AJ  ~3 /z f    gw,
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MIICROFICHE COpY
Report No. 10399-IND TYpe: (SAR)                            Report No. 10399-IND
YOU, M       / X81208 / E9029/ EA3PH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAY 13, 1992
East Asia and Pacific Region
Country Department III
Population and Human Resources Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of May 1992)
Currency Unit           =    Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00        G    Rp 1,992
Rp 1 million   -    US$502
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
July 1 - June 30
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BAKN         -   Civil Service Commission
BAPPENAS     -  National Development Planning Agency
CBSA         -   Student Active Learning Sy-tem
CPIU         -   Central Project Implementation Unit
DGHE         -   Directorate-General of Higher Education
DGPSE        -   Directorate-General of Primary and Secondary Education
D-II         -   Four to five semester Postsecondary Diploma Course
GOI          -  Government of Indonesia
FKIP         -  University Faculty of Education
IKIP         -  Teacher Training Institute
KABUPATEN    -   District
LPTK         -   IKIP or FKIP
MENPAN        -   State Ministry for Administrative Reform
MOEC          -  Ministry of Education and Culture
MOHA         -  Ministry of Home Affairs
PCR          -   Project Completion Report
PEQIP        -   Primary Education Quality Improvement Project
PGSD         -   Primarv School Teacher Education
PIU          -   Project Implementation Unit
PPAR         -   Project Performance Audit Report
R&D          -  Research and Development
Si           -  Undergraduate Degree Program
S2           -  Two-Year (Master's level) Postgraduate Program
S3           -   Three-Year (PhD level) Postgraduate Program
SGO          -   Primary Sports Teacher Training School
SPG          -   Primary Teacher Training School
SPP          -   Teacher Professional Support System
TA           -   Technical Assistance
UPP           -   Program Implementation Unit (for PGSD)



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
INDONESA
PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACUER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Pate Bo.
BASIC  DATA    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  iii
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     iv
I.  PRIMARY EDUCATION AND TEACHER TRAINING  . . . . . . . . .     1
A. Background.. 
B. Major Issues in Primary Teacher Education . . . . . .      3
C.  Government Policies for Primary Education Development     6
II.  BANK INVOLVEMENT AND LESSONS LEARNED  . . . . . . . . . .    8
A. Background .8
B.  Lessons of Experience. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
C. Bank Strategy. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    12
III. THE PROJECT .......................                          13
A.  Project Objectives  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  13
B.  Project Components  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  14
Developing Primary Teacher Educators  . . . . . . . .    14
Strengthening Primary Teacher
Education Programs (D-II PGSD)  . . . . . . . . . .    15
Establishing a Coordinated System for Teacher
Supply and Distribution . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    16
Building Research and Development Capacity  . . . . .    18
Strengthening the Primary Teacher Education System  .    19
C.  Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    21
D. Monitoring and Evaluation . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     21
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING. PROCUREMEN. AND DISBURSEMENT .     23
A. Costs ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  23
B. Financing ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  25
C.   Procurement  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  27
D. Disbursement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       29
E. Accounts, Audits, and Reports . . . . . . . . . . . .     31
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS .31
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  . . . . . . . . .    32
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Indonesia in January/February 1992, comprising M.H. You (Economist, Task
Manager) H.D. Nielsen (General Educator - Consultant), and C. Ball (Project
Assistant). Peer reviewers were Messrs. W. Rees (Principal Economist), A.
Aimo (Senior Education Planner), and D. Holsinger (Education Specialist).
Marianne Haug, Director, EA3DR, and Clifford Gilpin, Chief, EA3PH, have
endorsed the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ii-
LISTS OF T:ULES IN MAIN REPORT
Table 2.1 Primary Education Subsector-related Completed and
Ongoing Projects and Project CompletLon and Performance
Audit Reports
Table 4.1 Summary of Project Costs by Component  . . . .
Table 4.2 Su-mary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure
Table 4.3 Financing Plan
Table 4.4 Procurestent Arrangements
1    -   Educational Background of Primary School Teachers, Number
of Schools, and Number of Pupils by Province in 1990/91
Academic Year
2    -   Primary School Teacher Distribution by Province, 1989-90
3    -   Bank Group-Financed Education and Training Projects
4    -   Planned and Actual PGSD Students Enrollment for Classroom
Teachers and Face-to-Face In-Service Programs, 1991
5    -   In-Country and Overseas Staff Development Program by
Component and Year
6    -   Technical Assistance Program by Component and Field
7    -   List of Policy Studies
8    -   Project Activities and Implementation Schedule
9    -   Performance Indicators
10   -   Project Cost Estimates
11   -   Disbursement Forecasts
12   -   Selected Documents and Data in Project Files
aHBIS
Chart 1        Organization of the Ministry of Education and Culture
Chart 2        Education Structure, 1991
Chart 3        Management Structure of the Primary School Teacher Education
(PGSD) Program
Chart 4        Project Management Organizational Structure
IBRD No. 23460



- iii -
INDONESIA
PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Basic Data (1989)
General
Population (mid-1989)                                178.2 million
Adult literacy rate (X of adult, 1985)                 92
Female X                                            75
GNP per capita (US$)                                  500
Education
Lower          Upper
Primary      Second#a        Secondary       Higher
Grades                      1-6           7-9            10              i3+
Enrollment (thousand)   26,725          6,132            3,             1,563
Gross enrollment X          119            52               ,             8.5
Female as X of total         49            47               ,              40
Primary and Teacher Training Subsectors (1989-90)
No. of schools               141,000     Students per teacher       24.22
No. of teachers            1,038,000     Students per class         27.57
Students per school              178     Teachers per class          1.14
Teachers per school             7.36
Central Govenment ExDnditures on Education (1289)
As percentage of GNP                                            2.1
As percentage of total central government expenditures          8.8
ourcs:   Ministry of Education and Culture, Office of Research and
Development, Center for Information, Statistical Year Book for
Education, 1988/89; Secretariat-General, Bureau for Planning,
1989/90 GOI Inter-Censal Population Survey (SUPAS) 1985; World
IDevelonMent Re2ort, World Bank 1991; Indonesia: Basic Education
Study, Report No. 7841-IND, World Bank, 1989.



- iv -
INDONESIA
PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower    :   Republic of Indonesia
Amount           US$36.6 million equivalent
Terms       :   Repayable in 20 years, including a grace period of 5 years,
at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Project
Descrition :   The objective of the proposed project is to enhance the
training of primary school teachers through a new tertiary
level teacher diploma course. This would be achieved by
provision of relevant civil works, equipment, books and
learning materials, technical assistance, staff development,
and operational support for: (a) developing primary teacher
educators; (b) strengthening primary teacher education
programs (pre- and in-service); (c) establishing a
coordinated system for teacher supply and distribution;
(d) building capacity for research and development (R&D) in
primary education; and (e) strengthening the management of
the primary teacher education system. Component (a) would
provide support for a variety of in-country and overseas
training programs for teacher educators and for generating
local capacity to conduct S2 (master's level) programs for
primary teacher educators and researchers. Component (b)
would improve the diploma program, D-II, on the basis of an
assessment of the knowledge needs of primary teacber
education recruits and serving teachers; a study of a variety
of primary teacher education curricula and curricular
materials. Under component (c) a coordinated system for
teacher supply and distribution would be established by
setting up a tracking system to facilitate decision-making
concerning the numbers of trainees to be recruited each year,
and their geographical spread; targeting of teacher shortage
areas for special recruitment efforts; appropriate placement
of new recruits; and establishing incentive systems to
attract and retain teacher trainees from targeted shortage
areas. Component (d) would provide for the development of
R&D capacity among primary teacher educators for research
directed towards the improvement of the effectiveness of
primary teacher education; and for commissioned research
relating to policy issues in primary teacher education.
Component (e) would support initiatives for establishing a
Subdirectorate for Teacher Education within the Directorate-
General of Higher Education, strengthening management systems
within IKIPs/FKIPs and UPPs, and between pre-service teacher
education and other in-service teacher training initiatives.



Benefits    :   The ultimate benefit would be improved quality of primary
education as a result of better trained teachers under the
proposed project. Other benefits include: (a) the
development of professional primary educators currently
lacking in Indonesia; (b) allocation of teachers in a more
oquitable way; (c) improved content and methods of teacher
training; (d) higher standards of curriculum development and
implementation; (e) strengthened capacity of research and
development on primary education; and (f) strengthened
planning and management capacity of central and local
governments for primary teacher education.
Risls       :   The main risks are that the activities of this project
involve an unusual degree of interdependence, span a wide
geographical area and depena on action at various levels of
government administration and between DGHE and DGPSE.
Therefore, effective coordination and management is
especially important to attain project objectives. Provision
is made under the project for workshops and seminars for all
relevant parties to encourage joint discussion and action.
In addition, the project management structure ensures
representation of the major parties involved.



- vi -
Es;imated Costs:
Local        Foreign         Total
-----------US$ million-----------
Developing primary
teacher educators                          10.0            13.7          23.7
Strengthening teacher
education programs (D-II PGSD)              8.3             4.6          12.9
Establiihing a coordinated system
for teacher supply and distribution         5.5             0.2           5.7
Building R&D capacity                          1.5             0.5           2.0
Strengthening primary teacher
education system                            1.3             0.4           1.7
Total Base Costs                         A             IL.4         46.0
Contingencies:
Physical                                    1.6             1.6           3.2
Price increase                              3.4             1.5           4.9
Toal cost La                           31.6            22.           S4.1
Financing Plan:
Government of Indonesia                    17.0             0.5          17.5
IBRD                                       14.6            22.0          36.6
Total                                  31.6            22.5          S4.1
La   Includes identifiable taxes: and duties estimated at US$1.5 million
equivalent.
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year   1993    1994        1995      1996       1222      1998
Annual              4.3      7.0       11.0        7.5       5.5       1.3
Cumulative          4.3     11.3       22.3      29.8       35.3      36.6
tq  of Return:    Not applicable
HUo: IBRD No. 23460



- 1-
INDONESIA
PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. PRIMARY SCHOOL EDUCATION AND TEACHER TRAINING
A. Background
1.1       Primary Etuction      ector DeveloRment.  Beginning in 1973, a
massive school construztion -rogram, funded by Presidential Instruction
(INPRES) from oil revenues, translated iLto practice the Government's goal to
achieve universal coverage for primary education. In 1977, with the abolition
of formal school fees, primary education was made compulsory. Today, primary
schooling is underpinned by a vast administrative subsystem, covering nearly
27 million students, over 1.0 million teachers, principals and supervisors
(Annex 1) and 146,000 schools across 13,000 islands and 66,000 villages. All
but two million primary school students (seven percent) attend public schools.
(In contrast, at the lower and upper secondary levels only 56 percent and 42
percent respectively of the nearly 11 million students attend public schools).
There are also Islamic schools whic:t some three million primary students
attend. These schools incorporate a general curriculum and are supervised by
the Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC) (see Chart 1 for Organizational
structure and Chart 2 for Education structure of MOEC, 1991) as are some
schools with a Christian heritage. The average age of the primary teaching
force, of whom 50 percent are women, is only 31 years. Since attrition rates
are low, these teachers are likely to be teaching for the next 30 or more
years and professi'nal development opportunities will be essential.
1.2       Teacher SURDO1 and Administration.   The Government has in the past
put great efforts into expanding the primary school teaching force. Whereas
in the early 1970s there were severe shortages of primary school teachers, by
the late 1980s the country's capacity to supply primary school teachers had
outstripped demarJ., even though the number of schools and classrooms continued
to expand. Teacher education during the 1970s and 1980s was managed by the
Directorate-General of Primary and Secondary Education (DGPSE) and conducted
at the upper secondary level (grades 10-12) in some 250 public and 450 private
teacher training schools (SPGs/SGOs), which at their peak produced about
75,000 graduates per year. The overall pupil teacher ratio was a comfortable
24:1.
1.3       The process of teacher recruitment and placement is a complex one,
involving a number of government agencies. At the national level an
interministerial committee, involving the National Development Planning Agency
(BAPPENAS). the Ministries of Home Affairs, Education and Cullture, and
Religion, the State Ministry for Administrative Reform (iENPAN) and the Civil
Service Commission (BAKN), determines the number of teachers needed
nationally, based primarily on the number of new classrooms built and the need
for replacement teachers. It also considers special requests from the
provinces, but these are generally regarded as inflated. Annual recruitment
targets are passed down to the provincial governors' offices by the national
committee. The governors convene provincial committees consisting of
provincial personnel officers, Dinas (local government) educational officers,



-2-
and officers of both MOEC and the Ministry of Religion. The provincial
committees allocate targets to the districts, wlich then advertise the
intention to recruit new primary school teachers. Because in recent years
there is always a surplus of candidates for these vacancies, a screening test
has been used in the selection of finalists for new teacher appointments.
Appointments are made by the governors; placements are to schools which are
considered to be short of teachers. The biggest shortages have been in remote
rural regions and in newly industrialized areas, where school and teacher
provision have not kept pace with population growth. Teacher transfers, which
are frequent, are controlled by local Dinas officials, who, since 1951, have
had the authority to place, transfer and pay primary school teachers. This
system of teacher recruitment and placement has not always resulted in an
equitable distribution of teachers among and within districts,1/ a point to
be further elaborated in the issues section (para. 1.11).
1.4       Teacher Promotion.   Primary teachers form the largest single
occupational category, 25 percent of the total 3.8 million civil servants.
Like all civil servants, they face low salaries and limited career development
opportunities. Basic starting salaries are under Rp 60,000 (about US$30) per
month and, because they are young, 60 percent of teachers are at the lower end
of the salary scale. Promotion is slow and cumbersome, with movement from one
grade to the next taking four or more years. In 1980, the Government
introduced the Functional Position System, developed by MENPAN, in an effort
to improve career development and incentives for civil servants (Law No. 3 on
Ranking and Promotion of Civil Servants). Its objectives are to provide a
means of developing the careers of technical staff, to reduce the tendency to
create managerial positions as the only means of career development and to
develop job classification as a first step towards a reformulation of the
salary structure. MENPAN decree No. 26, 1988, introduced a related credit
point system to provide better incentives and faster promotion possibilities
for those teachers with good performance ratings.
1.5       Uvgrading of Primary School Teachers.  Based on the recent policy
decision to raise the quality and level of primary school teacher credentials,
responsibility for the management of teacher education passed to the
Directorate-General of Higher Education (DGHE) in 1990 and training is now
being carried out at the Teacher Education Institutes (IKIPs) and University
Faculties of Education (FKIPs) and their associated study centers (UPPs)
located on 62 former SPG/SGO campuses (Chart 3). These institutions are
offering a four to five semester post-secondary diploma (D-II) in primary
teacher education (PGSD). The nearly 190 public SPGs/SGOs which were not
designated as UPPs have been "refunctionalized" as secondary schools.
1.6       In-service D-II training for upgrading the skills and credentials of
current primary school teachers has also been established.   The program has
been developed by the Indonesian Open University and is being delivered in
five different ways as: (a) a fully subsidized program for mid-career
1/ Dean Nielsen and Anthony Somerset, Indonesia: Primary Teacher Education
Study, final draft, Ministry of Education and Culture/World Bank, Nay,
1991.



-3 -
teachers in "semi-remote" areas managed by local MOEC officiala and part-time
tutors; (b) a self-financed program for urban teachers with more than five
years of experience, also managed oy local MOEC officials ar.i part-time
tutors; (c) a partly subsidized "face-to-face" program on IKIP/FKIP campuses
and UPPs available durirg afternoon hours; (d) a distance education program
through radio for teachers in remote areas (now restricted, to a pilot project
for 600 teachers in three provinces); and (e) a self-paced correspondence
program managed by the Center for Teacher Development (PPPG) in Bandung.
B.  Maior Issues in Primary Teacher Education
1.7       OveyLti.  In order to effectively perform its new teacher education
task, DGHE must deal with several interconnected issues, some qua. 'tative
some qualitative.  The major quantitative issue is how many new  .,hers to
trai- and where. TIiis includes elements which are directly u,del. cuie control
of nGHE, such as teacher trainee selection, and elements in which DGHE is one
of r4any actors, such as determining the number of teachers needed and tracking
change-s in teacher distribution. Achieving the best match between supply and
demand will require new forms and mechanisms of interagency coordination.
Qualitative issues revolve around the objectives and content of the new D-II
programs (pre-service and in-service), the qualifications and capabilities of
those who manage and teach in them, and program organization and management.
Curricula need to be strengthened and learning materials improved, yet, given
the lack of personnel for such tasks these will have to be done at the same
time that staff capability in primary teacher education is being developed.
Individual capacity building in rontent, pedagogy and research is necesscry
but not sufficient for improving the quality of primary teacher education.
Institutional capacity building is also required, including attention to the
management of the programs, and the monitoring of the quality of instruction
and research. Specific issues that need to be addressed are described below:
(a) lack of primary teacher educators; (b) weakness in primary teacher
Instruction and program content; (c) an inadequately coordinated system of
teacher supply and distribution; (d) weak research and development capacity;
and (e) inadequate arrangements for managing primary teacher education.
1.8       Lack of Primar= Teacher Educators.  Responsibility for the primary
teacher education program has now passed to the IKIPs/FKIPs, neither of which
currently has staff with much experi.ise in the field of primary education.
Those who have been charged with managing the pre-service D-II program and
providing courses in pedagogy have often come from backgrounds in educational
administration, curriculum or educational technology, and the subject content
instructors almost all have backg.mnds as secondary teacher educators.  Of
720 lecturers inherited from formL-._ SPGs/SGOs only 36 have MA degrees, no more
than half of which relate to primary education. Very few PGSD lecturers have
had experience as primary school teachers, even those recruited from the
former SPGs. The two largest D-II in-service programs have drawn their tutors
mostly from among secondary school teachers and educational administrators
with S1 (undergraduate degree) or D-III qualifications. The Open University
has received 400-600 ex-SPG/SGO tutors which it has employed full-time to help
manage the self-financed D-II program. The rest of the tutors are part-time.
Many have never dealt with primary education before.



- 4 -
1.9       Weaknesses ia the D-II Program Content.  Both the pre-service and
in-service programs contain 82 semester hours of credit, in the former to be
covered in four sem;esters and in the latter six. Both are fixed in struc;ture,
with few electives, and very dense, covering about 18 subject areas. Contceit
analysis of the curriculum shows them to be biased towards theory and subject
matter mastery. The in-service program, which assumes participants already
know how-to teach, emphasizes abstract and highly theoretical learning. There
is vAry little which connects it with the world of the primary school
classroom or its pupils. In contrast, the pre-service course does, at least
in principle, attempt to relate subject matter learning to the school context.
Despite this orientation it initially provided limited hands-on teaching
experience: practice teaching accounted for only 4 units (5X) of the 82 unit
course. New regulaticns have extended the period of practice teaching, but it
appears that practice will mostly come at the end of the course instead of
being interspersed with more theoretical learning. Both versions of the D-II
program are essentially fixed, allowing little scope for courses to be
tailored to the varied needs of different participants. This is especially
confining for the in-service course which has to serve a wide range of
professionals including head teachers and subject matter advisors (Romand) as
well as class teachers, working in a wide variety of contexts. Finally,
learning materials for D-II have been criticized, those for the pre-service
for their delay in reaching students (still not available well into the
program's second year), and the in-service for their overly academic nature.
1.10      Inadeguately coordinated system for teacher supgly and distribution.
Previous actions relating to the supply and distribution of primary school
teachers resulted in: (a) an oversupply of newly trained primary teachers;
(b) an uneven geographical distribution of teachers (Annex 2); and
(c) uncertainty about how many teachers are required. In the years when
primary school teacher production had reached its peak, about 75,00u a year,
(para. 1.2) primary school enrollments were already at a plateau. Thus, new
annual teacher appointments were only at the level of 10-20,000. The rapid
proliferation of unemployment among SPG/SGO graduates has led not only to
disillusionment and unrest among them, but to negative market signals to
students and their parents about the advisability of investing in primary
teacher education. The Government has responded to this situation by
restricting intake into the new D-II teacher education program to 7,000 per
annum during the program's initial years. But since those responsible for new
teacher supplies are currently not involved in teacher appointment decisions,
there is lingering concern that even the 7,000 may not all get teaching jobs.
Assurance of a teaching job within a timely period following graduation is
considered by the teacher training establishment to be a necessary ingredient
in an incentive package for attracting good primary teacher candidates.
1.11      Teacher maldistribution is apparent among, but more particularly
within, provinces. For example, in West Java pupil:teacher ratios vary from
below 10 to abovs 70 to one among the subdistricts. One factor contributing
to such inequities is the failure of educational planners and managers to
recognize and respont1 to geographical changes in demand for school places. due
to population movements. Other factors are: (a) the weak incentives for
teaching in difficult regions; (b) the ease with which a teacher can arrange a
transfer from difficult schools; and (c) the lack of power, funds and



political will for redistributing teachers from surplus to shortage areas.
The preceding problems are complicated by the fact that the body which places
and transfers teachers (local government education office of Ministry of Home
Affairs (MOFA)) is different from the body (MOEC) which oversees school
quality and collects teacher and student distribution data. It is often
difficult for MOHA and MOEC to agree on where new teachers should be placed.
A final factor in teacher maldistribution has been the fact that SPG graduates
from teacher shortage areas (presumably those willing to accept and retain
teaching jobs in these areas) have encountered difficulty in obtaining
appointments, due to their rc'atively poor performance on national screening
examinations. Access to teaching jobs for such persons under the new D-II
PGSD program is theoretically even more difficult since most training
institutions have now been placed in metropolitan areas. This is particularly
so for female candidates from rural areas. In order to address this issue, it
is essential to provide financial incentivas (scholarship and dormitory
accommodation) to those female candidates from target areas.
1.12      Identifying the extent and distribution of teacher shortage is in
itself a major issue. The overall numbers of new teachers required range from
250,000 to zero depending on the formula and assumptions used. The MOEC
Bureau of Planning uses a simple teacher allocation formula which holds that
each school, regardless of size, should have at least six classroom teachers
(one for each grade), one principal, and two specialist teachers (one for
religion and one for physical education). If this formula is applied to all
schools, and the large number of schools with surpluses are ignored, then it
appears that the nation needs nearly 250,000 new teachers. If, on the other
hand, the nation uses a formula promulgated by the DGPSE in 1981, which
allocates teachers according to school size (3 teachers for small schools with
enrollment below 60, to 13+ for those with enrollments above 360), and is able
to move personnel from teacher surplus to teacher shortage schools and
consolidate neighboring small schools, then the number of new teachers needed
hovers around zero.2/ Other elements of pinpointing teacher shortages are
systems of m-onitoring student enrollment changes, tracking teacher mobility
and attrition, and tracing new teacher placements. The fact that different
agencies generate data on these elements makes it difficult to develop an
accurate assessment of emerging teacher needs. It addition, the tendency to
aggregate data at the national or provincial level often masks the most
serious distribution problems. More efforts in interagency cooperation would
be required, beginning with the collection and sharing of data, and its
presentation, and joint analysis and use at these levels of goveniment where
the problems are most apparent (district and sub-district).
1.13      Weak Kasearch and DeveloRment Capacity.  The higher education
community has pre-7iously had no responsibility for training primary teachers,
and thus has played a minor role in producing research and developing
innovations in primary education. IKIP/FKIP lecturers have had no official
ties with primary schools in their catchment areas and, with few exceptions,
have little awareness of primary school teaching-learning processes and
j/   National Consortium for Teacher Education, Primary School Teacher
Education Study, Jakarta, 1991.



problems. The old SPGs generated very little research on primary education,
being principally training institutions with no mandate to conduct research or
promote innovation. Moreover, given the centralized nature of teacher
allocation and appointment decisions, there has been little awareness in the
teacher training community of demands for primary school teachers in their
regions and the problems which exist in the distribution of teachers as well
as the absorption of teacher training graduates. The teacher education
community needs research findings to help it understand the characteristics
and learning needs of its recruits, to make good student recruitment
decisions, to create a better awareness of the problems encountered by novice
and experienced teachers, to provide feedback on the effectiveness of its
courses, and to become engaged in primary school reform and innovation
efforts. It also needs to encourage an investigative, problem-solving and
reflective mentality, not only in its staff, but in the teachers it produces.
1.14      Coordination and Management of Primary Teacher Education.  Primary
teacher education was previously managed by a Directorate of Teacher Education
within DGPSE (para 1.2). Within DGHE there is no such directorate with
specific responsibility for teacher education. Ad hoc bodies have been
established to manage teacher education programs, but these lack substantive
leadership and organizational clout. DGHE has proposed the establishment of a
new Subdirectorate for Teacher Education through partly absorbing functions
and staff of the Directorate of Primary Teacher Education in the DGPSE to
provide the leadership in primary and secondary teacher education. It could
also help to establish linkages between pre-service and in-service training,
both the in-service program which it certifies (D-II) and that provided by
DGPSE (e.g., the teacher study groups in SPP/CBSA which will be supported by
the Bank under the Primary Education Quality Improvement Project (PEQIP)
approved in March 1992). PGSD itself is still in a period of organizational
flux. When it was first introduced it was simply a study program, without any
fixed staff or control over budgets. Recently it has been made a Department
of Primary Education in the Faculty of Education at IKIPs and FKIPs (para.
1.16), but procedures for organizing its staff and managing its UPPs (some in
rather remote locations) are far from settled. Instructional management is
also a problem. Previous attempts to raise the quality of teacher education
have failed because the programs concentrated on the academic qualifications
of the lecturers and not on the way in which they teach. Unless these
instructors can be motivated to provide models and examples of good,
interactive instructional behavior, newly trained teachers are unlikely to
exhibit teaching behavior that is much different from their predecessors.
C. Government Policies for Primary Education Development
1.15      The New Education Policy (1988) and Law No. 2 (1989) on Basic
Education formalize Government's policy to improve education quality.  To
improve teaching quality, the Law mandates that an innovative pilot project
(SPP/CBSA), supported under the PEQIP, providing professional support to
teachers is to be disseminated to all provinces. Primary school teacher
qualifications were raised in 1990 from the upper secondary level to D-II
level and as a result all teacher education recruits and a substantial
proportion of serving teachers will be upgraded. Starting in September 1990,
an intake of 7,000 was recruited for the pre-service program, and 20,000 for



- 7 -
the in-service program. The decision to reduce the pre-service intake, based
on recommendations made in the Primary Teacher Education Studies,.a/
represents a major Government policy change. The intake for 1991-92 has been
maintained at 7,000 for the pre-service program; for in-service it will
increase the intake of government-financed D-II students to 30,000 (2,000 of
whom will enter the new physical education D-II course). In 1991-92 the Open
University will also provide the D-II course to about 25,000 urban teachers
who are willing to pay for the course themselves. The credit point system
(MENPAN decree No. 26, 1988) (para. 1.4) encourages good performance in the
teaching force by providing better incentives and faster promotion
opportunities for those with good performance ratings.
1.16      Recent Policy Decisions Related to Primary Teachers.  During January
1992, the first meeting of the National Coordination Forum for Teacher Supply
and Development was held under the Chairmanship of the Secretary- General of
MOEC. It was attended by the Director-Generals of Higher Education and
Primary and Secondary Education, the Teacher Education Consortium, the
Directors of the Planning and Personnel Bureaus of MOEC, and senior officials
from other ministries, including MENPAN, BAKN, and MOHA. The number of new
primary school teacher appointments for 1992-93 was discussed at that meeting,
and assurances were given that the first graduates from the PGSD would be
given appointments. Discussions about the appropriate number of teachers to
be placed in primary schools have also been initiated. Plans are now being
made for the realization of similar coordination forums at the provincial and
kabupaten (district) levels. In the same month the Director-General of Higher
Education instructed public and private IKIPs/FKIPs implementing the PGSD
program to: (a) lengthen programs by one semester to allow more time for
practice teaching; and (b) elevate PGSD from a "study program" to a Department
in the IKIPs/FKIPs (para. 1.14).
1.17      A number of recent policy decisions have been taken by the
Government to improve the incentives for primary school teachers. These
include decisions to pay teachers through the banking system (to avoid delays)
and to double the salaries for teachers serving in remote areas. Coupled with
the agreement to provide full scholarships to D-II recruits from targeted
teacher-shortage areas under the proposed project, these are significant
policy responses to problems faced by teachers.
2/ National Consortium of Teacher Education, Primary School Teacher
Education Study, Jakarta, 1991, and Nielsen, D. and Somerset, A.,
Indonesia: Primarv Teacher Education Study, final draft, Ministry of
Education and Culture/World Bank, May 1991.



-8
II. BANK INVOLVEMENT AND LESSONS LEARNED
A. Backgroun
2.1       Since the Bank Group's first project with the MOEC in 1970, 18
education projects (US$1,214 million total) have been approved in the educa-
tion sector. Nine projects have been completed. In addition to projects with
MOEC, the Bank has supported training in specialist and professional fields
through ten free standing projects in several other Ministries (US$700 million
total) (Annex 3). Over this period Bank strategy has evolved from an initial
emphasis on assistance to training to alleviate the critical shortage of
technical personnel, to an increasing emphasis on quality issues, and then to
a wider sectoral emphasis on investment programs and policy reforms. In 1975,
the Education Sector Survey i/ helped formulate a coherent lending strategy
for the Bank and initiate an effective policy dialogue with the Government.
Subsequent subsector reports ./ have helped the Bank to move to sector
lending and to deepen the relevant policy dialogues. Although Bank lending to
Indonesia has to a large extent mirrored the evolution of Bank-wide policies,
Indonesia's Bank-assisted projects have also been at the cutting edge,
including, for example, the first free-standing textbook and nonformal
education projects.
2.2       In the 1970's and early 1980's the Government undertook with its own
resources an ambitious program to expand enrollments in primary and secondary
education whilst the Bank complemented these efforts with assistance to
infrastructural development in the first Textbook and Teacher Training
projects. In the 1980's Bank attention shifted to subsector quality improve-
ment and development of management capacity. This shift was particularly
marked in a first Secondary Education and Management Training project which
put in place an in-service teacher upgrading program to raise quality in
science, mathematics and En.rglish, and introduced a management information
system (MIS) and institutional development through management training. An
ongoing follow-up project, Secondary Education and Management (Loan 3158), has
extended this strategy. The recently completed Second Textbook and Teacher
Training projects also focused on quality improvement and institutional
development by developing materials and training managerial and technical
staff, whilst continuing to expand infrastructure.
2.3       The Bank initiated its involvement in primary education as a result
of its recent dialogue with the Government on the Basic Education Study, 1989.
This study pinpointed the poor quality of primary education as a critical
defect at the base of the education system, analyzed the main factors prevent-
ing quality improvement and documented specific needs in policy development
and action.
i/   Indonesia: Education Sector Survey, Report No. 4439, 1975.
l/ General Secondary Education in Indonesia: Issues and Programs of Action,
Report No. 4954-IND, 1984; Final Status ReRort on the Higher Education
Sector, 1986.



- 9 -
Table 2 I:  PRIMARY EDUCATION SUBSECTOR-RELATED COMPLETED AND ONGOING PROJECTS
AND PROJECT COMPLETION AND PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORTS
PPAR       PC___
Credit/Loan    Dat                                Original  RPPAR tport
No.    r*cti vo a "osd        Project          Credit/Loan    No.  Dato  No  Date
(US$ m)
Credit 387  June 1973  Dec 1981  Third Education (First Textbook)  13.5  4.502  /^  4.S62  1983
Loan 1433  June 1977  May 1985  Fifth Education (First
Teachor Tr"ining)        19.0              6.315  1986
Loan 1486  Dec  ;977  Jan 1984  Nonformal Education  15.0  6.304  1986
Loan 2102  June 1982  DOc 1988  Second Textbook     25.0         /-  9,107  1990
Loan 2101  May  1982  June 1990  Second Toacher Training  80.0
Loon 2355  Feb  1984  Sept 1990  Second Nonformal Education  43.0
Loan 2472  'n  1985  Sept 1990  Secondary Education and  78.0               la
Management Training                              1
Loan 3158  or  1990       Soecond Secondary        154.2
Education and Management
La In preparation.
B. Lessons of Experience
2.4      Project Completion Reports (PCRs), Project Performance Audit Reports
(PPARs) and an Impact Evaluation Report show that many of the specific lessons
of experience of projects in the education sector have been incorporated into
succeeding project designs. For example, useful lessons have been learned
about institutional development, such as to: (a) situate Project Management
Units within existing structures; (b) ensure the early appointment and
continuity of key project staff; (c) ensure adequate coordination and communi-
cation among implementing agencies; and (d) provide pre-departure language
training for overseas fellows. Some broader themes have also emerged from
experience in both completed and current projects. In many instances, the
ongoing experience gained through supervision is more relevant, given the
substantial changes in project focus and design that have occurred over the
past two decades.
2.5      Policy Dialogue.  The studies mentioned above underpinned the Bank's
shift to policy-oriented projects and a sector-wide approach in higher and
secondary education. The major issues around which dialogue continues are
improvements in quality, efficiency, equity and financing. These are outlined
in guidelines, implemented through agreed action programs and, in higher
education, supported by the Bank through a time slice of the expenditure
program. As this approach has proved successful in terms of policy formula-
tion and implementation, it is expected that it will be continued in future
operations. The primary education and teacher training subsector is relative-
ly weak but it is expected that a similar approach will be possible as
experience grows in implementing Bank-assisted projects.
2.6      Quality Impaci.  The quantitative or physical targets of nearly all
projects have been attained and in most cases exceeded. However, the theme
emphasized in many PCRs and PPARs is that a systematic assessment of projects'
impact on educational quality was not previously undertaken. Building on this
finding, more recent projects have made a better effort to systematically
assess projects' impact on educational quality. The first Higher Education
Development project (Loan 2911), for example, established a monitoring and
evaluation system with a set of indicators to evaluate university performance
on a regular basis. However, experience in the sector has indicated that
policy improvcments are necessarily difficult to implement and require a
longer time-frame than that provided by a single project. The most successful



- 10 -
reforms have been in the higher education sector, but this has taken over a
decade to achieve and is far from complete. Experience also indicates that
Bank operations should phase policy reform gradually.
2.7       Institutional Development.  Management of education programs in the
context of a large ministry such as the MOEC is intrinsically complex.
Fragmentation of planning activities in MOEC has also made it difficult to
ensure coherence, consistency and coordination among individual programs.
Thus, institutional development has been only partially successful, despite
the attempts in most projects to strengthen management and administration of
educational programs. This has been recognized in PCRs and PPARs. Based on
this experience, the Bank has adopted a coordinated approach to institutional
development urnder several recent projects by supporting integrated management
training programs and sys_ems development and testing alternative approaches
to improved monitoring and evaluation. While individual projects will
continue strengthening project management units anu Directorates General, this
will be achieved within the framework of the assistance being developed for
the MOEC as a whole.
2.8       The more intractable institutional issue leading to poor quality is
the absence of promotion and professional development opportunities, low
salaries and lack of incentives for educational personnel. This problem has
not been resolved in the last two decades. Ad hoc attempts to provide
incentives have been tried under indIvidual projects but have not proven
sustainable.  Recent initiatives to improve incentives and the quality of the
teaching force include the establishment of the Functional Position System and
related performance-based credit points (para. 1.4). This is now fully
operational in higher education but needs to be tested thoroughly because it
may lack feasibility in the massive primary education system.
2.9       Training.  Staff development through pre-service and in-service
training and fellowship programs has been a central element in many projects
in the education sector. However, PPARs, particularly on the earlier pro-
jects, have pointed out that monitoring of progress in staff training, beyond
the disbursement of funds and the number of staff months of funding used, has
been poor. Subsequent career patterns and the impact of trained personnel on
their work units have not been included as part of the project design. For
overseas fellowships, particularly in earlier projects, the Bank gave inade-
quate attention to the selection, administration, and eventual functions of
returnees. The evidence available indicates that problems of appropriate
selection and training, and re-entry and utilization of trainees are common.
No project in the MOEC has so far provided for the monitoring and evaluation
of its fellowship program except for a limited evaluation under the Second
Teacher Training Project.
2.10      Technical Assistance (TA) and Studies.  These two areas have not
been systematically analyzed in all PCRs and PPARs. TA has been used not only
for equipment procurement, civil works and specialist services, but also for
administering fellowship programs. Experience with TA seems to be positive in
most projects, with the exception of the university development projects. The
experience with studies, largely from ongoing projects, has been disappoint-
ing. Studies have lacked sufficient analysis to be of value, particularly



. 11 -
those done by local consultants. Insufficient attention has been paid to the
adequacy of the terms of reference, selection of consultants, and supervision
and follow-up of work done. Recommendations to address these issues have been
included in a recently completed Bank staff study on TA in Indonesia.j/
2.11      Deconcentration.  One of the more positive achievements in the
sector is that, although never explicitly stated as an objective, projects in
both the nonformal and higher education subsectors have contributed to the
deconcentration of activities, i.e., the delegation of responsibility for
specific tasks by the NOEC to its sub-national units.2/ In nonformal educa-
tion, the PPAR for the first project comments favorably that annual program-
ming and budgeting, training and implementation have already been
deconcentrated to the provincial and district levels thereby bringing program
design closer to the learning locale. In higher education, university
manag msent has been delegated to individual institutions with resultant
finanoal autonomy. The process of deconcentration of educational activities
in the secondary subsector is also underway. Experience of deconcentrated
programs in nonformal education projects is substantial and shows that they
are complex, geographically dispersed, have a heavy bias on software
components, and demand more intensive field supervision during implementation
with more diverse inputs and assistance required than regular reviews carried
out by the Bank. Primary education shares these characteristics. Moreover,
it is not the sole responsibility of one agency (para. 1.3) as are tertiary,
secondary and nonformal education. This makes project and program design and
implementation even more complex.
2.12      Financing and Equity.  Education at all levels suffers from inade-
quate recurrent funds. Budget cuts have affected the implementation of
ongoing projects and have caused problems for the sustainability of completed
projects. Primary education is particularly vulnerable because it is very
reliant on operational funds from mulAiple sources, which are liable to be
reduced unsystematically in periods of stringency, and on parental and
community voluntary contributions, the level of which also varies according to
the economic climate. The country's previous application of equity principles
in the period of expansion was to provide the same level of public funding
regardless of ability to pay. Now, in its efforts to alleviate poverty, the
Government is introducing a more fine-tuned concept of equity, i.e. funding
measures which target additional resources to the poor.
i/   A Study of Technical Assistance Comgonents of Bank Assisted Projects in
Indonesia, World Bank, June 1991.
2/   Jerry M. Silverman, Public Sector Decentralization:  Economic Policy
Reform and Sector Investment Programs, Africa Technical Department, World
Bank, November 1990; Donald Winkler, Decentralization of the Social
Services, in the LAC Connection: News in Human Resources, Vol. 3, No. 3,
World Bank, May 1991.



- 12 -
Sustainability and ReDlicability
2.13      On the basis of the sustainability indicators developed by the
Bank's Operations Evaluation Department (inputs, outputs, efficiency, quality
and spinoff effects), it was concluded that the evaluation of sustainability
in education projects is more, difficult than in other sectors where easily
identifiable outcome measures are possible. However, the evaluation of the
First and Second Education Projects concluded that these early projects
demonstrated a moderate level of sustainability.AU Experience has been
varied on replicability, or whether improvements in a specific project can be
used to benefit other projects, or the rest of the subsector. For example,
innovations like the cascade method of training have been replicable and used
in other prcjects and other sectors but the learning resource centers under
the First Teacher Training Project were under-utilized and therefore not
continued in the next project. The above study shows the importance of
clearly identifying indicators of sustainability .'n project design and the
need to improve both Government and Bank efforts to monitor project perfor-
mance against appropriate indicators.
C. Bank Strategy
2.14      Overall Bank strategy for Indonesia recognizes that investing in
people will continue to be a critical ingredient for improving human health
and welfare, slowing the rate of population growth and enhancing the skills,
productivity and employment prospects of the labor force. These investments
will not only proviAe vital support for more rapid economic growth, but will
also contribute to the goal of more equitable participation, by women as well
as men, in the development process. Rapid growth alone, however, will not be
sufficient to ensure continued progress in the reduction of absolute poverty
in Indonesia, especially in the eastern islands and among the more disadvan-
taged groups and resource-poor areas in Java. In addition to the expansion of
basic social infrastructure and services, greater attention should be given to
policies and expenditures that will improve the access of the poor to key
social services, especially health and nutrition, basic education and safe
water and sanitation. It will be equally important to improve the access of
the poor to productive resources, through more balanced regional growth and
development programs aimed at pockets of poverty wherever they may exist.
2.15      The Government's subsector priorities are to extend and universalize
basic education, improve teaching and learning and reduce student wastage.
The Bank is playing a major role in helping to implement this approach. Key
elements in the strategy include: targeting additional resources to specific
provinces and disadvantaged schools to engender quality enhancement; capacity
and policy building in materials and book development; testing the feasibility
of a performance-based promotion scheme for educational personnel; building up
management and monitoring capacity in the central and provincial MOEC and
implementation capacity at district levels for MOEC and Dinas P&K personnel;
W Impact Evaluation Report: Indonesia: Sustainability of the First and
Second Education Projects, Report No. 7767, 1989.



- 13 -
strengthening provincial capacity to develop curricula; expanding pilot-tested
programs of in-service teacher training, improving pre-service teacher
training programs; establishing guidelines and mechanisms for determining
resource requirements, including teachers, in varied localities, and for
assessing te.kcher and student proficiency; developing new content, delivery
and evaluation for existing nonformal literacy programs which will be extended
to provide lower secondary level equivalency; providing scholarships to enable
low income literacy program participants to enter private vocational
institutes; and encouraging quality improvements in the vocational schools
serving poor trainees.
2.16      The Bank's program in basic and general education will be channeled
through a number of inter-linked lending operations, including the ongoing
Second Secondary Education and Management Project (Loan 3158) whose goal is to
improve educational quality and MOEC internal organizational coordination and
efficiency. It is anticipated that this will be complemented by a Secondary
Teacher Development Project to improve the supply and quality of secondary
teachers. Similarly, the goal of the PEQIP to improve quality and develop
related management and funding capacity in primary education is to be comple-
mented by the proposed Primary School Teacher Development Project to improve
pre- and in-service teacher training quality and management capacity in
primary teacher training and supply. The Third Nonformal Education Project,
ap,.roved in December 1991, will assist the MOEC in extending literacy programs
equivalent to the secondary school-leaving diploma, developing the quality of
existing nonformal programs and providing income earning opportunities for
participants.
2.17      The proposed project forms part of a long-term Bank strategy to
assist the Government of Indonesia in raising the quality of education. While
a number of important measures to improve the effectiveness of teacher
training programs will be addressed through the project, other issues related
to the overall status and condition of service for teachers, which impact on
quality, are difficult to resolve and can only be addressed fully over the
long term. The Bank proposes to continue to assist the Government in finding
appropriate solutions to these issues through continued sector work, policy
dialogue and a series of lending operations.
III. IRE PROJECT:
A. Project Objectives
3.1       The overall objectives of the proposed project are to produce well-
trained primary school teachers, through a new tertiary level teacher diploma
course, in numbers appropriate to estimated needs (see Annex 4 for planned and
actual enrollment at each project institution) and in appropriate locations.
Specific objectives are to:
(a) strengthen the capacity of managers and lecturers (pre-service and
in-service) to provide quality primary teacher education and build
domestic capacity to train primary teacher educators;



- 14 -
(b) improve primary teacher education (in-service and pre-service)
curricula, teaching and assessment methods, and curricular materi-
als;
(c) develop formulas and information systems to determine the number of
primary teachers needed and track changes in teacher distribution,
and create an incentive system to attract teaching candidates to
teacher shortage areas;
(d) undertake policy studies in primary teacher education and enhance
capacity to conduct action research in primary education; and
(e) strengthen management of primary taacher education programs at the
central and campus levels, concentrating both on organizational
management and instructional management.
B. Project Components
DeveloRing Primary Teacher Educators (estimated cost: US$28.2 million) i/
3.2       The objectives of this staff development component are to:  (a)
increase the knowledge and teaching skills of PGSD lecturers; (b) strengthen
the capacities of in-service program developn.rs and managers; (c) build
domestic capacity to train primary teacher educators; (d) improve the evalua-
tion and monitoring skills of supervising teachers; (e) strengthen PGSD
management skills; and (f) provide trained library technicians for PGSD.
Assessment of staff development needs and formulation of staff development
objectives through task forces and seminars would set the direction for study
tours by pre-service and in-service program managers to review exemplary
overseas primary teacher training programs (one month each for 54 staff).
These tours would provide senior teacher educators with comparative perspec-
tives on primary school teaching and teacher education. These tours would be
followed by workshops for the preparation of short- and long-term training
programs. Short-term training would be held both overseas and in-country.
Overseas training would consist of a three-month course of instruction and
experiential learning at highly regarded selected universities and teacher
training institutions in four regions (Asia, Europe, iorth America, and
Australia and New Zealand). It would involve nine batches of about 30 teacher
educators (270 in all). The domestic short-term training program would
consist of six-week courses for approximately 730 teacher educators covering
innovations in teacher education, based on the results of the international
short-term training program. There would also be short-term training courses
for about 1,600 practice teaching supervisors from primary schools (Guru
Pamong), and in year three, after a series of studies and workshops, a three-
week.training program for UPP managers covering reforms in PGSD management.
2/   This and subsequent figures represent estimated total component costs
including contingencies.



- 15 -
3.3       Long-term overseas training would consist of graduate degree
programs (151 MA and 25 PhD) in primary education and in the teaching of
particular primarv school subjects, such as language/reading, mathematics,
science, and social studies. Such training programs would include practical
visits to schools. The domestic programs would be of three varieties. The
first would be a four semester program providing an opportunity for 700 PGSD
teachers whose current degrees are in unrelated fields to earn a new Sl in a
priority field (e.g., Mathematics, Science, and Language Education). This
program would be held at 12 LPTKs (4 initially, gradually increasing to 12,
ten IKIPs and two FKIPs). Exceptional primary school teachers having the D-II
credential would be permitted to enter this program, providing them with a
pathway to career opportunitirs as teacher educators. The second domestic
program would establish S2 programs (two-year Master's level graduate pro-
grams) in Primary Teacher Education, to create domestic capacity to train
primary teacher education specialists. The programs would be initially
located at three LPTK campuses which already have graduate schools, namely,
IKIP Jakarta, IKIP Bandung, and IKIP Malang. During the first phase of this
project these institutions would specialize in Primary School Teaching
(General); Primary School Mathematics and Science Teaching; and Primary School
Language and Social Sciences Teaching, respectively. The number of S2
candidates during the project period would be about 100, 20-40 et each
location. The third domestic long-term program would be a two-year diploma
course (D-II) in Librarianship for the librarians of the 98 UPPs. This
training would be held at well-established programs at Airlangga and
Hasannudin Universities. Criteria for selecting long-term overseas and in-
country fellowships are the candidates' academic ability and teaching
performance as well as their commitments to return to and remain in relevant
positions in primary teacher education programs for a stipulated time period.
3.4       The proposed project would finance overseas and local fellowships
(see Annex 5 for details by project component and year) and training; and
international and domestic technical assistance (TA) (see Annex 6 for details
by project component and year). International TA would include training
development specialist(s) (12 staff-months), training program development
specialists in five subject areas (60 staff-months), and a training program
evaluation specialist (3 staff-months). Domestic specialists would be in the
same fields but with a level of effort of 36 staff-months, 45 staff-months and
3 staff-months, respectively.
3.5       During negotiations, the Government agreed to assign returnees from
overseas and in-country degree programs to appropriate positions in PGSD for a
period of twice the number of their study years plus one additional year
(para. 6.1(a)).
Strengthening Primary Teacher Education Programs (D-II PGSD) (estimated cost
US$15.6 million)
3.6       The objective of this component is to strengthen the pre-service and
in-service programs by: (a) improving their curricula; (b) developing
effective teaching and assessment strategies; and (c) providing appropriate
field-tested learning materials. The main curricular goal would be to prepare
teachers to implement active student learning strategies, such as those found



- 16 -
in the CBSA primary school curriculum and supported under the Bank-assisted
PEQIP. Curriculum revision would involve modifications in the content and
structure of various courses, including the timing and weight given to
practical experience in primary school classrooms. Revisions would be based
on: (a) current and emerging views of expected teacher competencies; (b)
evaluations of PGSD during their first two years of operation; (c) studies of
characteris5ics and learning needs of PGSD program recruits--pre-and in-
service--to be carried out from the first year of the project; and (d) an
analysis of the new primary school curriculum, due to be implemented in 1994.
3.7       Task forces assisted by domestic and foreign consultants would
operate at various stages (curriculum review, curriculum revision, learning
materials specification, learning materials try-out, curriculum evaluation) in
order to write position papers, draft policies and workplans, and formulate
tentative curricular outlines. These would be presented to larger groups of
stakeholders (teacher educators, officials of DGHE and DGPSE, memb.ers of
Balitbang and the Curriculum Development Center, MOHA officials, etc.) for
feedback and sanctioning. Once curricular guidelines have been decided upon,
writing teams would draft curricular materials (textbooks or modules). The
writing teams would then revise the materials based on field-test results.
After this the curricular materials would be printed and distributed to the
UPPs.
3.8       In addition to textbooks, other materials, facilities, and equipment
would be provided in support rf PGSD training for the use of both lecturers
and students. The materials would be derived from syllabi and important
books/articles collected during study tours and short-term training overseas.
After the outlines of the revised curricula become clear, relevant materials
from this collection would be selected by special task forces for translation
or adaptation to the Indonesian setting. In case certain important topics are
not covered in that literature, new articles or books would be commissioned.
Facilities would include dormitory places for up to 3,200 students (para.
3.11) and equipment, the provision of furniture, micro-computers, audio-visual
hardware and laboratory equipment.
3.9       The proposed component would finance task force activities; work-
shops; writing and field-testing curricular materials; collecting, translat-
ing, and creating supplementary materials; and provision of equipment and
library materials. TA would be provided as follows: international special-
ist(s) in curriculum development (9 staff-months), learning-teaching materials
development (6 staff-months), and curriculum evaluation (3 staff-months);
domestic specialists would be recruited in the same fields and at the same
level of effort. In addition, there would be domestic specialists for
laboratory equipment (3 staff-months) and civil works icialists (6 staff-
months).
Establishing a Coordinated System for Teacher SuoDly and Distribution (esti-
mated cost: US$6.4 million)
3.10      The proposed project would establish a coordinated teacher supply
and distribution system with the overall objective of assuring that: (a) new
teacher candidates are recruited In numbers and locations consistent with



- 17 -
local needs; and (b) teacher education graduates are made aware of vacancies,
and able to find teaching jobs and be placed in locations where they are
needed. The system would contain the following elements: (a) development of
an appropriate formula for determining the number of teachers needed in
schools of various sizes; (b) introduction of an information system for
tracking changes in teacher distribution; (c) targeted recruitment of teacher
training candidates from teacher shortage areas; (d) scholarships for needy
candidates from target areas; and (e) cooperative efforts between DGHE and
related agencies (inside and outside the MOEC) to secure appropriate teaching
jobs for PGSD graduates.
3.11      An appropriate formula for teacher needs determination would be
developed through a task force, which would prepare policy alternatives, and a
series of workshops and seminars during the first two years of the project.
The information system for tracking teacher distribution would be based upon
data compiled from MOEC and other ministries (MOHA, BAKN) at the national and
regional level. Mapping and other graphic display methods (manual and
computerized) would be used in order to illustrate changes in teac *r distri-
bution and locations of teacher shortages. Distributed and discussed on a
regular basis, these would help policy makers in deciding where to place new
teachers and LPTKs in identifying areas for targeted recruitment of PGSD
candidates. For targeted recruitment, procedures would be developed to
identify the strongest candidates from among secondary school graduates in a
target area, with preference given to female candidates. These graduates
would be recruited to the PGSD program in theii region. Those needing
academic assistance would be provided special counsbiling and tutoring; those
in financial need would be offered scholarships (includinb tuition support and
a dormitory place or other forms of subsidized housing), and be given "work-
study" assignments. Where large concentrations of targeted recruits are
expected (e.g., UPPs in the outer islands) dormitories would be built under
the project, about 3,200 places in all (see provision of facilities in para.
3.8). Cooperation on the placement of PGSD graduates would be the theme of a
series of policy papers and workshops. Such cooperation would also take place
during national and regional Coordination Forum Meetings (para. 1.4), as
outlined in Ministerial Decree No. 0461/U/1990.
3.12      The proposed project component would finance task force activities,
workshops, the development of student selection and recruitment systems, the
development and operation of the information and mapping system, student
scholarships, and the construction of dormitories. TA would be provided for
the development of the information system (6 staff-months for both
international a"id domestic), and the student selection procedures (3 staff-
months for both).
3.13      During negotiations the Government agreed to: (a) develop an
appropriate formula for determining teacher needs by August 31, 1994 and send
it to the Bank for review and comment; and (b) ensure recipients of
scholarships from target areas are obligated to serve in teacher shortage
areas for a period of two times the number of years they received financial
support plus one additional year (para. 6.1 (b)).



- 18 -
Building Research and Development CaRagity (Rstimated cost: US$2.1 million)
3.14      The object4ves of this component are to:  (a) create a rational
basis for policy-making in primary teacher education and distribution in
Indonesia; (b) promote better understanding among LPTK lecturers of the real
problems and conditions of primary school teachers as a means for improving
their PGSD courses; and (c) draw lecturers into action-oriented research
partnerships with teacters and educational administrators in order to improve
classroom teaching and to solve problems related to primary school teachers.
In order to accomplish these objectives the component would support three
kinds of activities: Policy Studies at the national level; Small Grants
Program for LPTK research teams; and Action-oriented Research Studies
conducted by primary school teachers under LPTK guidance. The Policy Studies
would be conducted over 2-3 years each and cost an average of US$150,000.
They would be contracted to local institutions after competitive bidding, and
would cover the following six topics: (a) Incentives for Primary School
Teachers (to be conducted in conjunction with related research in the proposed
Bank-assisted PEQIP; (b) Learning Needs and Characteristics of PGSD Recruits--
pre-service and in-service (to be used as an input into curriculum reform
efforts); (c) Demographic Change and Primary School Teacher Supply and Demand;
(d) The Quality of Instruction in the PGSD Program (a longitudinal study to
track Program impact); (e) Primary School Teacher Appointment and Placement;
and (f) Systems for D-II In-service Training in Remote Areas (see Annex 7 for
description of the policy studies). Special attention will be paid to the
matters related to recruitment and retention of female teachers in the policy
studies, as appropriate. Policy analysis workshops would be held beginning in
year three of the project for formulation of policies based on results and
recommendations of the policy studies. Quality control on these policy
studies would be the responsibility of a Quality Control Board, whose members
would be drawn from the Research Task Force and foreign/domestic consultants
as appropriate. Efforts to build individual and organizational capacity for
producing high quality research and utilizing research findings would be
emphasized. The studies would also draw on recent research training
experiences related to primary education (para. 3.3).
3.15      The Small Grants program would be preceded by a series of regional
training workshops to which groups of LPTK researchers would be invited to
bring proposals for applied research on various specified topics. These
proposals would be critiqued and strengthened by peers and resource persons.
The strongest of the proposals (approximately 20) would be funded through
small grants of around US$10-20,000. The Action-oriented Research would
include a series of pilot studies to examine the way in which teachers could
use action research to stimulate reflection upon and improvement of their own
teaching. These studies would involve pairing classroom teachers with LPTK
advisors and co-investigators. They would cost about US$5,000 each.
3.16      A Center for Primary Education Research and Development would be
established under this project at IKIP Y_&yakarta, which already manages a
graduate program in Educational Research. The Center would be responsible for
organizing the regional workshops leading to the small grants and administer-
ing the small grants and action-oriented research pilot studies. It would
also be responsible for exercising quality control for the small grants and



- 19 -
pilot studies. In addition, it would conduct one of the commissioned studies
and produce a Journal of Research on Primary Education, through which the
results of the commissioned research, small grants and pilot studies (among
other material) would be disseminated. The activities and outputs of the
Research Center would be subject to review by the national Research Quality
Control Board (para. 3.14).
3.17      The project would finance task force activities, training workshops,
the research grants, the Center for Primary Education Research and Develop-
ment, the Journal and other publications, and the establishment of a bibliog-
raphy/abstracting service. Specialists in research (16 staff-months
international; 16 staff-months domestic) would be provided to assist with the
overall organization of the research program, developing the terms of
reference for the policy studies, consulting on research design, methodology
and interpretation of findings, setting up the Research Center, and the
functioning of the Research Quality Control Board. During negotiations, the
Government agreed to: (a) conduct the six policy studies in accordance with
terms of reference acceptable by the Bank and commissioned on the basis of a
competitive evaluation of study proposals; (b) engage the Research Task Force
in preparing a plan of action for the implementation of the recommendations of
the policy studies for the consideration of policymakers; and (c) establish
the Research Quality Control Board (para. 3.14), with terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank, by October 31, 1992 (para. 6.1(c)).
Strengthening the Primary Teacher Education System (estimated cost:
US$1.8 million)
3.18      The objective of this component would be to strengthen management
structures and procedures at both the central (DGHE) and campus (LPTK) levels.
At the central level, steps would be taken to create and operate a Sub-
Directorate for Teacher Education within DGHE. In addition, the component
would strengthen ties between: (a) pre-service and in-service teacher
education; and (b) the D-II training program and the SPP/CBSA activities
supported by PEQIP, including a pilot study of possible program integration at
the field level.
3.19      At the campus (LPTK) level, where the PGSD has recently been
elevated from a study program to a Department (para. 1.16), strengthening
would mean enhancing -is new department's capacity to manage its
instructional units, improving both organizational management (e.g., the
amount of autonomy to be given to the UPPs) and instructional management
(e.g., the quality of instruction). The project would finance specialists on
SPP/CBSA management (both international and domestic, three staff-months
each), and a domestic consultant on Indonesian higher education management. A
study of management problems and processes would be launched which would lead
to specific recommendations for management reform including recommendations as
to the most appropriate location of PGSD within the management structure of
the IKIPs and FKIPs. Implementation of the reforms would be evaluated, and
revisions made if necessary. During negotiations, the Government agreed to:
(a) prepare and furnish to the Bank a plan indicating staffing and
organizational arrangements to strengthen management of its teacher education
programs by April 30, 1993 and thereafter carry out such plans taking into



- 20 -
account the comments of the Bank, in accordance with a timetable, acceptable
to the Bank; and (b) send the findings and recommendations of the management
study to the Bank for review and comment by December 31, 1995 (para. 6.1 (d)).
3.20      PGSD Program Manajement.  With the commencement of the PGSD program
in 1990-91 a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was established in DGHE (Chart
4). At the same time a Coordination Forum for Teacher Supply and Development
was established in MOEC (by Ministerial Decree (No. 0461/U/1990). The major
function of the Forum is to promote consultations on teacher supply and
appointment issues. It is chaired by the Secretary General of the MOEC and
coordinates the activities of the MOEC with those of the MOHA, BAPPENAS,
MENPAN, BAKN, and others. In addition, a Central Steering Council has been
established in the MOEC, chaired by the Director-General of Higher Education,
involving the Secretary-General, the Director- General of Primary and
Secondary Education, and the Chairman of Agency for Research and Development
(BALITBANG DIKBUD). The DGHE also intends to establish a Project Coordinating
Committee, chaired by the Director of Academic Affairs in DGHE, with
responsibility for formulating PGSD operational plans and procedures. The
National Consortium for Teacher Education will continue to act as Advisory
Group.
3.21      The Director of PIU will be assisted by a full-time Project Manager
responsible for the Bank-financed PGSD investment activities. Senior staff
working under the Project Manager would include four specialists covering:
(a) staff development, (b) D-II program development; (c) research and develop-
ment; and (d) civil works and procurement. In addition, the Project Manager
would be assisted by the PIU Secretary and Finance Officer.
3.22      Responsibility for overall coordination of activities and for
liaison with the Bank would rest with the Project Manager, who would: (a)
monitor and coordinate disbursement of the loan; (b) provide semiannual
progress reports to the Project Coordinating Committee and the Bank; (c) raise
issues requiring attention; (d) provide advice to local PIU (LPTK staff);
(e) submit withdrawal applications to the Bank; (f) arrange for timely audits
of project accounts; (g) prepare the project completion report; and (h)
participate directly in the management of local and overseas staff development
programs, and project studies and evaluations. At each of the 36 LPTKs
implementing PGSD, a project officer would be appointed, provided with the
necessary support staff, and given responsibility for managing project
activities at the UPPs under his/her jurisdiction according to rules and
procedures provided by the Project Manager.
3.23      Expenses such as honoraria, travel expenses, and some consumable
items of the PGSD management task force, workshops, the management study and
evaluation, meetings of the Coordination Forum for Teacher and Development,
the Central Steering Council, Project Coordinating Council, and Advisory
Group, activities related to recruitment of students from target areas, the
Project Manager, his four Project Officers, the PIU Administrative and
Financial Officers, will be financed by the Government.
3.;4      Technical Assistance.  The proposed project design calls for
technical assistance, both international and domestic, in all of the 5 project



- 21 -
components. The primary objectives are to help institution building, policy
development and project implementation. A summary of TA required for each
project component in staff-months is as follows (see Annex 6 for details):
Component                               lnternational       Domestic
(staff-month)     (staff-month)
Developing Primary Teacher Educators               81                 99
Strengthening D-II PGSD Programs                   18                 27
Establishing a Coordinated System
for Teacher Supply & Distribution                 9                  9
Building R&D Capacity                              16                 16
Strengthening Primary Teacher
Education System                                  3                  9
Overall                                     127                160
C. Proiect Implementation
3.25      Status of Project Preparation.  Specific GOI budgetary provision for
activities to be implemented under the proposed project during the GOI fiscal
year 1992-93 has been made and found by the Bank to be adequate. Criteria for
needy students eligible for scholarships from targeted areas and payment and
accounting procedures have been established and found acceptable to the Bank.
These actions as well as appointment of a full-time Project Manager
responsible for the implementation of the proposed project (paras. 3.21 and
3.22) were completed prior to negotiations. The following activities were
nearly completed prior to negotiations: (a) an implementation plan for staff
development activities and selection of candidates for overseas study tours to
be undertaken during the first year of the project; (b) revision of the
science equipment lists and completion of an inventory of stocks of equipment
at each project site; (c) terms of reference for the TA specialists to be
employed in the first year of the project; (d) terms of reference for six
policy studies; and (e) site acquisition for dormitories. Standard contract
documents for consultants, civil work and equipment were reviewed at
negotiations and found acceptable to the Bank.
3.26      ImRlementation Schedule.  The proposed project would be implemented
over a period of about four years, starting September 1, 1992 and ending
December 31, 1996. An implementation schedule (Annex 8) and cost schedule
(Annex 10) would serve as the basis for project implementation planning and
would be updated annually by the Project Manager of the PIU in cooperation
with the LPTK project officers. The closing date of the project would be
December 31, 1997.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
3.27      Performance Indicators.  Measurement of quality improvement under
the proposed project is difficult and requires long-term consistent efforts,
of which the proposed project is only the first phase. Considering the



- 22 -
complexity of measuring the quality improvement of the project, a set of
quantitative achievements expected during project implementation would be
annually tracked and evaluated by PIU specialists. The retroactive review
would indicate how much of each activity has been completed and how much
remained to be carried out. Implementation of the program would be monitored
in terms of attainment of staff training and development goals and technical
assistance, the production of new curricula and curricular materials and their
quality, the establishment and use of an information system for tracking
teacher distribution and placement needs, the recruitment and support of
teachers from target areas, progress in reaching agreement on a formula deter-
mining teacher needs, the completion and quality of research studies, the
implementation of PGSD management reform and improvements, and achievement of
construction work, procurement of equipment and teaching and learning
materials (see Annex 9 for details).
3.28      During negotiations, targets for individual activities for the first
project year were set. The activities will be monitored through the
appropriate indicators in the DGHE management information system and the
targets adjusted according to the annual project review. The initial estab-
lishment of targets are based on the time frame given in the project implemen-
tation schedule (Annex 8).
3.29      Proaresas Reorts.  The Government agreed that the PIU will prepare
semi-annual progress reports and submit them to the Bank by April 30 and
October 31 of each year (para. 6.2(e)). Data from the Performance Indicators
will be incorporated in the progress report, as appropriate.
3.30      Annual and Mid-term Review.  During negotiations, the Government
agreed that: (a) beginning in 1993, the GOI will submit to the Bank for
review and comment by December 31 of each year a retroactive review of the
implementation of the previous and ongoing year's budgets for the primary
teacher education program, together with a plan and budget for the following
fiscal year; and (b) thereafter the GOI will make the budgetary allocations
taking into account the Bank's comments on the proposed budget; and (c) hold
an annual and mid-term Bank-DGHE project review (para. 6.1 (f)). The timing
of the annual review would be coordinated with the GOI's annual budget
preparation cycle.



- 23 -
IV. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING. PROCUREMENT. AND DISBURSEMENTSI
A. Costs
Summary of Costs
4.1          The total cost of the project  is estimated at US$54.1 million
equivaient (Rp 107.8 billion), including contingencies and identifiable taxes
and duties. Tables 4.1 and 4.2 summarize the estimated costs by project
component and category of expenditure, respectively. Detailed project costs
are given in Annex 10.
Table 4.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
X      X Total
RD RilLion                 USS Million         Foreign     Base
Comiponent                 Local   Fore gn   Totat    Local  Foreign   Total   Exchange    Costs
Developing Primary Teacher
Educators                    20.0       27.3      47.3    10.0      13.7   23.7       57.8       51.6
Strengthening Primary Teacher
Education Programs           16.6        9.1      25.7     8.3       4.6   12.9       35.5       28.1
Establishing a Coordinating
System for Teacher Supply
and Distribution             11.0        0.4      11.4    5.5        0.2    5.7        3.3       12.4
Building Research and
Development Capacity          2.9        1.0       3.9     1.5       0.5     2.0      25.6        4.2
Strengthening Primary
Teacher Education
System                        2.5        0.8       3.3     1.3       0.4     1.7      22.7        3.7
Total Base Costs           MA         MA        91 6    26        19 4    _6 0      42.1      100.0
Physical contingenciee          3.2        3.2       6.4     1.6       1.6    3.2       49.6        7.0
Price contingencies             6.8        3.0       9.8     3.4       1.5    4.9       31.0       10.7
Total Costs La              63.0       44 8     1j0.               22      54.1      41.6      117.7
La  Inclusive of identifiable taxes an; -.luties estimated at USS1.5 million equivalent.



- 24 -
Table 4.2: SUtUARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
X    X Totat
RD B{ILon        _ USS itllion     Forefgn   Base
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange  Costs
CiviL works             11.3     4.8    16.1   5.7    2.4   8.1    30.0    17.6
Learning/teaching mterials   3.3  1.4    4.7   1.6    0.7   2.3    30.0       5.1
Equipment                0.2     2.1    2.3   0.1    1.1   1.2    90.0        2.6
Furniture                1.1     0.5    1.6   0.6    0.2   0.8    30.0        1.7
Technical assistance     0.8     2.4    3.2   0.4    1.2   1.6    90.0.       3.5
overseas fellowships     2.5    22.8    25.3   1.3   11.5  12.8    90.0    27.9
In-country fellowships  16.0     2.8   18.8   8.0    1.4   9.4    15.0    20.4
Research and studies     2.3     0.6    2.9   1.2    0.3   1.5    20.0        3.4
In-country training      3.4     0.6    4.0   1.7    0.3   2.0    15.0        4.3
Scholarships             9.6     0.0    9.6   4.8    0.0   4.8        0.0    10.4
Project management       2.5     0.6    3.1   1.2    0.3   1.5    20.0        3.3
Total Base Costs     53,0     3.      9.   2.       19.4  .46     42.1    100.0
Physical contingencies   3.2     3.2    6.4   1.6    1.6   3.2    49.6        7.0
Price contingencies      6.8     3.0    9.8   3.4    1.5   4.9    31.0    10.7
Total Costs La        6.        .A   107-     A     2.    4.1    41.6    117.7
La Inclusive of identifiable taXes and duties estimated at USS1.5 ktdLlion quivalent.
Basis of Cost Estimates
4.2       Baseline costs.  Baseline costs are estimated at May 1992 prices.
Civil works costs for dormitories are based on acceptable area allocation and
unit rates. Furniture and aquipment costs are based on current prices for
similar imported or locally available items. Learning and teaching materials
costs are based on similar items recently procured in other education projects
in Indonesia. Costs for international and domestic consultants are in line
with recent higher education projects for appropriately qualified experts.
Costs for research and study awards are based on recent experience from other
higher education development projects. Unit costs for in-country fellowships
range from US$1,380 per staff-month for short-term and US$3,160 per staff-year
for long-term, and overseas fellowships are estimated at US$6,700 per staff-
month for short-term and US$27,000 per staff-year for long-term. Short-term
in-country training costs vary widely depending on the type of training being
given and its location, and average US$140 per training-day. The annual
scholarships proposed for needy students from targeted areas is US$410 each,
which is adequate to cover living expenses, full tuition and book allowances.
Project management costs are based on standard government allowances for
honoraria, travel, per diems, and consumable materials.
4.3       Contingency Allowances.  Physical contingencies (US$3.2 million)
represent 7.01 and price contingencies (US$4.9 million) 10.71 of baseline



- 25 -
costs. Physical contingencies of 10 have been allowed for civil works,
learnlng and teaching materials, and overseas and local fellowships, 5X for
office and laboratory equipment, and furniture, and 02 for all other
categories. Price contingencies have been calculated at 62 per year for local
costs and at 3.7Z per year for foreign costs for all categories throughout.
4.4       Foreign Exchange Costs.  Foreign exchange costs are estimated at
US$22.5 million (representing about 41.62 of total project costs) and are
based on a detailed analysis of expenditures under similar projects in
Indonesia. The foreign exchange percentages for the major expenditure
categories are estimated as follows: (a) civil works, furniture, and learning
and teaching materials - 302; (b) equipment, international consultants and
overseas fellowships - 902; (c) in-country consultants, training and
fellowships - 152; (d) research and studies, and project management - 202; and
(e) recruitment and scholarship costs - 02.
4.5       Taxes and Duties.  Identifiable taxes and duties are estimated at
Rp 3.0 billion (US$1.5 million) based on the current 102 value added tax on
all contracts for civil works, goods, and learning and teaching materials.
Imported instructional equipment is exempted from import duties.
B. Financina
4.6       The total project cost of US$54.1 uillion equivalent would be
financed by a proposed Bank loan of US$36.6 million equivalent, covering 702
of total project costs excluding taxes (982 of foreign and 46X of local
expenditures). The Government would finance from its annual budget the
remaining costs of US$17.5 million equivalent (322 of total project costs
including taxes).



- 26 -
Tablg 4.3:  FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Government                         IBRD
of        IBRD      Total      Share
Indonesia                           (X)
Civil works                              4.5        4.5          9.0       50
Furniture                                0.9        0.0          0.9        0
Equipment                                0.1        1.1          1.2       90
Learning/teaching materials              1.4        1.4          2.8       50
Technical assistance                     0.0        1.7          1.7      100
Fellowships:
Overseas                               0.0       13.9         13.9      100
In-country                             5.3        5.2        10.5        50
Research and studies                     0.0         1.6         1.6      100
In-country training                      1.1        1.1          2.2       50
Scholarships                             1.6        3.8          5.4       70
Project management                       1.7        0.0          1.7        0
Unallocated                              0.9         2.3         3.2       72
Total                              17.5       36.6         54.1       68
Financial Sustainability
4.7       Under the proposed project, approximately 14,000 students would
enroll annually in the public UPPs (94), as compared with approximately
115,000 students enrolled in public SPGs/SGOs in 1988/89. Such a drastic
decrease in enrollments has and will continue to generate significant savings
as estimated below. These savings will not only make the proposed project
financially sustainable, but also enable the MOEC to concentrate its efforts
on improving the quality of education. Recurrent costs per student (mainly
teachers salaries, consumable materials, and other operation and maintenance
expenditures) for the PGSD and SPG/SGO are estimated at US$133 and US$109
(adjusted to 1991/92 prices), respectively. Total annual recurrent expendi-
tures for the 14,000 PGSD students and 115,000 public SPG/SGO students are
estimated at US$1.9 million and US$12.5 million, respectively. Annual savings
amount to US$10.6 million or US$53.0 million over the five year project
period. This amount of savings exceeds the total project cost
(US$51.7 million) by US$1.3 million.
4.8       During negotiations, the Government agreed to consult with the Bank
if, during the project implementation period (1992-96), it determines that the
D-II PGSD (pre-service) program intake needs to be greater than 8,000, before
any decision to increase the intake is made (para. 6.1(g)).



- 27 -
C. Procurement
4.9       The loan proceeds would be used to finance procurement in the
following expenditure categories:
(a) Civil works totalling about US$9.8 million equivalent. Past
experience in Indonesia has shown that contracts for civil works do
not attract foreign bidders unless they are packaged to form
contracts in excess of US$5 million. Since this is not feasible
under the proposed project because of the geographical dispersion of
project sites, all contracts for civil works would be awarded on the
basis of local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures which are
acceptable to the Bank. Interested foreign firms will, however, be
allowed to bid.
(b) Office and laboratory eguiRment. and computers totaling about US$1.2
million equivalent. Contract packages are expected to cost less
than US$200,000 each, because of the small quantities of items being
purchased. Due to the variety of items, it is not appropriate to
combine them into larger packages. Bid packages estimated to cost
US$50,000 or more would be awarded on the basis of LCB procedures
acceptable to the Bank. Off-the-shelf items of equipment not
exceeding US$50,000 for each package, up to an aggregate limit of
US$200,000, could be purchased through prudent shopping on the basis
of a minimum of three competitive price quotations.
(c) Learning and teaching materials totaiing about US$3.0 million
equivalent. Most learning and teaching materials would be journals,
research studies, manuals and guidelines produced and printed
locally. Printing services would be procured through local
competitive bidding while already printed books and teaching
materials would be procured through local shopping procedures or
after negotiations, directly from publishers and local distributors
or book jobbers.
(d) Consultant services totaling about US$1.7 million equivalent.
Consultants would be selected in accordance with the Bank Guidelines
for Use of Consultants.
(e) Research and studies awards totaling about US$1.6 million
equivalent. To cultivate quality, research contracts would be
awarded on the basis of a competitive procedure acceptable to the
Bank. Awards would be based on criteria for relevance of the topic
and qualifications of the parties selected, satisfactory to the
Bank.
(f) Overseas and in-country fellowshiDs totaling about US$26.6 million
equivalent. Placement of candidates in foreign institutions would
be made on the basis of relevance and quality of the programs
offered, costs, and prior experience, according to government
administrative procedures acceptable to the Bank.



- 28 -
4.10      Procurement Review.  The following are the guidelines regarding
procurement review:
(a) Except for those in para (b) below, all contracts valued at or over
US$200,000 would be subject to prior review by the Bank, whereas
contracts under US$200,000 in value would be subject to random post-
review;
(b) All contracts for overseas fellowships, research and studies and
consultants would be subject to prior review by the Bank; and
,:) In-country fellowships, in-country training and scholarships would
be subject to random post-review by the Bank.
It is expected that prior review would cover about 53X of the contracts to be
funded from the loan. Given the satisfactory performance by DGHE in
procurement under other higher education projects, this amount of prior review
would be sufficient to ensure compliance with Bank guidelines.



* 29 -
Table 4.4: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
Procurement                  Total cost
procedures__                including
Category of expenditure                LCB     Other /a   N.B.F.   contingencies
Civil works                            9.8                               9.8
(4.9)                            (4.9)
Furniture                                                   0.9          0.9
(0.0)       (0.0)
Equipment                              1.0       0.2                     1.2
(0.9)     (0.2)                  (1.1)
Learning and teaching materials        1.0       2.0                     3.0
(0.5)     (1.0)                  (1.5)
Technical assistance                             1.7                     1.7
(1.7)                  (1.7)
Fellowships:
Overseas                                      15.2                   15.2
(15.2)                 (15.2)
In-country                                    11.4                   11.4
(5.7)                  (5.7)
Research and studies                             1.6                     1.6
(1.6)                  (1.6)
In-country training                              2.2                     2.2
(1.1)                  (1.1)
Scholarships                                     5.4                     5.4
(3.8)                  (3.8)
Project management Lk                                       1.7          1.7
(0.0)       (0.0)
Total                           11.8       39.7        2654.1
(6.3)    (T70.0)                (36.6)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
N.B.F.: Not Bank-Financed.
LA   Includes prudent shopping, selection of consultants following Bank
Guidelines and selection of fellows using government administrative
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Ab Project management includes expenditures directly related to the manage-
ment of the project such as travel, consumable materials, honoraria,
etc., but excludes salaries.
D. Disbursements
4.11      The proposed loan of US$36.6 million equivalent would be disbursed
over a period of about 5 years (Annex 10). Disbursements are expected to be
completed by the December 31, 1997, the Loan Closing Date. The disbursement
schedule is based on the implementation schedule and the disbursement profile
for education projects in Indonesia (Annex 11). It is somewhat faster than
the present profile reflecting the timely implementation experience of DGHE.



- 30 -
Disbursements estimated for FY93 are based on the proposed initial deposit
into the project Special Account and replenishment. Disbursements would be
made as follows:
(a) Civil works                          50% of total expenditures
(b) Equipment                            100% of foreign expenditures,
100l of local (ex-factory)
expenditures, and
65% of local expenditures
for other items procured locally
(c) Learning and teaching                50% of total expenditures
materials
(d) Consultant services                  100% of total expenditures
(e) Fellowships:
Overseas                         100% of total expenditures
In-country                       50% of total expenditures
(f) Research and studies                 100% of total expenditures
(g) In-country training                  50% of total expenditures
(h) Scholarships                         70% of total expenditures
4.12      Disbursements from the loan for all contracts exceeding US$200,000
per contract, and for technical assistance (including research and studies)
and overseas fellowships would bo made against full documentation. All other
disbursements would be made against statements of expenditures for which
relevant documents would be retained by responsible agencies and made
available for review as requested by visiting Bank missions. To facilitate
disbursements, a SRecial Account would be established at Bank of Indonesia to
be used by DGHE under the direction of the Director General of the Budget,
Ministry of Finance, following established procedures. The Special Account
would be used against eligible expenditures for all categories. Upon Loan
Effectiveness and confirmation of the establishment of the Special Account,
the Bank, on receipt of an application from the Director General of the
Budget, Ministry of Finance, would make an initial deposit of US$2.9 million,
which is based on the need for funds to cover these expenditures on average
four months. Application for replenishment of the Special Account would be
submitted to the Bank quarterly or when the balance is 50% of the initial
deposit, or more frequently if necessary, in amounts of not less than
US$200,000 per application. Applications for direct payment and special
commitment would be a minimum of US$100,000 per application.



- 31 -
E. Accounts. Audits and ReRorts
4.13      DGHE would establish project accounts for all project expenditures,
to be maintained in accordance with sound accounting practices. Accounts and
documentation supporting the Statements of Expenditure (SOE) and Special
Account would be maintained separately. The PIU would prepare the financial
report. The financial statements and financial report for each fiscal year
would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank (para.
6.2(h)). The audit report would contain a separate opinion by the auditors as
to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during the year together
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can
be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
4.14      Certified copies of the financial report on the project for each
fiscal year, together with the auditors' statement, would be furnished to the
Bank as soon as available, but not later than nine months after the end of
each government fiscal year. Within six months after the completion of
disbursements, DGHE would submit a project completion report to the Bank.
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.1       Benefits.  The ultimate benefit from the project would be improved
quality of instruction in primary schools as a result of better trained
teachers (about 7,000 annual output). Under the project, the content and
methods of teacher training would be reformed and improved. Training programs
would be adjusted to correspond more closely with the competencies required
for classroom instruction. The project, together with other improvements
envisioned by the Government, would make it possible to allocate teachers in a
more equitable way and to achieve standards of curriculum development and
implementation substantially above current levels.  In addition, planning and
management capacity of central and local governments for teacher training
would be strengthened.
5.2       Risks.  The activities of this project span a wide geographical
area and depend on action at various levels of government administration and
between DGHE and DGPSE. Therefore, effective coordination and management are
especially important to the attainment of project objectives. Coordination is
also important between the SPP/CBSA program, which is entirely under the
responsibility of DGPSE, and the D-II in-service program, for which responsi-
bility is shared between DGHE (curriculum materials) and DGPSE (program
delivery). Factors outside the direct purview of the project, such as low
prestige of teacher training institutions, low salaries and inefficient
deployment of teachers, are major obstacles to improvement of instruction.
PEQIP includes assistance for a teacher professional development program and
provision of a more equitable resource base for under-served schools. In
addition, it would include a feasibility study which would provide recommenda-
tions for introducing better promotion opportunities for primary teachers.
The proposed project would include a systematic evaluation by the Government
of its policies on teacher salaries, deployment and working conditions.



- 32 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
During negotiations, the Government agreed to:
(a) assign returnees from overseas and domestic degree programs to
appropriate PGSD positions for a stipulated period (para. 3.5);
(b) (i) develop an appropriate formula for determining the number of
teachers needed by August 31, 1994 and send it to the Bank for
review and comment; and (ii) ensure scholarship recipients from
targeted areas will be required to serve in teacher shortage areas
for a stipulated period (para. 3.13);
(c) (i) conduct the six policy studies in accordance with terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank and commissioned on the basis of
a competitive evaluation of study proposals (para. 3.17); (ii)
engage the Research Task Force in preparing a plan of action for
the implementation of the recommendations of the policy studies by
the Research Task Force for the consideration of policymakers; and
(iii) establish the Research Quality Control Board, with terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank, by October 31, 1992 (para. 3.17);
(d) (i) prepare and furnish to the Bank a plan indicating staffing and
organizational arrangements to strengthen management of its teacher
education programs by April 30, 1993 and thereafter carry out such
plans taking into account the comments of the Bank, in accordance
with a timetable, acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) send the
findings and recommendations of a PGSD management study by December
31, 1995 to the Bank for review and comment (para. 3.19);
(e) submit progress reports to the Bank semi-annually by April 30 and
October 31 of each year (para. 3.29);
(f) (i) submit to the Bank by December 31 of each year commencing in
1993, for review and comment, a retrospective review of the
implementation of the previous and ongoing year's budgets for the
teacher education program, together with a plan and budget for the
following fiscal year; (ii) thereafter make the budgetary
allocations taking into account the Bank's comments on the proposed
budget; and (iii) hold an annual and mid-term Bank-DGHE project
review (para. 3.30);
(g) consult the Bank if, during the project implementation period
(1992-96), the Government determines that D-II PGSD (pre-service)
program intake needs to be greater than 8,000, before any decision
to increase the intake is made (para. 4.8); and
(h) make satisfactory arrangements for the establishment of the Special
Account, and the necessary organizational structure for its
operation, including appropriate accounting and auditing
procedures (para. 4.13).



- 33 -
Recommendation
6.3       Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed
project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$36.6 million equivalent to the
Republic of Indonesia for a term of 20 years, including a grace period of five
years, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



INDONESIA
PRIMARY SCHOOt TEACHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Educational Backsround of Primrv School Teacers.
NurRber of Schools, and Nlumber of PUDils by Province
fn 1990/1991 Academic Year
Number of Teachers                                            Nunber       Number
Provirce                                                                                                                     of           of
Schools      Pti ls
SD         SHP        SPG/SGA       SMTA       PGSLP         Sm            S1         Total
01. 0.D. Aceh                        3       2,041       21,686          68         175           79          229        24,281        2,99       510.786
02. Sumut                           60       8,860      62,138          m         1,366        1,079          635        74,913        9,257    1,866,381
03  Sum,br                          19       3,588       26,719         181          46          270           157       10,980        4.161      681,148
04  Riau                            11       2,196       18,935         248         224          230           199       22,043        2,936      543, 16
05  Bergkulu                        42       1,214       9,028           62          33           89           51        10,519        1,489      21s.872
06. Janbi                           63         387       15,740          55         357          113           50        16,745        2,139      345,771
07. Lanpung                        182       3,146       33,004         176       1,042          413          455        38,410        4,282    1,148,560
08. Sumsei                         217       3,683       36,626         S99         778          373          276       42,552         5,469    1,075,841
09. OKI Jakarta                      0       4,042       29,718         830         710        1,479        1.184       37,464         3,515    1,035,712
10. Java Barat                      25      16,668      151,037         489       1,855        2,018        2,016       174,325       24,624    4,873,013
11. Jaa Tengan                     100      12,707      163,782         780       2,969        3,674        1,710       185,296       22,002    4,067.153
12. Dl Yogyakarta                    2       1,419      17.475           49         561        1,258          500       21,254         2,335      392,965
13. Java Tiu.r                      75       6,919      145.451         725       2,925        7,758        5,414      169,267        22.460    3,871,806
14. sali                             0         485      20.214           12         864          243          496       22,314         2,698      368,992
15. Kalbar                          55       1,942      21,539          137         132          120          197       24,122         3,567      553,935
16. Kalsel                           4       1,255      18,648           59         487          170          108       20,731         2,886      363.658
17. Kalteng                         17         954       13,077         185         119           71           22       14,451         2.546      275.097
18. Kalttm                          19       1,118      13,042           49         747          141          217       15,333         1.993      341,858
19. Sutut                            7         897      23,457           87         244          235          256       2o,183         2,916      367,356
20. Sulteng                          6       1,794       13,379          58         118          127           68        15,550        2,305      308,064
21. Sultra                           S       1,203       11,019           4         136           78          114        12,559        1,666      239,599
22. Sulsel                           3       6,357      45,164          210         516        2,391        1.074       55,715         7,129    1,096.574
23. maluku                           0       1,209       12,441          22         548           61           86        14,367        2,470      346,318
24. RTB                              3       1,169       19,259          14         430          500          410       21.705         2,774      508,431
25. NTT                              1       1,408      23,475           54         565          398           96       25,991         3,838      563,178
26. Irian Jaya                      25         978       10,371          74         110           97           63        11,718        2,027      249,574
27. Timor Timur                    268       1,041       3,081           69          95            1            0        4,55S           587       97,617
Total                       1,212      88,660      979,505       5.571      18,152       23,466        16,083    1,133,343      147,064   26,308,423
X                             .10        7.82        86.42         .49        1.60         2.07          1.42       100.00
Teacher-school ratio
Student-teacher ratio                                                                                                               7.7        23.21



A-N NEX 2
INDONESIA
PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Primary School Teacher Distribution by Province
1989-90
Pupil:    Teacher:    Pupil:       Pupil:   Teacher:
No. Province                 school    school        teacher    class    class
1  D.K.I. Jakarta            294.22   10.67          27.57     37.24    1.35
2  Jawa Barat                195.60    7.02          27.85     28.97    1.04
3  Jawa Tengah               175.43    7.39          23.73     29.37    1.24
4  D.I. Yogyakarta           173.61    9.05          19.17     25.62    1.34
5  Jawa Timur                178.11    7.67          23.23     27.69    1.19
6  Bali                      140.85    7.49          18.81     23.60    1.25
7  D.I. Aceh                 174.92    7.35          23.81     26.23    1.10
8  Sumatera Utara            191.35    7.51          25.49     28.81    1.13
9  Sumatera Barat            169.20    7.25          23.35     25.91    1.11
10  Sumatera Selatan          199.58    7.28          27.42     29.89    1.09
11  Bengkulu                  161.07    7.07          22.78     26.80    1.18
12  Jambi                     181.32    7.42          24.45     27.49    1.12
13  Lampung                   246.69    8.19          30.11     30.72    1.02
14  Riau                      184.49    6.82          27.06     26.97    1.00
15  Kalimantan Barat          153.74    6.53          23.55     25.15    1.07
16  Kalimantan Tengah         100.30    5.45          18.41     20.80    1.13
17  Kalimantan Timur          169.18    7.52          22.51     25.02    1.11
18  Kalimantan Selatan        125.30    6.88          18.21     20.90    1.15
19  Sulawesi Utara            127.54    8.38          15.21     20.11    1.32
20  Sulawesi Selatan          156.88    7.26          21.60     24.01    1.11
21  Sulawesi Tengah           135.72    6.30          21.54     21.86    1.02
22  Sulawesi Tenggara         146.07    7.33          19.93     24.38    1.22
23  N. Tenggara Barat         186.15    7.82          23.79'    29.35    1.23
24  N. Tenggara Timur         153.13    6.63          23.10     25.18    1.09
25  Timor Timur               186.48    6.78          27.51     29.17    1.06
26  Maluku                    134.28    5.73          23.44     21.81    0 93
27  Irian Jaya                128.20    5.51          23.25     21.72    0.93
Total                     178.24    7.36          24.22     27.57    1.14
Source: Biro Perencanaan



ANEX 3
INDONESIA
PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
lank Group-FfnanMed Education arnd Trainino Prolects
Loan/Credit   fisecl Year   Purpoer                                        Agency                         Amount
Nuwnr                                                                                             (less cancelations)
Sank         IDA
-- (USS mitlion)
219         1970       First Education                               NOEC L                                 4.60
387         1973       Third Education                                NOEC                                 13.50
1237         1976       Fourth Education                              NOEC                      37.00
1433         1977       First Teacher Training                        NOEC                      19.00
1486         1978       Nonformul Education                           NOEC                      15.00
869         1979       Polytechnic                                    NOEC                                 49.00
1904         1981       First University Development                  NOEC                      45.00
2101         1982       Second Teacher Training                       NOEC                      79.59
2102         1982       Second Textbook                                NOEC                     25.00
2290         1983       Second Polytechnic                            NOEC                      107.40
2355         1984       Second Nonforcel Education                    NOEC                      43.00
247n         1985       Secondary Educatlon A Mgmt. Training          NOEC                      78.00
2547         1985       Second University Development                 NOEC                      147.00
2944         198        Higher Educ tion Developm nt                  NOEC                      140.30
3158         1990       Second Secondary Education                     "OEC                     154.20
3311         1991       Second Higher Education Oevelopment            NOEC                     150.00
3431         1991       Third Nonform_l Educ tion                      NOEC                     69.50       37.00
1992       Primery Educ tion Quality I proveent          NOEC                      37.00
NOEC    Subtotal       1,146.99      67.10
288         1972       Second Education                              NOA Lb                                 6.30
1692         1979       Second Agricultural Training                  NCA                       42.00
2258         1983       MPCS/Construction                             Mph  LI                   30.00
2341         1984       Third Agricutlural Training                   NOA                       63.30
2599         1985       Science A Technology Training                 NMOT Lg                   93.00
2705         1986      NMepower Development & TraIning                 NON L                    58.10
2940         1988       Accountncy Developw mnt                       NMO Fi                   113.00
29           1989       Tree Crop HNun Resource Development           NOA                        18.40
3112         1990       Public works Institution cev. &
Training                                  IW                        36.10
3134         1990       Profssion Humn Resources Dev.                  BAPPENAS, BPPT |         117.56
Subtotal           571.40       AM
Grand Total       1,611.89      73.40
2 NoeC - Ministry of EdLcation  nd Cultur
Lb MA  - Ministry of Agreculture
L/  WPV  -  inistry of Publfc Works
S  NMOT - Ministry of Reearch *nd Technology
N MOME - Ministry of Marpower
Lf  HOF  - Ministry of Finance
J2  BPPT - Agency for Assessment and Applicatin of Technology



INDONESIA
PRIMARY SCROOL TEACHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Planned and Actual PGSD Students Enroltment for Ctassroom Teacher
and Face-to-Face In-Service Proarams
(As of December 1991)
Classroom Teacher              Classroom Teacher                Face-to-Face In-
No.         Name of LPTK                 u P P                       1990/1991                       1991/1992                  service 1991/1992
Planned         Actual         Planned          Actual         Planned         Actual
1                2                        3                       4               5               6               7               8               9
1      FKIP Un. Syiah          1.  Central campus                  .-                                            79             200
2.  UPP Banda Aceh                                               40                -             80
3.  UPP Banda Aceh ___                                           40                -             80
2      IKIP Medan               1.  Central campus              400              186            280             306             120
2.  UPP 1 Medan                  200             186            200             149              80
3.  UPP Medan                      .             170               .                             80
3      IKIP Padang              1.  Central campus              200             193             240               -             200             186
2.  UPP Padang                   200             179             80             117              80              13
3.  UPP Padang                   200             181             80             198              40              39
________ __   4.  UPP Bukittinggi                                           80             159              80              70
4      FKIP Un. Riiau           1.  Central campus                                               40              38             200              55
2.  UPP Pekan Baru                                               40              39              80              53
5      FKIP Un. Bengkulu       1.  Central campus                                                                               200              28
2.  UPP Bengkulu                                                 40              45              80              66
3.  UPP Bengkulu                                                 40              44              80
6      FKIP Univ. Jambi         1.  Central campus                                               40              77             200             159
2.  UPP Jambi                                                    40                              80
7      FKIP Un. Lampung        1.  Central campus                                                                               2 200            65               _
2.  UPP Metro                                                    40              40              80              80             D 
3.  UPP Tanjung Kr.                                              40              39              80              76               IN
0
r-   Total (1)                 ___________                     1,200           1.095          1,360           1302,320                          890
p.-



IMIIDNESIA
PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACNER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Planned and Actual PGSD Students Enrollment for Classroom Teacher
and Face-to-Face In-Service Program
(As of December 1991)
Classroom Teacher             Classroom Teacher               Face-to-Face In-
Nme of LPTK                 U P P                     1990/1991                      1991/1992                  service 1991/1992
Plamed         Actual         Planned         Actual         Platned         Actual
1               2                        3                      4               5              6               7              8               9
8      IKIP Jakarta            1. CentraL campus               280            270             160                            160
2. UPP Setiabudi                120            100             120            157              80
3. UPP Hatimun                  120            116             120            160              80
4. UPP Jakarta                  120            100              80            154              40
9      IKIP 6andung            1. Central canpus               240            240             120            134             80              84
2. tiPP Cibiru                  120            113             120             84             80              72
3. UPP Purwakarta               120            120             120            118             80              67
4. UPP Sunedang                  40             37               -             78              40             84
5. UPP Serang                     -              -              80             78              80             90
________. __________    6. UPP TasfkmaLaya              120            112              80            123              80             79
10     IKIP Semarang           1. Central campus               240             179            200             90             200
2. UPP Semarang                 120            170              80            173              80            112
3. UPP Semarang                 120            171               -                             40             57
4. UPP Tegat                                     -              80            112              80            154
11     FKIP UNS                1.  Central campus              160            161             120                            120            131
2. UPP Surakarta                  -              -              80            185             80
3. UPP Surakarta                120            116                                             40
4. UPP Kebunen                  120            118              80             91              80             54
12     FKIP Yogyakarta         1. Central campus               240            240             200                            160
2. UPP Yogya 1                  120            120              80            222              80
3. UPP Yogya 2                  120             96                            113              80
4. UPP Wates                                                     o 80                          80
13     IKIP Surabaya           1. Central campus               280            253             280            154             160                           Q z
2. UPP Surabaya 1               160            144             200            152             80                            D
3. UPP Surabaya 2               160            141               -            157              80     _     _*
14     IKIP Halang             1. Central campis               280      )                     240      )                     120
2. UPP Malang 1                 160      )    540               80      )    443               80
3. UPP Halang 2                 160      )                     80       )                      80
_____    ______ __     4. UPP Blitar                                         80                             80
Total (102)             _                              5,040          4,752           4,320          4,308           4,920          1,874



IWIIESIA
PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACHER DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
Planned and Actual PGSD Students Enrollment for Classrom Teacher
and Face-to-Face In-Service Proaraw
(As of December 1991)
Classroom Teacher              Classroom Teacher               Face-to-Face In-
No.         Name of LPTK               u P P                    1990/1991                      1991/1992                   service 199111992
Planned         Actual         Planned         Actual          Planned          Actual
1               2                      3                     4              5               6               7               8               9
15      FKIP Un. Udayana      1. Central campus             200            147             160             103              120             45
2. UPP Singaraja             160             144            120              66               80             45
3. UPP Denpasar               40              71               -             67               80             135
16      FKIP Univ. Nataram    1. Central campus                                             40              76             200             200
2. UPP Nataram                                               40                               80
17     IKIP U. Pandang        1. Central campus             360            311             200             196              160            160
2. UPP U. Pandang            160             151             80              80               80             80
3. UPP Pare-Pare                                             80              72               80             80
4. UPP Watampone                                               o 80          69               80             80
18      FKIP Un. Tadulako     1. Central campus                                             80              82             200
19      FKIP Un. Halu Oleo    1. Central campus                                                             75             200              36
2. UPP Kendari 1                                             40                               80             36
3. UPP Kendari 2                                             40               -               80             36
20      FKIP Manado           1. CentraL campus             200            200             160             160              120
2. UPP Manado                120             120             80              80               80
_______  ____________   3. UPP Tonohon               120            120              80              80              80
21      FKIP Un. Sam Rat.     1. Central campus                                                                             200
2. UPP Gorontalo 1                                           40              40               80
3. UPP Gorontalo 2             .                             40              40               80
22      Un. Tanjungpura       1. Central canpus                                                                             200             35
2. UPP Pontianak 1                                           40              37               80             34
3. UPP Pontianak 2                                           40              30               80     __>
23      FKIP Un. Lamrb.       1. Central campus                                                                             160
2. UPP Banjarbaru                                            40              38               80             79
1                                                            40              40               40             80            o >
3. UPP Banjarbaru                                                                                                           0
_ _ _ _ _   2                                                                                                               4__ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _1
24      FKIP Un. Nulawarman   1. Central campus                                                                             200            171
2. UPP Samarinda 1                                           40              34               80             78
3. UPP Samarinda 2             .                             40              36               80              78
Total (1+2+3)                                      6,400          6,018           5,920           5,809            8.080          3.362



INDONESIA
PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACHER DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Planned and Actual PGSD Students Enrollment for Classroom Teacher
and Face-to-Face In-Service Programs
(As of December 1991)
Classroom Teacher              Classroom Teacher                Face-to-Face In-
No.          Name of LPTK                 U P P                      1990'1991                       1991/1992                  service 1991J1992
Planned         Actual         Planned          Actual         Planned         Actual
1                2                         3                       4               5              6               7               8               9
25      FKIP Un. Pak'raya       1.  Central campus                                                                70             200              29
2.  UPP Palangkarays                                             40              69              80
3.  UPP Palangkaraya s                                           40              53              80
26      FKIP Un. Nu'cendana    1.  Central campus                                                 40       )      88             200
2.  UPP Kupang                                                   40       )                      80
27      FKIP Un. Pattimura      1.  Central campus                                                                               200
2.  UPP Ambon 1                                                  40              40             2
3. UPP Anbon 2                     .                              40             40              80
28      FKIP Un. Cend'wasih    1.  Central campus                  .                                              35             200
2.  UPP Jayepura 1                 .                             40              35              8)
3. UPP Jayapura 2                           _     _40                                            eo
29      FKIP Un. Sriuijaya      1.  Central campus                       _                                                       200             93
2.  UPP Palembiang 1                                             40              79              80
3. UPP Palembang 2                                               40                              80
30      FKIP Univ. Jember       1.  Central canpus                        _                       80              61             200
31      FKIP Un. Nomensen       1.  Central campus                80              80              80              80
32      FKIP Un. S'wacana       1.  Central campus                120            120             120             120
33      IKIP Muh. Jakarta       1.  Central campus                120            120             120             120
34      IKIP Sanatadharma       1.  Central canpus                120            120             120             120                                           - 
35      IKIP PGRI Malang        1.  Central campus                80              80              80              80                      _q _    _
36      FKIP Un.Muh. U.Pd.      1.  Central campus                80              80              80              80                                           mL_ >c
0
Total (grand)            98 UPPs                        7,000          6,618           7,000           6,979          10,000           3, 484     



INDONESIA
PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACHER DEVELOPMEENT PROJECT
Staff Development Proarm
In-count ry                                                 erseas
Fields of Study             -y -_                                                                                        
lNon-    Dura-    Si    Dura-    S2    Dura-   S3   Dura-   Non-   Dura-    MA    Dura-   Ph.D           Dura-
deg.     tion            tion            tion          tion    deg.   tfon             tion               tion
1.  PSTE Dev. & Management                                                                           16   1/1        _
2.  PSTE Training for
Trainers                                                                                        38   1.11
3.  PSTE Educator Training                                                                         240+  3/1
30
4.  PSTE Teaching Staff
* Math. Teaching                100      6w/i                    20   24n/J                                     25  30w/2   3         36.12
* Sclence Teaching              100      6w/1                    20   24m1i                                     25  30m12   3         36nJ2
* Soc. Study Teaching           100      6w/i                    20   24/2                                      25  30m/2   3         36.12
* Languae Teaching              100      6w/i                    20   24./2                                     25  30n2   3          36.12
* PIP Teaching                  100      6w/i
* Moral Civic Education                                                                                         20  30bJ2   2         36./2
Phys. Ed. Teaching            100      6W/I                                                                    5   3OP/2
* Arta Teaching                  10      6w/i
* Lower Primry SubJect
Teaching                      100      6w/i                                                                   10  30m/2
* Distaice Learnfng              10      6w/i                                                                    3   30i/2    I       36.12
* Teaching Special Ed.           10      6w/i                                                                    5  30/2
S.  Primary Educatlon
* Practice-oriented                                              20   24./i                                      5  3bl2    4         36n/2
* Research-oriented                                                                                                          6        36m/2
6.  N.I.S.                                                                                                            3  30m/2
7.   Second S1 Program                               700    24.1
1.2.3
8.  UPP Mnagers                      196      3w/i
9.   Library Technician               98      24.1
1.2.3
9.   Training of Guru Pamow        1,600      11/2
Total                    2,624             700             100            -               324             151               25  _      _
Notes: Duration indicates how long and In which year the related training program
will be.
w indicates week(s)
m Indicates month(s)
/1,2.3,4 indicates year(s) in which related training program starts.



INDONESIA
PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance by Component and Field
(Foreign and Domestic. in Staff-Months)
Erein  Domestic
Component A:
Developing Primary Teacher Educators
Training Development Specialist                   18       36
Subject Area Trainirng Specialist                 60       60
Training Program Evdluation Specialist             3        3
Sub-total                                         81       99
Component B:
Strengthening Primary Teacher Education Programs
Curriculum Development Specialist                  9       9
Learning Materials Dev't Specialist                6       6
Curriculum Evaluation Specialist                   3       3
Laboratory Equipment Specialist                    -       3
Civil Works Specialist                                     A
sub-total                                         18      27
Component C:
System for Teacher Supplv and Distribution
Information System Specialist                      6       6
Student Selection Specialist                       3       3
Sub-total                                          9      19
Component D:
Building Research and Development CaDacitv
Research Advisors                                 16      16
Component E:
Strengthening Management of PGSD Programs
Specialist in SPP/CBSA Management                  3       3
Specialist in Higher Education Management                  6
Sub-total                                          3       9
Overall                                            127     160



ANNEX-7
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Policy Studies
1. Incentives for Primary School Teachers
Will document the financial incentives (salary and benefits) available
to primary school teachers, public and private, in relation to years of service,
nature of their responsibilities, geographical region (urban vs. rural vs.
remote), and opportunities for extra income. Will examine changes in incentives
over time and compare primary school teaching with other occupations requiring
similar levels of preparation.  Will also compare incentives for teachers in
Indonesia with those of neighboring countries. To be conducted over a 24-month
period in conjunction with the PEQIP study on primary school teacher promotion
opportunities. Completion date: December 1994.
2. Learning Needs and Characteristics of PGSD Recruits: Pre-service and
In-service
Will examine the background characteristics and learning needs of pre-
service and in-service PGSD recruits. The main focus will be on prerequisite
knowledge, skills and dispositions for successful performance in the teacher
training program and the teaching profession. The outcome of the study will be
used in revising the pre-service and in-service PGSD curricula and in developing
standards and policies concerning PGSD candidate selection. The 24-month study
will involve quantitative and qualitative data collection from a wide variety of
regions throughout the country. Special attention will be given to recruits from
target (teacher shortage) areas. Completion date: December 1994.
3.  DemograDhic Change and Primary School Teacher Supply and Demand
Will examine population growth and mobility patterns and the ways in
which they effect primary school teacher supply and demand.   Of particular
interest will be geographical regions where population growth or decline, caused
by mobility and/or changes in fertility, have been substantial over recent years.
The study will attempt to find reasons for these changes and analyze how they
influence issues of teacher training, recruitment and transfer. The scope of the
study will be national, but special cases studies will be conducted in selected
areas of rapid population change. The duration will be 24 months. Completion
date: December 1995.
4. The Oualitv of Instruction in the PGSD Program
Will be a 36-month evaluation of the impact of project inputs (staff
training, program/curriculum improvement, management reform, etc.) on the quality
of PGSD instruction.   The study will develop an operational definition of
instructional quality and then collect baseline date in selected institutions
where PGSD is being implemented. Using a longitudinal design, the study will



ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2
trace the impact of the various project inputs over a three-year period. The
study will lead to recommendations on ways to assure greater impact of project
inputs. Completion date: August 1996.
5. Primary School Teacher ARRointment and Placement
Will be a 24-month tracer study of PGSD graduates, focusing on their
success in obtaining primary school teaching jobs, their job placement and the
length of time required for obtaining the first appointment. Special attention
will be paid to female graduates, and those who were selectively recruited from
teacher shortage areas, particularly the extent to which those who were provided
scholarship support and dormitory accommodations actually accepted and stayed
with appointments in the areas from which they were recruited. Completion date:
August 1996.
6. Systems of D-II In-service Training in Remote Areas (R&D)
Will be a continuation of research and development work initiated by
the Open University aimed at providing SD teachers in remote areas with access
to appropriate D-II in-service training opportunities. The 24-month study will
include a formative evaluation of prototype modules covering "multigrade
teaching" and of innovative delivery systems for D-II tutorials, including the
use of interactive radio and cassette tape programs. After formative evaluation
at a single experimental site (year one), the system will be tried out in other
locations (year two). Completion



ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 5
INDONESIA
PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Activities and Implementation Schedule
Activities By Component          1992/3      1993/4      1994/5    1995/6
Year 1      Year 2    Year 3   Year 4
A. Developing Primary Teacher
Educaors
1. Task Force Activities: Planning
training programs.                 X
2. Identification of overseas
training institutions.             X
3. Preparation workshops for study
tours.                               X
4. Post-training workshops for
study tour participants.                   X  X
5. Workshop for prep. of in-
country training.                                X
6. Language training for MA/Ph.D.
candidates.                           XXXXX    XX
7. Overseas Training:
(a) Comparative sty. tour, 16
prog. developers;                  X
(b) Comparative sty. tour, 38
training managers;                  X
(c) Initial overseas training,
270 lecturers;                    XX       X
(d) MA degree program, 151
persons;                                   XXXXX      XXXXXX   XXXXXX
(e) Ph.D. degree program; 25
persons.                                   XXXXX       OO        XXXXxGO
8. In-country training:
(a) Second S1 Program
(up to 700 persons);           XXXXXX      XXXXXX    XXXXXX   XXXXXX
(b) Short-term PGSD staff
training (730 Persons);          XX
(c) Training of supervising
teachers (1600 persons);              XX
(d) UPP management training
(196 persons);                              X
(e) Library technicians
training (98 persons);         XXXXXX      XXXXXX
(f) Domestic S2 program (100
persons).                                  XXxWOX    XXXXXX   XXXXXX
9. Technical assistance:
(a) International (81 sm);         XXXXXX      XXXXXX
(b) Domestic (99) sm).             XXXXXX      XXXXXX    XXXXXX   X
NOTE:  Each X represents up to 2 months;  SM - Staff months.



ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 5
INDONESIA
PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Activities and ImRlementation Schedule
Activities By Component        1992/3    1993/4      1994/5     1995/6
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4
B.  Strengthening Primary Teacher
ED Pro grams
1.  Procurement and distribution
of UPP equipment.
2.  Review of teacher education      XXXX
policies/objectives.
3.  Study of characteristics and    XX
training needs of PGSD
recruits (see Comp. D).          XXXXXX   XXXXXX
4.  Review PGSD aurricula and
materials/formative eval.
(pre/in-service).                XX
5.  Review subject specific
curriculum revision
needs/1994 SD curric.
6.  PGSD curriculum revision           XX
workshops (pre/in-serv.).
7.  Workshop on PGSD teaching                  XX
strategies.
8.  Writing of curricular                       XX
materials (pre/in-serv).
9.  Try-out of curricular                          XXX
materials (pre/in-3erv.).
10. Review workshop re curric.                             XX
materials revision.



ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 5
INDONESIA
PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proiect Activities and ImRlementation Schedule
Activities By Component        1992/3      1993/4     1994/5     1995/6
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4
11. Revision of curricular                                       XX
materials (pre/in-serv.).
12. Production and distrib. of
curricular materials.                                             XXXX
13. Task forces on supplementary
materials.                                                   XX
14. Translating, adapting,
writing sup. materials.                                           XXX
15. Acquisition and distrib. of
library materials.                                                XXX
16. Technical assistance:
(a) international (18 sm);       XX         X X X    XX XX
(b) domestic (21 sm).            XXX        X X X     XX XX
C.  Coordinated Teacher Supply
and Distribution
1. Task force activities:
planning and position paper
writing concerning rnumber of
teachers needed,
information/mapping system,      X X X      X X        X            X
PGSD student recruitment/
selection, graduated appt.
and placement.
2. Workshops on:
(a) Teacher needs formula;       X X        X X
(b) Information/mapping
systems;                      X          XX
(c) PGSD student recruitment
and selection;               X X        X X
(d) PGSD graduate appt. and                            X
placement.                                  X
3. Target recruitment
activities/scholarship
awards.                           XX         XX        XX           XX
4. Teacher mapping activities:
(a) Data base development;                 XX         XX         XX
(b) Analysis and mapping.                    X         X          X
5. Technical Assistance:
(a) International;               XXX        XX
(b) Domestic.                    XXX        XX



ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 5
INDONESIA
PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Activities and Implementation Schedule
Activities By Component        1992/3       1993/4     1994/5      1995/6
Year 1      Year 2    Year 3       Year 4
D. Building Research and
Development Capacity
1. Task force activities:
planning, reviewing, quality  XX                X           X           X
control.
2. Selection of research
institutions for policy         X       X
studies.
3.  Implementation of policy
studies:
(a)  Incentives for primary    XXXXX        XXXXXX
school teachers;
(b)  Chars/needs of PGSD         XXXXX      XXXXXX
recruits;
(c)  In-service D-II in          XXXXY.      XXxx
remote areas;
(d) Demographic change and
teacher supply/demand;                 XXXXXX    XXXXXX
(e) Quality of PGSD
instruction;                           XXXXXX    XXXXXX       XIXXXB
(f) Primary teacher appt.
and placement.                                     XXXOOX      XXXXBO
4. Regional res. workshops re
small grants (6 regions).                   X          X
5. Action research workshops (3
locations).                                            x
6.  Small grants research.                        XXXXX      XXXXX
7. Action research pilot
studies.                                                 XXXXX
8. Seminars on research
outcomes/findings:
(a)  policy studies;                              X             X        X
(b)  small grants;                                X             X
(c)  action research.                                               X
9. Publication and
distribution:
(a)  Research journal;                         XX           xx         xx
(b)  Seminar proceedings;                              X            X      X
(c) Action research
resource book.                                                    XX
10. Technical assistance:
(a)  international (16 sm);      XX          XX         XX              XX
(b)  domestic (16 sm).           XX          xx         XX              XX



ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 5
INDONESIA
PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proiect Activities and Implementation Schedule
Activities By Component         1992/3     1993/4     1994/5      1995/6
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4
E.  Strenethening Primary Teacher
Education System
1.  Task force activities:
planning and organizing.             XX        XX          X          X
2.  Initial workshop on PGSD
management reform.                      X
3.  Study of PGSD management.                   XXXXX
4.  Workshop to review PGSD
management study.                                   X
5.  Production of handbook on                               XX
PGSD management reforms.
6.  PGSD management training (see
Component A).                                             X
7.  Evaluation of impact of PGSD
reforms.
8.  Preparation of future
projects:                                                          XXX
(a)  secondary teacher educ.;       XXX
(b) second phase primary
teacher educ..                                                XXX
9.  Workshops on pre-service and
in-service PGSD coordination.
10. Pilot study on PGSD-PEQIP        X
integration.                                   XX       XX
11. Technical Assistance:
(a) International;
(b)  Domestic.                                X         x
XXXX        X



ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Performance Indicators
Project ComRonent A:  Developing Primary Teacher Educators
1.   The number of PGSD personnel successfully completing the various
kinds of study/training programs;
2.   The number of PGSD personnel returning to PGSD management or
teaching positions after completing short- or long-term overseas
training and local undergraduate and graduate programs (S1, S2);
3.   The number of supervising teachers (guru pamong) succe,ssfully
completing their training program; and
4.   The number of primary school teachers completing the domestic Sl
training program in primary teacher education.
Proiect Component B: Strengthening Primary Teacher Education Programs
1.   The kinds, quantities, and timing of materials and equipment
distribution to UPPs;
2.   The completion and quality (according to expert opinion) of
curricular revisions (pre-service and in-service);
3.   The number, titles and quality (according to expert opinion) of
curricular materials (textbooks and modules) produced, tried-out,
and revised; and
4.   The number, titles and quality (according to expert opinion) of
supplementary PGSD materials (for students and lecturers)
translated, adapted and created.
Project Component C:  Establishing a Coordinated System for Teacher SUDlY and
Distribution
1.   The creation and use of a formula for determining the number of
teachers needed;
2.   The number of times Coordination Forums (National, Provincial,
Regional) met and the major decisions they made;
3.   The number of times and the places per year teacher distribution
maps/charts were produced, distributed,and discussed;



ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
4.   The numbers and geographical origins of target students recruited
per year and the number of scholarships awarded to needy students,
by LPTK;
5.   The number of dormitory rooms built and the occupancy rate by
targeted students; and
6.   The number of PGSD graduates appointed to teaching jobs, indicating
job locations and waiting time.
Project Component D: Building Research and DeveloRment Capacity
1.   The completion and quality (according to expert opinion) of policy
studies; the number of policy review seminars held; a listing of
policy recommendations from the studies which were accepted and put
into practice;
2.   The number of small grants and applied research workshops held; the
locations and number of participants in each;
3.   The number and topics of small grant research studies completed;
their quality and utility (according to expert opinion);
4.   The number of action-oriented research pilot studies completed;
their quality and utility (according to expert opinion);
5.   The number of Research Journal editions and Seminar Proceedings
published and distributed; and
6.  The number and titles of other research books, articles, manuals,
and bibliographies and abstracts published and distributed.
Project Component E: Strengthening the Primary Teacher Education System
Programs
1.   Progress in establishing a Subdirectorate for Teacher Education;
2.   Completion and quality (according to expert opinion) of study on
PGSD management reforms;
3.   The number of PCSD managers successfully completing management
training;
4.   The impact of PGSD management reforms (in terms of improved
organizational management and instructional quality);
5.   The completion of workshops for the coordination of pre-service and
in-service PGSD;
6.   The completion of a pilot study on PGSD-PEQIP integration; and
7.   The completion of preparations for future projects (secondary
teacher education; second phase primary teacher education).



INDONESIA
PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACHER DEVELOPMIIENT PROJECT
Stmmrv Accounts by Year
Totals lncludina continrencfes (Rupiah)                Totals includina contingencles (USS)
92/93       93/94       94/95       95/96         Total       92/93   93/94   94/95   95/96    Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Cfvil Works
1. Dormitory                            0.0     9,557.5    10,059.4          0.0     19,616.9      0.0     4.8      5.0     0.0      9.8
B. Equip/furniture/LT material
1. Learning/teach mterials              2.2       480.0        703.4    4,835.9       6,021.5      0.0     0.2      0.4     2.4      3.0
2. Office and learning equlpnt  2,489.1              0.0         0.0         0.0      2,489.1       1.2     0.0     0.0     0.0      1.2
3.  Furniture                           0.0        903.5       950 9         0.0     J.L54.4       0.0      0.5     0.4      0       0.9
Subtotal                      Z,Z91J       I3  3       1.543            I 5Y   10365          I        .      0.8     Z.4      5.
C. Technical Assistwnce
1.  Internatial consultant          1,117.1      1,097.7       318.1       125.4      2,658.3      0.6     0.5      0.1     0.1      1.3
2. Dcoestic consultant                269.7        313.0       130.8        28.7        742.2      0.1      0.2     0.1     0.0      0.4
3. Research and studies                 0.       1.242.4     1, .          433.3      3.2L42.4     O 2       h6     06      0.2      1.6
Subtotal                      1,847.4     2,653.1      1,555.0                  6,642.9      0.9      1       U 
D. Fellowships
1. Overseas fellowships             6,381.0     6,155.9    11,104.7      6,585.3    30,226.9       3.2     3.1      5.6     3.3     15.2
2.  In-country fellotships                                  84 .  13.502.3  4.              0     11       . 22.755.1   1 3  6.8  3  I 0
Subtotct                      9,659    1S,u6582    15,661.4    8,9.B29Z0                     45      99       {9      *         .6
E. In-country training
1.  Taskforce                         203.9        160.4       186.5        70.5        621.3      0.1     0.1      0.1     0.0      0.3
2.  Seminars                            0.0         45.4        56.0       147.2        248.6      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.1      0.1
3. Workshops                        1.483.7    1.042 3         717.1       200.6      3.443.7       0.8     0.5     0.4     0.1      1.8
Subtotal                      1,687.6      ,2482.1       459.6        18.3      4j313.6      0.9     0        0.5              2
F.  Recruitment                            43.1         45.7        48.4        51.3        188.5      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.1      0.1
G.  Scholarships                        2,322.0      2,520.3     2,727.5     2,944.2     10,514.0       1.2     1.3     1.4     1.5      5.4
H.  Project management
1.  Mangaement funds                  621.0       508.6        509.4       759.3      2,398.3      0.3      0.3     0.3     0.3      1.2
2.  Honoraria                          42.5         44.9        47.4        50.0        184.8      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.1      0.1
3.  Travel expenses                   127.0        134.1       141.5       149.4        552.0      0.1      0.1     0.1     0.0      0.3
4.  Supervision trip                    6.2          6.5         6.9         7.3         26.9      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0
5.  Consumeble materials               12.3         13.0        13.7        14.4         53.4      0.0      0.0     -0.0  0.0      0 0
Subtotal                         WX         7i:7         718.          -7 98.Y1 *3,215.4            U7       0.4     0.4      rg-            co 17!
Total Project Costs          18.266.3   37.773 5    33.384.5    18.414.0   10738.3           9.1    19.0      9. 92    54.1
0  o
Values scaled by 1000000.0 2/21/1992 16:58.



INDONESIA
PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summarv Accountt by Proiect Comwnent
Rupisn
Strength-    Est       8uilding
Dev Pri      enin       Coord     Res and    St     thein PTE Sttem                    Physical           Price
Teacher   Dll PT        Sys 7       Dev       -Sstem        Project                 Contifnencies    Conticfes
Educators    Pro       Supp/Dis   Capacity   Management  Management    Total              iiounti     T.  AMouIn
1.  InvestmentCst
1. Dormitory                       0.0   16,091.3        0.0         0.0        0.0            0.0    16,091.3    10.0   1,60.9.1   11.9   1,916.6
B.  Eq,iplfurniture/LT material
1. Learning/teach materials        0.0    4,433.9        0.0       179.2       30.0            0.0     4,643.1    10.0    464.3   19.7    914.1
2. Office and learning equipment   0.0    2,229.5        0.0        14.4        0.0           83.7      2,327.6     5.0     116.4    1.9      45.2
3. Furniture                       0 0    J.95.6         0.0         0.0        0.0             0 0     1 593.6     5.0      79.7   11.4      181.2
Subtotal                      FUU    857u           UU        19346       3U:U           83Z7    5U87Z3-    77         65FW  1T3:3   1,14U.5
C. Technical Assistance
1. International
consultant                1,613.5      358.6      179.3       318.7       59.8            0.0     2,529.9      0.0       0.0    5.1     128.6
2. Domestic consultant           425.7       116.1      38.7        68.8       38.7             0.0       688.0     0.0       0.0    7.9      54.2
3. Research and studies            0.0       159.4       0.0     2.509.9      249.0             0.0       918.3     0.0       0.0   11.1     324.2
Subtotal                  2,039;Z      W3MT       21U       Zb,8974      375              U       6F.36Z OUU             DU  I3 
D. Fellowships
1. Overseas fellowships       25,364.1        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0            0.0    25,364.1    10.0   2,336.4    9.2   2,326.4
2. In-country fellowships     38.787.3         0.0       0.0         0.0        0.0            0.0    18.787.3    10.0   1 778.7  11.1   .08..1
Subtotat                 44, 1 Z1.4                             T.1UU   U  MU:              U    44,151.4   lWbT   4 11t.1  1U7D   4,415.4
E.  In-country training
1. Taskforce                      41.4      168.4      293.7        60.0       59.2            0.0       622.7      0.0       0.0    9.4      58.5
2. Seminars                        0.0        0.0        0.0       211.9        0.0            0.0        211.9     0.0       0.0   17.3      36.7
3. Workshops                   1.059.7       548.8   1.0951        351.4      137.2             0.0     3 192.2     0.0       0.0    7.9     251 4
Subtotat    1          1    TUT.1      717E  t1738EE:E        5237.      196      5       U_. Uf  tLuz &J1                       .E  3Z:N
F.  Recruitment                        0.0         0.0     167.2         0.0        0.0            0.0        167.2     0.0       0.0   12.6      21.2
G.  Scholarships Tar Recruit           0.0         0.0  9,600.0          0.0        0.0             0.0     9,600.0     0.0       0.0   12.6   1,154.1
H.  Project management
1. qanagement funds                0.0        0.0        0.0        80.0        0.0        2.066.4     2,146.4      0.0       0.0   11.7    251.9
2. Honoraria                       0.0        0.0        0.0        31.2        0.0           134.4       165.6     0.0       0.0   11.6      19.3
3. Travel expenses                 0.0        0.0        0.0        38.4        0.0          456.0        494.4     0.0       0.0   11.6      57.6
4. Supervision trip                0.0         0.0       0.0        24.0        0.0             0.0        24.0     0.0       0.0   11.6       2.8
5. Consumable matgerials           0.0        0.0        0.0         0 0        0.0           47.8         47.8     0.0       0.0   11.5       5.5
Subtotal                       U:u                                         U7U        2770i 175r75             WUU             TT7      337T
Total Baseline Costs              47,291.7  25,699.6  11,374.0       3,887.9      573.9         2,788.3    91,615.4
Physical contingencies           4,215.1    2,143.7        0.0        18.6        3.0            4.2      6,384.6
Price contingencies              4.542.2   3.179.3   1.307.2         436.1       55.0           318.5    9.838.3                                                >
Total Project Costs               56.049.0  31.022.6  12.681.2    4.342.6         631.9        3.111.0   107.838.3                                             Q X
Taxes                                0.0    2,961.3        0.0        24.1        3.8            14.3     3,003.5                                            t'3
0 0
Values scaled by 1C00000.0  2/21/199   16:58.



ANNEX 11
INDONESIS
PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Disbursements
IBRD fiscal year      Amount per     Cuulative    Disbursement profile La
semester      Amount   X                X
----- (US$ million) -----
1                        2.9         2.9      8                0
2                        1.4         4.3    12                 1
1994
1                        3.0         7.3    20                 5
2                        4.0        11.3    31                 6
1995
1                        5.5        16.8    46                17
2                        5.5        22.3    61                21
1996
1                        4.0        26.3    72                32
2                        3.5        29.8    81               42
1297
1                        3.0        32.8    90                54
2                        2.5        35.3    96                68
1998
1                        1.3        36.6   100                74
JA Latest standard disbursement profile for education projects in Indonesia
(June 11, 1991).



ANNEX 12
INDONESIA
PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   Selected Report and Studies Related to the Sector and Proiect
A.l.  World Bank Report No. 7841-IND, "Indonesia Basic Education Study,"
December 22, 1989
A.2.  World Bank Report No. 9575-IND, Primary Education Quality
Improvement Project,' February 6, 1992
A.3.  World Bank draft technical paper, "Strengthening the Quality of
Teacher Education," June 20, 1989
A.4.  "Primary Education Teacher Education Study," (Final Draft), Dean
Nielsen and Anthony Somerset, May 1991
A.5.  World Bank Report No. 9752, "Indonesia:  Education and the World
Bank: An Assessment of Two decades of Lending," June 28, 1991
A.6.  Indonesia Teacher Education Consortium Study Recommendations,
January 29, 1991
A.7.  Ministry of Education and Culture Decree, "Coordination Forum for
Handling Educational Manpower Supply and Development System," No.
0461/U/1990
B. Draft Working PaRers
B.1.  Functional Credit System for Primary School Teachers, Dean Nielsen,
July 22, 1991
B.2.  Field Trip Reports No. 1 through 10, Dean Nielsen, September 6
through December 14, 1990
B.3.  Field Note, Jin He, June 27 - July 23, 1991
C. Background PaRers Related to Project Preparation
C.1. Ministry of Education and Culture Directorate General of Higher
Education, "Primary School Teacher Education Project, Proposal
Submitted to the World Bank," (Final Draft), 1992
C.2. "Detailed Project Costs," Caral Ball



INDONESIA
PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization of the Ministry of Education and Culture
|  |   I OFFICIE OF EDUCGIOt                                                                             OB_ EI  
INSPECTORATE                                a CULTURAL FRMSAC                                 SECRErARIUATGBENERAL  |7 CENrFS
GENERAL                                      &DEVELOPMEAl
BUREAU
OVERSEAS
8 INSPECTORS                                                                         FELLOWS|P               7 lEAUS
COMMrrrEE
r   - |            i 4O)REC  = 1                                        1 < = 1                                           X      = 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ECRTAtA
|EDtUCATION   |      |DliRECTORATES|                                          *_                                          lll
PRDVUCICAL OFFICES
MOEC
_   |                     |                         |   O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ISTRICT OFFtCES l
ADFIINISTMElCN   DIRECTOR^TES   CPMU                     |       MOESRC  l-
|   MOEC         l



INDONESIA
PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Education Structure, 1991
Grade  1   2    3    4    5  6                  7    8    9             10  11   12                    13   14   15   16        17   18         19  20
Age  7    8    9   10   11   12               13   14   15            16   17   18                   19  20  21   22          23   24         25  26
4P4 **
Primary Education                 Lower Secondary         Upper Secondary                                   Higher Education
Education              Educaffon
Basic Educaton                                                            ' U         S (Sar an(h
U_erstyK    PIKIP (Teacher Training)
Senlor Seoondary             .
Schools (SMA)   '                 Polytechnics
Technical
'Schools (STM)
Leged
Unvers,~itl(KI P I  Poyenc                             Agric. Develop.
*   Entrance Examinations                                   . Schools SPP)
*   School Lea%ing Examinaions
O   Master's Degree                                            Shos (SPG)
O   Sarlana Degree
A   PhD                                                     . -
* Diploma
Non-Formal Community Education
nstilutions Enclosed In hOther Schods                                                            Textbook Development
Broken Lines hove been assisted                                       '~~~~~~~~~~~~~Statf Training - Ministry of Public Works
!-'bvrWorldeBankGrOUD Lnesohavebeenanss                                                        Institute ot Public Admlstralion (LAN)
Junior Secondar 
Schools (SMP
PsTmary Schools              {     H i         3
-Other-SchoolIs-      ------- .                                                                                       1
rn  rn   r     {    Y~~~ocational                          
.  -eTraining CentersTrinn
Phased Out                                                                                                                         cakw50105C



INDONESIA
PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Management Structue of Primary Teacher Education Program
| MOEC      l
Notes:
I   CNTRL |- 4---.* Lines of coormian
1  _  . L. .   o personnel suppod
C b,,:e,q,,LPTK_
r JOINT                                     LPTK  l
SECRETARIAT                          DEVELOPMENT
TASK FORCES]                            TEAM
UNIVERSITY
HEALTHED ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TE
* ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     %4 .  ,~ I 
DEPARTMENT  OTHER  OTHER  ~  OTHER     DEPARTMEWT       .    ETO         DEPT. OF    DPMN
OF SPT/EALTH                           DEPARTMENTS                                 DEPARTMENTS  DEPARTMENTS ...s
P650 STUDY  ~~~~~~~~   .4 ~   ~     ~      TDY            PGSD STUDY    PGSD STUD           ...,.. .               -.-
PROGRAM:                           w ..,.. ~-:                            : PROGRAM:  PROG
CL PHYSICAL    AS TA  PHYS ED   CLASS                  ~.
UPP                                                 UPP               UPP            UPP'**
0
WpwSI



INDONESIA
PRIMARY SCHOOL TEACHER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Management Organizational Structure
COUNCI.                                            EDUCATION                            ED CATION                              AND 0~~~EDUATIO
|                          -~~~~~~~ ~ ~~I  I                    I                              --.I I
DIRECTOR GENERAL                      RORGNERCDIRECTOR 
ADVISORY TEAM   ....    7REASURER
CENTA POJECT                                         MANAGER FOR                                                               MANAGER
IMPLEMENfTAION                                        BANIC-I                              ECTAITFOR GOVERNMENT
mew                                                    PFODJECT                                                             FUNDED PROJECT
SW,AFORA                          RESEARCH &         CMVL WOWK/
MEVELOPMENT       DEVEOPMENT         DEVELOPME         NT                                            OPERAONAL AND ClERCA STAFF
OFFICER           OFFICER            OFFICER           OFFICER
ULl
LOCAL PRO&W ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~OA
111MLEMITA71ON 
UNIT 
PROCUREMENT
ADCMLSCETIA 
WORKS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F
aUPWa5O6Eb



IBRD 23460
.+h                      'ILANDI                                                                                                                                                                  INDONESIA
@LEnd.                 va  w.<                                So.,L;.eR;0569                           ,,                               PHILIPPINES                              PRIMARY TEACHER DEVELOPMENT
I                                                                 B \   p  >  PRUNEIt         62,'                                                                         PROJECT
AYSIA *                                                                                                                                                   TYPES OFP1TK:*                 SELECTED TOWNS
xr.>(I SinBov! <   -\v  't )   [                                 ,/          /                                   .D e    IP                                                             (3   PROVINCECAPITALS
MAlAYSIA '>                                                                                   o   911F 94                       NATIONAL CAPITAL
01)                                                                                                      ntnado                           U (  [<   f4AtAT   )     L   PRIVATE IKIP/FKIP  PROVINCE  OUNDARIES
"2-   \ >> OSINGAPiORE                        /        _4                                                                                       UPP LOn ClTfTHANTHEDINIFAFIPPERENT  -  INTERNATIONALDBOUNDARIES
p.oaa,    <   'A )APOR                                                                                                                           CITY TEHAN THE IKEIP/FKIPE
U       2 0 A  I Io
c P      d .n9                                               t   1 A   L I  It l  A    l Aa      iaTA N n d o ,        t. o o    ,                                                        to l  i     S o
0                                     A    I(AIIAOA ;NTA=yE. 
.ook, ,.                                               15 *Al
,'  INDIAN  OCEAN           J    Wo-
,~~~~~~~ Paob                                                                               10ILS      225'                                                                                                      '       ''
;d TZdsmgDhenproponrdiTh WoddfOtio={achroir ty -   vEr  24  IR.od                                             - -   e                                                                        044
=   f Th. World Tlnk Grou  Th.       ..do -mim   t.                                                                                                                          ALJSTRALIA
FKIP UNYSIAH                   7FKIP UNSR' 2 IKIP YOGYA KARTA                                                  17 FKIP UNUD                             iFKIP UNMUL                                     FKIP UNPATTI
I.1 Centd, UPP    . E Ah         7.1 C .lrD UPP: h   b-ng                   121 Cs l UPP: Yyoa   Kb                17.1 C-t  U                              23.1 Cenlro UPP. S-ALd.                     29.1 am.1 UP Amb-
.3 E SGO: B.nd. A. h             7.32 E.SUG; fbuismb.ng                    12 i3ESOy    vcK17.3 E~ SGO D.npc, r Lnp-r'                                     23.3 E.SPGSmornc S-mid.                     22992 E. SFGO AbL   Amb-
12.4 5,SGO Wuta:Vhe
7 IK'PMEDAN                       a. FKIPJUNILA                                                                   aS FKIP UNRAM OCIKIPNtAAADO                                                              FKW*UNCEN
2.1 Canwd UPP.: Md-sh             8.1 Camrd UPP: Lomp.Wn                1 3 FKIPF UNS                              Ia.1I Cened UPF' M^sb-o                  24.1 C-snd UPP M.-nd.                       30. Cenf d   P.'bpr Jwp
2 2 E.SPG Md-n                    8.2 E.SPG; hr4r-'                         IS.1 C. rdUPP-.Sd.                     18.2 ESPG MW.-romMobo-                   24.2 E.SGO M-&! M ... i.                    1     ~l2:SPGJTDPUrC  b+'p..
2.3 E. SOO: M91c-                 8.3 FE>SGO: TKurung                       13.2 E S..urkodt: S.I                                                           24.3 EisSPG Tsmshon: Tomoho-                30.3 ET $GO JyDpu:JUUS/D
13o3 ELS.O Su .'ku:  0do 1 9 FKIP UNDANA
3 IKIIPPAOANG                     9 .:'-P JAKARTA                             13.4 E>SGO Ksb--nKsbue-'                19.1 C-nlrolUPP: K.p-n3                  FKIP UNSRAT                                 FKIP UN. NOMENSEN: MEDAN
3 2 EKSPG: hxbng        ~~912 CEnbPG SibPP    J.kd.rt          i 4. IKIP SURABAYA                         1.   SPKuogKpn                           25 2 E  P  G Tbl.Gro.   d                   IKIP MUH.: JAKARTA
3 3 EKsSGO. haeLg                 9 3 E.LSPG Holim_n: J.k.rt.               14.1 Cenbul UPF. S..oy             70. FKIP UNTAN                               25.3 E`.SGO G'ToIo. Goroci:d.                KPUS.oLTG
3.4 ET SPG: BukiYbn~ggi-          9.4 E.SGO J.k.udb: J.krt.                 14.2 E.SPG I S'S.Y.: S=obY.            20.1 Canhd UPP! Pob i kFKPUS:'LTG
14.3 E>;SGO S'Bs TC: Suroboy          202ESP-k uo.^  IKIP UJUNGPANDANG
.  FKIP UNRI                  10 IKIP p ANDUNG                                                                     20.3 E.SGO Poh ... kb.PPda uI,oparo      26.1I CardrcI UPP0 U'Pn..db              * I            H        O
4:2 21`1 E "UpTpk2b-r             I0ot 2 E. ab-;                          I S     Io MALAdNG                   21 FKIP UNPAR                                26.3 adG P.-P   Pare d' tKnP P:A
n 0a3EtS1GP.   1,nddP,aaobG              15.2oEoSPGcMpIo.,oM      g              21 I         UPP P.n.2                   26.4dEnSPGaWiap-iooWa *i-afl                FKIPMUH:UJUNGPANDANG
FKIPUN13                       1dng:umdun-                                5.35L S3Go altakoanten.  2laE.SGO'Ry:tPoy.                               '.  ,KI                                   ASRI
5.1 CeTI IPPFB-gkulu              10.5 E.SPGSeroyo                          15.4on aLnt 2ar3EaPGoP'R,:Ph l-g                                  y   oFKIPUNHAW
5        2ESG .               IOk1u1.6 E.SPG rosikmluD:tik-uluW                                                                                         27.1 C_nld UPP- K-dri
53 ESPGU  Bangkul                                                       1 FIPNR2KIP UNEA UAT                   21  FKIP UNLAU                               27.P ETSPG KndU  r                             UNP CATI
1.  IKIC SEMARANG                            16.1 Cntrd UPP: Tbo                     22.1 Cantrl UPP. Ebnja                   27.3 ECSGO KUdP  S endb 9ri                  CITY THAN THE IKIP/FKIP
21 Cantt1 UPP.d                    1  entra JS-  Ba          11,                                                                                        e P3 FKPP B Corou  CanTArbo : o                 3. Ct UNPAD
2.2 LoSPO: Ma/an                  R.2 LO: J-b: II 3   otrGO                13.1Central-PSalt12 EoSPO--atoonra:ldttarom                                     242 EoC-OOntonUdP:  M3                                Ju
2.3 E,oSOO:Maolon1 4R.3 SGO:T.Koan                                 1S2T50SrkrtoSl                                                                    43ESPWonloo  tson                          03EcOiotoo:orpr
13.3 E,cSll0Sorakatto: Salt  IT  PRIPUNDANA ~ ~ ~ ~   ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      W  IW



