Damt o
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4275-SOL
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 4.5 MILLION
TO SOLOMON ISLANDS
FOR A
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
April 11, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit: Solomon Islands Dollar (SI$)
Calendar 1984     February 1986
SI$1.00 =    US$0.79            US$0.62
US$1.00 =    SI$1.27            SI$1.61
Co-financier's currency unit: AustraLian Dollar ($ A)
February 1986
$A 1.00   =   US$0.71
US$1.00   =   $A 1.41
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
February 1 - January 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADAB         -   Australian Development Assistance Bureau
CDC          -   Curriculum Development Center
GSU          -   Guidance and Selection Unit
GTC          -   Goroka Teachers College
IPU          -   Implementation and Planning Unit
MET          -   Ministry of Education and Training
NSS          -   National secondary schools
ODA          -   Overseas Development Administration
PEO          -   Provincial Education Office
PCC          -   Project Coordinating Committee
Pss          -   Provincial secondary schools
SICHE        -   Solomon Islands College of Higher Education
SISC         -   Solomon Islands School Certificate
USP          -   University of the South Pacific



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:       Solomon Islands
Amount:         SDR 4.5 million (US$5.0 million equivalent)
Terms:          Standard IDA
Project
Description:  The objective of the proposed project is to help the
Government ensure an adequate supply of suitably trained
manpower for formal employment and higher levels of education
by improving educational opportunity and quality in lower
secondary education and strengthening education sector
management. This would be achieved as follows:
(a)  improvement of educational opportunity thrcugh:
'i) expansion of lower secondary school enrollment by
constructing, furnishing and equipping three new lower
secondary schools to provide about 1,220 student places
in three disadvantaged provinces; (ii) development of a
preservice diploma training program to train lower
secondary teachers in addition to limited preservice
training overseas; and (iii) carrying out a feas.bility
study for the Solomon Islands College of Higher
Education;
(b) improvement of educational quality through the provision
of: (i) equipment and teaching materials, including
textbooks; (ii) in-service upgrading for lower secondary
teachers; (iii) staff training, housing and consultants
for the Curriculum Development Center; and (iv) new
staff, staff training and consultants for the Guidance
and Selection Unit of the Ministry of Education and
Training (MET); and
tc) improvement of educational management through the
provision of: (i) new staff and staff training for
lb                              establishing an Implementation and Planning Unit (IPU) in
the MET and for the Provincial Education Offices (PEO);
and (ii) consultants for preparation of studies on
teacher utilization and incentives, the financing of
education, and a sector investment plan.
Benefits
and Risks:    By 1991, lower secondary enrollments would be increased by
28Z; the enrollment ratio for the 13-15 age group would be
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
raised from 21X to 23%; and geographical distribution of
educational opportunity across provinces would improve. The
provision of better trained teachers and more and better
equipment and materials for all Lower secondary students
would contribute to raising student achievement. More
qualified staff in the IPU and the PEOs would result in more
effective educational and financial planning and school
administration.
The proposed Credit entails some risks due to local staff
shortages, poor communication between central and provincial
authorities, and possible continuation of high teacher
wastage. These risks would be reduced by the proposed
actions to be taken before and during project implementation
to address these issues.
Estimated Costs:                                        Local    Foreign   Total
-US$ million
Improvement of educational opportunity:
Expansion of lower secondary schools                2.7        2.3       5.0
Preservice teacher training                         0.5        1.2       1.7
Subtotal                                          3.2        3.5      6.7
Quality improvement:
Provision of equipment, textbooks and materials   0.1          0.4       0.5
Curriculum development                              0.1        0.3       0.4
Strengthening of Guidance and Selection Unit        0.0        0.1       0.1
In-service upgrading of teachers                    0.0        0.1       0.1
Subtotal                                          0.2        0.9       1.1
Management improvement:
Establishment of Implementation and Planning
Unit, training of Provincial Education
Officers and studies                               0.0       0.3       0.3
Subtotal                                          0.0        0.3       0.3
Total Baseline Cost                                3.4       4.7       8.1
Physical contingencies                                 0.3       0.4       0.7
Price contingencies                                    0.5       0.7       1.2
Total Project Cost la                             4.2        5.8      10.0
/a No taxes are included in the TotaL Project Cost, as all building materials
and equipment, textbooks and educational materials imported for use in the
project are exempt from import duties and taxes.



- iii -
Financial Plan:                                          Local   Foreign    Total
US$ million -
Government                                              0.7        0.0      0.7
IDA                                                     2.9       2.1       5.0
ADAB                                                    0.6        3.7      4.3/b
Total                                              4.2        5.8      10.0
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY                         FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92  FY93
----- US$ million --
Annual                         0.1    0.8    1.2    1.4    1.0    0.4   0.1
Cumulative                     0.1    0.9    2.1    3.5    4.5    4.9   5.0
Rate of Return: Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 5645-SOL, dated April 8, 1986.
Map: IBRD 18812
/b   Of which $A 4.0 million from ADAB's cofinancing facility and $A 2.5 miL-
lion Erom its regular bilateral aid program in Solomon Islands.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE SOLOMON ISLANDS
FOR A SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following Report and Recommendation on a proposed
credit on standard IDA terms to Solomon Islands for the equivaLent of SDR 4.5
million (US$5.0 million equivalent) to help finance a Secondary Education
Project. The Australian Development Assistance Bureau (ADAB) has made a com-
mitment to provide $A 4.0 million in grant aid from its cofinancing facility
and $A 2.5 million from its regular bilateral aid program for Solomon Islands
(equivalent to about US$4.3 million).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The Bank Group's second report since the country's independence
(Country Economic Memorandum: Solomon Islands, No. 4989-SOL) is dated
August 1, 1984. Basic country data are given in Annex I. In June 1983, the
World Bank and the UNDP issued an energy assessment report (Solomon Islands:
Issues and Options in the Energy Sector, No. 4404-SOL).
Structure of the Economy
3.        Solomon Islands is an archipelago stretching over 1,450 km in a
southeasterly direction from Papua New Guinea. From 1893 until independence
in July 1978, it was a British protectorate. The country has a population of
241,000.  Six main islands - Choiseul, New Georgia, Santa Ysabel, Malaita,
Guadalcanal and Makira - account for most of the population and the land area
of some 28,500 sq km constitutes mountain ranges which are mainly volcanic,
with deep narrow valleys and limited coastal strips. Although the population
is racially homogeneous (about 93% Melanesian), at least 87 vernacular
languages are spoken. About 80% of the population reside in small, widely
dispersed settlements along the coasts; 60% of the people live in localities
with fewer than 100 inhabitants and more than 80% in localities with fewer
than 200. The capital city of Honiara, the only major urban area situated on
Guadalcanal, the largest island, has 16,000 inhabitants. Other urban centers
have fewer than 2,000 inhabitants each. Inter-island shipping is the main
mode of transportation.
4.        The economy is predominantly agricultural, with land communally
owned. Subsistence (nonmonetary) production is an important component of the
total output. It contributes 40X of GDP, and nine out of ten households are
engaged in subsistence food production to some extent. As is typical of the
islands in the Pacific, the basic needs of the population are reasonably well
met from subsistence activities. Reflecting the size of the subsistence sec-
tor, the proportion of the labor force engaged in paid employment is limi-
ted.. Only about 20X of the labor force is employed as full-time salary and
wage earners, and an additional 27-28% derives some cash income from copra and



-2-
market gardening, with the remaining 50% of the labor force engaged in subsis-
tence production.
Recent Developments
5.        After an impressive growth performance in the 1970s (8% p.a. growth
of real CDP), Solomon Islands' economy recorded a sharp downturn in the early
1980s, with real GDP estimated to have declined by 2.5Z p.a. between 1980 and
1982. After this period of stagnation, economic growth resumed in 1983 and
sharply accelerated to 15% in 1984, as the external environment, especially
conditions in the copra market, turned favorable.  The resulting strong growth
in domestic incomes was reflected in a rise in both public and private
consumption; however, investment remained weak. Inflation, which had slowed
down considerably to 7% in 1983, increased due to domestic demand pressures to
IIZ in 1984.
6.        Between 1981 and 1983, the growth in total Government revenue and
grants did not keep pace with that in total expenditures. Current expendi-
tures on the newly decentralized administrations and an 8% increase in
salaries and wages in the public sector accounted for the growth in expendi-
tures. The budget deficit, therefore, was about 11-12% of GDP during the
1981-83 period, but declined to only 4% in 1984 as a result of revenue
increases from taxes on international trade. Financing of the public sector
budgetary deficit was funded mostly by grants, principally from the United
Kingdom, Australia, and Japan. However, with a decline in the availability of
these grants in 1983 and in 1984, Solomon Islands authorities have begun to
utilize domestic and foreign markets more fully.
7.        Mirroring the performance of the productive sectors and the public
sector, the balance of payments position in Solomon Islands has improved since
the early eighties. From a current account deficit which averaged almost 25Z
p.a. of GDP in 1980-81, the deficit declined to only 13% p.a. of GDP in 1982-
83, and fell to just 5% in 1984. As well as favorable external circumstances,
the improvement in the external account is also due to a 10% devaluation of
the SI$ in August 1982, and subsequently, the adoption of a more flexible
approach to foreign exchange management by the Central Bank. To shore up its
short-term balance of payments position and to finance the public sector
deficit, the country has begun to resort to judicious external borrowing from
commercial sources and multilateral institutions. Nevertheless, the debt
service ratio remains low (6% in 1984, excluding early repayment of an
Eurocurrency loan).
Development Issues
8.        With a young and rapidly growing labor force, the Government faces
the challenge of creating employment opportunities in a largely subsistence
economy. While considerable export diversification took place between 1970
and 1980, it was limited to large-scale commercial agriculture with relatively
limited effects on the smallholder subsistence sector. Aware of the fact that
even the 20-25% growth in formal employment envisaged over the medium term
will be insufficient to absorb the demand for formal employment, the Covern-
ment is seeking to expand the assimilation of the labor force into the urban



and rural informal sectors. The second National Development Plan, encompass-
ing the 1985-89 period, was published in August 1985 and stresses the need to
concentrate development planning in the areas of diversifying the productive
base of the economy and intensifying the Government's efforts on human
resource development and education.
9.        Human resource development is far from adequate in Solomon Islands
as roughly measured by the few available social indicators. Available data
indicate that, in the early 1980s, the adjusted enrollment ratios for primary
and secondary education were, respectively, 782 and 22Z, while the adult
literacy rate is (at best) about 15%.  The low level of educational achieve-
ment explains the severe shortages of local skilled and semi-skilled labor and
of high level manpower for the public and private sectors. Decentralization
and localization have undoubtedly accentuated these shortaaes. The shortage
of manpower is a major development constraint.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
10.       Consistent with Government priorities, the Bank's strategy for
Solomon Islands focuses on the education sector and activities which support
agricultural development. This strategy is designed to address key constraints
to development - the shortage of skilled manpower and limited absorptive
capacity, as -fell as to support the major potential growth area in the economy
- agriculture. The four credits totalling SDR 10.9 million (US$12 million
equivalent) approved thus far are assisting the expansion of primary educa-
tion, agricultural extension and training, access to term-credit through the
Solomon Islands Development Bank, and road improvement on Guadalcanal Island.
11.       In delivering the lending program to Solomon Islands, consideration
has been given to the need for aid coordination, impact and cost effectiveness
of IDA involvement in the region and the expertise and geographical proximity
of major agencies operating in the Pacific. The Bank has looked to cofinanc-
ing of selected activities with the Asian Development Bank in sectors of
common interest and concern. This has been possible in the projects support-
ing agricultural development. In the formal education sector, IDA has coordi-
nated the lending effort with the major bilateral donor, the Australian
Development Assistance Bureau (ADAB).
12.       The aim of the proposed project is to meet the needs of the country
for an adequate supply of trained manpower through improving educational
opportunities and quality at the lower secondary level, and strengthening
educational sector management. The objectives of the project directly support
the Government's aims of improving coverage and quality in education and
improving the capacity of the Ministry of Education and Training (MET) to
manage and administer the educational system. The project has been designed
by the Government and IDA to take into account the budgetary limitations and
the implementing capacity of MET.
13.       As of September 30, 1985, effective credits to Solomon Islands held
by the Bank Group amounted to US$12.0 million equivalent. Annex II contains a
summary statement of IDA credits. There are no IFC investments in Solomon
Islands.



-4-
Disbursement Performance
14.       Four projects are currently being implemented in Solomon Islands.
Disbursement under the first credit (Credit 1115-SOL) for the Solomon Islands
Development Bank Project were initially slow but have subsequently increased
as a result of IDA agreement to finance a portion of local currency in addi-
tion to foreign currency expenditures. Under the second credit (Credit 1212-
SOL) for the Primary Education Project, disbursements are well ahead of
schedule and the project is nearing completion. The third credit (Credit
1430-SOL) for the Rural Services Project became effective in June 1984, and
the fourth credit (Credit 1542-SOL) for the Guadalcanal Road Improvement
Project became effective in July 1985. Both of these projects are in the
start-up phase of implementation and disbursements are proceeding
satisfactorily.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Ltroduction
15.       Solomon Islands' development strategy and programs for the 1980s
emphasize the expansion of employment for a fast-growing labor force through a
balanced development of smallholder and plantation agriculture, improvement of
the inter-island transport and marketing system and greater involvement of the
private sector in economic development. Another priority is to increase the
number and quality of skilled manpower, in particular to fill vacancies and to
replac- expatriates with national staff in formal employment. Twenty percent
of an estimated 3,500 establishment posts are at present either vacant or
occupied by expatriates. The shortage of qualified nationals is due in large
part to the education system's shortcomings, which include poor average
quality at all levels and restricted opportunities at the post-primary
levels. A major consequence is that a large number of tasks affecting the
country's development are not being accomplished. The Government has already
begun to address the problems of the formal education system through a compre-
hensive development program for primary education, assisted by the 1982
Primary Education Project (Credit 1212-SOL). As the next step, the Covernment
is turning its attention to strengthening secondary education, to ensure an
adequate supply of suitably trained manpower for higher education and formal
employment in the modern sector.
Structure and Administration of the Educational System
16.       The educational system provides six years of primary (Grades 1-6),
three years of lower secondary (Grades 7-9 or Forms I-III), two years of upper
secondary (Grades 10-11 or Forms IV and V), and one year of pre-university
(Grade 12 or Form VI) education. Post-secondary education leading to a certi-
ficate or diploma is provided at the Solomon Islands College of Higher
Education (SICHE), which was formally established in 1983, incorporating the
former Honiara Technical Institute, the Teachers College, and other government
training units into a single umbrella institution with six areas of study:
education and cultural studies; finance and administration; industrial



development; natural resources; nursing and paramedical studies; and marine
studies. Regional institutions (particularly the University of the South
Pacific (USP) and the University of Papua New Guinea) and other overseas uni-
versities provide access for a selected number of students for degree and
diploma studies. In 1983, there were about 35,000 students in primary
schooLs, 4,900 in secondary (including Form VI) classes, 1,200 in the SICHE
and 300 in overseas post-secondary institutions. Teachers are trained either
at the SICHE or overseas.
17.       Secondary Education.  Secondary education in Solomon Islands began
formally in 1956 with the establishment of the King George VI School in
Honiara which offered a four-year course and accepted students from all over
the country. In 1978, a five-year course Leading to the Solomon Islands
School Certificate (SISC) was introduced. By 1984 there were eight such
national secondary schools (NSS), six Christian church- and two government-
operated, with a total of about 2,600 places. The NSS curriculum is geared
towards the SISC, for which the examination is taken at the end of Form V.
Currently only the King George VI School has a Form VI (pre-university)
class. A second Form VI class at the new Waimapura NSS began in 1986.
18.       Following an official review of education in 1974, the Government
introduced an alternative system of lower secondary education through the
provincial secondary schools (PSS) in order to lower the cost of post-primary
education, devolve responsibility for lower secondary education to the pro-
vinces and further widen educational opportunity. The PSS provide three years
of schooling and have a curriculum combining a core of academic subjects with
practical subjects related to the rural economy. Despite the inclusion of
practical subjects, unit costs in the PSS are reasonable and are in fact,
lower than in the NSS. All PSS offer full boarding due to the dispersed
nature of the population in the provinces and the lack of access by road to
nearly all the schools. By 1984 there were 12 PSS with a maximum enrollment
capacity of about 2,800.
19.       The PSS and NSS have a comnon core lower secondary curriculum, with
different compulsory and elective subjects. At the end of Form III, both PSS
and NSS students take a common national examination which serves to select
them either for continuation to Form IV or for post-secondary training at the
SICHE. The majority of PSS leavers, however, enter the labor market. At the
end of Form V, students take the SISC examination which, for the majority, is
the terminal point of their education, while a small minority proceeds to
Form VI and higher education.
20.       Over the past decade, secondary school enrollments have increased at
an average annual rate of 12%, from 1,152 in 1971 to 5,109 in 1984. Most of
this expansion has taken place in the PSS, so that by 1984 enrollments we-P
roughly equal between the NSS and PSS.
21.       Administration.  Education formulation and overall educational plan-
ning for primary and secondary education are under the control of the Ministry
of Education and Training, while most administrative responsibility has been
decentralized to the provincial governments. The PSS are maintained by the
provincial governments through central government grants for operating costs



-6-
and teachers' salaries. Each school has a Board of Management with limited
powers; effective financial control is in the hands of the Principal Education
Officer of the Province. Fees are charged within the range set by the MET
(SI$40-60 per annum for boarding students and SI$30-40 for nonboarders in
1983). In addition, students contribute their own labor to maintain and often
construct the schooL's buildings and to grow part of the food they consume.
Teachers are hired by the provinces from a list approved by the Teaching
Service Commission. Of the eight NSS, the two government institutions (King
George VI and Waimapura) are administered directly by the MET, while the
remaining six church schools are administered by their respective Boards of
Governors which are responsible to the Minister of Education through the
National Education Board. All NSS charge fees within the range set by the MET
(SI$80-120 per annum for boarding students in 1983). School staff in the
government NSS are appointed by the Public Service Commission, while those in
the church NSS are appointed by their respective Boards of Governors.
22.       Financing.  The central Government finances investment and recurrent
expenditures for primary and secondary education, the latter through the
provision of grants to the provincial governments for primary and PSS
teachers' salaries and school operating costs. All NSS receive similar
grants. Some of the church-operated NSS supplement the government grants with
subsidies from their respective churches. As education has expanded rapidly
over the last five years, so has government education expenditure. The
government recurrent budget for education increased from SI$3.5 million in
1979 to SI$8.3 million in 1983, an average increase of about 23Z per year,
which represents an increase from 18Z to 20% of the total government recurrent
budget over this period. On the investment side, the budget between 1979 and
1983, rose from SI$0.9 million to SI$3.3 million, or roughly from 6Z to 20X of
the total government capital expenditure. Much of the capital expenditure was
assisted through the Primary Education Project.
Main Issues in Secondary Education
23. '    Notwithstanding the impressive quantitative achievements of the last
decade, the Solomon Islands' secondary education system has to overcome
several problems which fall under three major categories: (a) restricted edu-
cational opportunity; (b) low average quality; and (c) limited capacity for
educational planning and management.
Restricted Educational Opportunity
24.       Total secondary school enrollments, after stagnating during 1973-78,
rose rapidly during 1979-83 as a result of: (a) expanding the intake of
primary school leavers into Form I and PSS leavers into Form IV of the NSS;
and (b) higher retention and completion rates for Forms III-V. Nevertheless,
opportunities for secondary education remain restricted. In 1984, out of a
total of about 3,620 applicants, only about 1,520 or 42% were admitted into
Form I. The demand for Form I places is expected to rise from 4,200 in 1985
to nearly 8,000 in 1990. This projected demand is due largely to a wider
reach in primary education, the result mainLy of the Primary Education Project
whose greatly increased output is expected to exert pressure on the secondary
school system after 1986. If there is no increase in the number of places,



the corresponding Form I admission rates would decline from 36% in 1985 to 19X
in 1990, thus severely limiting opportunities for secondary education and
ultimately the number of students who could be trained in middle- and higher-
level skills. The shortage of places is most acute in the PSS and
particularly in Cuadalcanal, Western and Malaita provinces, where Form I
places in 1983 were available for only 12.8, 9.6 and 7.0X, respectively, of
the age 12 population compared with the average of 14.3Z.
25.       While the female enrolment ratio has been rising slowly over the
last decade, and is reasonable for the region, females in 1983 accounted for
only 36% of total Form I enrollments, compared with an average of 41% in
primary grade 6. One factor is the poorer performance by females in the
Form I selection test. Another factor appears to be parental reluctance to
continue the formal education of adolescent girls whose laber in the home or
on the family farm would make a significant contribution to the family income.
Low Average Quality
26.       While some secondary schools have distinguished performance records,
national average achievement is low, particularly in English, mathematics and
science. Students selected for overseas fellowships from among the limited
number of qualified candidates often require remedial preparation for their
higher education. This low achievement is due, in part at least, to the low
quality of students entering lower secondary education. In addition, quality
is further eroded at the secondary level due to a number of factors includ-
ing: (a) inadequately trained teachers with a high turnover rate; (b) a weak
institutional base for curriculum development and a lack of appropriate
instructional materials; and (c) inappropriate testing instruments and student
selection procedures.
27.       Teachers.  In the past, national secondarv teachers have been
trained overseas to diploma or degree level. Diploma training, considered the
appropriate qualification for PSS staff, has for the most part been provided
at the USP or the Coroka Teachers ColLege (GTC) in Papua New Guinea. The USP
has recently terminated its teacher training diploma program, however, and
places for foreign students at the GTC are relatively limited. The system
also suffers from a 6% loss of teachers every year, mainly through
resignation. Although the causes of the high teacher attrition rate have not
been studied in detail, most apparently join the public service or the private
sector which pay better salaries and have better working conditions. This
high turnover of teachers, combinied with the reduced overseas opportunities
for secondary teacher training, have hampered the Government's efforts to
reduce its dependency on expatriate personnel and have led to a current
backlog of 34 vacant secondary teacher posts. There is a need to develop a
secondary teacher training program in-country. The SICHE's School of
Education and Cultural Studies currently trains primary teachers to meet the
needs of the primary school system which is expanding under the Primary
Education Project. The Government intends to reorganize and expand the SICHE
and has requested assistance in preparing an academic and physical feasibility
study for this purpose, which would be carried out in 1986/87. Meanwhile, the
SICHE has recently introduced a "foundation year" required of all students
entering from Form III before they begin certificate programs, thus straining



-8-
its facilities at a time of increased demand. The Government must address
this issue in the context of the feasibility study. However, it is clear that
there is an urgent need to provide additional physical facilities and staff
for the training of secondary teachers at the SICHE.
28.       In addition, the level of qualification of teachers already in the
system is low. In 1984, out of a total of about 260 secondary school teach-
ers, 190 were Solomon Islanders, half of whom had had formal education only up
through Form III before starting their professional training. This implies
that the academic achievement of about 50% of national teachers is little
better than that of the students they teach. Annual in-service arrangements
for improving teacher competency are limited to a centralized, ten-day
workshop organized by the MET's Curriculum Development Center (CDC). To
improve overall teaching quality, upgrading training should be provided to
focus on raising the academic credentials of these teachers and to improve
their effectiveness in using teaching equipment and materials.
29.       Curriculum Development/Instructional Materials.  While the CDC has
completed work on a revised secondary school curriculum, recent staff short-
ages and inadequate budgeting have resulted in ineffective implementation of
the curriculum and a system-wide shortage of instructional materials, includ-
ing textbooks. Six national Curriculum Development Officer/Subject Advisor
posts exist, two of them created in 1986. Four are now filled, all but one
recently, as the posts in the past have been graded at a level unattractive to
better qualified national staff and no housing is available.  In addition,
four aided Advisor posts exist, none currently filled. Without the attention
of Advisors, some subjects still lack supplementary teaching materials, while
many existing textbooks should be reviewed and/or revised. It is estimated
that lower secondary students need about 20,000 copies of standard textbooks
(which would have to be imported) and about 280,000 copies of supplementary
printed instructional materials covering all subjects in the curriculum. In
addition, the Government needs to clarify its policy on textbook replacement.
30.       Examinations and Student Selection.  Three national examinations are
currently used to select students for promotion from one level of education to
another and for overseas fellowships. The most controversial is the compara-
tively crude test developed overseas used to select grade 6 students for
further formal schooling. A more accurate evaluation of student achievement
at this level is needed. The Form III examination and the SISC examination,
which evaluate student achievement after 9 and 11 years of schooling, respec-
tively, and are used to select students for further education, also need
additional study. and development to improve their reliability and validity.
Staff to carry out this development are not currently available in the MET's
Guidance and Selection Unit (GSU), however.
Limited Capacity for Educational Planning and Management
31.       To a large extent the two major issues of restricted educational
opportunity and low average quality and student achievement spring from the
limited capacity for educational management in Solomon Islands. Planning,
programming, administration and evaluation, the key functions of management,
are all weak. The main causes include: (a) the present inadequate organiza-



- 9 -
tional structure of the MET (which currently lacks an effective educational
planning unit), especially in view of the Government's policy of giving the
provinces more responsibility in alL sectors; and (b) the lack of personnel
trained in educational planning and administration at the central level and a
shortage of skilled personnel especially for secondary education in the
Provincial Education Offices (PEOs). This has resulted in: (a) the lack of a
coherent sectoral strategy for educational development which would be respon-
sive to both the country's social and economic needs; (b) inadequate financial
planning to allocate resources efficiently for the development as well as the
maintenance of the system; (c) confusion over decentralization of responsi-
bility to the PEOs; and (d) a lack of coordination among the MET, the Ministry
of Home Affairs and Provincial Government (the coordinating agency for central
government dealings with the provinces), the PEOs and in some cases, the local
councils, on budget planning and the disbursement of funds. Inadequate finan-
cial planning in turn has led to deterioration of physical facilities, equip-
ment and teaching materials in most schools. The poor conditions also
contribute to the high turnover of teachers.
32.       As part of the Government's current policy of giving the provinces
more responsibility, the MET is negotiating "agency agreements" with the PEOs
which would set out the exact responsibilities of both. However, the new
Government is currently undertaking a review of the organization of the entire
public service including the policy of devolution. Following this review, a
decision would be made on whether to reorganize the MET. In the meantime,
there remains an urgent need to strengthen the MET's embryonic planning unit
with staff training and the PEOs with trained personnel responsible for
secondary education, and to take a closer look at the reasons for the high
teacher attrition rate and at the financing of education in an effort to
provide: (a) incentives for teachers to enter and stay in the system; and
(b) adequate maintenance funds to the schools, while at the same time increas-
ing efficiency in the use of the available resources.
Government Goals, Experience with Past Lending and Rationale for Bank
Involvement
33.       Government Goals.  In support of Solomon Islands' development
strategy and programs for the 1980s, the Government's major educational goals
are to improve the quality and coverage of both primary and secondary educa-
tion and to increase the supply of skilled manpower in line with the develop-
ment needs of the country. Issues in primary education are being addressed by
the Primary Education Project, while those in secondary education would be
addressed in this project.
34.       Experience with Past Lending.  The first Bank Group operation in
education in Solomon Islands is the Primary Education Project (Credit 1212-SOL
of 1982, US$5.0 million (SDR 4.3 million)). Effective since July 1, 1982, the
project aims at upgrading quality, increasing enrollments, equalizing educa-
tional opportunities, and improving educational management. Implementation is
proceeding extremely well with about 180 of 300 planned classrooms constructed
and in operation, and 70 fellows already trained in such fields as educational
administration, multigrade teaching, etc. Disbursements are well ahead of
schedule and the project is expected to be completed in advance of the comple-
tion date estimated at appraisal.



- 10 -
35.       Rationale for Bank Involvement.  Agriculture and education have been
identified as the primary sectors for Bank Group lending to Solomon Islands --
agriculture as the sector with the greatest potential for development and
education as the key to improving the human resource base and generating the
skilled manpower needed for the country's rapidly growing public and private
sectors. The current shortage of middle- and higher-Level manpower, which has
constrained overall development, is due to the paucity of secondary school
graduates who could be selected for middle- and higher-level skill training.
The restricted output of secondary school graduates is the result of the very
limited number of school places and the low average quality of education
which, in turn, arise from weak educationaL management. It is therefore
crucial that the Government address these issues. In this project, IDA is
well placed to assist the Government because of its experience not only in
developing coherent education sector investment strategies, but also in
coordinating aid from bilateral agencies such as ADAB which have made, and in
future will make substantial contributions to education in Solomon Islands.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
36.       The proposed project was prepared by the Ministry of Education and
Training. An IDA mission appraised the project in October 1984. Negotiations
were held in Honiara from February 25-28, 1986. The Solomon Islands delega-
tion was led by Mr. Silverio Waleka, Under Secretary, Ministry of Finance. A
delegation from ADAB also participated in the negotiations. The Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 5645-SOL, dated April 8, 1986) is being circulated
separately. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
Objectives and Scope
37.       The proposed project would assist the Government to improve access
to and the quality of lower secondary education and strengthen educational
management. To achieve these objectives, the project would undertake the
following activities:
(a) improvement of educational opportunity through: (i) expansion of
lower secondary school enrollment by constructing, furnishing and
equipping three new lower secondary schools to provide about 1,220
student places in three disadvantaged provinces; (ii) development of
a preservice diploma training program to train about 35 lower
secondary teachers annually in addition to Limited preservice
training overseas for lower secondary teachers; and (iii) carrying
out a feasibility study for the SICHE to include academic and campus
master plans;



- LI -
(b) improvement of educational quality through the provision of:
(i) equipment and teaching materials, including textbooks, to all
Form I to III classes; (ii) in-service upgrading for about 60 lower
secondary teachers; (iii) staff training and consultants for the
Curriculum Development Center, along with staff housing; and
(iv) new staff, staff training and consultants for the MET's
Guidance and Selection Unit; and
(c) improvement of educational management through the provision of:
(i) new staff and staff training for establishing an Implementation
and Planning Unit (IPU) in the MET and for the Provincial Education
Offices; and (ii) consultants for preparation of studies on teacher
utilization and incentives and the financing of education with an
emphasis on secondary education, and a sector investment plan.
Improvement of Educational Opportunity (proposed outlay US$6.7 million exclud-
ing contingencies)
38.       To expand educational opportunity in the three most disadvantaged
provinces, Malaita, Guadalcanal and Western, each would be provided with a new
PSS of about 405 places, equivalent to 3 classes in each grade (Forms I-
III). This addition of about 1,220 new places (along with another 100 new
places at the Waimapura NSS already being financed under another Australian
funded project) would increase lower secondary enrollment from about 4,300 in
1985 to about 5,620 in 1991. The enrollment ratio for the population aged 13-
15 years would rise from about 212 to 23%. Geographical distribution of
educational opportunity across provinces would improve by almost 40% as indi-
cated by the Gini coefficient- which would drop from 0.161 in 1985 to 0.099
in 1990. In addition, a three-year preservice diploma training program with
about 100 places would be developed at the SICHE in the College of Education
and Cultural Studies, to begin in 1987, with an annual output of about
35 lower secondary teachers. These teachers would staff the new PSS and
replace teachers leaving the system. Students would enter the program follow-
ing Form V. Courses would be offered in all subject specializations in the
lower secondary curriculum except agriculture. A feasibility study for
reorganizing and expanding the entire SICHE, to include academic and campus
master plans, would also be undertaken. The Government also plans to examine
the effect on its primary teacher training program of the increased demand for
enrollment at the SICHE caused by the "foundation year" and to formulate an
action plan to meet the demand, including proposals on implementation and
financing.
39.       The project would include constructing, furnishing and equipping the
three PSS. Boarding would be provided for all students, and staff housing
would be included. New classrooms, boarding and staff housing would also be
provided to accommodate the new preservice diploma program at the SICHE as
1/   The coefficient ranges from 0 to 1, with 0 representing an entirely
equitable distribution of school places and 1 representing a very
inequitable distribution.



- 12 -
would about 15 man-years of expatriate teacher trainers, 75 man-months of
short-term consultants in institutional and course development, and 12 man-
months of overseas attachment programs for 6 national teacher trainers. In
addition, preservice fellowships overseas would be provided to train about
19 teachers in diploma programs after the start of the new program, mainly in
agriculture. About 12 man-months of consultant services would be provided for
the feasibility study for reorganizing and expanding the SICHE to include
academic and campus master plans. Draft terms of reference for the study have
been drawn up. At negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a) it would make every effort to ensure that all teachers trained preservice
under the project would be bonded to teach in the PSS for periods equal to
their periods of study; (b) by October 31 each year during the project period,
it would submit to IDA for its review and comments a report on the operation
of the primary and secondary teacher training programs of the SICHE for both
the current and the following academic years to include such information as
IDA may reasonably request; (c) by December 31, 1986, the action plan for
meeting the additional demand for enrollment at the SICHE created by the
"foundation year" would be submitted to IDA for its review and comments; and
(d) the SICHE study would be conducted in accordance with terms of reference
acceptable to IDA and submitted to IDA for its review and comments by June A3,
1987, and the recommendations of the study as agreed between the Government
and IDA would be carried out by the Government in accordance with a time
schedule acceptable to IDA.
QuaLity Improvement (proposed outlay US$1.1 million excluding contingencies)
40.       To improve the delivery of quality education at the lower secondary
level, equipment, textbooks and teaching materials would be provided to all
Form I to III classes, teacher qualifications would be upgraded through
in-service training, and the CDC and the GSU would be strengthened. The
project would provide about 20,000 textbooks for the three new Pss and the 20
existing schools which would also receive about 280,000 supplementary prin-ted
materials to be produced by the CDC. In addition, each school would be
provided with simple instructional equipment including handtools for practical
subjects. About 60 lower secondary teachers would be upgraded in-service to
diploma level at the SICHE daring semester breaks and by correspondence during
the project period. About 36 man-months of short-term consultants would be
provided to develop the upgrading courses. In addition, during their annual
in-service workshop (already being funded under the MET's regular recurrent
budget), training would be provided to all teachers focusing on the effective
use of textbooks and materials.
41.       Two new Curriculum Development Officer/Subject Advisor posts, to be
filled by nationals in two core subjects, have recently been created in the
CDC. These posts have been established at a civil service level attractive to
qualified personnel; the four existing posts have also been upgraded to a
similar level. After filling these six posts, the CDC would have a complement
of Advisors who would provide backup advisory service to all schools, inspect
the schools and conduct the annual workshops in their respective subject
areas. The CDC would be able to update regularly both the curriculum and the
teaching materials. About 72 man-months of overseas fellowships for training
these Advisors and 63 man-months of consultants to work with them would be



-13 -
provided. In addition, the CDC offices would be remodeled, and housing for
the Advisors would be provided.
42.       The Examinations Officer post in the GSU, now filled by an acting
expatriate officer and funded by the UK's Overseas Development Administration
(ODA), has recently been converted into a local post and a second local post
in test selection and evaluation would also be created at a civil service
level attractive to qualified personnel. A new expatriate officer will
continue to advise the GSU under the ODA funding. Equipment and staff train-
ing would be provided for the GSU to enable development of new and improved
tests for the national examinations and provision of better student guidance
and counseling. The two new staff along with the Chief Education Officer,
Selection and Guidance, would be trained overseas for a total of 48 man-months
in examinations, guidance and counseling, and 36 man-months of specialist ser-
vices, in addition to the ODA advisor, would be provided to develop test
instruments and procedures.
Management Improvement (proposed outLay US$0.3 million excluding
contingencies)
43.       To strengthen educational management capacity at the national and
provincial levels, implement the project and plan for future investments in
education, a new Implementation and Planning Unit would be established and
maintained in the MET. In addition, the Government plans eventually to create
Provincial Education Officer (Secondary) posts in each province. Priority
would be given to the province: where the new PSS are to be built. Studies on
teacher utilization and incent;ves and on financing and efficiency of educa-
tion (with an emphasis on secondary education and the improvement of school
maintenance), and preparation of a sector investment plan would be under-
taken. By project completion, financial analysis and pLanning and project
implementation would be improved and secondary education administered more
effectively. In addition, future development projects would have been planned
more systematicalLy.
44.       Appropriate staff would be appointed and trained for the new posi-
tions. Eight MET staff have just returned from studying overseas in education
management and business studies as part of the Primary Education Project.
Four of these staff will be assigned to posts in the IPU as director, educa-
tor/implementer, procurement officer and accountant, in addition to a fifth
staff member to be appointed as education planner. The three Provincial
Education Officer (Secondary) positions would be submitted for establishment
to coincide with the opening of the new PSS.  About 3n man-months of overseas
fellowships would be provided to train IPU staff and the Provincial Education
Officers (Secondary) in education planning and administration.
45.       About twelve consultant man-months would be provided to prepare the
studies on teacher utilization and incentives and the financing of education,
the sector investment plan and future projects and to help the Covernment
prepare the project completion report. Draft terms of reference for the
studies on teacher utilization and incentives and the financing of education
have been drawn up. At negotiations, the Government provided assurances
that: (a) it would establish and maintain the IPU with functions and



- 14 -
responsibilities acceptable to IDA with competent staff in such numbers as
agreed with IDA; (b) the studies on teacher utilization and incentives and the
financing of education would be conducted in accordance with terms of
reference acceptable to IDA and submitted to IDA for its review and comments
by June 30, 1987, and the recommendations of such studies as agreed between
the Government and IDA carried out by the Government in accordance with a time
schedule acceptable to IDA. Establishment of the IPU would be a condition of
effectiveness of the Credit.
Project Management and Implementation
46.       The project would be implemented by the IPU in coordination with the
CDC, SICHE, other MET divisions and the PEOs. An interim project director has
been appointed to act until the establishment of the IPU. Equipment and
vehicles for project administration would be provided under the project. In
addition, an implementation advisor would be appointed to assist the IPU in
the overall implementation and management of the project. Three man-years of
consultant services would be provided for this purpose.
47.       A Project Coordinatng Committee (PCC) for this project has also been
appointed, consisting of representatives from the MET, the Ministry of
Finance, the Ministry of Economic Planning, SICHE and the Home Affairs Offices
for Malaita, Western and Guadalcanal provinces. The PCC will act in an
advisory capacity and will monitor project implementation. The project would
be implemented over a period of about five and one-half years, starting in
July 1986. All project items are expected to be fully implemented by
December 31, 1991. The Closing Date would be December 31, 1992.
Status of Project Preparation
48.       Sites for the three new PSS have been identified and are being
acquired either through purchase or long-term lease. Major problems in site
acquisition are not anticipated. Land is available on the SICHE campus for
construction of the new facilities required for the secondary teacher training
program and for the CDC housing. The Public Works Department will provide
architectural services for the SICHE construction and the CDC housing and
remodeling, and consultant architects will provide such services for the three
new PSS. Twenty-two secondary teachers were enrolled overseas in degree
programs in 1985 and four in diploma programs under the Government's own
funding. Another 10 are expected to enroll overseas in degree programs in
1986 along with 16 in diploma programs. The new lower secondary teacher
training program at the SICHE will commence in 1987. Subject panels of
secondary teachers established by the CDC to advise on the secondary school
curriculum have completed the master lists of equipment, textbooks and
materials needed to teach each of their subjects and the lists have been
submitted to IDA. CDC staff have visited three typical existing secondary
schools to determine overall equipment and textbook needs. The two unfilled
existing CDC posts have been readvertised. A preliminary review of teacher
incentives has been completed by the MET and a recommendation on increasing
teacher salaries to bring them in line with other civil service salaries
proposed. By mid-1986, the Government expects to have completed: (a) prelimi-
nary site layouts for the new PSS using the Government's standard building



- 15 -
designs, the construction to be undertaken at the SICHE and the CDC housing
and remodeling; and (b) details of its policy on textbook replacement.
Acquisition of one PSS site would be a condition of effectiveness of the
credit, and at negotiations, the Government provided assurances that all
remaining project sites would be acquired by December 31, 1986.
Costs
49.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$10.0 million
equivalent. Base costs refer to February 1986 prices. Construction costs are
based on contract awards for similar facilities in the Solomon Islands.
Furniture costs are estimated at 10 of construction costs for academic and
communal faciLities, 8% for boarding E&cilities and 15 for staff housing.
The costs of equipment, textbooks and materials have been estimated on the
basis of standard lists and recent tenders, and were adjusted to include local
transportation and installation. Area and capital costs per student place and
per housing unit are reasonable compared with Bank-wide averages. Building
materials and equipment, textbooks and educational materials imported for use
in the project are all exempt from import duties and taxes. Unit costs for
consultants include salaries, allowances and airfare. Unit costs for fellow-
ships are estimated from about US$300 per man-month at nearby South Pacific
institutions to about US$600 in Australia, both including international
travel.
50.       The contingency allowance of US$1.9 million (about 23Z of baseline
costs) includes contingencies for unforeseen physical conditions of 10 for
civil works, furniture, equipment, textbooks and materials, and professional
services, and 5% for all other categories. Price contingencies were calcu-
lated for both local and foreign costs in accordance with the implementation
schedule and the following expected average annual price increases: 7.2% for
1986, 6.8% for 1987 and 1988, 7Z for 1989, 7.1% for 1990 and 4% for 1991.
Accordingly, aggregated price increases are estimated at about 13% of baseline
costs plus physical contingencies.
51.       The foreign exchange component of US$5.8 million (about 58Z of the
total estimated project cost) was calculated on the basis of the following
estimated foreign exchange percentages: civil works, 40%; furniture, 35%;
equipment, textbooks and materials, 90%; professional services and foreign
consultants, 90%; overseas fellowships, 90%; and local training, 20%.



- 16 -
Financial Plan
52.       The proposed IDA Credit of US$5.0 million equivalent and grants for
parallel financing from ADAB totalling about US$4.3 million equivalent would
together finance about 93% of the total estimated project cost. The Govern-
ment would be responsible for the remaining 7% of project costs or about
US$0.7 million equivalent. The IDA Credit would cover about 40% of the
estimated foreign exchange cost of the project and about 70X of estimated
local costs. A commitment in principle has been received from ADAB for its
share of the funding which would be committed by two methods:
(a) a grant of $A 4.0 million from ADAB's cofinancing facility. IDA
would administer and disburse these funds consistent with the co-
financing arrangements among the IBRD, IDA and ADAB; and
(b) a second grant of SA 2.5 million from ADAB's bilateral aid funds.
These funds would be administered and disbursed by ADAB.
A cross-effectiveness condition between the IDA Credit and the ADAB grants
would be included in the Credit Agreement. In addition, a memorandum of
understanding would be signed between IDA and ADAB on arrangements for
disbursements, supervision, etc. by both institutions. Retroactive financing,
amounting to US$50,000 would be provided under the Credit for foreign consul-
tants to prepare the studies (para. 45) beginning January 1, 1986. At negoti-
ations the Government provided assurances that it together with IDA would
review by October 31 each year beginning in 1986, the progress achieved in
implementing the project and the allocation of Government counterpart funds
(investment and recurrent) necessary for the purposes of the project during
the following fiscal year.
Recurrent Costs
53.       Additional recurrent costs incurred as a result of the project are
estimated at 9% of the recurrent budget for education, or about 1.5Z of the
total government recurrent budget. This increase over the five and one-half
years of project implementation is within the revenue-generating capacity of
the economy, given recent growth performance and the priority placed by the
Covernment on education. Therefore, there should be no difficulty in
financing the recurrent costs of the education investment program.



-17 -
Procurement
54.       Procurement arrangements are shown in the table below:
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(USS Million)
Total cost
Procurement method         including
Category of expenditure            ICB      LCB      Other      contingencies
Civil works                         5.1      0.2       0.7           6.0
(4.7)   (0.2)    (0.0)          (4.9)
Furniture and equipment,                      -        1.6           1.6
textbooks and materials            -        -      (0.0)          (0.0)
Professional services                -        -        0.4           0.4
-       -       (0.0)         (0.0)
Technical assistance                  -       -        2.0           2.0
=       =       (0.1)         (0.1)
Total                          5.1      0.2      4.7           10.0
(4.7)   (0.2)    (0.1)          (5.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses refer to Credit allocations.
55.       The contract for construction of the three new PSS (estimated value
US$5.1 million including contingencies) would be awarded as one package on the
basis of international competitive bidding procedures in accordance with IDA
Guidelines. The invitation to bid, proposed award and final contract would
all be subject to prior review by IDA. Remodeling of the CDC offices and
printshop and the new CDC housing would be too small to attract foreign compe-
tition and would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding proce-
dures acceptable to IDA. Consultancy services financed by the Credit would be
obtained in accordance with IDA's guidelines for the use of consultants. All
other procurement would be carried out by the Government or ADAB under their
own regulations.
Disbursements
56.       The proposed credit of US$5.0 million equivalent would be disbursed
over a period of six and one-half years. Disbursements would be made as
follows: (a) civil works for construction of the three PSS and the CDC
housing and office remodeling - 80% of total costs; and (b) specialists for
the studies on the financing of education and the sector investment plan and
other sectoral studies for preparation of future projects - 100% of total
costs.



- 18 -
57.       Under the proposed Credit, a special account of US$333,000 (equiva-
lent to SDR 300,000) would be set up and maintained in US dollars at a bank
acceptable to IDA to finance project expenditures. Under ADAB's cofinancing
grant, a second special account of $A 270,000 would also be set up and
maintained in Australian dollars. Applications for replenishment would be
submitted quarterly, or more frequently if necessary, in amounts of not less
than US$165,000 and $A 135,000, respectively. Disbursements for the contract
to be awarded on the basis of ICB would be made against full documentation
while all remaining disbursements from both accounts would be based on state-
ments of expenditure. Supporting documents would be retained by the IPU and
made available for review, as requested, by visiting IDA/ADAB missions. The
MET's experience with a special account and the use of SOEs under the Primary
Education Project is satisfactory.
58.       Disbursements are estimated to be made within six months of expendi-
tures, on average. To allow sufficient time for submission of final with-
drawal applications following the scheduled completion date of December 31,
1991, the Closing Date would be December 31, 1992. In a comparison of dis-
bursements for the proposed project with the Primarv Education Project's
actual and estimated disbursements, this Credit is expected to be disbursed at
a somewhat slower rate, as fewer consultants are being provided to assist in
project implementation.
Accounts, Audits and Reporting
59.       The IPU would establish and maintain a separate account for all
project expenditures. The account would be maintained in accordance with
sound accounting practices. Auditing of the account would be performed
annually in accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA and an audit report
submitted to IDA within nine months of the end of the Government's fiscal
year. Within six months after the Closing Date, the IPU would submit a
project completion report to IDA.
Benefits and Risks
60.       Benefits.  The project would widen the opportunity for secondary
education in disadvantaged provinces by providing about 1,220 more school
places in Forms I-III, an increase of 28% from the 4,300 available places in
1985. The enrollment ratio in 1991 would be about 23% of the age group,
compared with 21% in 1985. Geographical distribution of educational opportu-
nity across provinces, as measured by the Gini coefficient (para. 38), would
improve almost 40%. Sufficient secondary school teacher would have been
trained to staff the new PSS and to fill existing vacancies and those caused
by normal attrition. The Curriculum Development Center, with an increased
staff, would be much better equipped to provide supporting services to
teachers in the main subject areas in the curriculum. The project would
improve the quality of secondary education through the provision of better and
more equipment and instructional materials, including cextbooks, and better
trained teachers. The strengthened Guidance and Selection Unit would be able
to improve test designs and procedures, facilitating efficient implementation
of national examinations and the selection of students. Better trained staff
in the Implementation and Planning Unit and the Provincial Education Offices
would improve overall educational administration and planning.



- 19 -
61.       Risks.  There appear to be several risks to successful implementa-
tion of the project. The lack of experienced staff for project implementa-
tion, poor communication between the MET and the PEOs and no staff at all
assigned to secondary education in the PEOs could delay implementation as
could complicated land acquisition procedures. These risks would be minimized
by staff training, the proposed establishment of the IPU (para. 45), creation
of new secondary education officer posts in the PEOs, drawing up of agency
agreements between the MET and the PEOs and initiating land acquisition
procedures well ahead of physical construction (para. 48). A further risk is
that not enough Form V leavers would be attracted into secondary teaching and
that teacher wastage would continue at the present rate, but these would be
counteracted by bonding of teachers following their training and by implemen-
tation of the results of the study on teacher utilization and incentives. The
CDC might not be able to recruit all the officers needed, but this risk would
be reduced by the recent upgrading of the levels of the CDC posts, and by
providing staff training and housing. In order to minimize financial risks
during implementation, IDA and ADAB would jointly review project implementa-
tion and financing with the Government each year.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
April 11, 1986
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
- 20 -                                                Pa8eT 1of 5
Uows. rmTaLm          - SI    U TO   AT   RT
moLow  Il m                           P         OPS iRUC COP. IMEIlSD AYRRMU  p
muci                     (MMa slow ITMATWE)
soTr             MULE INCNS              DOLE 
OthL    1970tk  =TINR              UAU A PACIFC           LAT. ANUIICA  CA
tm   I         1ui  Sq   2)
TOTAL                              28-,       20.4        28.4
AIRICULIUMAL                         .9          9         0.9
era cPTa ar       )                    ..         ..         n.a.            1011.1                    875.
wom i    rnr camfl
(KiLo      O Or oiL QUnvamLr)      32.0       92.0       200.0             566.8                    993.4
POULATIN  -M Vim. STATISItCS
POPUATICN.XIO0-TZA, (THOUSANDS)    125.0     143.0       256.0
MEDAl! POPUIATION CZ OF TOTAL)      3.1        9.3        23.2              35.9                     67.7
POPUIATIXO PEIJECXIS
POPULATION IN TEA  2000 (HILL)                           0.4
STATIONARY POPUATION CHILL)
POPULATION NOSNTIR.
POPULATION DEISITY
PER SQ. KN.                       4.4        5.7         8.9             386.9                     48.0
Pt SQ. M. AGRI. LND             141.6       183.1      272.2            1"1.2                      91.1
POPUIATION AGE STRUCTUR  CS)
0-14 TVI                         ..        46          4S.J              38.2                     38.5
15-64 YIS                         ..        51.9       1.6               57.7                     57.1
65 AND A80VI                      ..         3.5         3.0               3.5                      *.2
POPULATION GROWER RATE CZ)
TOTAL                             1.6        2.6         3.4               2.3                      2.
URDAN                            12.9        13.6       12.5               *.1                      3.6
IC 8RATH LCT (PR tODS)              ..        41.0        3b.0              30.1                     30.9
C;UIDE WDEA t RAT (PER 1305S)       ..         11.0       13.0               9.4                      8.0
GROSS REPROIUCTION RATE             ..         3.1         3.5               1.9                      2.0
FAMILY PLAJINI
ACCCEORS. AISIIAL C(TUbS)
USERS (2 OF MARRIED  EN)          ..          ..         ..               56.5                     65.3
vom Am D sma
IDEX oF FMOD ?RO0. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                     111.0      100.0       124.0             126.4                    109.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIS (S OP REQUIIFINTS)       87.0       80.0        78.0             115.7                    113.2
PROTEUS (GRAS PER DAY)           60.0        41.0       55.0              60.3                     69.4
OF WHICII ANIMAL AND PULSc      13.0        15.0       15.0 Id           14.1                     34.2
WIILD CAGES 1-4) MAE RAZE           ..         6.1         4.l Ic            7.2                      4.8
LIF EXPECT. AT I5m1 (TS)           ..         31.0       57.0              60.6                     64.8
INFANT tDrr. RAT (PER THmUS)        ..        52.4        52.0              44.9                     59.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WAYER (ZRP)
TAL                               ..          ..        27.0 /e           46.0                     65.3
URBAN                             ..          ..         9.0 7;           57.6                     76.5
RURAL                             ..          ..        20.0 T            37.1                     ".2
ACCESS TO EXCRE'A DISPOSAL
(u Or PoPuMAION)
TOrAL                             ..          ..        17.0 ic           50.1                     56.3
URBAN                             ..          ..        82.0 7;           52.9                     73.4
RURAL                             ..          ..        moT.7              44.7                    25.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         5730.0     420.0       7130.0 If         7751.7                   1909.7
POP. PER NURSING PERSON          3390.0 Ig   790.0       410.07o          244.8                     808.2
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           150.0       140.0      150.0 IC         1112.1                    362.0
URBA                            30.0       100.0      170.o 7i         6451.4                    622.0
RURAL                           130.0 a    160.0        40.0 7T         23596.5                  2716.7
ADIISSIONS PER  SPITAL MED          ..        16.1        18.0 If           41.1                     27.5
AVERAGE SUR OP IOUSENOLD
TOTAL                             ..          5.4        5.6 Ih
UfBJ                              ,,         54          5.5 7rh
RRAAL                             ..         5.4         5.6 4.                   
AVERACE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOK1
TOTAL                             ..          ..
URBAN                             ..          ..         1.9 b
RURAL                             ..          ..
PERCENrTAE OF DMELLI.ICS WM1H ELECT.
TOTAL                             ..          ..
URBAN                             ..          ..        8.O lb
RURAL                             ..          ..         .                  ..



- 21 -                                                       ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
Sa[eN    ll     - 8CIAL IND CAf0 DjRW
MOST                     (HOST RCENDT ESTIKATE) Lb
l960Lb     17l  SCENT                MIDDLE INMt            MIDDLE
rnakIS7  -      ASIA & PACIFIC          LAT. AfRICA A CAR
AWflSTED ENOUITRATIOS
PRLNAITI  TOTAL                    ..         61.0       60.0 /            100.7                     106.7
IHAE                     ..         ..          ..               104.4                    10i.5
FAL                     ..          ..          ..               97.2                     104.6
SKCONDR  TOTAL                     ..          7.0       16.0 La            47.8                      44.2
MALE                    ..          ..          ..               50.6                      42.7
MAL                     ..          ..          ..              54.                        44.9
VOCATIOI. (2 01 310L0*)             14.6        17.7        9.1 I             18.4                      13.3
PUPIL-TEACIZI RATIO
PRIAR                             19.0        24.0       25.0               30.4                      29.9
SCONDAI                           14.0        14.0        16.0 L            22.2                      16.7
PARSECE  CABIEOSMAUl   POP           ..          ..         5.0 /d            10.1                      46.0
RADIO RCEIVERS/ITUIAND POP           4.8        49.1       98.0              172.9                     32B.3
TV    EVzEgS/TROUSASD POP            ..          ..          ..               58.5                     112.4
NIZRIAPE ("DAILYE CRUML
LITERST") CIROuLATION
PzU TOM053D POPULATION              ..          ..         ..                65.3                      91.1
CUZIA AINUAL ATIUDAICE/CAPITA        0.8         ..         0.5  d             3.4                       2.4
TOTA  LABOR FORCE (CTiuS)            ..          ..         23.0 /h
FzMALE (PZRCZNT)                   ..          ..        16.6 87            33.6                      23.6
AGRICULTUIR (PCENT)                 .          ..          4.7              52.2                      31.4
INDUSTRT (PUICI)                   ..          ..         15.0 71           17.9                      24.3
PAITXCIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              ..          ..         28.0/             38.9                      33.5
KALE                               ..          ..         47h0               50.8                     51.3
FAL                                ..          ..         9.5 7E            26.8                      15.9
ECOMOHCC DEPENDENCY RATO             ..          ..          1.2 J8            1.1                       1.3
IumN DSIO
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCZ
RCQIVISD myf
RIGEST 51 01 ROUSEROLDS            ..
ICEST 20= OF HOhSEfOLDS            ..          ..          ..              4U.O
LOElST 20S or uoUSuows             ..          ..          ..                6.4
LOVEST 402  ROF SUOWS              ..          ..          ..               15.5
ESTITD ABLUTE POVER   130US
LEEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URAS                               ..          ..          ..                ..                      288.3
EL. -                              ..          ..          ..              151.9                     185.3
ESTIMTD RELATV  POVERTY IKCUS
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..          ..              177.9                     519.8
iRURL                              ..          ..          ..              164.7                     359.7
EsTIMAED POP. BELW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INOM  LEVL CE)
URBAN                              ..          ..          ..              .23.5
RURAiL                             ..          ..          ..               37.8
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APMLCBE
/a  The group average far each indcator are population-weighted arithmetic mane.  CovraP of countrie
mon the Indicatorn depedu on availability of data and In not unlform.
/b  Ueleo. otbarvae noted, 'Data for 1960" rater to any year betwn. 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970' between
1969 and 1971; and data for "Wont Recant ntlabte" between 1981 and 1983.
/c  1979; /d 1977; /a 1980; /f 197B; f  1962;  lb 1976.
JUNE. 1985



ANNEX I
- 22 -                                               Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Nwc Atheoug the duta are drawn frren aurce generallyjudpd the most authoritative and reliable, it should abo be noted that Ihey may not be ineinationally
conparble bemwe of the lack of adardized deinItions a  oncepts used by different countries in collkting the data. The data are. noetheks ueful to
deacibe orden rr magnitsde. indica 4tremds. and tbracterize crtin major dilferenc between countries.
The reference  oupare (I) the sne country group of tie subject country and (2) a county group wit omewhat higher ave incone than the country
group of the subit country (except eo -High loonic Oil xpartenw group whee Middk Income Norh Africa nd Middl East is chosen Remuse aottronger
socioculturs altmtities). In the reference group dat the aveas are popultion wighted arithmetic muns for each indicLtor and shown only when mjority
ofthe couutries inagroisp ha data for that indicator nce ite coverageofcountrie among tbe indicatordepcd on the availability ordta and isnot uniform
caution must beexerised in rdating average atone indicator to another. Thee average are only usdul in csnpanng the value ofone indicator at a time amon
the country and rdefence group
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                            CMsk Rinb Rate (per thra- d)-Number of live births in the year
Toea-Total surface area comprising land arca and inland waters   per thousand of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                        Crud Deat Rast (per thosanad)-Number of deaths in the year
Agraubrai-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or       per thousand or mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops, pastures. market and kitchen gardens or to  Gross Repredcrie  Rate-Avcrage number of daughters a woman
lic falow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                              will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
prescnt agspecific rertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current         in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices, calculated by same conversion method as World      Family PkaSA y-AWceprors, Anal (theosands)-Annual num-
Bank Aras (198143 basis): 1983    .                              ber of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of natiunal
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                    family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.       FffUy  Pa r-Usrs-s (peret of mrred nmef-The prcen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-  tage of married women or child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms Of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form orcontraception. Women
1982 data.                                                       ofchild-bearing age are generally women aged 1549. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                  groups.
Total P1p9A8 ioe, Mid-da.  (thousands-As of July 1: 1960. 1970,  FOOD AND NUFRITION
and 1983 data.
.Iux ofFoodPrednctia Per Capita (199-71 = 11)-Index of per
Urba  Popalation (percent of rota)-Ralio of urban to total       capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countries: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.      indude primary commodities (c.g. sugarcane instead of supr)
Populton Projecos                                                which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. cofee and tea are
Population in year 2000-The projection of population for 2000.   excluded) they comprise cereals. root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on   vegetables, firuits, nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets. livestock, and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates, mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters  on national average producer price weights: 1961-65. 1970. and
wei. projected at five-year intervals on the basis of gcnerpiited  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationory.               Per CaWp   upply f Calis (pecet qfrequirements)-Comput-
Stationary popularid-ls one in which age- and sex-specific rror-  ed from calorie equivaknt of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-pecific  per capita per day. Available supples comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports less exportS and changes in stock. Net supplics
(nct reproduction rate = 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also   food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nonnal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature, body weights.
the population in the year 2C00. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and scx distribution of population, and allowing 1O percent for
rate to replacemnct level.                                       waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Popuation Monaemum-Is the tendency for population growth to      Per Capita Supply aPteia (grat per day)-Protein content of
continue beiand the time that replacenent-level fertility has been  percapita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved: that is. even after the net reproduction rite has readhed  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year r is mcasured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which IO gramn
the year r. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment level from year f onward, 1985 data.                         75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
lPuatio DLsarui                                                  average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqkm.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-     Supply. 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tarcs) of total arca; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                 Per Caia Protein Supply born Animal d Pal se-Protcin supply
Per sq.kn. agictadural land-Computed as above for agricultural   offood derived from animals and pulses in gramns per day; 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                             1970 and 1977 data.
Pop_uios Age Strutnre (perrent)-Children (0-14 years). work-     Chl (ges 1-4) Dath Rate /per thoJsand)-NN umber ofdeaths of
ing age (I5-64 years), and retired (65 yearsand over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Population Growth Rate (perceitsQ-4otal-Annual growth rates or    from life tables: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.      HEALIH
Popation CGrowth Rate (percent)- -urba-Annual growth rates        Lgte Expectany at siri (years)-Number of years a newbom
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.       infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



ANNEX I
-23-                                                 Page 4  of 5
at the time of of its birth were to stay the same throughout its lire;  PupU-teacher Ratie - prinary, and secondary-Total students en-
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                      rolled in primary and secondary levels divided by numben of
Infat Monaty Rate (per thousamiO-Number of infants who die    teachers in the corresponding levels.
before reaching one year or age per thousand live births in a given
year, 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                 CONSUMPTION
ACES te Soft Wear (pfrcet af popasvims)-totd, wrhm, ad          Passeer Cars (pr thmsnd papuudou,-Passenger cars com-
red-Number of people (total. urban. and rural) with reasonable  prise motor cars eating less than eight persons: excludes ambul-
acs to safe water supply (indudes treated surface waters or     ances. hearses and military vehicles.
untreated but uncontaminated water such as that from protected  Re&# Receivm  (per thousandpopuladiofl-AII types of receivers
boreholes, springs and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respec-  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population;
tive populations. In an urban area a public fountain or standpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
located not more than 200 meters from a house may be considered  registration of radio sets was in effect; data for recent years may
as being within reasonable access of that house. In rural areas  not be comparable sinc most countries abolshed Icasing.
reasonable access would imply that the housewife or memnbersof the  T hecompar    sinc   osountries aoieiensinoc
houselhold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  TVRce e      thosn rl       J-TV receivers forbroadcast
in fetching the fanily's water nceds.                           to general public per thousand population: excludes unlicensd TV
receivers in countries and in years when registration Jf TV sets was
Access to Escreta Disposa  percent of p_oplwn)-teteal, whm,     in effect.
and rura-Nunber of people (total, urban, and rural) served by
excreta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  wapcr C ircalti  (per thousandpopatdon)-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or  age crculation of "daidy general interest newspaper." defined as a
without treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-   periodical publication devoted primarily to recording general news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be "daily' if it appears at least four times a week.
Populbion per Phypsian-Topulation divided by number of prac-    Cimea Ammu  Attendwe per Capita pr Yr-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.  number or tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
PIbp duion per Nwurng Persopu-lbplation divided by number of    drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses, assistant nurses    LABOR FORCE
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                         LabOR FORCE
Pops/or per HospWtal Bedt-oal, aras and rwol-Ptpulation         Totdl Labor  frce   oandsun-Economically active persons, in-
(total, urban. and rural) divided by their respective number Of  chding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hospitalbedavailablein public and private, general and   s p   eda students. etc.. covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hosbeals are establishmets  various countries arc not comparable; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
permanently staffed by at least one physician. Establishments prov-  Femok (percenfl-Fernale labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals,    force.
however. include health and medical centers not permanently staffed  Agricahure (percens)-Labor force in farming. forestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant. nurse. midvwie. etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force: 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical racilities.                                         Iadazry (percent)-Labor force in mining. construction, manu-
Adudsions per Hospital Ied-Total number of admissions to or     facturing and electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor
dischargecs from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Proicjption Rate (percent k-tosal mwke, sdf tnsil-Participation
HOUSING                                                        or activity rates are computed as total, male. and female labor force
Aerge Size of iOusehold (persons per husho)-eotal. hbam,       as percentages of totaL male and female population of all ages
adrAura-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. hese are based on ILOs
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the population. and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Average Number of Persons per Room-total, arban, and rura-      Ecveomic Drpendency Rack-Ratio of population under 15. and
Avcrage number of persons per room in all urban. and rural     65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings. respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                  INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Percentage of Dwelkqs wit Eecricip-totaetl,  ham, and rul-      Perntaxe of Total Dspabk Income (boh in cash and kind)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total. urban. and rural dwellings respectivdy,          hold income.
EDUCATION                                                       POVERTV TARGET GROUPS
A*4ud Earfigeat Ratis                                          The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Prinary school - total, male and female-4Gross total. male and  levels. and should be intcrpreted with considerablc caution.
female enrollment of all ages at the primary level as percentages of  Estiaed Absolte Povry Incom  Lewd (USS per capita)-arban
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  ad rural-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 vears. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given- For some countries with universal  Estimated Reltive Poverty Income LevWl (US per cepita)-arban
education. gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some   ad rural-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  avenge per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                           derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary school - total. male and female-Computed as above;    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Estunated Popustion Below Absolute Poarty Income Level (per-
mary instruction; provides general. vocational. or teacher training  ceut)-arban ad rnual- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age: correspond-  who are "absolute poor."
ence courses are gnerally excluded.
Vocationa FroUmeni (percent of secondary)--Vocational institu-            Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tionc indude technical. industriaL or other programs which operate      Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                              June 1985



-24 -                                                    ANNEX T
Page 5 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - SnLOMON ISLANDS
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1984:                 n.a.                                    COVFRNMENT FINANCE                       1983
(S5S uln)
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODIICT IN 1984 (Current prices)
Current receipts                        34.1
US$ mmn        2                            Current expenditure                     38.5       -
Current surplus                          4.4
CDP at market prices (estimate)   178.6                                         Capital expenditure                      11.4
Exports of goods                     91.7          51.1                         Rxternal assistance (net) and
Import of goods                      79.0         44.2                            Project Crants                          4.0
mONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                                   197R       1979       1980      1981      I182       19R3       19R4
CSIS million outstanding at end of period)
Noney and quasi-money                                      27.3       39.6      37.7       31.5       39.4      47.2       64.2
Bank credit to public sector                                 .1        n.5       6.4        7.5       9.3       11.0      1m.5
Bank creditt to private sector                              5.7       11.1      17.3       21.4      22.5       20.6       2Q.9
(Percentage or index numbers)
Consumer price index (1980-100)                            81.8      88.4      1n0.0      116.4     131.5      14n.5      155.q
Annual percentage change in:
Consumer price index                                        -        8.1      13.1       16.4      13.n        6.R       11.0
Bank credit to public sector                                -     4nn00    1,1,0.0       17.2      1n.7       32.5      -4.5
Bank credit to private sector                               -      129.8      32.1       23.7       5.1       -R.4      45.1
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                 1982         1983        Iq94               NERCRANDISE FEPORTS (AVERAGE 1OR2-RA4)
'UsS million)
USS rln              I
Expnrts of goods                    58.3        62.0         91.7
Imports of goods                    59.1        61.S         65.8               Tiuber /b               21.5               3n.5
Trade balance                      -0.8          0.5         25.9               Flsb Ic                 2n.9               2q.4
Copra                  13.6               19.3
Services (net)                    -16.5        -18.9        -31.4               Palm oil                 S.6               12.2
Private transfers (net)             -4.5        -2.5         -1.7               Cocoa                    1.9                2.7
Other                   4.2                5.9
Balance on current account        -21.8        -20.9         -9.2
Total             70.6              10.0n
Official transfers                  11.8         15.1        14.6
EXTERNAL nERT, 19R4 (Estimate)         USS mln
Nonmonetary capital /a              14.3        10.9          5.3
Public debt, tncl. guaranteed             SR.4
Overall balance                      4.3          5.1        10.7
DFRT SERvICE RATIO mOR 1984 /d              7
Gross reserves                      37.0        45,9         45.7
Public debt, tncl. iwaranteed              6.n
RATE OF EXCRANGE       1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1914
TBRD/IDA lENDING, Septemher 30. 1985       IDA
SIS1.00 - US$        1.1547  1.2051  1.1492  1.029R  0.8706  0.7851                     (1Ms milion)
USS1.00 - SI$        0.8660  0.8298  0.R702  0.9711  1.1486  1.2737
Outstanding & disbursed                  12.00
Undisbursed                               6.61
Oustanding, incl. undishursed            1R.61
/ia  Includes errors and omissions.
7W Includes logs and sawn timber.
Tm Includes fresh, smoked and canned fish.
7d  Includes IMP.
Note:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the Period covered.
September 30, 1985



-25 -                       ANNEX I
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SOLOMON ISLANDS
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1985) /a
Amount in US$ mln
X     Credit                                                                   (less cancellations)
number   Year  Borrower                     Purpose                    TmDA|b    Undisbursed
1115-SOL  1981  Solomon Islands              Development Bank             1.5/c         0.79
1212-SOL  1982  Solomon Islands              Primary Education            5.0/d         1.09
1430-SOL  1984  Solomon Islands              Rural Services               3.5/e         3.06
1542-SOL  1985  Solomon Islands              Guadalcanal Road Improve-   2.n            1.67
ment
Total                                                   12.0           6.61
Of which has been repaid                                   -            -
Total Now Outstanding                                   12.0
Amount sold
of which has been repaid                                  -
Total Now Held by IDA                                  .12.0
Total Undishursed                                                      6.61
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
None.
/a The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
lb  Amount expressed here is USs equivalent of undisbursed SDR awount in terms of USS com-
mitments.
/c  Credit amount is SDR 1.3 million (equivalent to USS1.5 million at time of commitment).
Tdf Credit amount is SDR 4.3 million (equivalent to USS5.0 million at time of commitment).
fe Credit amount is SDR 3.3 million (equivalent to USs3.5 milllon at time of commitment).



-26 -                             ANNEX III
Page 1
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Supplementary Data SheeL
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:    One year.
(E*)  Agency which prepared                  Ministry of Education and
the project:                            Training.
(c)  First presentation to IDA:              March 1984.
(d) Main IDA identification/
preparation mission:                    April 1984.
(e) Date of departure of
appraisal mission:                      October 1984.
(f)  Date of completion of negotiations:   February 1986
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:          July 1986
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
A. Conditions of Effecciveness
(i)    The Government would establish the IPU  (para. 45);
(ii)    One PSS site would be acquired (para. 48); and
(iii)    All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the ADAB grants
would have been fulfilled (para. 52).
1/ Extensive review and discussions were required between the Government,
ADAB and IDA following the change of Government in November 1984.



-27 -                                 ANNEX III
Page 2
B. Other Conditions:
The Government would:
(i)  make every effort to ensure that all teachers trained preservice under
the project would be bonded to teach in the PSS for periods equal to
their periods of study (para. 39);
(ii)  by October 31 each year beginning in 1986, review together with IDA:
(a) progress achieved in implementing the project; (b) the allocation
of Government counterpart funds (investment and recurrent) necessary
for the purposes of the project during the following fiscal year; and
Cc) a report to be prepared by the Government and submitted to IDA on
the operation of the primary and secondary teacher training programs
at the SICHE for both the current and the following academic years to
include such information as IDA may reasonably request (paras. 39 and
52);
(iii) by December 31, 1986, submit to IDA for its review and comments, the
action plan for meeting the additional demand for enrollment at the
SICHE created by the "foundation year" (para. 39);
(iv) establish and maintain the IPU with functions and responsibilities
acceptable to IDA with competent staff in such numbers as agreed with
IDA (para. 45);
(v) conduct the SICHE study and the studies on teacher utilization and
incentives and the financing of education in accordance with terms of
reference acceptable to IDA, by June 30, 1987, submit such studies to
IDA for its review and comments, and carry out the recommendations of
such studies as agreed between the Government and IDA in accordance
with a time schedule acceptable to IDA (paras. 39 and 45); and
(vi) by December 31, 1986, have acquired all project sites (para. 48).



PAPUA                                                                I                                           -                                            -    ''
NEW GU NEA                                                                                                            --!--                          '                          k '-SEZ      Or
-OuGAINvlLLe   A_   USREOSS.  6s1olsetl                                           Moloit                                     ,, dPUPJA  NEW  GUINEA
~~;-   ~~~              TR%~~~ 1CEOISEULLMlioooS                                                                                                                                   
'r     %-;>SLANDS                  _ t -                                                             ;                                                                                    L.._._.___  AL ___I _
-'iEC U-C, _ t I.                                                                  ?                                                    i ,,,, j                ,                 EAUSTRALIA  -I R.LRA
4~~t  ar  *  rI  r  { <1 ^4  iDa ER IR R ~~~~~~~ISRR                                                                                                         '55           105l
I '-~-@  !   ; :,;    .L~ I' ob I                                                        '                   SOLOMON ISLANDS
;  *.       isobeI   sc e                            i     SECONDARY  EDUCATION  PROJECT
rl 4 = ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-g ' ,~~~~~~~~~~ENW  rRIA ,SAB4 EL|'       GE  O
|~~~~~~1                                                 'EN I                                              ?o 0   TiE. TRRVEIOu,'XSAL TERDoONOA   SCOOLSDA
SANT,'                                                                       ROLS C- HI. A EU-------T
-----------                                _\ 'P                   L       dI-  --.-F---                                                                          'S
<~    ~ ~ ~ SAD                .ooo4  SATIR}                                               etll          5CnrliMkr
------------- . ------------                                                            F                       -------------
. -_o  _L  dUu                j5                 i  4 
s?   w   ;NKuUi-  -_  |  |-" | X {MAKi % 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.ki
S-. C-Ua
'  ESSE C - S S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B



-- - --- ---   -



