Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFICIAL USIE ONLY
Report No. 13129
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1686-SOL)
JUNE 9, 1994
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Solomon Island Dollar (SBD)
At Appraisal, October 1984
US$1.00 = SBD 1.61
Average Annual Exchange Rates to SBD 1.00
1986      1987      1988      1989      1990      1991      1992
USD         0.58      0.50      0.48      0.44      0.40      0.37      0.34
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDAB       -  Australian International Development Assistance Bureau
AUD         -  Australian Dollar
CDC         -  Curriculum Development Center
GSU         -  Guidance and Selection Unit
IDA         -  International Development Association
IPU         -  Implementation and Planning Unit
MET         -  Ministry of Education and Training (also MEHRD - Ministry of
Education and Human Resources Development)
MOF         -  Ministry of Finance (also MOFEP - Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning)
MOU         -  Memorandum of Understanding
MTPW        -  Ministry of Transport and Public Works
PCC         -  Project Coordinating Committee
PEO         -  Provincial Education Officer
PSS         -  Provincial Secondary School (Forms 1-3)
SAR         -  Staff Appraisal Report
SBD         -  Solomon Islands Dollar
SDR         -  Special Drawing Rights (international currency)
SECS        -  School of Education and Cultural Studies
SEP         -  Secondary Education Project
SEPTEQI   -  Secondary  Education  Project Teacher Education  and  Quality
Improvement Component
SICHE       -  Solomon Islands College of Higher Education
SIG         -  Solomon Islands Government
TOR         -  Terms of Reference



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Offlo of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 9, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Solomon Islands
Secondary Education Project (Credit 1686-SOL)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Solomon Islands - Secondary Education
Project (Credit 1686-SOL) prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office. Part II was
prepared by the Borrower. It highlights good staff continuity for Bank supervision missions, but
suggests that greater emphasis should have been given to the training of science and mathematics
teachers. The project was cofinanced by the Australian International Development Assistance
Bureau.
This project aimed to add three lower secondary schools with 1,215 places, to the existing 20
secondary schools; to develop a diploma training program for 35 lower secondary teachers annually-,
to provide in-service training for 60 teachers annually; and to provide complementary support
services. Despite minor implementation problems, including difficulties in land transfer, the project
was completed on schedule.
The project outcome is rated as satisfactory, its institutional development impact as
substantial, and the sustainability of results achieved as likely. Good supervision, and a well prepared
annual tripartite meeting between the Borrower, the Bank and the Cofinancier contributed
significantly to these favorable ratings.
The PCR is of satisfactory quality. No audit is planned.
Attachment
This documert has a restricted distdbution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their offical dutles. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Word Bank authorization.






SOLOMON ISLANDS                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1686-SOL)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CoNTENTs
Page No.
Preface .         ...........................................   i
Evaluation Summary  ....................................   ii-v
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE                         1..... 
Project Identity  ..................................                           1
Project Background  ...............................                            1
Project Objectives and Description  ......................                     2
Project Design and Organization  .......................                       2
Project Implementation  .............................                          4
Major Results of the Project ..........................                        7
Project Sustainability   ..............................                        9
Bank Performance  ................................                             9
Borrower Performance  .............................    10
Cofinancing and Project Relationships ....... .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  10
Audit and Reporting Functions  ........  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  11
Project Documentation and Data  ....... .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  11
Summary of Lessons Learned  ........ .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  12
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE   14
Comment on the Analysis in Part I ..... .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  14
Evaluation of the Bank's Performance ....... .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  15
Evaluation of Borrower's Performance  ....... .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .    15
Relationship between the Bank and Borrower  ...............   16
Evaluation of the Performance of the Cofinancier and its
Relationship with the Borrower ........................    17
Contribution to Educational Development of each of
the Objectives of the Project  .........................    18
Conclusion .....................................   20
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION  .....................    22
Table3.1 Related Bank Credits ..............                  ................    22
3.2  Project Timetable  ...............................    23
3.3  Estimated and Actual Disbursements  ...................   24
Disbursement Chart ...............                   ..............    24
3.4  Average Annual Exchange Rates for the SBD  ..............    25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



3.5  Disbursement by Category ........ .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   25
3.6  Credit Agreement and Actual Disbursements  ..... .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   26
3.7  Project Costs by Major Type of Expenditure  ..... .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   27
3.8  Summary of SIG/IDA Annual Expenditure by Discrete Category . .   28
3.9  Project Financing  ......... .. .       .  .. .  .  .. .  .  .  .. .  .  .. .  .   .   29
3.10 Selected Project Indicators and Results ...... .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   30
3.11 Status of Covenants ......... .  .. .      .  .. .  .  .  .. .  .  .  .. .  .  .   .   32
3.12 Bank Staff Resource Use ........ .  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   33
3.13 Mission Data ...........  ..  ..  .  ..  ..  ..  ..  .  ..  ..  .  ..  .   .   34
3.14 Annual Secondary School Enrollments, 1986-1992 ..... .        .  .  .  .    .   33
3.15 Secondary School Enrollments by School, Sex and Boarding Places,
1991  ............  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  .   .    35
3.16 Annual Numbers of Secondary Teachers by Origin and Qualification,
1987-1992 ............  .        ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  .  ..  ..   .   36
3.17 Studies Linked to the Secondary Education Project ..... .     .  .  .  .    .   37
3.18 Annual Enrollments in Secondary Diploma in Teaching, 1988-1992         38
3.19 Fellowships and Overseas Study  ....... .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   38
3.20 SICHE Staffing for Diploma in Teaching (Secondary), 1992 ....   .   39
ANNEXES
ANNEX A: Component Details of the MOU  ...... .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   40
ANNEX B: Financing Plan ......... .  .. .         .  .  .  .. .  .  .  .. .  .  .  .. .  .  .   .   41
Attachment 1: Revised Financing Plan  ...... .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   42
ANNEX C: Summary of the Secondary Education Project Teacher Education
and Quality Improvement (SEPTEQI) Component  ..... .          .  .    .   43
Attachment 1: SEPTEQI Cost Estimates  ..... .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   44



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1686-SOL)
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report (PCR) for the second IDA-assisted
education project in Solomon Islands, the Secondary Education Project (SEP), assesses the
impact of a Credit for SDR 4.5 million (equivalent to US$5.0 million) approved on April
29, 1986. The Credit was closed on schedule on December 31, 1992. Final disbursement
of SDR 2,778 was made on March 17, 1993 and cancellation of the undisbursed balance
of only SDR 812.60 was effected. Due to fluctuations in exchange rates, the equivalent
of US$6.05 million was realized from the Credit.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Population and Human Resources
Division, Country Department 3, East Asia and Pacific Regional Office (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, and Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of the PCR was discussed during the last supervision mission
and during negotiations and subsequent start-up for the Third Education and Training
Project (Credit 2500-SOL). The PCR is based, inter alia, upon the Staff Appraisal Report,
the Credit Agreement, the Working Papers, supervision reports, semi-annual progress
reports, correspondence among the Bank, the Borrower and co-financing agencies, and the
project files of the Bank and the Borrower.






- 11 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1686-SOL)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
i.          Following the successful implementation of a project to improve primary
education (Credit 1212-SOL), the Solomon Islands Government's (SIG) overall objectives
for education focused on lower secondary schooling, secondary teacher education and
educational management (para. 3). This was to be achieved through: (a) constructing
three new lower secondary schools, (b) establishing a diploma in secondary teaching,
(c) providing equipment, textbooks and materials for lower secondary schools,
(d) developing inservice training for secondary teachers, (e) training staff and
strengthening the capacities of the Curriculum Development Center (CDC) and the
Guidance and Selection Unit (GSU), (f) establishing an Implementation and Planning Unit
(IPU), and (g) financing several studies.
Overall Performance
ii.         The project was completed on schedule, with only SDR 812.60 undisbursed.
Despite initial delays leading to Negotiations and Effectiveness, a change in government,
and a difficult period for educational management, the IPU carefully guided each aspect
of the project (para. 4). Through annual tripartite reviews, cooperation among the four
major participants-the Ministry of Education and Training (MET), the Solomon Islands
College of Higher Education (SICHE), the Australian Development Assistance Bureau
(AIDAB) and the International Development Association (IDA)-established a mechanism
for effective implementation while encouraging essential professional educational dialogue
on policy and planning (paras. 5.2 and 6.2).
iii.        While site acquisition proved a stumbling block, good quality construction
was achieved for the three lower secondary schools and the teachers' houses. Minor
difficulties were Experienced in civil works, inter-ministerial coordination and management
(para. 5.8). The distribution of equipment, books and materials by the newly created IPU
was carried out effectively (para. 6.1). Under the competent guidance of a managing
agent, the AIDAB-financed technical assistance, curriculum development and fellowships
contributed significantly to educational quality improvement (para. 6.3).



- iii -
iv.          The project met or exceeded its quantitative goals. More importantly, it laid
the foundation for future educational development by establishing a training program for
secondary teachers, preparing and distributing curriculum and inservice training materials,
and developing substantial management capability. Without such inputs, a third education
and training project would not have been feasible.
Results
v.           The increase in the numbers of students enrolled in secondary schools over
the past decade has been due almost entirely to the places created under this project, even
though the transition rate from primary schools decreased (para. 6.4, tables 3.10 and
3.14). With the establishment of the secondary diploma in teaching, about 35 people are
now being trained in the three-year program so that less reliance will be placed on
expensive overseas teacher training (para. 6.8, Table 3.18). All 20 staff teaching in the
diploma program are appropriately qualified and received substantial technical advice
through the project (Table 3.20). Through the writing, trialing and publication of over 60
texts in 12 subject areas, both the secondary curriculum and inservice training were
enhanced (para. 6.3 and 6.7).
vi.          Staff in IPU, CDC, GSU and SICHE particularly benefitted from advice
provided by expatriate personnel and from short- and long-term fellowships and study
tours (Table 3.19). The Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) was effective early in the
project in identifying obstacles in implementation and in resolving issues; but with
increased confidence in the IPU, the role of the PCC diminished (para. 5.5). The three
studies required under the project, together with others associated with the project,
influenced the development of the third education and training project (Table 3.17).
vii.         Unrealistic and overly ambitious requests for the project, together with a
lack of clarity on cofinancing and project scope delayed project processing. The reduced
project scope was justified. Difficulties in securing sites hampered early implementation,
so that disbursements lagged behind appraisal estimates (Table 3.3 and Chart). A lack of
understanding by SIG officials of the purpose and use of the Special Account was
unfortunate, since quicker disbursement might have been possible (para. 5.7).
viii.        However, the decline in the exchange rate throughout the project period
allowed for the disbursement of 20 percent more funds in US dollar equivalents than had
been envisaged (Table 3.4). It is estimated that they total the equivalent of about US$14.4
million (Tables 3.7 and 3.9).
Sustainability
ix.          One of the lessons reinforced through this project was that the costs of
operating an expanded secondary education system need to be contained. In the past,
major expenses were incurred largely through provision of boarding facilities for nearly
all students (Table 3.15). SIG has realized that alternative day schools, especially at the
lower secondary level, are possible and essential. The third education and training project



- iv -
will, therefore, only construct boarding places to ensure greater access for girls and will
emphasize expansion of day schools at the secondary level in larger towns.
x.           The managerial experience and the professional development of staff in
MET has been considerably enhanced through this project. The establishment of the IPU
provided a focused planning capability for the Ministry as well as an effective
implementation mechanism. Similarly, other units (SICHE, CDC and GSU) and the
Provincial Education Officers have all become more effective professional agents for
sustaining change within the education system.
xi.          However, the impact of developing and distributing textbooks and materials
and the conducting of inservice training is less assured. The production capability of CDC
has not been maintained but it will be further assisted through the third education and
training project.  While the Provincial Education Officers and the Inspectorate are
hardworking, they need continual professional stimuli and funding to meet the challenges
of their widely disbursed and inaccessible teachers. Again, bilateral assistance with
parallel financing in the third project intends to utilize innovative methods to continue
inservice training initiatives.
Institution Building
xii.         SIG feels that the Implementation and Planning Unit established within MET
was successful, and it is being considered as a model for replication in other ministries
(para. 13).  The validation by an international team  of the Diploma in Teaching
(Secondary) at SICHE is also seen as a model for development elsewhere in the region
(para. 6.6). Similarly, the initiation of annual tripartite reviews by the financing partners
in developing this project has already been replicated in other countries (para. 13).
Lessons Learned
xiii.        On the physical side, the settlement of contentious land issues was an
ongoing concern despite initial assurances that each site had been secured. Complex issues
arise wherever customary land is involved and "ownership" is difficult to establish or
transfer (para. 5.4). Taking into account cultural as well as physical factors in designing
buildings is important, but perhaps not sufficiently accepted or implemented in this project.
More detailed local supervision was needed to detect and insist on the correction of
design/construction faults (para. 5.8). Contributing agencies need to share their expertise
and their project information at every stage or else run the risk of the project not being
completed on time or within budget. Such information sharing would also lead to better
project cost estimates.
xiv.         Without the successful implementation of this project, the third education
and training project would not have eventuated at this time. This directly attests to the
importance placed on educational planning and policy formulation for which the IPU was
formed. The project demonstrated the need to link educational philosophy with physical
implementation. The establishment and function of the IPU was critical to the project's



v 
success. In a different way, the project also showed the importance of continuous
cooperation and communication among the parties associated with it: among SICHE,
MET and the other ministries, among the international and bilateral agencies involved, and
among officials within the designated ministry. The work of the PCC and of the tripartite
review illustrated the need for mechanisms to be established to ensure that such a
collaborative process could operate. Finally, the increasing acceptance by SIG of the use
of technical assistance in management, curriculum development and teacher education, not
only guided this project but substantially aided the preparation of the follow-on project.



- 1 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1686-SOL)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Project Name:      Secondary Education Project
Credit Number:    1686-SOL
Credit Amount:    SDR 4.5 million (equivalent to US$5.0 million)
RVP Unit:          East Asia and Pacific Region
Country:           Solomon Islands
Sector:            Education
Subsector:         Secondary and Post-secondary Education
2.    Project Background
2.1        In the 1980s the Solomon Islands Government (SIG) emphasized expansion
of employment opportunities, an increase in skilled manpower and improvement in the
quality of education and training. Replacement of expatriates and filling of the 20 percent
vacancies for nationals in formal employment was seen as the responsibility of the
education system. Following comprehensive development of primary education (assisted
with financing under Credit 1212-SOL), the Ministry of Education and Training
(MET)1/ directed its attention to preparing more and better qualified secondary school
graduates. The major issues facing secondary education by the mid-1980s were:
(a)   restricted and competitive access to the 20 secondary schools (all but one of
which were full boarding establishments) which in 1984 allowed only
42 percent of primary school leavers to proceed to secondary studies;
(b)   low average scholastic achievement resulting from a lack of trained national
teachers (with no opportunity for training within the country), extremely
limited teaching facilities and materials and a dearth of qualified personnel
to implement curriculum or examination reforms; and
1/ MET was reorganized in March 1989 and became the Ministry of Education and Human Resources
Development (MEHRD). Both acronyms are used in this report.



- 2 -
(c)   limited capacity for educational management due to poorly qualified
personnel, an inadequate organizational structure with both provincial and
national controls, insufficient financial resources and the lack of a clearly
enunciated sectoral strategy.
3.    Project Objectives and Description
3.1         The project was intended to improve access to, and the quality of, lower
secondary education and to strengthen educational management and future development
through:
(a)   constructing, furnishing and equipping three new lower secondary schools
with 1,220 places in three disadvantaged provinces;
(b)   developing a preservice diploma program to train about 35 lower secondary
teachers annually, together with the provision of fully equipped classrooms,
dormitories, offices and staff houses for the Solomon Islands College of
Higher Education (SICHE);
(c)   preparing a feasibility study for SICHE to include an academic and
physical master plan and funding consultants to conduct studies on Teacher
Utilization and Incentives, and the Financing of Education, a Sector
Investment Plan;
(d)   financing equipment, teaching materials and textbooks to all Forms 1-3;
(e)   developing inservice training for about 60 lower secondary teachers
annually;
(f)   providing staff training and consultants, as well as staff housing, for MET's
Curriculum Development Center (CDC);
(g)   appointing new  staff and funding staff training and consultants for
MET's Guidance and Selection Unit (GSU); and
(h)   establishing an Implementation and Planning Unit (IPU) with training
for new staff and for Provincial Education Officers (PEOs).
4.    Project Design and Organization
4.1         The project was discussed by MET and World Bank staff during an
identification mission in May 1983. Since the Primary Education Project (Credit 1212-
SOL) was progressing well, both the Government and the Bank considered a follow-up
project desirable. The initial project focus, endorsed by the SIG Cabinet, was on



- 3 -
secondary teacher training through SICHE and on expansion of secondary schools. The
Project Brief of September 6, 1984, clearly distinguishes these two components with
estimated base costs of US$9.07 million for SICHE and US$20.45 million for the
secondary schools, involving a total project cost (including contingencies) of about US$38
million. The Bank considered the project ambitious, and was concerned about its scope,
cost and recurrent cost implications. Nevertheless, Bank processing was advanced from
FY86 to FY85.
4.2         The project was appraised in October 1984 on the basis of a Secondary
School Project Brief, prepared largely by the Adviser to the Primary Project in 1983. The
scope of the project was drastically reduced by deleting most of the SICHE construction
component (but retaining its quality improvements under AIDAB financing), reducing
secondary school expansion from eight to three new schools, deleting provisions for adding
six new streams in each existing school and constructing and equipping 26 resource
centers, and reducing staff training and specialist assistance. The revised cost estimate,
including co-financing, was US$10.0 million.
4.3         A new Government in the Solomon Islands in November 1984 resulted in
a more cautious approach to bilateral aid and extensive discussion of project content. A
follow-up appraisal mission occurred in March 1985. Following this visit, MET requested
a delay in processing and expressed concern that insufficient information had been
provided to the Bank to permit appropriate finalization of the documentation for the
project. AIDAB also expressed strong concern about project scope and the inadequacy of
the data on which to commit project funding. Considerable correspondence ensued among
MET, AIDAB and the Bank. By November 1985, AIDAB proposed financing all teacher
training at SICHE, school equipment and books, fellowships and technical assistance.
Negotiations took place in February 1986. A devastating cyclone in May 1986 directed
attention to other priorities. The project did not become effective until February 27, 1987.
4.4         A Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between SIG and the Australian
Government, dated November 2, 1986, detailed responsibility and funding sources for key
activities/components (summarized in Annex A, which was Annex III of the MOU). The
Financing Plan attached to this MOU, although slightly different from that contained in the
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), Annex 21, provides a detailed breakdown of AIDAB's input
to the project (Annex B).
4.5         AIDAB had committed AUD 4 million to technical assistance, training and
equipment following the Bank's appraisal but withdrew its offer of assisting with the
financing of civil works. With no other donors interested, SIG requested the Bank to
increase its coverage of civil works from 25 percent financing to 80 percent. Between
1983 and 1985, building costs had escalated by an estimated 16-20 percent per year.
4.6         Differing interpretations of project co-financing evolved with the changes in
project scope. The SAR (para. 2.17) envisaged IDA administration of the cofinancing
grant portion (AUD 4.0 million) of AIDAB funds, but with AIDAB administering its own
bilateral aid funds (AUD 2.5 million). The MOU requires AIDAB or its agent to execute



- 4 -
the project. By January 1987, AIDAB insisted that they should administer their own
inputs to the project.
4.7         Only one of the three original sites for the project schools was eventually
selected.  MET, through the Ministry of Agriculture and Lands, commissioned
topographical site surveys but these failed to assess suitability of the sites in relation to
water, drainage, and agricultural land use, claiming that this could be done once an
architect had been appointed. In fact, this omission at this early site identification stage
caused continual problems throughout the project. Main causes for delays were major
delays in the appointment of the AIDAB-funded architect and the difficult legal acquisition
of customary lands which resulted in two site changes.
4.8         Over thirty firms expressed interest in appointment as the design architect.
Considerable discussion ensued over this appointment in March 1987 and in the subsequent
handling by the selected firm, according to Bank Guidelines, of construction bids and
awards. From the outset, it appears that the Sydney-based architect was not always well
accepted locally and this contributed to implementation difficulties. The decision to have
the AIDAB-funded project architect be responsible for the fully IDA-funded civil works,
leaving IDA with little control in the start-up of its main component should be avoided in
future projects. The architect's designs, while visually acceptable, required modifications
after construction was completed in order to take account of wind and rain conditions,
adjustments in drainage and water supplies at each site, and minor changes to staff
housing.
4.9         Despite these difficulties, the project was well planned and organized. A
Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) with responsibility for development and direction
of the project had been established in January 1985.  As a condition of Credit
effectiveness, SIG agreed to establish the IPU within MET. The initial IPU consultant and
the expatriate Deputy Director of SICHE had been identified by the time of negotiations.
5.    Project Implementation
5.1         General Assessment. Despite the early setbacks, the project was executed
in a timely and efficient manner. The initial delays in appointing specialists were offset
by the quality of the work performed subsequently. The establishment of the secondary
teacher education quality improvement (SEPTEQI) program, continued work in curriculum
development, the commissioning of the required studies and the general guidance of the
implementation adviser all contributed to the successful completion of the project. Civil
works were accomplished within acceptable construction periods once the sites were
obtained and work started.
5.2         The three major agencies involved in the project-SIG (through MET and
IPU), IDA and AIDAB-met annually to review progress, discuss issues and exchange
views on sector planning and policies. The tripartite reviews provided a comprehensive
overview of the project. The second review (October 1989) established a reporting format



- 5 -
for each aspect of the project which summarized objectives, highlighted key activities and
problems during the previous year, identified major actions required, assigned
responsibility for implementation, and noted matters which needed referral or
policy/planning decisions. Background papers were prepared annually so that participants
were adequately briefed. This process ensured that the representatives of each agency,
who supervised different aspects of the project at different times during the year, were able
to meet together at least once a year to discuss overall project implementation. Such
reviews also paved the way for fuller policy discussions with MET, for a dialogue among
ministries and provincial authorities, and for the intensive preparation effort for the Third
Education and Training Project (Credit 2500-SOL).
5.3         The administration of the project ran into short-lived initial difficulties. The
Primary Project had been incapacitated by a Commission of Inquiry just as the Secondary
Project was becoming operational. The IPU had been established to run the latter, but
circumstances dictated that it should take on considerably wider responsibilities from
October 1987. Following early changes in staffing in the IPU, a responsive and stable
team developed with only one major change in national staff over the duration of the
project. In contrast to the Primary Project, the project was smoothly managed. However,
at times, cooperation between IPU and SICHE could have been improved since each was
concerned with its own aspects of the project. The IPU also became the focal point for
overseas visitors and consultants, as well as Bank and bilateral donors.  The staff
responded well to the varying demands of these intrusions, realizing the importance of
flexibility in such relationships. The staff visited project sites regularly and attended to
routine administration. The planning section developed its data collection, analysis and
overall planning capabilities significantly over the period.
5.4         Weaknesses. Implementation was seriously constrained through the initial
difficulties experienced in obtaining suitable sites. Selection of one site was not finalized
until November 1989, nearly three years after the Credit became effective. In retrospect
some of this delay might have been avoided with earlier detailed survey work and
determination of legal land ownership. Similarly, the pre-occupation of contractors with
reconstruction following Cyclone Namu in late 1986, delayed the arrival of expatriate
personnel since SICHE and CDC housing was not completed. Insufficient attention seems
to have been given to the difficulties and costs involved in local transportation of goods
to at least two construction sites.
5.5         IPU staff became involved in a proliferation of committees and meetings,
especially in 1987-1989. This was in part due to the Unit trying to establish itself, in part
to the management style of the IPU Adviser and the Director, and in part to the many
changes in senior positions in the Ministry (as it became MEHRD). The topics discussed
were important to the furtherance of the project and to the goals of the MEHRD. The
work of the PCC in the early period of implementation effectively identified problems and
resolved issues. But with many of the same people attending different meetings, overlap
in content and absenteeism resulted in limited effectiveness. By 1990, the frequency and
number of such meetings had been reduced.



- 6 -
5.6         Minor difficulties were pinpointed by the tripartite review  process:
communication became strained late in 1989 among all parties and agencies; staff posts in
IPU and CDC had not been filled; amendments to the Credit Agreement awaited SIG
signature; project auditing had not occurred until 1990 due to the volume of work in the
Auditor-General's office; and IPU was not submitting regular progress reports despite
agreed procedures at negotiations for both project monitoring and financial reporting.
5.7         Considerable confusion existed in the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning and in the IPU over the purpose and use of the Special Account created under
the Credit. Following an initial deposit of US$300,000 to the Central Bank in late 1987,
no quarterly statements of disbursements were received by IDA, nor did SIG request
replenishment despite use of the funds for purposes other than the Project. A review of
procedures occurred in late 1991, with SIG reimbursing the Special Account. IPU then
proceeded to withdraw funds for recorded expenses. Even so, the Special Account was
not used as effectively as it could have been to assist timely implementation. The majority
of Credit funds were disbursed through over 90 withdrawal applications to IDA, many of
which could have been handled locally through the Special Account.
5.8         Implementation was hampered by insufficiently defined procedures for inter-
ministry coordination and communication, by lack of guidelines for procurement
approvals, and by civil works difficulties. Despite the intention to have only one tender
for the construction of the three schools, the delay in obtaining the third site required a
second tender. The consulting architect did not approve or issue instructions to repair
various faults on which both IPU and IDA had expressed concern and which now have to
be rectified under the third project. While lack of staff in the Ministry of Transport and
Public Works (MTPW) is acknowledged, their assistance with supervision may have
alleviated the difficulties. Such supervision is being provided in the next project.
5.9         Other  construction  difficulties  encountered  were:    (a) apparently
inappropriate design of the water and sewerage systems, by not taking into account
alternative water sources and pumping requirements and, at one site, the water table and
drainage factors affecting sewerage (mentioned as early as February 1988 and a continual
complaint through 1992); (b) allegedly inadequate or unsuitable ablution facilities and
difficult-to-replace hardware; (c) insufficient SIG funds to finance earthworks at one site;
(d) disagreement between the architect and IPU over use of solar hot water heating;
(e) wind and rain penetration into classrooms and laboratories requiring additional
protective measures to be installed at the conclusion of the project; and (f) disputes with
landowners over use of lands.
5.10        A concern, raised in 1988 which continued through 1992, was the apparent
insufficiency of operational funds provided by MET to the secondary schools, especially
the provincial secondary schools (PSSs). Despite the recommendations of the study on
Financing of Education, no action was taken to review the basis for funding. The three
project schools were less effected because their initial allocations had been substantial.



- 7 -
6.    Major Results of the Project
6.1         Project Objectives.  All nine objectives set for the project have been
achieved. More specifically:
(a)   three new lower secondary schools with 1,215 places were constructed,
furnished and equipped (two of which were completed, staffed and operating
in 1990); actual enrollment in 1992 was 1,017 since one school was only in
its first year of operation;
(b)   facilities had been constructed at SICHE, and the preservice diploma
program has been training 26-41 lower secondary teachers annually since
1988 (See Part III, Table 3.18);
(c)   the SICHE feasibility studies (academic and physical master plan) were
prepared and planning has proceeded accordingly;
(d)   AIDAB  financed the provision of equipment, teaching materials and
textbooks to all lower secondary schools, despite serious logistical delivery
problems, and also financed additional equipment for the three project
schools;
(e)   inservice training courses were developed and delivered as planned over the
life of the project, partly as correspondence modules, and partly through
annual courses/conferences covering nearly all subject fields. This has
benefitted about 300 secondary teachers annually.  In addition, mainly
through AIDAB funding, the project has sent 61 people on overseas fellow-
ships (see Part III, Table 3.19);
(f)   all six staff houses and nine out of the 13 fellowships/attachments were
provided for the Curriculum Development Center;
(g)   new staff were appointed and two long-term and nine short-term fellowships
were provided for the staff of the Guidance and Selection Unit;
(h)   the IPU was established prior to project effectiveness, and short-term study
tours arranged.  In addition, the IPU  Director received an AIDAB
scholarship for extended study;
(i)   the project financed all the detailed studies required (See Part III,
Table 3.17), and under the AIDAB-financed SEPTEQI component over 300
reports and publications were prepared by consultants, the managing agents,
and staff from SICHE, CDC and MET.
6.2         Inter-agency Cooperation. One of the outstanding features of the project
was the success of the inter-agency activities. This was due largely to the formation in



- 8 -
1989 of the tripartite review process by which the representatives of the Government, the
World Bank and AIDAB met in Honiara to review progress, resolve issues and plan
critical activities. Over time, other agencies (especially representatives from New Zealand
and the United Kingdom) were invited to participate in some of these discussions. The
format devised for the recording of the discussions summnarized each component of the
project, reviewed key achievements, identified potential weaknesses and critical issues, and
established an action plan. The three agencies, in rotation, assumed responsibility annually
for preparing working papers and recording proceedings of the meetings.
6.3         Teacher Education and Quality Improvement (SEPIEQI). Financed by
AIDAB, this component assisted SICHE to design and teach a diploma course for
secondary teachers and aided MET in quality improvements in the curriculum, in guidance
and selection and in project implementation (see Annex C). Long-term specialists were
supplemented by short-term consultants to develop each of the subject components of the
diploma course, to organize and assist in the writing and printing of textbooks for schools,
and to train counterparts as well as to arrange study visits and fellowships. Over the three
year period, the team managed the component thoroughly and well. More than 300
reports were prepared, and over 60 texts written, trialed and published in 12 different
subject fields. It seems unfortunate that much of the administrative acumen evidenced
during implementation and in quarterly reporting to AIDAB, has not been sustained.
Much valuable data, as well as expert opinion, seem not to have been passed on to
counterparts responsible for continuing these activities. The "institutional memory" is
poor. AIDAB has evaluated the SEPTEQI component.
6.4         Project Impact. In purely quantitative terms, the project accounted for
nearly the total increase in student enrollments in lower secondary schools over the period.
Even so, the transition rate from primary to secondary school fell from about 40 percent
in 1986 to about 29 percent in 1992 through insufficient space available in the secondary
system of predominantly boarding schools.
6.5         More importantly, without the inputs from this project, especially in the
training of secondary teachers, the Third Education and Training Project which will
require these teachers, would not have been possible.
6.6         Studies. Twelve man-months of consultancies were provided under this
project for: studies on teacher utilization and incentives and on the financing of education;
a sector investment plan; project completion reporting; and preparation of future projects
(see Part III, Table 3.17). The first projects two were financed from the Credit, although
not within the time-frame suggested, and no direct on their action recommendations
resulted. Each was then used as input for the preparation of the Third Education and
Training Project. The investment plan was broadened into a policy and procedures review
which also looked into future planning and investment requirements for MET. The
SEPTEQI component included the master plan for SICHE which was completed and
spawned further studies. At the conclusion of the project, an international validation of
the secondary diploma was carried out and its structure, content and level of local
responsiveness have been cited as a model for the region.



- 9 -
6.7         Texts and Materials. The SEPTEQI component of the project resulted in
the production of over 60 new texts for students and teachers. These should have a major
impact if local production can be sustained. In addition, AIDAB financed the supply and
delivery of about 200 books to each secondary school in the country. For the three project
schools, furniture, equipment, materials and library books were fully procured by AIDAB.
6.8         Training and Technical Assistance.  The technical assistance under
SEPTEQI contributed enormously to the inception of the secondary teacher training
program, the provision of inservice course development and delivery, and the training of
counterparts in curriculum and in guidance and supervision. In addition, Provincial
Education Officers and central ministry staff, curriculum developers and GSU staff, as
well as selected SICHE staff benefitted from professional interaction with expatriate staff
and visiting consultants as well as from fellowships, study tours and attachments overseas
(see Part III, Table 3.19).
7.    Project Sustainability
7.1         The recurrent expenses for this project, in proportion to the MET recurrent
budget, indicate that the project is fully sustainable. However, a more serious issue is
whether the Government can afford to sustain the high cost investment required by
boarding schools generally. The Third Education and Training Project is emphasizing the
upgrading of non-boarding facilities and the establishment of junior secondary day schools.
8.    Bank Performance
8.1         This was not a complex project. However, it was a complex period within
MET (Commission of Inquiry, senior staff changes, reorganization) in which to begin a
new project. The Bank's funding assisted SIG only in civil works, studies and project
management. However, it can be argued that the Bank needs to be concerned with the
total education system of a country and thus should monitor all aspects of any project in
which it is a contributor. In this project, many of the SEPTEQI activities were not always
part of Bank cognizance or input since they were an AIDAB responsibility.
8.2         The Bank allocated more than the usual resources to preparing and
supervising this project (See Part III, Tables 3.12 and 3.13). During preparation and
appraisal, visits by both architects and educators were essential. However, for the first
three years of implementation only one mission per year specifically supervised this
project. The duration of Bank missions led the PCC to comment in May 1988 that two
day visits were insufficient to review two projects (although this does not seem to be
substantiated, and in any case, was later rectified). Indeed, the frequency of visits after
January 1990 was unusual (11 in three years) and contributed markedly to the timely
completion of the project. The hiring of a consultant familiar with Bank supervision and
procedures at that time significantly alleviated the pressure on staff who were well aware



- 10 -
of low supervision coefficients, limited travel days, and difficulties in scheduling multi-
country visits (see Table 3.13).
9.    Borrower Performance
9.1         The establishment of an IPU proved essential both for the project and the
Ministry. IPU developed its own data, organizational procedures and work plan. With
increasing staff, it competently handled both its project work and its wider functions within
the MET.
9.2         Despite the existence of the Primary Education Project, IPU did not
consistently report to the Bank on the progress of the project. Instead the minutes of
various meetings were sent to IDA as a record of activities, but these lacked continuity and
did not provide an "institutional memory" for the project.  This was offset by the
introduction in 1988 of annual tripartite review meetings (para. 5.2). But the lack of
regular reporting did not provide the IPU with the discipline of maintaining appropriate
and up-to-da!- summaries of project status, and has not established a standardized format
for tracking the project.
9.3         The selection of the IPU Director to receive an overseas fellowship in 1991
reflected the success with which his work and that of the IPU was viewed. IPU was
fortunate that the new Director then appointed had just returned from an overseas
scholarship, was determined to administer the unit efficiently and instituted a number of
simple management procedures which brought this about.
9.4         The PCC played an important role in the initial implementation phase of the
project, but its services decreased as the IPU handled daily affairs. The impact of other
SIG units on the project was mixed. Support from the Ministry of Finance was essential
and welcomed, but not always timely. Severe staffing constraints limited the contributions
which the MTPN, the Ministry of Provincial Government and the Office of the Auditor-
General could provide.  IPU maintained regular contact with provincial authorities
especially in the three provinces where construction was occurring.
10.   Cofinancing and Project Relationships
10.1        The project was intended to be cofinanced with the Australian Development
Assistance Bureau (AIDAB). It had been agreed that IDA would assume through the IPU
the responsibility for administering these cofinanced funds. Early in 1987, following SIG
concern that IPU did not have the manpower nor expertise to administer contracts, AIDAB
indicated that it would administer its own funds for the project with parallel financing. In
May 1989, AIDAB revised its project financing, substantially increasing the co-financing
grant by AUD 1.69 million and the bilateral aid portion by AUD 2.46 million for an
overall increase of about 40 percent to a total of AUD 10.55 million (see Annex B,
Attachment 1). Since that time, AIDAB has been unwilling to share with IDA data on its
expenditures for the project, hence, the project total costs can only be estimated.



- 11 -
10.2        An initial irritant was the continuing delays in drawing up and then gaining
confirmation on the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between SIG and AIDAB (see
Annex A) and the agreement of responsibilities between IDA and AIDAB. Changes in
personnel within AIDAB and in Honiara contributed to these delays.
10.3        One of the most satisfying aspects of the project was the outstanding
cooperation on the technical level among the three major parties: MET, IDA and AIDAB.
Despite occasional logistical difficulties, the conducting of the annual tripartite review of
the project was a major achievement. The scope of each Review was all-embracing. The
format devised at the second meeting in 1989 for recording the discussion allowed for a
most effective synthesis, analysis, follow-up action and forward planning. The IPU bore
major administrative responsibility for these activities.
11.   Audit and Reporting Functions
11.1        The project was not audited until 1992, following representations to the
Auditor-General and agreement that an external auditor should be used. The final project
audit was received in 1993 and was acceptable to IDA.
12.   Project Documentation and Data
12.1        The 13 volumes of correspondence files in the Bank reflect the thoroughness
with which the IPU on the one hand, and the Division on the other, maintained contact
over the six years of the project. In addition, numerous technical documents were filed
separately. For the first half of the project, IPU regularly sent to IDA the minutes of the
various local committees which guided IPU in daily implementation. An early comment
from the IPU expatriate Planning Adviser suggests that more effective planning could
reduce the duplication of too many committees, with too frequent meetings, involving too
much time for the same personnel but with too little formal structure; but this overlooked
the cultural need to appear to discuss every aspect of every activity. Nevertheless, the
documentation which resulted from recording such discussions provides a relatively
transparent picture of events. This may account, in part, for the comparative infrequency
of IDA visits, especially in the early stages of the project.
12.2        Both recording and analysis of data were effective. The establishment of the
IPU ensured that the statistical and planning functions of the Ministry were improved
considerably. This was greatly enhanced through the provision of computer facilities
funded under the first IDA-assisted project and updated under this project.
12.3        Since all of the national personnel appointed to the IPU were unacquainted
with data analysis initially, much of the credit for IPU's effectiveness emanates from the
expatriate Principal Planning Officer (1986-1988) and the Planning Adviser (1987-1990).
One of the deficiencies of the project seems to have been lack of provision for advanced
training in planning and statistics for IPU staff, although short overseas visits took place.



- 12 -
However, this is not surprising since the IPU was only created by the project and none of
its personnel had been identified when the project was being formulated.
13.   Summary of Lessons Learned
13.1         The major lessons from this project are the following:
(a)   a well-staffed implementation unit can effectively administer a project if it
is guided and monitored sufficiently. IPU is now seen by SIG as a model
for use in other ministries;
(b)   to avoid start-up delays, IDA should avoid having its main project inputs
such as civil works, depend on technical assistance supplied bilaterally;
(c)   educational planning  is a long-range activity  which  requires policy
frameworks and procedures to be well established in order to guide current
inputs, such as training teachers, to cater to future needs, such as the
expansion of secondary enrollment;
(d)   the software and hardware aspects of a project need to be fully
integrated. The project itself needs to be seen as an integral part of the
education system. Different agencies involved need to view their inputs in
the broader context of system goals as well as work out on a daily
operational level how those inputs can mutually benefit each participant;
(e)   detailed site surveys are required before decisions are taken on site
acquisition. Land ownership and site questions must be resolved completely
before the design phase commences;
(f)   supervision of civil works activities must involve the MTPW  to ensure the
suitability of the work;
(g)   the value of consultant visits, studies and opinions can be lost too easily
unless summaries are made, files maintained, decisions taken and actions
followed-up. In contrast to the Primary Project, good use of technical
assistance positively influenced project implementation and this has been
recognized by SIG as justifiable use of external funding;
(h)   when several agencies, either government or external, are involved in a
project, mechanisms for frequent review should be established early in the
project. These must be maintained to ensure that all parties are kept fully
informed, potential or real problems raised, decisions made on their
solution, specific persons designated to act or follow-up, and all matters
recorded succinctly. This project succeeded in most of these aspects. The
proceedings of the PCC and of the tripartite reviews provide a valuable



- 13 -
institutional record and models which have been applied in other countries;
and
(i)   the sustainability of a project, or its value in furthering educational
objectives, reflect its management and the training provided for its
personnel. Both were enhanced through this project and a firm basis for
subsequent projects has been established.



- 14 -
PART II
PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Adequacy and Accuracy of the Information in Part III
Due to the colleagility and genuiness that prevailed during
the implementation of the Secondary Education Project (SEP),
the information gathered and presented in Part III of this
Report  is perceived to be adequate and accurate.    The
information gathered is an outcome of a collaborative effort
that existed among all parties concerned during the
preparatory, implementation and restrospective stages of the
project.
COMMENT ON THE ANALYSIS IN PART I
The analysis is thorough, reflecting the contents of numerous
documents, meetings and discussions pertinent to the
preparation and the implementation of the project.   The
Solomon Islands Government concurs that SEP is a success,
primarily due to lessons learnt from the primary project
(Cr.1212-SOL) that in turn enhanced genuine and better
understanding of the educational needs of this country by
high powered officials from the International Development
Assistance (IDA) and Australian Development Assistance Bureau
(ADAB). These institutions provided financial and technical
assistance for the borrower to successfully implement the
project.
However, though the Secondary Education Project is a success,
there are a number of areas that in our opinion were
overlooked or probably at the time considered less important.
(a) Teacher Training
This component was contracted to WD Scott, an Australian
consulting firm. The firm was given the task to improve the
quality  of  secondary  teacher  education  through  the
development of inservice training and the establishment of a
diploma in secondary teaching at the Solomon Islands College
of Higher Education. This firm did well in developing and
establishing its given roles. However, one area of concern
was the training  of science teachers.    In  its devised
training program only 3 candidates were earmarked for pre-
service training at a recognized institution abroad and this
would qualify them to enter directly into the teaching force.
This planned pre-service training though eventuated only one
candidate was able to enter the University of Papua New
Guinea for a four year degree science course.   It is felt
that more attention should be given to the training of
science teachers an area which for quite sometime we have not
been able to address.
There has been an acute shortage of science teachers within
the secondary system.  The need now and for the immediate
future is even greater due to the increase and expansion in



- 15 -
the number of schools.   The proposed unification of the
current dual system will further increase the need. Under
the Secondary Education Project a lot of emphasis was placed
on other subjects instead of addressing the science staff
shortage.   However,  it is comforting to note that this
problem is being given the attention under the forthcoming
Third Education and Training Project.
In regards to the establishment of a diploma in secondary
teaching, all course modules were successfully completed
except for Education Studies.   No consultant nor local
counterpart was found for this course subject. This course
module was not given enough attention as it should.   The
writing of this course was eventually completed by
consultants and counterparts of other subjects. Consequently
this course was not properly addressed as perceived by the
local counterparts. they also felt that insufficient time
was given for induction to writing course materials. They
came to grasp the skills only in writing and producing the
last unit.   If skills were meant to be acquired then
consultants must ensure that local counterparts ought to be
well inducted on what is expected of them in the initial
stage. Solomon Islanders must also be committed and willing
to learn the skills transmitted by the overseas consultants.
However given the benefit of doubt this problem is perceived
as minor.   After all accreditation was accorded to the
Diploma course at SICHE by a team of external assessors.
EVALUATION OF THE BANK'S PERFORMANCE
The Solomon Islands Government is very grateful to the World
Bank for the financial and technical assistance given.
Without their kind gesture the recepient would not have
achieved its intended educational objectives.
The World Bank was conscious that very few missions were made
in the early stages of the project and realised that frequent
mission had to be mounted.   This resulted in a number of
missions per year towards the closure of the project and
because of that a lot of areas that IPU failed to pick up
were identified and acted on.   The World Bank's regular
visits had enabled both officials from the Bank and the
Solomon Islands Government to establish a cordial working
relationship. It is a moral booster to see in each mission
the continuation of the same Bank staff. From their active
participation the need to develop new education policies was
perceived resulting in the development of a Third Education
and Training Project.
EVALUATION OF BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
The  division  which  is  solely  responsible   for  the
implementation of this project is the Implementation and
Planning Unit within the Ministry of Education and Training.
The impetus that led to its formation was the suspected
mismanavement of the Primary Project which resulted in a
Commission of Inquiry.



- 16 -
The specific function of IPU is to plan, monitor and evaluate
the implementation of the Secondary Education Project and
also responsible for the general planning for the entire
education ministry.   Soon after the appointment of IPU
officers its director left for further studies abroad that
left  a vacuum  in  the  leadership  role.    The  task  of
implementation was left in the capable hands of a technical
advisor but because of appointed officers were new to their
jobs a number of important designated tasks were left undone.
For five years since the inception of the project there has
not been a quarterly report as requested under the project.
Couple with the Bank's casual visits a lot of activities were
overlooked. One of these was the lack of proper accounting
procedures  and  audit  reporting.    The  Solomon  Islands
Government was requested to recruit a qualified accountant
realising that the project accounts have not been kept
properly. A qualified accountant was recruited and the books
were tidied up. IPU is grateful for the service provided by
this officer who has since left towards the completion of the
project.
With the arrival of the new director a lengthy semester
report was compiled incooperating most if not all the
activities since the inception of the project until October,
1991.  A second semester report was compiled to cover the
later part of the project. These reports were sent to the
World Bank.
The IPU officers have gained experience and knowledge due to
the continuity of World Bank personnel who have visited the
Solomon Islands during the life span of the project. Their
work outputs have been commendable due to knowledge and
skills gained during the short term fellowships provided
under the project and inputs under various technical
assistance. Since the inception of the project, there have
been three directors of IPU. The former two though have left
are still with the Ministry of Education and have since
gained higher qualification. Their shared knowledge on the
project is a strength to IPU.
The relationship of IPU with Government Ministries and
Honiara based diplomats have been generally acceptable but
there were times of delay and frustration when expected tasks
were not done by the interdependent agencies. Attempts were
made to educate concerned actors on their obligation towards
each  other  and  the  response  was  encouraging.         The
collaborative effort during a number of round-table-
discussions was a sign and recognition of the need for
greater cooperation. Solomon Islands Government is fortunate
to have secured a credit from a reputable institution (World
Bank). With the assistance and that of AIDAB, SIG was able
to implement the project successfully.
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE BANK AND BORROWER
The securing of the first World Bank project for the primary
sector has enabled Bank personnel to be directly involved
with educational development in the Solomon Islands for the
first time. This led to a steady relationship and a better



- 17 -
understanding of the country by the Bank officials.   The
introduction of the Secondary Education Project (SEP) has
strengthened further this relationship.  The continuity of
Bank officials during the implementation period has enhanced
a better understanding and trust in the provision of
knowledge, skills and information for the recepient.
The World Bank personnel's openess to the recepient has
enhanced new knowledge about the Bank's role in the
development of education in less developed countries, similar
to the Solomon Islands. With the shared experiences, SIG can
adjust its planned strategies to achieve its objectives. The
conception of the forthcoming Third Education and Training
Project is a demonstration of the concern and genuiness of
the Bank to the borrower.   The borrower reciprocates in
having faith in the Bank by requesting for technical
assistance in times of need and collaborating in monitoring
and assessing the project's implementation process.
EVALUATION OF THE PERFORMANCE OF THE CONFINANCIER AND ITS
RELATIONSHIP WITH THE BORROWER
Under the project AIDAB was the confinancier assisted in both
the Improvement of Educational Opportunity and Quality
Improvement.
In the Improvement of Educational Opportunity AIDAB provided
furniture, equipment, materials and consultants' services for
the three project schools. AIDAB also provided this package
to other existing twelve Provincial Secondary Schools to help
alleviate the eronic and weak institutional base for
curriculum  development  and  the  lack  of  appropriate
instructional materials.   Evidence has begun to show that
students from one of the three project schools have performed
exceptionally well in the 1993 Form 5 examination in
comparison to the established National Secondary Schools.
Exam results from the Provincial Secondary Schools have also
shown good sign.
In the quality improvement, a consultancy firm, WD Scott has
completed designing a secondary teacher diploma course at the
Solomon Islands College of Higher Education and has been
given an accreditation by a team of external assessors. The
course is now in its third year running. In regards to its
implementation it is a success though complaints were voiced
on one of the course modules.
The fellowships have been completed and the recepients are
now being absorbed in the teaching service and others are
servinq as administrators and professionals within the
Education Ministry and Provinces.   WD Scott needs to be
commended for their technical and professional approach in
the improvement of quality education under this project.
In terms of relationship, the WD Scott team has established
a cordial relationship with a team of local counterparts and
government officials whilst engaging in their contracted
fields. The Solomon Islands Government is grateful for the
technical assistance rendered by the firm.



- 18 -
However, in regards to the financial aspects the Solomon
Islands Government has no control over this.   Under this
pro)ect AIDAB has granted A$4.5m in the form of furniture,
equipment,  materials  and  consultants'  services.    As  a
recepient the Solomon Islands Government would like to know
how much was actually expended on various components under
the AIDAB grant. We had requested AIDAB for the information
but nothing was forthcoming.   We therefore do not know
whether the actual amount allocated under the project was
fully spent or not.   We would appreciate if AIDAB could
provide this information for the recepient.
CONTRIBUTION TO EDUCATIONAL DEVELOPMENT OF EACH OF THE
OBJECTIVES OF THE PROJECT
There are three major objectives of the project:
a)   Improvement of Educational Opportunity;
b)   Quality Improvement; and
c)  Management Improvement.
The improvement of educational opportunity was realised
through the expansion of lower secondary school enrolment by
constructing three boarding secondary schools in the
provinces that had severe enrolment rate in percentage term.
Biulah and Ruavatu accepted their first intakes of 140 pupils
each in June, 1990 and Adaua received its first intake in
early 1992. In 1993 the three schools enrolled a total of
1,112 pupils which is an increase of 15%. Total expectation
when these three  schools  reach  full  capacity  is  1,220
students which will mean an increase of 16.6%.   this is
indeed a gain in absolute term.
The provision of furniture, equipment, materials and
consultants services was undertaken by AIDAB. Furniture and
equipment were distributed to the project schools, whilst
materials distribution was extended to other twelve
Provincial Secondary Schools. AIDAB's assistance contributed
towards a conducive learning and quantitative improvement.
Consultants services which AIDAB also provided were done in
the form of architectural designs and engineering which
assisted the construction firm to construct according to
pedagogical requirement.
The completion of a pre-service diploma training programme at
the Solomon Islands College of Higher Education has increased
the number of qualified teachers in the secondary schools
system.   The recepients are now serving in the secondary
schools. With AIDAB classrooms, boarding and staff housing
facilities were constructed. These accounted for the housing
of new SICHE lecturers, increase in student numbers and
better teaching facilities. These input contributed to the
improvement of educational opportunity.
The provision of equipment and teaching materials, including
textbooks to all Forms 1 to 3 classes in both national and
provincial secondary schools helped enhance the quality of
education.  Not only that but the provision of in-service



- 19 -
upgrading for teachers from the provincial secondary schools
is a great achievement. All teachers who received in-service
training have been absorbed in the teaching service.
In another development, the upgrading of the Curriculum
Development Centre's backup advisory services to the
secondary  schools have been completed.    All curriculum
officers were sent on fellowships abroad to gain new
knowledge and skills. This enhances them to increase their
work rate in their daily commitments. Couple with this their
offices were remodelled to complement the nature of their
work.
The provision of staff houses had enabled the Government to
recruit all its required curriculum officers. Prior to this,
the posts were advertised and re-advertised but no-one was
willing to take them up. The Solomon Islands Government is
indeed very grateful for the assistance.
Management improvement eminated from the realisation that
there was weakness  in the  educational  management.    In
resolving this, appropriately qualified staff were recruited
for the managerial posts and staff training for the
Implementation Unit and for the Provincial Education Office
in each of the Project Provinces. Most of the Implementation
and Planning Unit staff have undergone some form of training.
This enhanced them in the implementation of the project. The
Provincial Education Officers are now serving the system and
one is occupying a post in the Head Office as a Principal
Education Officer where he is needed most.
Another measure of management improvement is the collection
of relevant data for planning purposes. Under the project
two studies and an education sector investment plan were
conducted.   A study on teacher utilization and incentives
revealed that there is an unequal deployment of trained
primary teachers among the provinces and there is a wide
variation in teacher workload as a result. The Provincial
Secondary School teachers are mismatched with demand by
subject specialization in certain subjects.   There is an
oversupply in Home Economic and Industrial Arts, and an
undersupply in Mathematics and Business Studies.   On the
basis of this study policy guidelines are being contemplated
for the centralization of teacher deployment to correlate
with  subject  area  of  specialization.    This  study  is
imperative in the sense that it guides the Solomon Islands
Government   to   formulate   policies   for   purposeful
implementation.
The "Financing of Education Study" is an attempt to
rationalise the proper management of education funds that
have been misappropriated and to search for ways for the cost
cutting and effective utilization of funds. This study has
enabled the Government to formulate financial policies that
would enhance the proper management of school resources.
These policies are now in its draft form.
The provision of an education sector plan has presented the
Solomon Islands Government with a panoramic perspective of



- 20 -
areas of weaknesses within the education system. From this
sector plan, strategies are planned to resolve the nation's
education ills. The strategies referred to here is the Third
Education and Training Project currently undertaken.
CONCLUSION
In retrospect, the project has achieved its intended
objectives:   the improvement of educational opportunity,
quality improvement and management improvement.
In the improvement of educational opportunity the three
project schools have been completed, furniture, equipment,
materials and consultants' services provided and a pre-
service diploma training program completed.
In the quality improvement an in-service upgrading for
teachers from provincial secondary schools and an upgrading
of Curriculum Development Centre facilities were completed as
well as improvement of test instruments and procedures for
the Selection and Guidance Unit of the Ministry of Education
and Training.
In the improvement of management, all provincial education
officers specified under the project and IPU Officers have
undertaken in-service and fellowships overseas and are now at
work. Along with this three studies mentioned earlier were
completed which enabled the Ministry of Education and
Training to formulate policies and strategies for educational
development. With the data provided the Government is able
to focuss its attention to the kind of educational
develop,ment seen fit for the Solomon Islands. The Secondary
Education Project is indeed a success in meeting its
objectives let alone in the provision of new knowledge for
purposeful planning.



- 21 -
REFERENCES
Currin C.B. Report on Teacher Utilization and Incentives in
the Solomon Islands. MET. Honiara. Solomon Islands. 1980.
Gannicoot K, and McGavin P.A. Solomon Islands Financing of
Education Study. University of NSW, ACT, Australia. 1987.
Hind  I.   Analysis  of Expansion Option for Primary and
Secondary Education in the Solomon Islands.    4 Symonds
Street, Hawthorn East, Victoria, Australia.
Kii L. Master of Educational Administrative Dessertation.
University of New England, NSW, Australia. 1991.
Solomon Star, "Biulah and Ruavatu Schools to begin classes
in April". Solomon Star 9th March. 1990.
Solomon Star "School books, equipment given to Ministry".
Solomon Star. 1990.
World Bank,  "Join AIDABIWBISIG Review Mission".  Washington,
DC 20433, USA. 1987.
World  Bank,    Tripartite  Review  Mission  Aide-Memoire".
Washington, DC 20433, USA.  1989.



- 22 -
PART m. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related Bank Credits. This second IDA Credit for the education sector
was initiated through SIG contact with Bank regional management in November 1982, less
than a year following approval of the Primary Education Project (Credit 1212-SOL). No
action resulted until the scheduled supervision mission for Credit 1212-SOL of May, 1983
during which AIDAB also expressed interest in a possible project. A year later, the
supervision mission reported that SIG/MET documentation had been developed sufficiently
that the second project was ready for appraisal. This early follow-on resulted from the
outstanding disbursement achieved during the first two years of the first education project
with $2.26 million disbursed (a seven-fold increase over the projected amount for the
period).
Similarly, due to the timely completion and complete disbursement of this
second project as scheduled, a third education and training project has been approved.
Table 3.1. RELATED BANK CREDITS
Year of
Credit title                Purpose               Approval            Status
Credit  1212-SOL   To  improve  educational              1982      Project completed
Primary Education   management;  upgrade  &  build                 May 1990
Project             primary schools; improve/increase
teacher education; provide textbooks
&   teaching  materials;  expand
preservice primary teacher training;
and increase and equalize primary
school enrollment.
Credit  2500-SOL   To expand access to secondary         1993      Signed September 29,
Third  Education   education   by  40 percent;  to                 1993  and  became
and  T r a i n i n g   introduce lower-cost day junior             effective October 29,
Project             secondary schools at the village                1993
level; to improve primary  and
secondary teacher upgrading and
inservice  training;  to  revise
curriculum and increase availability
of materials; to enhance efficiency
and management; to expand the
supply of nurses and midwives; and
to strengthen budgeting and financial
planning.
Project Timetable. The overly ambitious requests of SIG in March and
April 1984 for a second project originally estimated at about US$38 million, resulted in
the scaling down of both its scope and cost. However, even though the revised scope was



- 23 -
fully supported by MET, SIG requested delays in scheduling because a new government
had been elected and because AIDAB had commented adversely in June 1985 on several
aspects of the yellow cover Staff Appraisal Report. Tripartite technical discussions were
held in Washington in September 1985, which resolved most issues and further modified
the project scope.
These initial delays reflected uncertainty within the management of the
education sector and a slowing of progress in the implementation of the first project.
Despite the establishment of the IPU for the second project, suitable trained personnel
were not available on a full-time basis and initial delays in effectiveness resulted.
Table 3.2: PRoJET TiMETABLE
Date
Planned
(Initial Project Brief    Date              Date
Project Stage            July 23, 1984)        Revised            Actual
Identification                                                 May 20, 1983
Preparation                                                   September 1983
April 1984
Appraisal Mission       September 1984       October 1984      October 1984
Post Appraisal                                                  March 1985
Credit Negotiations       April 1985         January 1986    February 28, 1986
Board Approval            June 1985         December 1985     April 29, 1986
Feb/Mar 1986
Signature                                                      July 30, 1986
Effectiveness           September 1985     October 28, 1986  February 27, 1987
December 28, 1986
Credit Closing        December 31, 1992           -         December 31, 1992
Project Completion    December 31, 1991     April 30, 1992   December 31, 1992
Source: IDA Project Files, 1982-1992.
Estimated and Actual Disbursements. Due to the changes in exchange
rates in favor of the US dollar, 20 percent more funds (in US$ equivalents) were disbursed
than were originally estimated. The initial disbursements were slow because of delays in
employing the architect and in site acquisition and hence in the awarding of contracts and
the construction of the schools financed by IDA. Other IDA-funded expenditure appears



- 24 -
to have been appropriately disbursed as planned. After 1988, the cumulative rate of
disbursement exceeded Appraisal estimates.
Table 3.3: EsTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
FY1987 1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   Total
Appraisal ($ million)
Annual              0.1    0.8    1.2    1.4    1 0    0.4    0.1    5.0
Cumulative          0.1    0.9    2.1    3.5    4.5    4.9    5.0    5.0
Actual annual (million)
SDR                 0.0    0.22   0.24    1.76   1.04   1.23   0.01   4.50
US$                 0.0    0.30   0.31   2.28    1.48   1.67   0.01   6.05
Actual Cumulative (million)
SDR                 0.0    0.22   0.46   2.22   3.26   4.49   4.50   4.50
US$                 0.0    0.30   0.61   2.89   4.37   6.04   6.05   6.05
Actual as % of annual
estimates (US$)      0       38     26    163    147    418        0    121
(SDR 100)
Date of final disbursement: March 17, 1993.
Source: IDA, Loan Department, Asia Disbursement Division, July 1993.
Chart: Disbursement Chart (in US$) /a
7.00
6.00         |         Estimated
5.00         |         Actual
.o 4.00
0 3.00
2.00
1.00
0.00
1987        1988        1989        1990        1991        1992        1993
La The actual amount in US$ is greater than the Appraisal estimate due to exchange rate
changes against the SDR.



- 25 -
Exchange Rates.  The Solomon Islands dollar (SBD) has declined
consistently and appreciably during the implementation period. As was noted in the PCR
for the Primary Education project, if these rates had been tracked by the IPU during the
project, more goods could have been purchased.
Table 3.4: AVERAGE ANNUAL EXCHANGE RATES FOR THE SBD
Year             AUD              US$               SDR
1986             0.8607            0.5769           0.4821
1987             0.7128            0.4991           0.3849
1988             0.6153            0.4803           0.3578
1989             0.5513            0.4365           0.3408
1990             0.5091            0.3974           0.2912
1991             0.4730            0.3689           0.2688
1992             0.4661            0.3411           0.2440
Source: Research Department, Central Bank of Solomon Islands, June 18, 1993.
IDA Disbursements by Credit Category. IDA disbursements were
executed through 93 transactions between November 11, 1987, and March 17, 1993. The
Credit was fully disbursed except for SDR 812.60. Due to the fluctuations in exchange
rates and the appreciation of the dollar in relation to both the SBD and SDR, the
equivalent of US$6.053 million was actually disbursed (a 20 percent increase over the
Appraisal estimates).
Table 3.5: DISBURSEMENT BY CATEGORY
Category                    SDR Disbursed         US$ Equivalent
1. Civil works
under Parts A.1(A) and B.3(B)
of the Project                 4,422,264.09          5,943,247.11
2. Consultants services
under Parts C.2(b)                77,450.71            107,335.44
Fund (Exchange Adjustment
on Speciaf Account)                (527.40)              2,641.44
Total Disbursed                   4,499,187.40           6,053,223.99
Amount Cancelled                        812.60
Original Credit Amount            4,500,000.00           5,000,000.00
Source: IDA, Loan Department, Asia Disbursement Division, July 1993.



- 26 -
Table 3.6: CREDIT AGREEMENT AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
Category          Description        Credit Agreement          Actual
SDR             %    SDR              %
(1)       Civil Works           4,050,000        90  4,422,264         98
(3 secondary schools,
boarding and staff
housing, CDC offices
and housing)
(2)       Consultants' services    90,000         2     77,451          2
(Educational manage-
ment and studies)
(3)       Unallocated             360,000         8          -          -
Exchange Adjustment           -         -       (527)
Cancelled                     -         -        812
Total                 4,500.000       100  4.500.000        100
Project Costs by Maior Type of Expenditure. Total project costs can only
be estimated due to incomplete data. The assumptions on which the project costs have
been developed are that: (i) the revised AIDAB budget of May 1989 was fully expended,
although there is no evidence either for or against this assumption; (ii) the calculations of
equivalent US dollars and SBDs as the final expenditure are based on the average exchange
rate of these currencies over the life of the project.
The total costs of the project exceeded Appraisal estimates, especially with
respect to the SBD figures. This is due both to the exchange rate and to a very high rate
of inflation. Since most project expenditure was made in Australian dollars, the SBD
figures are misleading.  In US dollar equivalents the increase over the six years is
reasonable.
Some categories of project expenditure in Table 3.7 have been combined,
while others have been extended. To obtain a different perspective of project costs, the
original categories of Improvement of Educational Opportunity, Quality Improvement, and
Management Improvement used in the Appraisal (especially Annex 18), have been broken
down into their institutional components.
In comparison to Appraisal estimates (in equivalent US$), civil works
increased only by about 58 percent, but the equivalent SBD increase due to inflation and
exchange rates suggests a 165 percent increase. Such increases reflect price escalations



- 27 -
due to the delay in construction of nearly four years for one school. The data do not
indicate why architectural fees tripled, but a longer supervision period was obviously
required. Expenditure on specialists, consultants and fellowships by AIDAB seems to have
nearly doubled. The large increase in expenditures for books to existing schools and on
printing equipment reflects AIDAB's strong support in these areas. For the IDA-financed
components the overall increase of 20 percent was absorbed in the currency exchange of
the SDR to the dollar.
Table 3.7: PROJECT COSTS BY MAJOR TYPE OF EXPENDITURE
(in millions)
Type of                       Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Estimated Costs /a
Expenditure                 SBD         US$        SBD              US$
Civil Works
Secondary schools         6.55        4.06       17.39/b           6.42
Teacher education (SICHE)    1.03     0.64        2.17             0.80
Curriculum development    0.24        0.16        0.35             0.13
Furniture                   0.49        0.30       0.95             0.35
Equipment, Textbooks
& Materials
Secondary schools - new   0.51        0.32        1.33             0.49
- existing   0.77     0.48        4.37/c           1.61
Teacher education         0.15        0.09        0.57             0.21
CDC Printery/books         -           -          2.09             0.15
IPU                       0.05        0.03         -
Professional Services       0.52        0.32       2.66             0.98
Technical Assistance
Specialists               1.98         1.23       6.78             2.50
Fellowships               0.61        0.38        1.76             0.65
Studies                   0.10        0.06        0.30             0.11
Contingencies               3.07        1.90       0.00             0.00
Total                    16.07        9.97       40.72            14.40
Lg Based on actual SIG and IDA expenditures and the May 1989 AIDAB budget revision
assuming average conversion rates of SBD 1 = US$0.369 and AUD 1 = US$0.7.
/b Including IPU equipment.
/c AIDAB increased the original scope by providing equipment for the CDC printery and
books to existing secondary schools.



- 28 -
Project Costs by Discrete Category. The Ministry of Finance (MOF)
recorded project costs by a more detailed itemization than the categories used by IDA or
AIDAB. Some such breakdown seems desirable for government to be able to identify its
own expenditures in categories used more generally throughout the sector. On the other
hand, several of these items could be aggregated as indicated in note /b to table 3.8.
Table 3.8: SUMMARY OF SIG/IDA ANNUAL EXPENDITURE BY DISCRETE CATEGORY /a
in SBD and annual US$ equivalent
Credit    Equivalent
Agreement    MOF
Category  Categories /b         1986   1987    1988    1989         1990         1991      1992     Totals
I    Civil Works (i)      105,874 414,189 615,546 767,034  1,867,417  10,992,244   112,138 14,874,442
Curriculum Dev (v)     6,264  63,868   40,141  30,872           0           0         0    141,145
Fum/Equipment (ii)     2,623   17,514    1,100       0    193,565      45,399     2,623    262,824
Staff Training (iv)   34,894  20,218  43,351  27,532       60,962      20,616         0    207,573
SICHE Training (iv)        0 192,150  16,878         0    337,300      77,680         0    624,008
Research/Dev. (v)          0  33,833       44        0     28,640           0         0      62,517
Library equipt. (ii)       0        0   3,552        0    106,148           0         0    109,700
Sch Materials CiH)         0  165,100 135,106  38,704           0           0         0    338,910
Sch Leaver Tracer (iii)    0        0       0   8,266           0           0         0       8,266
Rehabilitation (1)         0        0       0        0     32,096           0         0      32,096
Multiannual Training (iv)  0        0       0  39,146      35,825           0         0      74,971
Sch Facilities Survey (iii)  0      0       0        0     29,687      49,666         0      79,353
Project Preparation (iii)  0        0       0        0          0      36,255         0      36,255
Total         SBD   149,655 906,872 855,718 911,554  2,691,640  11,221,860  114,761 16,852,060
USD    86,336 452,621 411,008 397,902  1,069,681   4,139,838   39,146  6,596,533
2    Project Admin (iii)    16,485  30,677        0   4,913     45,649      59,936   310,258    467,918
Miscellaneous              0   8,021        0        0          0           0         0       8,021
Total         SBD   166,140 945,570 855,718 916,467  2,737,289  11,281,796  425,019 17,327,999
USD    95,846 471,935 411,008 400,047  1,087,822   4,161,949   144,976  6,773,583
Average currency exchange rate    1.7334  2.0036   2.082  2.2909     2.4163       2.7107    2.9316
Source: IPU, compiled from Ministry of Finance records, August 1993.
/a  Government and IDA-financed items only.
/b The listed items might also be grouped as:
(i) Civil Works
(ii) Furniture, Equipment and Materials.
(iii) Specialist Services and Management
(av) Training
(v) Curriculum Development, Publication and Research.
These costs by discrete category include SIG financing and items for which
reimbursement was obtained through the IDA Credit. The different assumptions used in
calculating annual and average exchange rates account for differences in the aggregated
figures in Tables 3.7 through 3.9. SIG expenditures not covered by IDA reimbursement
are difficult to isolate but have been assumed to be local cost for materials, furniture and
equipment and for their delivery; these have been aggregated and reflected (in US$
equivalents) in Table 3.9.
Project Financing. Despite early agreement that administration of co-
financing under this project would be carried out by IDA through the IPU, delays in



- 29 -
AIDAB processing of the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with SIG and lack of
trained staff in MET to handle contract processing and payments resulted in completely
independent (from SIG and IDA) administration by AIDAB of their own funds. Thus,
details of funding for the project remain incomplete and estimates for this report are based
on the Appraisal and the revised AIDAB budget of 1989.
Table 3.9: PRoJEcT FINANCING
Appraisal Estimate                    Actual Proiect Data
Estimated                             Estimated
Share                                 Share
US$ million eguivalent     of IDA       USS million equivalent   of IDA
Category        SIG     AIDAB  IDA    Total  financing  SIG    AIDAB/a IDA  Total  financing
Civil works     0.7      0.3    4.5     5.5      80      0.6    0.8    5.9   7.3       81
Furniture       0.0      0.4   0.0      0.4       -      0.0    0.4    0.0   0.4         -
Equipment, textbooks
and materials   0.0     1.1    0.0      1.1      -      0.4    2.1    0.0   2.5
Professional services 0.0  0.4    0.0   0.4       -      0.0    1.0    0.0   1.0         -
Technical assistance
specialists     0.0     1.4   0.1       1.5      6      0.0    2.5    0.1   2.6         4
Fellowships     0.0      0.4    0.0     0.4       -      0.0    0.6    0.0   0.6         -
Unallocated     0.0      0.3    0.4     0.7      57      0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0         -
Total          0.7     4      5 0    10.0       0      L.      7 4    6    14.4
% of financing    7      43    50       100               7      51     42   100
/a Based on revised budgeted amounts, May 1989 converted into USS equivalent assuming an exchange rate of
AUD I = US$0.7.
Project Results.   In  general, the project has met or exceeded  the
expectations of the key quantitative indicators: all civil works were constructed, equipped
and furnished; books and materials were provided to all schools; enrollments at both
secondary level and in teacher training met the projected targets. As the project proceeded
slight changes occurred in the Technical Assistance component, but this reflects the on-
going needs of the institutions and the cost-consciousness of the implementers. However,
data are not available on several of the elements proposed in the SAR and little attempt
seems to have been made to maintain appropriate records of such indicators during
implementation.
The enrollments in lower secondary schools were smaller than projected
because the three project schools were delayed in starting (especially the third school).
These schools accounted for nearly all the actual increases in enrollments. Given that all
but one lower secondary school enroll boarders with limited boarding places, the ratio of
females has not increased significantly. This is being addressed in the Third Education
and Training Project.
Status of Covenants. All covenants were completed. Delays (from April
1987 through August 1991) were experienced in the fulfilling of Covenants (Schedule 1
Category (2) and Schedule 3 Part 3). Despite continual reminders from IDA, the Ministry
of Finance did not respond to specific requests for amendments. Finally, in June 1991,



- 30 -
Table 3.10: SELECTED PROJECT INDICATORS AND RESULTS
Appraisal      Actual Achievements      Target
Indicator                      1984       1988     1990      1992      1992
Lower Secondary Enrollment
Form  1                                    1,597    1,789    1,940
2                                    1,495    1,690     1,796
3                                    1,476    1,443    1,731         -
Total                          4,310     4,568    4,922     5,467    5,620
% Female                          38        34       43       38        43
Upper Secondary Enrollment
Form  4                                     465      465       651
5                                     460      417       480
6                                       84     117       141
Total                                    1,009      999     1,272
Combined Secondary Enrollment
Total                                    5,577    5,821     6,739
Student:Teacher Ratio La          1:19      1:20     1:18     1:17      1:20
Secondary Teacher Training Intakes
Year 1                              0        41       26        37       35
Secondary Teachers La
Total No. Teachers                          284      320       400
No. Expatriates                   75        85       86        92       80
Local Teachers with
Diploma (%)                       28        43       47        72       45
Local Teachers with
Degrees (%)                        8        18       18        17       18
Attrition rate (%)                  6         6        5         4        4
Textbooks/Other Instructional Materials
No. textbooks distributed            -                               20,000
No. locally printed
materials distributed                                              280,000
/a Includes National Secondary Schools, Forms IV-VI.
SIG signed an amendment which broadened the scope of consultant services, allowed use
of force account procedures for construction of the six CDC houses, and revised the
cofinancing wording to take account of AIDAB parallel financing.



- 31 -
The initial delay in project effectiveness and changes in project management
resulted in slower fulfillment of the Covenants than had been planned. Minor delays
occurred in filling posts (IPU and CDC) and in finalizing contracts and studies specified
in Schedule 4 of the Credit Agreement. The most significant accomplishment of the
Covenants was the extremely successful annual review of the project through the
participation of SIG, IDA and AIDAB.
Use of Bank Resources. The Bank's computerized data base only provides
total time allocated to each activity, rather than discrete breakdowns for in-country and
desk activities prior to supervision. Furthermore, since all supervision missions from 1986
through 1990 also covered the Primary Education Project, only a few of the later
supervision reports identify how much time was spent on each project. It is evident,
however, from an analysis of the data that most IDA missions (other than the annual
tripartite reviews) through 1988 were of extremely limited duration. IPU commented in
1988 that two days were insufficient for review of the project.
The tabular data also indicate that the architect (who was also Task
Manager) visited consistently early in the project, but did not return after 1988. An
internal memo in 1988 suggests that the architect was extremely heavily committed in other
projects. From 1989, the general educator assumed the Task Manager role. Although all
architectural and construction operations were conscientiously reviewed by the architect
in the Division, only two country visits by an architect were made after 1989 (Table 3.13).
An education consultant, hired using Trust Funds, who was experienced in IDA
procedures and project management visited regularly during the last three years of the
project. This continuing imbalance in the composition and duration of supervision reflects
the volume of work undertaken by the Division and the thinly stretched resources.



- 32 -
Table 3.11: STATuS OF COVENANTS
Credit
Agreement
Section         Description of Covenant            Status of Compliance
4.1      Establish and maintain an IPU with     In compliance
functions and responsibilities acceptable to
IDA with competent staff in numbers
acceptable to IDA
4.2      All project sites to be acquired by     In compliance
December 31, 1986
4.3      Government to make an effort to ensure  In compliance
that teachers trained preservice under the
project are bonded to teach for a period
equal to their period of training
4.4      Government to submit an action plan for  Proposal submitted in
meeting additional enrollments at SICHE  November 1992 to stop the
created by the "Foundation Year" by     "Foundation Year" when
December 31, 1986                       secondary expansion is
implemented in 1994-95
4.5      Submission to IDA of SICHE study and    In compliance
studies on Teacher Utilization and
Incentives and on the Financing of
Education by December 31, 1986; and the
recommendations as agreed with IDA to
be carried out on a time schedule
acceptable to IDA
4.6      Review by October 31 each year (i) imple-   In compliance
mentation progress; (ii) allocation of
government counterpart funds for the
coming fiscal year; and (iii) a report
prepared by government on the operation
of primary and secondary teacher training
programs at SICHE
Source: IDA project files and Supervision Report of December 1992.



- 33 -
Table 3.12: BANK STAFF RESOURCE USE
Stage of                                   Actual Staff Weeks
Project Cycle         Planned      FY84-FY86         FY87-FY93       Total
Up to Appraisal            NA            8.3              NA             8.3
Appraisal through
Board Approval             NA           67.5/b            NA            67.5
Supervision                 21.0/a       0.9               37.5/c       38.4
Total                    NA           76.7                           114.2
Note: "NA" means not available or not recorded.
L   Recorded for FY92 and 93 only; not including 7.0 staffweeks for Completion.
/b  Including 18.8 staffweeks not covered by the Projects Division.
L/   Excluding consultants financed from Trust Funds.
Table 3.14: ANNUAL SECONDARY SCHOOL ENROLLMENTS, 1986-1992
Year       Form I   Form 2   Form 3   Form 4   Form 5   Form 6   Total
1986La       1,621     1,536     1,410      469       436        84     5,556
1987         1,547     1,592     1,447      493       438        86     5,603
1988         1,597     1,495     1,476      465       460        84     5,577
1989         1,621     1,499     1,459      442       440        90     5,551
l9901b       1,789     1,590     1,443      465       417       117    5,821
1991/c       1,865     1,745     1,513      516       453       152     6,244
1992Ld       1,940     1,796     1,731      651       480       141     6,739
Source: IPU, Planning Section, August 1993.
La   Of the 20 schools, 8 offered Forms 1-5 and 2 of these offered Form 6.
/b   Two new schools commenced Form 1, another school began Form 6.
L~ A ninth school offered Form 4, a fourth school offered Form 6.
a4   One new school opened with Form 1 and Form 4 students, two additional schools
commenced Form 4, one school extended its classes to include Form 5.



Table 3.13: MIsSION DATA
Speciali-
Number             zations   Avail-    Legal
Stage of         Month/        of    Days in   Repro-    able    Compli-   Project            Develop.   Technical      Procure-                  Overall
Project Cycle        Year      Persons  Field /a    wnted   Funds     nlce       Mtg. Training  Impact    Assitnce          meit       Studies       Status
Thrugh Appraisl         5/83       2       1        A,E
9/83       1       1        E
4/84       1       4        E
10/S4       4     70         A,GE,E,O
Appraisl through        4/85       3       7        M,A,E
Board                   2/86       3       9        A,GE,L
Board tirough
Effectiveness          10/86       2      10        A,GE       I        -        2         -         I           -             -           -            2
Supervision             9187       1       4        E          I        -        2         -         I           -             -           -             2
10/88       2      6         A,GE      I         -        2         -        1            -            -            -            2
6/89       1       3        GE        1         1        2         1         1           1            3            2            2
1/90       1      6         GE        2         1        2         1        2            1            2            1            2
3/90       1       5        A         I         1        2         1         1           1            2            1            2
6/90       1       4        GE        I         1        2         1         1           1             1           1            2
7/90 /b    1       4        GE        -         -        -         -         -           -
11/90 b     2      10        GE        I         1        2         2        1            1            1            1            2
4/91 /b    1      13        GE        -         -                                                                               -
7/91       1       2        GE        I         1        2         1         1           1            1            2            2
9/91 b     1       6        GE        -         -        -         -         -           -            -            -            -
11/91 /b    2      4         GE        1         2        1         1        1            1            1            1            1
5/92 /     3       9        GE,A      I         I        1         1         1           1            1            1            1
11/92 /b    2      4         GE        I         I        I         I        I            I            I            I            1
/a Egtimated total number of person-days spent on this project when activities combined with other projects.
/b Visits by consutai financed from Trust Funds.
A = Architect; E = Economist; GE = General Educator, 0 = Operations Assistant; M = Manager, L = Lawyer
Source: IDA Supervision Reports and Projcmt Records.



- 35..
Table 3.15: SECONDARY SCHOOL ENROLLMENTS BY SCHOOL, SEX AND
BOARDING PLACES, 1991
Enrollment                     Boarding Places
School           Forms Boys       Girls     Total     Boys    Girls      Total
Aligegeo         1-3    164        69       233        157      67       224L&
Allardyce        1-3    129        86       215        129      86       215
Aveavu           1-3    127        65       192        127      65        192
Betikama         1-6   223         135      358        223     135       358
Builah           1-2    180        100      280        180     100       280
Choiseul         1-3     98        85       183         98      85        183
Goldie           1-5    164        119      283        164     119       283
Honiara          1-3    168        147      315          0       0         OLa
Kamassi          1-3    110         80      190        110      80        190
King George VI   1-6    317        188      505        270     137       407La
Kukudu           1-5    176         86      262        176      86       262
Luesaleba        1-4    219        128      347        219     128       347
Pawa             1-3    155        127      282        154     126       280La
Rokera           1-3    124        82       206        124      82       206
Ruavatu          1-3    216        117      333        216     117       333
Selwyn           1-6    239        124      363        239     124       363
Siota            1-3    203       108       311        203     108       311
Su'u             1-5    242        79       321        242      79       321
Tangarare        1-3    113        53       166        113      53        166
Tenaru           1-5    240        79       319        240      79       319
Vonunu           1-3    103        75       178        103      75        178
Waimapura        1-6    272        130      402        271     130       401LA
Total                .982            ,378 I=                      S .19
Source: IPU, Planning Section, August 1993.
Notes:  1991 was the only year for which complete data was available. Data for other
years (1986-1992) was either missing or inconsistent for one or more schools.
La  Indicates schools in which all enrollees were not also all boarders.



- 36 -
Table 3.16: ANNUAL NUMBERS OF SECONDARY TEACHERS BY ORIGIN
AND QUALIFICATION, 1987-1992
Oualification
None/
Year/Origin         Masters   Bachelors   Diploma   Certif.    Unknown  Total
1987 Expatriate       12         47         17         10         2          88
National                    38         103        69         2         212
Total            12         85        120         79          4        300
1988 Expatriate        7         44         18          12        4          85
National                    37         87         72         3         199
Total             7         81        105         84          7        284
1989 Expatriate        8         35         17          13       11          84
National                    39         94          84        10        227
Total             8         74        111         97        21         311
1990 Expatriate        7         56         12          6         5          86
National                    44         111        74         5         234
Total             7        100        123          80        10        320
1991 Expatriate        5         49         13          2         4         73
National                    46        163         66         4         279
Total             5         95        176          68         8        352
1992 Expatriate        9         59         16          2         6         92
National                    53        221          31         3        308
Total             9        112        237         33         9         400
Source: IPU, Planning Section, August 1993.



- 37 -
Table 3.17: STUDiEs LINKED TO THE SECONDARY EDUCAnON PRoJEcT
Author                            Title                   Date   Approx. Costs
CURRIN, Charles B.        A Study in the Utilization of Primary and  1987    SBD 10,000
Secondary Teachers
GANNICOTT, Ken &          A Study in the Financing of Education in    1987    AUD 21,614
McGAVIN, P.A.             Solomon Islands                                    SBD 1,037
HIND, Ian                 Analysis of Expansion of Options for     1988    AUD 16,000
Primary & Secondary Education
MEHRDISICHE               SICHE Academic Master Plan. A Study      1988    AUD 18,000
to Provide a Base Plan for the Physical
Expansion of the College
COYNE, Geoffrey           A Survey to Evaluate the Effectiveness of    1989   US$3,000
Provincial Secondary Schools in the
Training of Pupils for Village Life
HABU, Mostyn B.           Strategies for Educational Development in    1989  SBD 6,000
the 1990s
HIND, Ian &               SICHE Planning and Academic              1989   *AUD 36,000
RAWLINSON, Ralph W.    Strengthening, 1990-1994
COYNE, Geoffrey           Secondary Teacher Supply and Demand      1990    AUD 14,184
Survey
GOODES, Lois &            School Facilities and Location Survey    1990    SBD 55,828
MATTISKE, Janet
RAWLINSON, Ralph W.    SICHE Validation of Secondary Teaching      1990    *US$14,000
Diploma
GOODES, Lois &            School Facilities & Location Survey, Part    1991    AUD 17,000
MATTISKE, Janet           II. An analysis of survey data collected in
1989
RAWLINSON, Ralph W.    Education Sector Policy Planning and        1991    *US$12,000
et.al.                     Projects. MEHRD submission to
Government
SCOTT, N.D. et.al.        Secondary Education Project Teacher      1991          n.a.
Education and Quality Improvement
(SEPTEQI) Project, Completion Report
Source: IPU and IDA Project Files.
* Estimates.



- 38 -
Table 3.18: ANNUAL ENROLLMENTS IN SECONDARY DIPLOMA IN TEACIDNG,
1988-1992
Fields of Soecialization
Year Level Math/Bus. Eng/Soc. Math/Eng. Math/Soc. Bus.  I.Art  C.Ed. AGr. HEc. Math Tcd
1988 Year 1   14        17                                                   10         41
Year 3   -         7                                                    5         12
1989 Year 1   17        16                                                   11         44
Year 2   14       16                                                              30
Year3   -         -
1990 Year 1   12        14                                                              26
Year 2   14       14                                                    11        39
Year 3   14       11                                                    7         32
Adv.                                           2                  7          1    10
1991 Year I    0        11         3          9                              10         33
Year 2    8       14         -          -                                         22
Year3   13        13         -          -                               9         35
Adv.                                           4     6           13          1    24
1992 Year 1   13         9                                 5                 10         37
Year 2   -        12          3          5           -                  8         28
Year 3    8       13         -          -            -                  -         21
Adv.    -         -          -          -      3     6      6    12    19         46
Sources: Compiled from data supplied by SICHE and from Project Files.
Table 3.19: FELLoWSHPS AND OVERSEAS STUDY
Number of Persons            Number of Persomnonths
Category                  Planned               Actual   Planned                Actual
Long-term                        31                   26         420                360
SICHE lecturers                   4                    6            8                12
CDC staff                        13                    9           51                46
IPU and Provincial
Education Officers              15                   11           20                21
Guidance and Selection           11                    9          22                 18
Total                          74                  61La        521               4571a
Sources: W.D. Scott, SEPTEQI, Project Completion Report, March 1991 and IPU
statistics, May 1993.
Li   Additional fellowships were provided by Australia, New Zealand and Great Britain as
part of their bilateral programs, for which records are not available.



- 39 -
Table 3.20: SICHE STAFNG FOR DIPLOMA IN TEACING (SECONDARY), 1992
Oualifications of National Staff La
Teaching Subject              Bachelors     Diploma       Comments
English and Communication Skills   3                  1 part-time, 1 on study leave
Social Studies                   3                    1 part-time, 1 on study leave
Mathematics                      2             1      1 part-time, 1 on study leave
Business Studies                 2
Agriculture Lb                    1
Home Economics                   3
Religious Education               1
Music                                          1
Art and Craft                                  1
Physical Education                1
Health                                         1
Industrial Arts                   1
Education Studies Lg
Source: SICHE, August 1993.
La   Staff are full-time unless indicated. Since 1988 only four national staff have left
SICHE; there are 20 staff and one consultant in 1993.
Lb   Each subject except Agriculture, was assisted by an overseas consultant usually
during 1988-1990; 5 were full-time and 6 part-time. New Zealand sponsored 2 full-
time posts, Canada 1 full-time post and Australia financed 3 full-time and all part-
time consultants.
Lc   Education Studies is taught by teams drawn from the other disciplines. A Canadian
consultant assisted during 1992 and 1993.



- 40 -                          ANNEX A
COMPONENT DETAILS OF T1E MOU
By Whom/
Action/Input                            Funding Source LA
1. Construction of three new full facility schools
(i) Design, documentation, assistance with the calling
of tenders, negotiation and awarding a contract
and contract supervision                                 AIDAB
(ii) Awarding of construction contract                       SIG
(iii) Regular payments to construction contractor             SIG
(iv) Furniture for schools, houses and dormitories            AIDAB
(v) Equipment, textbooks and materials                       AIDAB
2. Teacher training
(i) Three long-term experts                                  AIDAB
(ii) SICHE infrastructure                                    AIDAB
(iii) Fellowships - 48 years                                  AIDAB
(iv) Short-term attachments for SICHE staff
- 16 staff months                                        AIDAB
3. Supply of equipment, materials, textbooks                     AIDAB
4. Short-term technical assistance
(i) Curriculum development - 21 staff months                 AIDAB
(ii) Curriculum workshops - 63 staff months                  AIDAB
(iii) Guidance and Selection Unit - 18 staff months           AIDAB
(iv) General - 36 staff months                                AIDAB
5. Fellowships
(i) 72 staff months - CDC subject advisers                   AIDAB
(ii) 24 staff months - GSU officers                          AIDAB
(iii) 30 staff months - IPU/PEO                               AIDAB
6. New CDC housing                                               SIG
7. IPU adviser                                                   AIDAB
8. Studies
(i) Teacher Utilization and Incentives                       SIG
(ii) Financing Education                                     SIG
(iii) SICHE Master Plan                                       AIDAB
La IDA Credit included in SIG designation.
Source: AIDAB Memorandum of Understanding, Annex III, signed May 1987.



- 41-                        ANNEX B
FINANCING PLAN
(SBD '000)
IDA      SIG       AIDAB    Total
Expansion of lower secondary schools:
Civil works                         5,240     1,310         -    6,550
Furniture                               -         -       490      490
Equipment                                         -       510       510
Architects' fees                        -         -       520      520
Subtotal                          5,240     1,310     1,520     8,070
Preservice teacher training:
Civil works                             -         -     1,030     1,030
Equipment                               -         -       150       150
Specialists and fellowships             -         -     1,400     1,400
Subtotal                              -         -    2,580      2,580
Provision of equipment, textbooks
and materials                           -        -       770       770
Curriculum development:
Civil works                           190        50         -      240
Specialists and fellowships             -         -       480      480
GSU specialists and fellowships         -         -       240       240
Inservice upgrading specialists         -         -       120       120
Subtotal                            190        50     1,610     1,850
IPU: fellowships and adviser            -         -       240       240
equipment                           -         -       50        50
PEOs                                    -         -        10        10
Studies                               100         -       100       200
Subtotal                            100         -       400      500
Baseline cost                     5,530     1,360     6,110    13,000
Contingencies                       1,530       380     1,160     3,070
Total Project Cost               Z70        1.740     7.270    16.07
A$'000                                                6,500
Source: AIDAB Memorandum of Understanding, Annex V, May 1987.



- 42 -                    ANNEX B
Attachment 1
REVIsE FINANCING PLAN
SBD '000--      AIDAB  AUD '000
Activity                            IDA       SIG        Cofin.    Bilat.
Teacher Education/Quality Improvement
Specialists (long-term/short-term)      -         -    2,936
Fellowships and attachments             -         -       922
Management costs                        -         -       335         -
SICHE Expansion
SICHE civil works/furniture             -         -         -    1,145
CDC civil works                       190        50         -         -
CDC printery                            -         -         -       214
Texts and equipment - TEQI                        -         -       300
Master plan                             -         -         -        95
Construction of New Secondary Schools
Civil works                         5,240     1,310         -         -
Architectural services                  -         -    1,400          -
Furniture/equipment -
new schools                            -         -         -      500
Textbooks                               -         -         -       206
Expansion of Existing Secondary Schools
Equipment - existing schools            -         -         -    1,500
Textbooks - existing schools            -         -         -       800
IPU Adviser
IPU adviser - salary and support        -         -         -      206
Total Costs                                 LA 1         93     49
Source: AIDAB, May 24, 1989.



- 43 -                        ANNEX C
SUMMARY OF THE SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
TEACHER EDUCATION AND QUALITY BMPROVEMENT (SEPTEQI) COMPONENT
The Secondary Education Project, Teacher Education and Quality
Improvement (SEPTEQI) component was contracted by AIDAB to a managing agent,
W.D.Scott International Development Consultants Pty Limited. The Terms of Reference
(TOR) provide the scope of the component and the key features/achievements of each are
summarized below:
TOR 1:      Long-Term Staff Appointments
Five long-term staff (in the fields of Business Studies, Mathematics, Social
Studies, Home Economics, and English) were appointed to SICHE's School of Education
and Cultural Studies. Counterpart lecturing staff were assigned. Student enrollment was
expected to be about 40 per year in the three year Diploma in Teaching (Secondary) course
with graduation of about 32 teachers annually.
These staff were responsible for:
(a)   teaching and writing course units covering Education Studies, Studies for
Teaching (major), Studies for Teaching (minor), Skill Development, and
Teaching Experiences (handbook);
(b)   counterpart training;
(c)   other duties;
(d)   planning for future sustainability.
TOR 2:      Short-Term Consultancies (for pre-service and in-service)
Consultants to develop about 12 modules for initial use through in-service
training but to be incorporated into the pre-service program in:
(a)   industrial arts
(b)   agriculture and home economics
(c)   creative arts (music, art/crafts), physical education, health, religious
education
Consultants and staff were also responsible for preparing and conducting
institutional strengthening workshops for SICHE academic staff and Provincial Education
Officers.
TOR 3:      Undergraduate Felowships
Twenty-seven fellows were to be selected in agriculture, science and
industrial arts for study overseas, but these were reduced to 8, 2 and 12 in the respective
disciplines.



- 44 -                         ANNEX C
TOR 4:      Counterpart Attachments
Two month study tours for counterpart lecturers in Business Studies, Social
Studies and Mathematics and for the Coordinator in Practice Teaching.  Second
fellowships were provided in Business and Social Studies for replacement staff.
TOR 5:      CDC Fellowships
A program was agreed in 1990 for attachment for the Agriculture officer,
a study tour for the Industrial Arts officer and a master's program for the English language
curriculum developer.
TOR 6:      CDC Short-Term Consultancies
Consultants were employed to work through a complete curriculum
development cycle in three phases for each of the nine subject panels.  This was
supplemented by four workshops. The printing of manuscripts was hampered from the
outset through lack of suitable printshop equipment, supplies and budget.
TOR 7:      Guidance and Selection Unit Consultancies and Fellowships
Consultants arranged for five of the six career guidance teachers to obtain
attachments for two months each overseas. Four provincial based workshops were held
and teachers' guides and student workbooks produced. Three primary testing workshops
were held and two secondary evaluation/assessment workshops conducted.
TOR 8:      IPU Fellowships
Due to pressure of work only one of four study tours was completed by IPU
staff. Three Provincial Education Officers went on organized study tours/observation.
TOR 9:      Management of the SEPTEQI
Short-term inter-locking visits were successful. The Diploma courses were
validated by an international team. The project was also evaluated independently.
TOR 10:    Office Support
SICHE was provided with logistical and office support, including a vehicle.



- 45 -                  ANNEX C
Attachment 1
SEPTFEQI CosT ESTIMATES
(in AUD)
Original Contract   Final Amendment La  Actual
July 1987       December 1990    Dec. 91
Professional fees (a) long-term   716,028          810,000       801,041
(b) short-term   1,053,639        1,391,000     1,387,257
Allowances individual (a) long-term   316,965      180,000       155,015
(b) short-term   331,356        569,000       394,398
Fellowship costs                  835,118          960,000       697,790
Other project-related costs       283,400          346,000       278,395
Total       3.536,506         426,Q         3.713.896
Source: Budgetary estimates.
La W.D. Scott: SEPTEQI. Project Completion Report, March 1991.



