Dammmi of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5645-SOL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
April 8, 1986
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Solomon Islands Dollar (SI$)
SI$1.00 - US$0.62
US$1.00 - SI$1.61
(February 1986)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
February 1 - January 31
GLOSSARY
ADAB         -     Australian Development Assistance Bureau
ADB          -     Asian Development Bank
CDC          -     Curriculum Development Center
CSU          -     Guidance and Selection Unit
GTC          -     Coroka Teachers College
IPU          -     Implementation and Planning Unit
MET          -      Ministry of Education and Training
NSS          -     National secondary schools
ODA          -     Overseas Development Administration
PEC          -     Provincial Education Office
PCC          -     Project Coordinating Comittee
PSS          -     Provincial secondary schools
SICHE        -     Solomon Islands College of Higher Education
SISC         -     Solomon Islands School Certificate
USP          -     University of the South Pacific



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
I.  THE EDUCATION SECTOR ..................................... * *       1
Introduction ............... 000.00O...  -.0 ........................... De  1
Structure and Administration of the Educational
System ..................................... o ..................  I
Main Issues in Secondary Education .......................        4
Restricted Educational Opportunity        .....      ....       4
Low Average Quality .....................................       5
Limited Capacity for Educational Planning and
Management ............... ........... . *    .               7
Government Coals, Experience with Past Lending and
Rationale for Bank Involvement ...........................       7
II.  THE PROJECT ....................o..........................          8
Objectives and Scope ......... . .......... .......... ..          8
Improvement of Educational Opportunity .................        9
Quality Improvement ........... ......... . ...... .            10
Management Improvement ...... o ........ o ............. .      11
Project Management and Implementation ...................        12
Status of Project Preparation                  .       .         12
CoJsts ........  .....................................................  13
Financial Plan ....... ................................................  15
Recurrent Costs .................. .................. o .....     15
Procurement ............ o............................................. 16
Disbursementso ............ o........................ ......     ............  16
Accounts, Audits and Reporting ...................... o ...       17
Benefits and Risks ...................  .        ... .           17
III.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .................  .....      18
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to the Solomon
Islands in October 1984, comprising H.C. Chai (general educator and mission
leader), R. Montague (architect), J. Einfeld (economist, consultant), and
C.M. Johnson (operations assistant). A postappraisal mission comprising
C. Gilpin (deputy division chief), R. Montague (architect) and J. Einfeld
(economist, consultant) visited the country in March 1985.
This document has a restricted disuibution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance
of their official dutie [Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
1. Comparative Education Indicators
2. Structure of the Education System, 1984
3. List of Subjects in Secondary Education Curriculum
4. Organizational Structure of Provincial Education Administration
5. Government Expenditure on Education, 1978-1984
6. The Demand for and the Supply of Places at Form I, Assuming No Change
in the System
7. Proportion of Form I Places in Provincial Secondary Schools
Relative to Cohort Aged 12 by Province, 1983
8. National and Provincial Secondary School Staff, 1984
9. Estimated School Age Population, Enrollments and Enrollment Ratios
by Province, 1985 and 1991 (Forms I-III)
10. Actual and Estimated Enrollments and Enrollment Ratios,
1980-1991 (Forms I-III)
11. Representation Index of Lower Secondary Enrollments
12.  1;a't Terms of Reference for Studies
13. Technical Assistance
14. Implementation Activities
15. List of Textbooks Required by Lower Secondary Students
16. Implementation Schedule
17. Project Monitoring Indicators -- Lower Secondary SchooLs
(Forms I-III)
18. DetaiLed Project Costs
19. Project Expenditure by Year and Purpose
20. Areas and Unit Capital Costs for New Lower Secondary Schools
21. Financial Plan
22. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
23. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP



- ili -
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Banic Data
GEUEUL
Land area                                                            28,500 ka2
Population                                                              241,002
Populatlon density                                           9 persons per km
Population growth rate (1976-81)                                           3.4Z
Adult literacy rate                                                         151
CNP per capita                                             US$640 equivalent/a
Labor force In formal employment sector                                  22 ,d
EDUCATION DATA
Estimated       Females
enrollment      as Z of
Level                                   Enrollment       ratio (Z)         total
Primary (grades 1-6)                       34,910            78               43
Secondary:
Lower (gradea 7-9):
Provincial secondary schools           2,570             14               36
National secondary schools              1,400             8               33
Upper (national secondary schools):
Grades 10-11                              840             5               25
Grade 12                                  90              2               20
Post-secondary:
Local?
Full-time                               1,070 ?
Part-time                                 120 1          11              n.a.
Overseas                                    330 1
Expatriate     Teacher:
Number of        as I of        student
Teaching staff                          teachers            total         ratio
Primary (grades 1-6)                       1,280               0           1:27
Secondary:
Lower tgrades 7-9):
Provinclal secondary schools             140              13           1:18
National secondary schools               70 1                        { 1:20
Upper (national secondary                      1            51         (
schools, grades 10-12)                   50 }                        4 1:19
Public Expenditure on Education /b
Total public expenditure                            US$44.5 million equivalent
Expenditure on education                            US$ 8.9 million equlvalent
Education expenditure
as Z of total public expenditure                                        20.0%
as 2 of CDP                                                              6.62
Share of Recurrent Education Expenditure by Level                               x
Primary                                                                      41
Secondary                                                                    34
Post-secondary                                                               20
Administration                                                                5
Total                                                         100
Recurrent Cost per Student (including teact;ers  salaries)        USS equivalent
Primary                                                                      67
Provincial secondary                                                        342
National secondary                                                          417
Post-secondary                                                            1,667
/a  World Bank 'Per Capita Income Guidelines for Operational Purposes',
November 8, 1984.
/b  With capltal investment for the Primary Education Project (Credit
1212-SOL) peaking in 1983/84, the percent of expenditure on education was
higher than usual.



- iv -
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                Solomon Islands
Amount:                  SDR 4.5 million (US$5.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard IDA
Project Description:    The objective of the proposed project is to help the
Government ensure an adequate supply of suitably
trained manpower for formal employment and higher
levels of education by improving educational oppor-
tunity and quality in lower secondary education and
strengthening education sector management. This would
be achieved as follows:
(a) improvement of educational opportunity through:
(i) expansion of lower secondary school enroll-
ment by constructing, furnishing and equipping
three new lower secondary schools to provide
about 1,220 student places in three disadvantaged
provinces; (ii) development of a preservice
diploma training program to train lower secondary
teachers in addition to limited preservice
training overseas; and (iii) carrying out a
feasibility study for the Solomon Islands College
of Higher Education;
(b) improvement of educational quality through the
provision of: (i) equipment and teaching
materials, including textbooks; (ii) in-service
upgrading for lower secondary teachers;
(iii) staff training, housing and consultants for
the Curriculum Development Center; and (iv) new
staff, staff training and consultants for the
Guidance and Selection Unit of the Ministry of
Education and Training (MET); and
(c) improvement of educational management through the
provision of: (i) new staff and staff training
for establishing an Implementation and Planning
Unit (IPU) in the MET and for the Provincial
Education Offices (PEo); and (ii) consultants for
preparation of studies on teacher utilization and
incentives and the financing of education, and a
sector investment plan.



v 
Benefits and Risks:      By 1991, lower secondary enrollments would be
increased by 28%; the enrollment ratio for the 13-15
age group would be raised from 21% to 23X; and
geographical distribution of educational opportunity
across provinces would improve. The provision of
better trained teachers and more and better equipment
and materials for all lower secondary students would
contribute to raising student achievement. More
qualified staff in the IPU and the PEOs would result
in more effective educational and financial planning
and school administration.
The proposed Credit entails some risks due to local
staff shortages, poor communication between central
and provincial authorities, and possible continuation
of high teacher wastage. These risks would be reduced
by the proposed actions to be taken before and during
project implementation to address these issues.
Estimated Costs:                                         Local    Foreign   Total
US$ million ------
Improvement of educational opportunity:
Expansion of lower secondary schools                  2.7        2.3      5.0
Preservice teacher training                           0.5        1.2      1.7
Subtotal                                            3.2        3.5      6.7
Quality improvement:
Provision of equipment, textbooks and
materials                                           0.1        0.4      0.5
Curriculum development                                0.1        0.3      0.4
Strengthening of Guidance and Selection Unit          0.0        0.1      0.1
In-service upgrading of teachers                      0.0        0.1      0.1
Subtotal                                            0.2        0.9      1.1
Management improvement:
Establishment of Implementation and
Planning Unit, training of Provincial
Education Officers and studies                      0.0        0.3      0.3
Subtotal                                            0.0        0.3      0.3
Totel Baseline Cost                                 3.4        4.7      8.1
Physical contingencies                                  0.3        0.4       0.7
Price contingencies                                     0.5        0.7       1.2
Total Project Cost Ia                               4.2        5.8      10.0
/a No taxes are included in the Total Project Cost, as all building
materials and equipment, textbooks and educaLional materials imported for
use in the project are exempt from import duties and taxes.



- vi -
Financial Plan:                                          Local   Foreign   Total
------ US$ million ----
Government                                           0.7      0.0       0.7
IDA                                                  2.9      2.1       5.0
ADAB                                                 0.6       3.7      4.3/b
Total                                            4.2      5.8      10.0
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY                  FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91   FY92   FY93
------------------- US$ million ----------------
Annual                   0.1      0.8     1.2      1.4      1.0    0.4    0.1
Cumulative               0.1      0.9     2.1      3.5     4.5    4.9    5.0
Rate of Return: Not applicable
lb   Of which $A4.0 million from ADAB's cofinancing facility and $A2.5 million
equivalent from its regular bilateral aid program in the Solomon Islands.



SOLOMON ISLANDS
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
I. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Introduction
1.01      Solomon Islands' development strategy and programs for the 1980s
emphasize the ezpansion of employment for a fast-growing labor force through a
balanced development of smallholder and plantation agriculture, improvement of
the interisland transport and marketing system and greater involvement of the
private sector in economic development. Another priority is to increase the
number and quality of skilled manpower, in particular to fill vacancies and to
replace expatriates with national staff in formal employment. Twenty percent
of an estimated 3,500 establishment posts are at present either vacant or
occupied by expatriates. The shortage of qualified nationals is due in large
part to the education system's shcrtcomings, which include poor average
quality at all levels and restricted opportunities at the postprimary level. A
major consequence is that a large numbeI/ of tasks affecting the country's
development are not being accomplished.±' The Government has already begun to
address the problems of the formal education system through a comprehensive
development program for primary education, assisted by the 1982 Primary Educa-
tion Project (Credit 1212-SOL). As the next step, the Government is turning
its attention to strengthening secondary education, to ensure an adequate
supply of suitably trained manpower for higher education and formal
employment.
Structure and Administration of the Educational System 2/
1.02      The educational system (Annex 2) provides six years of primary
(Grades 1-6), three years of lower secondary (Grades 7-9 or Forms I-III), two
years of upper secondary (Grades 10-11 or Forms IV and V), and one year of
preuniversity (Grade 12 or Form VI) education. Postsecondary education
leading to a certificate or diploma is provided at the Solomon Islands College
of Higher Education (SICHE), which was formally established in 1983, incor-
porating the former Honiara Technical Institute, the Teachers College, and
other government training units into a single umbrella institution with six
areas of study: education and culturaL studies; finance and administration;
1/ Unpublished paper prepared by Eric Hawthorne, Manpower Adviser, and H.
Panapio, Senior Planning Officer (Hanpower), National Planning Office,
August 13, 1983.
2/ Annex 1 of this report provides a comparative perspective of Solomon
Islands' educational development in the region. For an overview of the
primary education sector, see also SAR Solomon Islands Primary Education
Project, Report No. 3670a-SOL, January 24, 1982.



- 2 -
industrial development; natural resources; nursing and paramedical studies;
and marine studies. Regional institutions (particularly the University of the
South Pacifir. (USP) and the University of Papua New Guinea) and other overseas
universities provide access for a selected number of students for degree and
diploma studies. In 1983, there were about 35,000 students in primary
schools, 4,900 in secondary (including Form VI) classes, 1,200 in the SICHE
and 300 in overseas postsecondary institutions. Teachers are trained either
at the SICHE or overseas.
1.03      Secondary Education.  Secondary education in Solomon Islands began
formally in 1956 with the establishment of the King Ceorge VI SchooL in
Honiara which offered a four-year course and accepted students from all over
the country. In 1978, a five-year course leading to the Solomon Islands
School Certificate (SISC) was introduced. By 1984 there were 8 such national
secondary schools (NSS), 6 Christian church- and 2 government-operated, with a
total of about 2,600 places. The NSS curricuLum is geared towards the SISC,
for which the examination is taken at the end of Form V. Currently only the
King George VI School has a Form VI (preuniversity) class. A second Form VI
class at the new Waimapura NSS began in 1986.
1.04      Following an official review of education in 1974, the Covernment
introduced an alternative system of lower secondary education through the pro-
vinciaL secondary schools (PSS) in order to lower the cost of postprimary
education, devolve responsibility for lower secondary education to the prov-
inces and further widen educational opportunity. The PSS provide three years
of schooling and have a curriculum combining a core of academic subjects with
practical subjects related to the rural economy. Despite the inclusion of
practical subjects, unit costs in the PSS are reasonable and are in fact,
lower than in the NSS. All PSS offer full boarding due to the dispersed
nature of the population in the provinces and the lack of access by road to
nearly all the schools. By 1984 there were 12 PSS with a maximum enrollment
capacity of about 2,800. The distribution of PSS and NSS is given in
Table 1.1.



- 3 -
Table 1.1: DISTRIBUTION OF NATIONAL AND PROVINCIAL SECONDARY SCHOOLS
AND STUDENT ENROLLMENTS BY PROVINCE, 1984
National secondary schools            Provincial secondary schools
No. of   No. of places    Enroll-    No. of   No. of places    Enroll-
Province      schools    available/a      ment       schools    available/b       ment
Malaita           1           300            300         2          420             402
Western           2           540            473         2          420             415
Cuadalcanal       2          600             605         2          420             385
Makira            1/c        390             127         1          315             300
Central           -             -              -         1          315             292
Ysabel            -             -              -         2          420             402
Honiara           2           750            890         1          210             219
Temotu            -             -              -         1          315             299
Total             8        2,580          2,395         12        2,835           2,714
/a   For Forms I-V in six schools, and Forms I-VI in the two government schools in
Honiara (King George VI NSS) and Makira (Waimapura NSS), avaiLable in 1986.
/b   For Forms I-III only.
77   The new Waimapura NSS which is building up its enrollment grade by grade each
year and is expected to fill all available places by 1986.
1.05      The PSS and NSS have a common core lower secondary curriculum, with
different compulsory and elective subjects (Annex 3). At the end of Form III,
both PSS and NSS students take a common nationsl examination which serves to
select them either for continuation to Form IV or for postsecondary training
at the SICHE. The majority of PSS leavers, however, enter the labor market.
At the end of Form V, students take the SISC examination which, for the
majority, is the terminal point of their education, while a small minority
proceeds to Form VI and higher education.
1.06      Over the past decade, secondary school enrollments have increased at
an average annual rate of 12X, frc,m 1,152 in 1971 to 5,109 in 1984. Most of
this expansion has taken place in the PSS, so that by 1984 enrollments were
roughly equal between the NSS and PSS (Table 1.1 above).
1.07      Administration.  Education formulation and overall educational plan-
ning for primary and secondary education are under the controL of the Ministry
of Education and Training (MET), while most admin' trative responsibility has
been decentralized to the provincial governments.T The PSS are maintained by
the provincial governments through central government grants for operating
costs and teachers' saLaries. Each school has a Board of Management with
3/   The provincial administration of educatijn is shown in Annex 4.



- 4 -
limited powers; effective financial control is in the hands of the Principal
Education Officer of the Province. Fees are charged within the range set by
the MET (S[$40-60 p.a. for boarding students and SI$30-40 for nonboarders in
1983). In addition, students contribute their own labor to maintain and often
construct the school's buildings and to grow part of the food they consume.
Teacher,s are hired by the provinces from a list approved by the Teaching
Service Comission. Of the eight NSS, the two government institutions (King
George VI and Waimapura) are administered directly by the MET, while the
remaining six church schools are administered by their respective Boards of
Governors which are responsible to the Minister of Education through the
National Education Board. All NSS charge fees wirhin the range set by the MET
(SI$80-120 per annum for boarding students in 1983). School staff in the
gover-nment NSS are appointed by the Public Service Commission, while those in
the church NSS are appointed by their respective Boards of Governors.
1.08      Financing.  The central Government finances investment and recurrent
expenditures for primary and secondary education, the latter through the
provision of grants to the provincial governments for primary and PSS
teachers' salaries and school operating costs. All NSS receive similar
grants. Some of the church-operated NSS supplement :he government grants with
subsidies from their respective churches. As education has expanded rapidly
over the last five years, so has government education expenditure (Annex 5).
The government recurrent budget for education increased from SI$3.5 million in
1979 to SI$8.3 million in 1983, an average increase of about 23Z per year,
which represents an increase from 18% to 20Z of the tota' government recurrent
budget over this period. On the investment side, the budget between 1979 and
1983, rose from SI$0.9 million to SI$3.3 million, or roughly from 6X to 20Z of
the total government capital expenditure. Much of the capital expenditure was
assisted through the Primary Education Project.
Main Issues in Secondary Education
1.09      Notwithstanding the impressive quantitative achievements of the last
decade, the Solomon Islands' secondary education system has to overcome
several problems which fall under three major categories: (a) restricted edu-
cational opportunity; (b) low average quality; and (c) limited capacity for
educational planning and management.
Restricted Educational Opportunity
1.10      Total secondary school enrollments, after stagnating during 1973-78,
rose rapidly during 1979-83 as a result of: (a) expanding the intake of
primary school leavers into Form I and PSS leavers into Form IV of the NSS;
and (b) higher retention and completion rates for Forms III-V. Nevertheless,
opportunities for secondary education remain restricted. In 1984, out of a
total of about 3,620 applicants, onLy about 1,520 or 42% were admitted into
Form I. The demand for Form I places is expected to rise from 4,200 in 1985
to nearly 8,000 in 1990. This projected demand is due largely to a wider
reach in primary education, the result mainly of the Primary Education Project
whose greatly increased output is expected to exert pressure on the secondary
school system after 1986. If there is no increase in the number of places the
corresponding Form I admission rates would decline from 36% in 1985 to 19% in



1990 (Arnex 6), thus severely limiting opportunities for secondary education
and ultimately the number of students who could be trained in middle- and
higher-level skills. The shortage of places is most &cute in the PBS and
particularly in Cuadalcanal, Western and Malaita provinces, where Form I
places in 1983 were available for only 12.8, 9.6 and 7.OZ, respectively, of
the age 12 population compared with the average of 14.3Z (Annex 7).
1.11      In addition, females have a lower enrollment ratio.  While the ratio
has been rising slowly over the last decade, and is reasonable for the region,
females in 1983 accounted for only 36Z of total Form I enrollments, compared
with an average of 411 in primary grade 6. One factor is the poorer perfor-
mance by females in the Form I selection test. Another factor appears to be
parental reluctance to continue the formal education of adolescent girls whose
labor in the home or on the family farm would make a significant contribution
to the family income.
Low Average Quality
1.12      While some secondary schools have distinguished performance records,
national average achievement is low, particularly in English, mathematics and
science. Students selected for overseas fellowships from among the limited
number of qualified candidates often require remediaL preparation for their
higher education. This low achievement is due, in part at least, to the low
quality of students entying lower secondary education as measured by the
Hicks achievement test - given at the end of primary grade 6. For example,
in 1983, students were required to have a minimum score of 12 out of 15 to
gain admission to the NSS. Of about 3,750 who sat for the test, only 658
(17.5%) scored 12 and above. In addition, quality is further eroded at the
secondary level due to a number of factors including: (a) inadequately
trained teachers with a high turnover rate; (b) a weak institutional base for
curriculum development and a lack of appropriate instructional materials; and
(c) inappropriate testing instruments and student selection procedures.
1.13      Teachers. In the past, national secondary teachers have been trained
overseas to diploma or degree level. Diploma training, considered the appro-
priate qualification for PSS staff, has for the most part been provided at the
USP or the Goroka Teachers College (GTC) in Papua New Guinea. The USP has
recently terminated its teacher training diploma program, however, and places
for foreign students at the GTC are relatively limited. The system also
suffers from a 62 loss of teachers every year, mainly through resignation.
Although the causes of the high teacher attrition rate have not been studied
in detail, most apparently join the public service or the private sector,
which pay better salaries and have better working conditions. This high
turnover of teachers, combined with the reduced overseas opportunities for
secondary teacher training, have hampered the Government's efforts to reduce
its dependency on expatriate personnel and have led to a current backlog of 34
4/   The Hicks test, developed overseas in the late 1970s, is a standardized,
supposedly 'syllabus-free' battery of tests to measure achievement in
English, mathematics and general reasoning.



- 6 -
vacant secondary teacher posts. There is a need to develop a secondary
teacher training program in-country. The SICHE's School of Education and
Cultural Studies currently trains primary teachers to meet the needs of the
primary school system which is expanding under the Primary Education
Project. The Covernment intends to reorganize and expand the SICHE and has
requested assistance in preparing an academic and physical feasib lity study
for this purpose, which would be carried out in 1986/87. Meanwhile, the SICHE
has recently introduced a "foundation year" required of all students entering
from Form III before they begin certificate programs (Annex 2), thus straining
its facilities at a zime of increased demand. The Government must address
this issue in the context of the feasibility study. However, it is clear that
there is an urgent need to provide additional physical facilities and staff
for the training of secondary teachers at the SICHE.
1.14      In addition, the Level of qualification of teachers already in the
system is low. In 1984, out of a total of about 260 secondary school
teachers, 190 were Solomon Islanders, half of whom had had formal education
only up through Form rIl before starting their professional training
(Annex 8). This implies that the academic achievement of about 50% of
national teachers is Little better than that of the students they teach.
Annual in-service arrangements for improving teacher competency are limited to
a centralized, ten-day workshop organized by the MET's Curriculum Development
Center (CDC). To improve overall teaching quality, upgrading training should
be provided to focus on raising the academic credentials of these teachers and
to improve their effectiveness in using teaching equipment and materials.
1.15      Curriculum Development/Instructional Materiale.  While the CDC has
completed work on a revised secondary school curriculum, recent staff
shortages and inadequate budgeting have resulted in ineffective implementation
of the curriculum and a system-wide shortage of instructional materials,
including textbooks. Six national Curriculum Development Officer/Subject
Advisor posts exist, two of them created in 1986. Four are now filled, all
but one recently, as the posts in the past have been graded at a level
unattractive to better qualified national staff and no housing is available.
In addition, four aided Advisor posts exist, none currently filled. Without
the attention of Advisors, some subjects still lack supplementary teaching
materials, while many existing textbooks should be reviewed and/or revised.
It is estimated that lower secondary students need about 20,000 copies of
standard textbooks (which would have to be imported) and about 280,000 copies
of supplementary printed instructional materials covering all subjects in the
curriculum. In addition, the Government needs to clarify its policy on
textbook replacement.
1.16      Examinations and Student Selection.  Three national examinations are
currently used to select students for promotion from one level of education to
another and for overseas fellowships. The most controversial is the Hicks
test (para. 1.12), a comparatively crude device used to select grade 6 stu-
dents for further formal schooling. A more accurate evaluation of student
achievement at this level is needed. The Form III examination and the SISC
examination, which evaluate student achievement after 9 and 11 years of
schooling, respectively, and are used to select students for further
education, also need additional study and development to improve their



reliability and validity. Staff to carry out this development are not
currently available in the MET's Guidance and Selection Unit (GSU), however.
Limited Capacity for Educational Planning and Management
1.17      To a large extent the two major issues of restricted educational
opportunity and low average quality and student achievement spring Erom the
limited capacity for educational management in Solomon Islands. Planning,
programming, administration and evaluation, the key functions of management,
are all weak. The main causes include: (a) the present inadequate organiza-
tional structure of the MET (which currently lacks an effective educational
planning unit), especially in view of the Covernment's policy of giving the
provinces more responsibility in all sectors; and (b) the lack of personnel
trained in educational planning and administration at the central level and a
shortage of skilled personnel especially for secondary education in the
Provincial Education Offices (PEOs). This has resulted in: (a) the lack of a
coherent sectoral strategy for educational development which would be respon-
sive to both the country's social and economic needs; (b) inadequate financial
planning to allocatc resources efficiently for the development as well as the
maintenance of the system; (c) confusion over decentralization of responsi-
bility to the PEOs; and (d) a lack of coordination among the MET, the Ministry
of Home Affairs and Provincial Government (the coordinating agency for central
government dealings with the provinces), the PEOs and in some cases, the local
councils, on budget planning and the disbursement of funds. Inadequate
financial planning in turn has led to deterioration of physical facilities,
equipment and teaching materials in most schools. The poor conditions also
contribute to the high turnover of teachers.
1.18      As part of the Government's current policy of giving the provinces
more responsibility, the MET is negotiating "agency agreements" with the PEOs
which would set out the exact responsibilities of both. However, the new
Government is currently undertaking a review of the organization of the entire
public service including the policy of devolution. Following this review, a
decision would be made on whether to reorganize the MET. In the meantime,
there remains an urgent need to strengthen the MET's embryonic planning unit
with staff training and the PEOs with trained personnel responsible for secon-
dary education, and to take a closer look at the reasons for the high teacher
attrition rate (para. 1.13) and at the financing of education in an effort to
provide: (a) incentives for teachers to enter and stay in the system; and
(b) adequate maintenance funds to the schools, while at the same time
increasing efficiency in the use of the available resources.
Government Goals, Experience with Past Lending and Rationale for Bank
Involvement
1.19      Government Goals.  In support of Solomon Islands' development
strategy and programs for the 1980s (para. 1.01), the Government's major
educational goals are to improve the quality and coverage of both primary and
secondary education and to increase the supply of skilled manpower in line
with the development needs of the country. Issues in primary education are
being addressed by the Primary Education Project, while those in secondary
education would be addressed in this project.



1.20      Experience with Past Lending.  The first Bank Croup operation in
education in Solomon Islands is the Primary Education Project (Credit 1212-SOL
of 1982, US$5.0 million (SDR 4.3 million)). Effective since July 1, 1982, the
project aims at upgrading quality, increasing enrollments. equalizing
educational opportunities, and improving educational management. Implementa-
tion is proceeding extremely well with about 180 of 300 planned classrooms
constructed and in operation, and 70 fellows already trained in such fields as
educational administration, multigrade teaching, etc. Disbursements are well
ahead of schedule and the project is expected to be completed in advance of
the completion date estimated at appraisal.
1.21      Rationale for Bank Involvement.  Agriculture and education have been
identified as the primary sectors for Bank Group lending to Solomon Islands --
agriculture as the sector with the greatest potential for development, and
education as the key to improving the human resource base and generating the
skilled manpower needed for the country's rapidly growing public and private
sectors. The current shortage of middle- and higher-level manpower, which has
constrained overall development, is due to the paucity of secondary school
graduates who could be selected for middle- and higher-level skill training.
The restricted output of secondary school graduates is the result of the very
limited number of school places and the low average quality of education
which, in turn, arise from weak educational management. It is therefore
crucial that the Government address these issues. In the agriculture sector,
the Asian Development Bank (ADB) has taken the lead and IDA's role has been
that of cofinancier. The ADB so far, however, has not chosen to lend for
education. In this project, IDA is well placed to assist the Government
because of its experience not only in developing coherent education sector
investment strategies, but also in coordinating aid from bilateral agencies
such as the Australian Development Assistance Bureau (ADAB) which have made,
and in future will make substantial contributions to education in Solomon
Islands.
II. THE PROJECT
Objectives and Scope
2.01      The proposed project would assist the Government to improve access
to and the quaLity of lower secondary education and strengthen educational
management. To achieve these objectives, the project would undertake the
following activities:
(a) improvement of educational opportunity through: (i) expansion of
lower secondary school enrollment by constructing, furnishing and
equipping three new lower secondary schools to provide about
1,220 student places in three disadvantaged provinces; (ii) develop-
ment of a preservice diploma training program to train about



- 9 -
35 lower secondary teachers annually in addition to limited preser-
vice training overseas for lower secondary teachers; and
(iii) carrying out a feasibility study for the SICHE to include
academic and campus master plans;
(b) improvement of educational quality through the provision of:
(i) equipment and teaching materials, including textbooks, to all
Form I to III classes; (ii) in-service upgrading for about 60 lower
secondary teachers; (iii) staff training and consultants for the
Curriculum Development Center, along with staff housing; and
(iv) new staff, staff training and consultants for the MET's
Guidance and Selection Unit; and
(c)  improvement of educational management through the provision of:
(i) new staff and staff training for establishing an Implementation
and Planning Unit (IPU) in the MET and for the Provincial Education
Offices; and (ii) consultants for preparation of studies on teacher
utilization and incentives and the financing of education with an
emphasis on secondary education, and a sector investment plan.
Improvement of Educational Opportunity (proposed outlay US$6.7 million exclud-
ing contingencies)
2.02      To expand educational opportunity in the three most disadvantaged
provinces, Malaita, Guadalcanal and Western, each would be provided with a new
PSS of about 405 places, equivalent to 3 classes in each grade (Forms I-III).
This addition of about 1,220 new places would increase lower secondary enroll-
ment from about 4,300 in 1985 to about 5,620 5/ in 1991 (Annex 9). The
enrollment ratio for the population aged 13-15 years would rise from about 21X
to 23Z (Annex 10). Geographical distribution of educational opportunity
across provinces would improve by almost 40% as indicated by the Gini coeffi-
cient 6I which would drop from 0.161 in 1985 to 0.099 in 1990 (Annex 11). In
addition, a three-year preservice diploma training program with about 100
places would be developed at the SICHE in the College of Education and
Cultural Studies, to begin in 1987, with an annual output of about 35 lower
secondary teachers. These teachers would staff the new PSS and replace
teachers leaving the system. Students would enter the program following
Form V. Courses would be offered in all subject specializations in the lower
secondary curriculum except agriculture. A feasibility study for reorganizing
and expanding the entire SICHE, to include academic and campus master plans,
would also be undertaken. The Government also plans to examine the effect on
5/   This enrollment includes about 100 additional new places at the Waimapura
NSS.
6/   The coefficient ranges from 0 to 1, with 0 representing an entirely
equitable distribution of school places and 1 representing a very
inequitable distribution.



- 10 -
its primary teacher training program of the increased demand for enrollment at
the SICHE caused by the "foundation year" (para. 1.13) and to formulate an
action plan to meet the demand, including proposals on implementation and
financing.
2.03      The project would include constructing, furnishing and equipping the
three PSS. Boarding would be provided for all students, with about one third
of the places allocated to girls, as would staff housing. New classrooms,
boarding and staff housing would also be provided to accommodate the new pre-
service diploma program at the SICHE as would about 15 man-years of expatriate
teacher trainers, 75 man-months of short-term consultants in institutional and
course development, and 12 man-months of overseas attachment programs for 6
national teacher trainers. In addition, preservice fellowships overseas wouLd
be provided to train about 19 teachers in diploma programs after the start of
the new program, mainly in agriculture. About 12 man-months of consultant
services would be provided for the feasibility study for reorganizing and
expanding the SICHE to include academic and campus master plans. Draft terms
of reference for the study have been drawn up (Annex 12. The technical assis-
tance program is shown in Annex 13 and a schedule of implementation activities
in Annex 14 including critical dates for the start-up of the preservice
diploma training program at the SICHE). At negotiations, the Government
provided assurances that: (a) it would make every effort to ensure that all
teachers trained preservice under the project would be bonded to teach in the
PSS for periods equal to their periods of study; (b) by October 31 each year
during the project period, it would submit to IDA for its review and comments
a report on the operation of the primary and secondary teacher training
programs at the SICHE for both the current and the following academic years to
include such information as IDA may reasonably request; (c) by December 31,
1986, the action plan for meeting the additional demand for enrollment at the
SICHE created by the "foundation year" would be submitted to IDA for its
review and comments; and (d) the SICHE study would be conducted in accordance
with terms of reference acceptable to IDA and submitted to IDA for its review
and comments by June 30, 1987, and the recommendations of the study as agreed
between the Government and IDA would be carried out by the Government in
accordance with a time schedule acceptable to IDA.
Quality Improvement (proposed outlay US$1.1 million excluding contingencies)
2.04      To improve the delivery of quality education at the lower secondary
level, equipment, textbooks and teaching materials would be provided to all
Form I to III classes, teacher qualifications would be upgraded through in-
service training, and the CDC and the GSU would be strengthened. The project
would provide about 20,000 textbooks for the three new PSS and the 20 existing
schools which would also receive about 280,000 supplementary printed materials
to be produced by the CDC (Annex 15). In addition, each school would be pro-
vided with simple instructional equipment including hand tools for practical
subjects. About 60 lower secondary teachers would be upgraded in-service to
diploma level at the SICHE during semester breaks and by correspondence, dur-
ing the project period. About 36 man-months of short-term consultants would
be provided to develop the upgrading courses. In addition, during their
annual in-service workshop (already funded under the MET's regular recurrent
budget) (para. 1.14), training would be provided to all teachers focusing on
the effective use of textbooks and materials.



- 11 -
2.05      Two new Curriculum Development Officer/Subject Advisor posts, to be
filled by nationals in two core subjecta, hsve recently been created in the
CDC. These posts have been established at a civil service level attractive to
quaLified personnel; the four existing posts have also been upgraded to a
similar level. After filling these six posts, the CDC would have a complement
of Advisors who wouLd provide backup advisory service to all schools, inspect
the schools and conduct the annual workshops in their respective subject
areas. The CDC would be able to update regularly both the curriculum and the
teaching materials. About 72 man-months of overseas fellowships for training
these Advisors and 63 man-months of consultants to work with them would be
provided. In addition, the CDC offices would be remodeled, and housing for
the Advisors would be provided.
2.06      The Examinations Officer post in the GSU, now filled by an acting
expatriate officer and funded by the UK's Overseas Development Administration
(ODA), has recently been converted into a locaL post and a second local post
in test selection and evaluation would also be created at a civil service
level attractive to qualified personnel. A new expatriate officer will
continue to advise the GSU under the ODA funding. Equipment and staff
training would be provided for the CSU to enable development of new and
improved tests for the national examinations and provision of better student
guidance and counseling. The new two staff, along with the Chief Education
Officer, Selection and Guidance, would be trained overseas for a total of
48 man-months in examinations, guidance and counseling, and 36 man-months of
specialist services, in addition to the ODA advisor, would be provided to
develop test instruments and procedures. Critical dates for creation of the
above post and appointment of staff and for submission to IDA for review and
comments of plans for conducting the annual in-service workshops are shown in
Annex 14.
Management Improvement (proposed outlay US$0.3 million excluding contingencies)
2.07      To strengthen educational management capacity at the national and
provincial levels, implement the project and plan for future investments in
education, a new Implementation and Planning Unit would be established and
maintained in the MET. In addition, the Government plans eventually to create
Provincial Education Officer (Secondary) posts in each province. Priority
would be given to the provinces where the new PSS are to be built. Studies on
teacher utilization and incentives and on financing and efficiency of educa-
tion (with an emphasis on secondary education and the improvement of school
maintenance), and preparation of a sector investment plan would be undertaken.
By project completion, financial analysis and planning and project implementa-
tion would be improved and secondary education administered more effectively.
In addition, future development projects would have been planned more
systematically.
2.08      Appropriate staff would be appointed and trained for the new
positions. Eight MET staff have just returned from studying overseas in
education management and business studies as part of the Primary Education
Project. Four of these staff will be assigned to posts in the IPU as director
educator/implementer, procurement officer and accountant, in addition to a
fifth staff member to be appointed as education planner. The three Provincial



- 12 -
Education Officer (Secondary) positions would be submitted for establishment
to coincide with the opening of the new PSS. About 30 man-months of overseas
fellowships would be provided to train IPU staff and the Provincial Education
Officers (Secondary) in education planning and administration.
2.09      About 12 consultant man-months wouLd be provided to prepare the
studies on teacher utilization and incentives and the financing of education,
the sector investment plan, and future projects and to help the Government
prepare the project completion report. Draft terms of reference for the
studies on teacher utilization and incentives and the financing of education
have been drawn up (Annex 12). Critical dates for creation of the Provincial
Education Officer (Secondary) posts and appointment of staff are shown in
Annex 14. At negotiations, the Government provided assurances that: (a) it
would establish and maintain the IPU with functions and responsibilities
acceptable to IDA with competent staff in such numbers as agreed with IDA;
(b) the studies on teacher utilization and incentives and the financing of
education would be conducted in accordance with terms of reference acceptable
to IDA and submitted to IDA for its review and comments by June 30, 1987, and
the recommendations of such studies as agreed between the Government and IDA
would be carried out by the Government in accordance with a time schedule
acceptable to IDA. Establishment of the IPU would be a condition of
effectiveness of the Credit.
Project Management and Implementation
2.10      The project would be implemented by the IPU in coordination with the
CDC, SICHE, other MET divisions and the PEOs. An interim project director has
been appointed to act until the establishment of the IPU. Equipment and
vehicles for project administration would be provided under the project. In
addition, an impLementation advisor would be appointed to assist the IPU in
the overall implementation and management of the project. Three man-years of
consultant services wouLd be provided for this purpose.
2.11      A Project Coordinating Committee (PCC) for this project has also
been appointed, consisting of representatives from the MET, the Ministry of
Finance, the Ministry of Economic Planning, SICHE and the Home Affairs Offices
for Malaita, Western and Cuadalcanal provinces. The PCC will act in an
advisory capacity and will monitor project implementation. The project would
be impLemented over a period of about five and one-half years, starting in
July 1986. All project items are expected to be fully implemented by Decem-
ber 31, 1991. The Closing Date would be December 31, 1992. (The implementa-
tion schedule is shown in Annex 16 and project monitoring indicators in
Annex 17.)
Status of Project Preparation
2.12      Sites for the three new PSS have been identified and are being
acquired either through purchase or long-term lease. Major problems in site
acquisition are not anticipated. Land is available on the SICHE campus for
construction of the new facilities required for the secondary teacher training
program and for the CDC housing. The Public Works Department will provide
architectural services for the SICHE construction and the CDC housing and



- 13 -
remodeling, and consultant architects will provide such services for the three
new PSS. Twenty-two secondary teachers were enrolled overseas in degree
programs in 1985 and four in diploma programs under the Government's own
funding. Another 10 are expected to enroll overseas in degree programs in
1986 along with 16 in diploma programs. The new lower secondary teacher
training program at the SICHE will commence in 1987.  Sub5ect panels of
secondary teachers established by the CDC to advise on the secondary school
curriculum have completed the master Lists of equipment, textbook. and mate-
rials needed to teach each of their subjects and the lists have been submitted
to IDA. CDC staff have visited three typical existing secondary schools to
determine overall equipment and textbook needs. The two unfilled existing CDC
posts have been readvertised. A preliminary review of teacher incentives has
been completed by the MET and a recommendation on increasing teacher salaries
to bring them in line with other civil service salaries proposed. By mid-
1986, the Government expects to have completed: (a) preliminary site layouts
for the new PSS using the Government's standard building designs, the con-
struction to be undertaken at the SICHE and the CDC housing and remodeling;
and (b) details of its policy on textbook replacement. Acquisition of one PSS
site would be a condition of effectiveness of the Credit, and at negotiations,
the Government provided assurances that all remaining project sites would be
acquired by December 31, 1986.
Costs
2.13      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$10.0 million
equivalent. The estimated cost by project component is summarized in
Table 2.1. (Detailed costs are given in Annex 18 and project expenditure by
year and purpose in Annex 19.)
2.14      Base costs refer to February 1986 prices.  Construction costs are
based on contract awards for similar facilities in the Solomon Islands. Fur-
niture costs are estimated at 10 of construction costs for academic and com-
munal facilities, 8% for boarding facilities and 152 for staff housing. The
costs of equipment, textbooks and materials have been estimated on the basis
of standard lists and recent tenders, and were adjusted to include local
transportation and installation. Area and capital costs per student place and
per housing unit are reasonable compared with Bank-wide averages (Annex 20).
Building materials and equipment, textbooks and educational materials imported
for use in the project are all exemr. from import duties and taxes. Unit
costs for consultants include salaries, allowances and airfare.  Unit costs
for fellowships are estimated from about US$300 per man-month at nearby South
Pacific institutions to about US$600 per man-month in Australia, both
including international travel.
2.15      The contingency allowance of US$1.9 million (about 232 of baseline
costs) includes contingencies for unforeseen physical conditions of 10% for
civil works, furniture, equipment, textbooks and materials, and professional
services, and 52 for all other categories. Price contingencies were calcu-
lated for both local and foreign costs in accordance with the implementation
schedule and the following expected average annual price increases: 7.2% for
1986, 6.8% for 1987 and 1988, 7% for 1989, 7.1% for 1990 and 4% for 1991.
Accordingly, aggregated price increases are estimated at about 13% of baseline
costs plus physical contingencies.



- 14 -
Table 2.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
Foreign
SI$ million             USS million         as Z of
Category                         Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total   total
Improvement of educational opportunity
Expansion of lower
secondary schools            4.4       3.7     8.1    2.7      2.3      5.7       46
Preservice teacher training  0.8         1.9     2.7    0.5       1.2     1.7       71
Subtotal                     5.2       5.6    10.8    3.2      3.5      6.7       52
Quality improvement
Provision of equipment,
textbooks and materials    0.1         0.7     0.8    0.1      0.4      0.5       90
Curriculum development         0.2       0.5      0.7    0.1      0.3     0.4       73
Strengthening of Guidance
and Selection Unit           0.0       0.2     0.2    0.0      0.1      0.1       90
In-service upgrading
of teachers                  0.0       0.1     0.1    0.0      0.1      0.1       90
Subtotal                     0.3       1.5     1.8    0.2      0.9      1.1       83
Management improvement
Establishment of Implemen-
tation and Planning Unit
and training of Provin-
cial Education Officers    0.0         0.3     0.3    0.0      0.2      0.2       90
Studies and preparation
of future projects           0.0       0.1     0.1    0.0      0.1      0.1       90
Subtotal                     0.0       0.4     0.4    0.0      0.3      0.3       90
Total Baseline Cost          5.5       7.5    13.0    3.4       4.7     8.1       58
Contingencies:
Physical                       0.5       0.7      1.2    0.3      0.4     0.7       54
Price increase                 0.8       1.1      1.9    0.5      0.7     1.2       60
Subtotal                     1.3       1.8     3.1    0.8       1.1     1.9       58
Total Project Cost /a        6.8       9.3    16.1    4.2       5.8    10.0       58
/a   No taxes are included in the Total Project Cost, as all building materials and
equipment, textbroks and educational materials imported for use in the project
are exempt from import duties and taxes.



- 15 -
2.16      The foreign exchange component of US$5.8 million (about 58S of the
total estimated project cost) was calculated on the basis of the following
estimated foreign exchange percentages: civil works, 40X; furniture, 35Z;
equipment, textbooks and materials, 90%; professional services and foreign
consultants, 9O0; overseas fellowships, 90X; and local training, 20Z.
Financial Plan
2.17      The proposed IDA Credit of US$5.0 million equivalent and grants for
parallel financing from ADAB totalling about US$4.3 million equivalent would
togett,er finance about 93Z of the total estimated project cost. The Govern-
ment would be responsible for the remaining 7X of project costs or about
US$0.7 million equivalent (Annex 21). The IDA Credit would cover about 40% of
the estimated foreign exchange cost of the project and about 70% of estimated
local costs. A comitment in principle has been received from ADAB for its
share of the funding which would be committed by two methods:
(a) a grant of $A4.0 million from ADAB's cofinancing facility. IDA
would administer and disburse these funds consistent with the
cofinancing arrangements among the IBRD, IDA and ADAB; and
(b) a second grant of $A2.5 million from ADAB's bilateral aid funds.
These funds would be administered and disbursed by ADAB.
A cross-effectiveness condition between the IDA Credit and the ADAB grants
would be included in the Credit Agreement. In addition, a memorandum of
understanding would be signed between IDA and ADAB on arrangements for dis-
bursements, supervision, etc. by both institutions. Retroactive financing,
amounting to US$50,000, would be provided under the Credit for foreign consul-
tants to prepare the studies beginning January 1, 1986. At negotiations, the
Government provided assurances that it together with IDA would review by
October 31 each year beginning in 1986, the progress achieved in implementing
the project and the allocation of Government counterpart funds (investment and
recurrent) necessary for the purposes of the project during the following
fiscal year.
Recurrent Costs
2.18      Additional recurrent costs incurred as a result of the project are
estimated at 9% of the recurrent budget for education, or about 1.5Z of the
total government recurrent budget. This increase over the five and one-half
years of project implementation is within the revenue-generating capacity of
the economy, given recent growth performance and the priority placed by the
Government on education. Therefore, there should be no difficulty in
financing the recurrent costs of the education investment program.



- 16 -
Procurement
2.19      Procurement arrangements are shown in the table below:
Table 2.2: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ Million)
Total cost
Procurement method         including
Category of expenditure             ICB      LCB      Other      contingencies
Civil works                          5.1      0.2      0.7            6.0
(4.7)   (0.2)    (0.0)           (4.9)
Furniture and equipment,              -        -       1.6            1.6
textbooks and materials             -       -       (0.0)          (0.0)
Professional services                 -        -       0.4            0.4
-       -       (0.0)          (0.0)
Technical assistance                  -        -       2.0            2.0
-       -       .(0.1)         (0.1)
Total                           5.1     0.2       4.7           10.0
(4.7)   (0.2)    (0.l)
Note: Figures in parentheses refer to Credit allocations.
2.20      The contract for construction of the three new PSS (estimated value
US$5.1 million including contingencies) would be awarded as one package on the
basis of international competitive bidding procedures in accordance with IDA
Guidelines. The invitation to bid, proposed award and final contract would
all be subject to prior review by IDA. Remodeling of the CDC offices and the
new CDC housing would be too smaLl to attract foreign competition and would be
awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to
IDA. Consultancy services financed by the Credit would be obtained in accor-
dance with IDA's guidelines for the use of consultants. All other procurement
would be carried out by the Government or ADAB under their own regulations.
Disbursements
2.21      The proposed credit of US$5.0 million equivalent would be disbursed
over a period of six and one-half years (Annex 22). Disbursements would be
made as follows: (a) civil works for construction of the three PSS and the CDC
housing and office remodeling -- 80Z of total costs; and (b) specialists for
the studies on the financing of education and the sector investment plan and
other sectoral studies for preparation of future education projects -- 100% of
total costs.



- 17 -
2.22      Under the proposed Credit, a special account of US$333,000 (equiva-
lent to SDR 300,000) would be set up and maintained in US dollars at a bank
acceptable to IDA to finance project expenditures. Under ADAB's cofinancing
grant, a second special account of $A270,000 would also be set up and main-
tained in Australian dollars. Applications for replenishment would be
submitted quarterly, or more frequently if necessary, in amounts of not less
than US$165,000 and $A135,000, respectiveLy. Disbursements for the contract
to be awarded on the basis of ICB would be made against full documentation
while all remaining disbursements from both accounts would be based on state-
ment, of expenditure. Supporting documents would be retained by the IPU and
made available for review, as requested, by visiting IDA/ADAB missions. The
MET's experience with a special account and the use of SOEs under the Primary
Education Project is satisfactory.
2.23      Disbursements are estimated to be made within six months of expendi-
tures, on average. To allow sufficient time for submission of final with-
drawal applications following the scheduled completion date of December 31,
1991, the Closing Date would be December 31, 1992. In a comparison of dis-
bursements for the proposed project with the Primary Education Project's
actual and estimated disbursements, this Credit is expected to be disbursed at
a somewhat slower rate, as fewer consultants are being provided to assist in
project implementation.
Accounts, Audits and Reporting
2.24      The IPU would establish and maintain a separate account for all
project expenditures. The account would be maintained in accordance with
sound accounting practices. Auditing of the account would be performed
annually in accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA and an audit report
submitted to IDA within nine months of the end of the Government's fiscal
year. Within six months after the Closing Date, the IPU would submit a
project completion report to IDA.
Benefits and Risks
2.25      Benefits.  The project would widen the opportunity for secondary
education in disadvantaged provinces by providing about 1,220 more school
places in Forms I-III, an increase of 28Z from the 4,300 available places in
1985. The enrollment ratio in 1991 would be about 23% of the age group, com-
pared with 21% in 1985. Geographical distribution of educational opportunity
across provinces, as measured by the Gini coefficient (para. 2.02), would
improve almost 40%.  Sufficient secondary school teachers would have been
trained to staff the new PSS and to fill existing vacancies and those caused
by normal attrition. The Curriculum Development Center, with an increased
staff, would be much better equipped to provide supporting services to
teachers in the main subject areas in the curriculum.  The project would
improve the quality of secondary education through the provision of better and
more equipment and instructional materials, including textbooks, and better
trained teachers. The strengthened Guidance and Selection Unit would be able
to improve test designs and procedures, facilitating efficient implementation
of national examinations and the selection of students. Better trained staff
in the Implementation and Planning Unit and the Provincial Education Offices
would improve overall educational administration and planning.



- 18 -
2.26      Risks.  There appear to be several risks to successful implementa-
tion of the project. The lack of experienced staff for project implementa-
tion, poor communication between the MET and the PEOs and no staff at all
assigned to secondary education in the PEOs could delay implementation as
could complicated land acquisition procedures. These risks would be minimized
by staff training, the proposed establishment of the IPU, creation of new
secondary education officer posts in the PEOs, drawing up of agency agreements
between the MET and the PEOs and initiating land acquisition procedures well
ahead of phys.-al construction. A further risk is that not enough Form V
leaver would be attracted into secondary teaching and that teacher wastage
would continue at the present rate, but these would be counteracted by bonding
of teachers following their training and by implementation of the results of
the study on teacher utilization and incentives. The CDC might not be able to
recruit all the officers needed, but this risk would be reduced by the recent
upgrading of the levels of the CDC posts, and by providing staff training and
housing. In order to minimize financial risks during implementation, IDA and
ADAB would jointly review project implementation and financing with the
Government each year.
III. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
3.01      During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a) it would make every effort to ensure that all teachers trained
preservice under the project would be bonded to teach in the PSS for
periods equal to their periods of study (para. 2.03);
(b) it together with IDA would review by October 31 each year beginning
in 1986: Ci) progress achieved in implementing the project;
(ii) the allocation of Government counterpart funds (investment and
recurrent) necessary for the purposes of the project during the
following fiscal year; and (iii) a report to be prepared by the
Government on the operation of the primary and secondary teacher
training programs at the SICHE for both the current and the
following academic years to include such information as IDA may
reasonably request (paras. 2.03 and 2.17);
(c) by December 31, 1986, the action plan for meeting the additional
demand for enrollment at the SICHE created by the "foundation year"
would be submitted to IDA for its review and comments (para. 2.03);
(d) it would establish and maintain the IPU with functions and responsi-
bilities acceptable to IDA with competent staff in such numbers as
agreed with IDA (para. 2.09);
(e) the SICHE study and the studies on teacher utilization and
incentives and the financing of education would be conducted in
accordance with terms of reference acceptable to IDA and submitted
to IDA for its review and comments by June 30, 1987, and the
recommendations of such studies as agreed between the Government and



- 19 -
IDA would be carried out by the Government in accordance with a time
schedule acceptable to IDA (paras. 2.03 and 2.09); and
(g) by December 31, 1986, all project sites would be acquired
(para. 2.12).
3.02      As conditions of Credit effectiveness:
(a)  the Covernment would establish the IPU (para. 2.09);
(b) one PSS site would be acquired (para.2.12); and
(c) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the ADAB grants
would have been fulfilled (para. 2.17).
3.03      The Government of Australia would participate in supervision of the
project as outlined in the memorandum of understanding (para. 2.17).
3.04      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project would consti-
tute a suitable basis for a Credit of SDR 4.5 million (US$5.0 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms to Solomon Islands.



30
lwmj&A
mawwmy EMIGN FMIC
Pohrmory 14. 1146
ewrRAL
ODVRNNoff
NKMOITUM           gotieffiaN                     coprum 1ON            PWINFAM
ON     I In inp  NWIRW         AWLT               afft itot             uNff  mor  PMOUBOUN
or PIR                An plow        RRMlfrUMS  LITIRWY PRIMARY FNIPUW               PRIMARY  Ptli'ARV    Ras Pop    suawDm    samoDARY  imok
SAIII 3141'.  CAPfrA  PINWr GNP MAL COffRAL AltMCATO  TOi RAT I              WIDI.L. NCNOOL       RUDWI MOMM                PRINrJf TO  wJIMLL.    ROMOTO  MMLL.
VItAl MILLI. 111FA)   DOWID TO  WVRMNW             PRI  NW   it    (1)    RNIO   CTCLK            psi       Al PIMOI IIMDOT  ILTln              FKN         RAr M
(1971) falls)    smawn  limulTum                   (2)        (1976)   (2)         (11)     fUMIN GNPICAPITA          fli         (t)     TRACKIN       (t)
III     (3)  1    (1)             (4)             5)          (4)       (7)       (1)        (9)   I   (10)          (I 1)        (13)       (I 3)    114)
lain     too          2 1                    go           13        a 3      2n."
CfAADA              a I    "I'l'. :::,""b                 111.101V    30mi 31AA? 1341   49b       lnas      100         21        II."y        lno           42a       Is       22.60%
GKNWT P.R.          79    61.2  12.200        4.6          1.94       -    -    -        "b        804      toiw         -        -            1000          04a       -        12. 1 (P
NomcaLmDo           it    1 4                 I.V          5.1        20   1 5   J I     gob?      96        9 S         I a       I %.I        ot           82        11       12.40
NLV RULAOD          an      1:".. ".:'(j`gJh  %w          15.6        17   11   is       gob      lno       too          24        I 1.6        ion          42        1-1      21.01016
twou                re     8.1  12.7-A        o.n         14.1        3 1   In   10      job       elm      1 lin       Ina       14.9         340           791       1 w      16. smy
,W AR  AFRICA    Al         I.nb    92nb    6.0           23.0        41   34   22       40       ine        77          32        10.0         40           2n        21        I.on
UIMDI              11I     4.2       231      2.Rbw       11.0        41   2A   27       25        Iqu       is         31        211.2         12            In       17        I.on
COMIDA              94      0.4h    14%       I.Aw        24.0        40   29   22       49         ?b       40          30       -             4%           16        24        n.6n
LIIWurl            116      0.4      Gan      1.0         It.*        71   26   ...    In          42        66         40        a ?.a         40           1 0       1 0       U.60
EmInFIA             a I    %;.glb    140b    2.90         11.1        4 s   7 3   20     13        A I       lnb        A I       19.1          ols          I 4       44       13.41
rOVA                82    I 7.4b    42nh    mob           an.lb       615   1 6   I I    48b      III        911        36        14.4          3 9          in        26        -
LMNIM               82      1.4-b    430,    1.11         16.4        in   32   26       33b      3111m      a I        49         4.6          46           21        21        1.30
HOAGASCAN           77      9.5      11in      .ou        24.0        -13  2a   1 9       in       '4b%      11          SSI,      R.0          in           IA        21        I.Idbr
MALAWI              a I     &.lb    viol,   1.1           11.6        is   14   21)      z 0       62        21         a 5         3.8         I I           A        21        0.40
moorritis            I      1.01-  II Inh    4.1          14.0        46   '16    7      nob       *I        ly         21        13.0         I m           qo        22        I no
MMDA               :3       5.9b    2 ynb    1.6          21.4        7 1   1 6   I I    Ilb       6 s       la         &a        14.0           1            s         A        0.40
SKYOZILLES          74      0.6   I'm        11.9         22.6a       144  1im  ION                                     21,       --            --          --         --      -
NONALtA            a 1     4.-l    210        1.5         :0. -1      Mb  &AU  fib       Wb        22b       gob        29b        V.ob         gob          12b      22         1.00
IVDM                of)   19.21-   ionh    I."            -           he   39   ...    11          %382      69         14         1.4          44           1 6       I a      ...
gw"ILMD            oll    0. 7%    940b    I.Rpb          24.4        Si   14   1 5      6 -0      el        so         11        11.0          on          24         is        3.00
TNtZAItIA           gm    ta.S       260      S.4         I T.?       47   tct  I&        "h       41th      R7         Al         I t.0         tqb          1        200       0.30
UCMDA               an    I 2.6b    3mb    - .            16.1-       21b  I Yb  2ob    41         34a       61         34        --            I 7           5        23        0.60
ZA1312              4 1    20.01-   ziob    Y.1           26.4        -    -    10       s4b       la        2 i        30        21.0          40          19        2A         100
ZARRIA              so      % ?b    3mb    4.v            11.1        48   21   22       44b       9 5       an         48        12.4          1 9         16        22         1.30
limmwz              a 1     7.76    700b    1.1           1q.i        62   12    6       a4b       90        1-1        311       20.0          8 3          t 5       21        0.30
wwam AFRICA
motpi               70     3.Ab    120b    6.9'          I 5.0        43   2 1    5    iib         42        10         46        14.0          30          1 1       Al         1.00V
WIMINA             a]      t. 5     2inb    2.1-         21.7         Al   20   28       9         16        25         57        24.11         16           3        24        0.03
CANFaM              78      m .2     "O       2.9v        IG.OY       310  418  200   -            747       4 So        WY       I I .84       200          JAY       26        1.30Y
C.A.R.              79   2.2   290   I.Roy    20.64Y   -  -   -                                                         &Pr   -                 -                      -         Momy
CNAD                76      4.4      120      2.4wr       21. 7b      -         -     -  V% -      2 IF      -          77        -             -                      2J        0.20Y
com                 76      1.5      670      9.nowy      27.747      -    -    -       -          -         -           36by     -             10                     4,lby    4.0007
GAMP                77   0.6  1.420   1. by    8.47    -  -   -   -                                -         -          Afiby   -               -                      I obv   2.80my
GAPMIA              7 7     0.6      220      3. 3ow       6. 13b     46   25-   AG   lBb          4obT      gom        2 lbv     44.74         40           ilbay    I I       -
CNMA                76  11.3   400   4.ay                 I S. sb    -  -  -   -                   libov  -             2 ft      -             -            34bav  if    -
coiNgh              79      3.,      290P    4.6mp        -           VO  2RE  28-   20            36        36         in        20.0OP        a 5          16        29        room
[VOItT ODAgr       RI      m.zb  I .0701,  10.0          A S.0        31   46    1 3    30h        60        86         4 I       2fi.n         a 7         1 "MT   .26         1.9027
LIBERIA             Rn      1.9      go      4.6          1 q.6       43   23   24    In           52        12         311       211.0         76          22        2n        Z."
MLI                 a I     7.616   190      4.20         21.7-       la   2 I   I I    In         20        60         44        1 %.?         66            I        I I      0.9007
IUUIWAPIA           78      1.6b    320h    % 5           16.9        31   43   2 3    17b         32        60         44        32.0          le           9        2 5       0.37
NIGER               79      5.2      300      4.3m7       16.647      go  414    V       8         1 7       16-        410       38.7-         40            2       2jab       0.20Y
MICERIA             a]    93.6b    760b    7.6v           16.0        -    --   12.m  36           93        ye         36        19.5          46.1        22.5       10        2
IWNCAL              77      5.5     * so      5.0         21.0        46   34   2n    in           341-MV    -          &Ibv      -             20          to        2 1       2.20by
SIZOA LMNE          77     3.4      2 90     4.ob         16.0h       -    -    -       I Sb       17.       -          I 5       z!6nb                     I Vt      211       0.60by
TOGO                IR      2.4      4an      6. 34-      26.!R       30-  'A4  214   IS            ?4       40          34by     39.0           52          12bny    allb       1.60by
I&AMERICA MD TptE CARZIMM
no.          m      ZJ1.3   ZjIQ       2.7         14.9        41,  11-  ION   93b          go        52          t?       -             87          It          6       23.00
BMAN"               79     0.2   1.770       I. 7        J9.1         .1   3b   If    93b          99        97         34        -             97          75        le       -
BARRMS              78     0.2   2.680       R. smy      22.1a        .14  110  16-   gob         Wor        944        27Y       IO."          go-         78Y       2ey      -
IODLEVIA            so      5.4      559     Ajoy         30.54       -    --  -        63         ?&?       -          207       -             -           I!w       -        12.60?
MMIL                ?o   116.3   1.77n       1.11         6.2         3i         1 4    76         73&7      -          2-I&T      A. .0        61.         17        l6al,   12.62b
CH ILK              76    10.9   1.890        3.2by       I -I.oh     -          -      -         llgb-      -          34by      -             -            M y    20by    11.90by
go    26                             75.0         3 S   2n   2n                                     32         6.6                                20       10.0247
ODWHRIA                     2: 711  I                                                              71        36
1:1801-   3.3                                        sib                                                     --
CORA RICA           an        2b    glob    0.4           31.t        40   27   ]I    9n           93        77         13         5. 11        77          40        2 7      14.00
cum                 U       9.8     -         A.0         13.0        -         -     -  96       112b-7    OA          laby      --            911          ylbwv    I 5       19.021mv
vammlcm  orp.    :r,    163   1.030           2.4         .3          19   21   22    6mb          so        11         so         3.2          94          30        33       16.00
BCDAJX3 a            a     11.4b  1.110      a.nv         In:',       4 5   I I   3 6    a I      105        - -        36        12.4          A6          A 7       16       29.00
RL g"VAWR           77     4.4       640      1.4by       23.IbY      64    9   27    62           R2bzy    32          39        -             61          26bxy    Z ?bv      7.90117
GUArDIALA           70      6 A    1.010      J.m         12.6b       -    -    -       -          bgbxv    -           30y       -             69          I sbzv    Igby       5. my
GUfANA              76      0.8      b3o      ta.lb-      13.gby      -    -    -       -          99wzr    -           32by      -             -            sphry    -          3.noby
nArrt               so      S.ob    23n       3.6-         7.9ar      6 5    9    6    23b         ID        2n         4 I       19.0          429           40       27        O.Sia
nowwRo              74      3.6      520      3. pip      14.3bv      62-  I 9k  too   Gib         ltgbxy    302        41 by     12.4-         me          2127       a I       8.00Y
JArAICA             Be      2.1   1.110       F.5         13.7        1 7   Al   2 a    90         go        on         40         2.3          9 5         a 1       22        8.00
pmrco               no    &L5   Iago         4.7          17.04       46   39   I I    9 2         ga        m          44         9.5          86          Sb        I 7       10.30
HICARACIRA          PR      2.fib   61 ob     3.0b.       14.nh       -    -    --    gob          a lbs     24        -j 7b      -             -           2&bm    -job       -
rismu               74      I.Ah  1. 53DU    I."         21.1111Y     420  134  I I    R?b         9*y       -          2 Ov      I I.*         a p         30bv      27WV    20.40007
PARACIAT            79     3.0   J.16D        I A.        14.2        4 2   I?   2 M    84         33        32         Z"         3.Ir         76          22        1 2       0.70
PERU                Ro    16.6   1.000       3.6          14.3        53   1 5   I 9    RO         a]        m          39         9.8          89          39        22       14.4ur
TRINtOAD & TOB.   77        1.1  .1.91f)      4.81mr       8.8by      An   32   20    es           90        91         30        10.5f         49          62         24      -
UROCUAT             7A     2.9   2.30n       2.5           9.&b                         94        in'shm     -          2Ab       -             -           64bx      -        17.114PLY
VRIRVJRLA           78    14.4   3.440        5.1v        16.91,                        82        106bg      -          28        -             -           3abn      A 7      21.107



Fobtur  14,. IU1
urmmriom    mamwma                             COWLS ii               inow
am  ri               AN PRsi        IPhOIFOEI  1*BPA0! PRIN_l P_iNf             PhNAf  P311            tI FUN UOSDIA3 5111W Dimit
mom   Dr. CAIWA  nu   GrP TaL auwMLa  auCAm TO. mAm                     MULL. BWDL          07EW1      iSuO NIS  P 1rAis   t   aMO.    TUn.FN SIOLL.
T1UI  MILLI. (VW)   0301TD1TO  OnVUMN           Pr    a   I    Cu)    W 10   ClOLJ          FoB       AS rumou  ummunt  oaru            rum        axuto
(l393  (9197)   MWT    inurumirim              (t)         (3931  (13)        (3)       mAiUR  UPICWrA          (U)         ()       4cN03      (I3
(13     (2)        (31          (4)           (5)          (4)      (         i)        (3         ((0i ()13               (12)      (33     (14j
eNLiA MD T      a W !6011   lob    s.1          7.3        M    *o   p3 Fib           17       as         25        3.0          43          33       li       4.30
3l2a08t3          Is  a110 S       s       z.a         u.         a 70   24    *    Ub        8        6 1       37        13.0          74         27        la       3.70
NOMA               *j    jb   I.631b        .'        20.3        34   34     1     O        9         9          4        19.0          W          34        33      21.30
N4LAIKA            34 U     b   i.ilo 1  b    6.1      34.7       39v  43' 350    7nb        aP        mi         a          1.V        as          ns       U 20
P9PIU  P.C.       33     3.00    320      3.4         19.0       40   17   22      -        40        73         313      350          35          3 13"    JIM       3.n0
.NiLIrPNhi         79    An.3b    39a      2.50       34.n         4   33   -       7*       34        5s        31         7.3         3           35        so      21.J0
*LO0               HO     2.4   4.420      2.1         6.7        39   40   3       31       9         32         33        3.3         94          53       22        3.00
SOwus1 IiL.        as     0. W    *40b    *W          20.6        43   34   20      33        N        30        27         0.5         40          22        to       2n.
IAILMSO            el    49Ulb    noob    ,.6          70A         II  1a   10      gob      lot       U          i3        9.1'        em           a        In       4.n0
,NtIia             rm    *3jb      wo      3.1P       3o.*Js     i1  17  20        23b       g3y      -          D         s.a          -          14       71        1.41
RMAN              so   1.2   to  1.3                  11.0        -  ---  30                  2    -             -         -                       -          -
7I7 * .A  lie   3.99                *.9W    -  --    34    79    -                            43    -                -           230    -.    R.300F
32       . I     3.3,   I  3.4    -            -    -    -       I9        70       -          31       -            -           II        23       3.70
r^Il 3U *2 07.                    33 3o'   2.0n         1.11      1*   20   24      22       93        4         30          .9          m %        21        1 1      3.0
303073  NIOIIOLI i4(OA llb 11iNCe
nonilla    7I 13" .3    -"                 3.3          347       47   le   Is      1j        31v      *9         ,I b     -            *2           a       zzbv      I.oo
AIIIItA           7t    11.3  1..;           1   1.3'  12.1       340  Ia' 23'    33         33        ow         :7        7.           IV         fl7      26        s.or
AUIPr X2    43730                   70   0 4.4'        17.9       l1i  39  2S       44 !       1       one        34'       9.30        33d         430       390     17.00
oGRMC              7A    m.   'j1a0        I.a'        3.Gb       37   24   21      -         7lb      -          2si       4.27        -           jobs    Iyb?    I7.lohP
Iva               7i    34.9      -        5.7 E      14.1?       --    -    -                                   ) 301Z -  32  -        -           4405    234        4.903
IRAQ               79    1      2.730  * .t3f          4.]9f                                1ao7                 23        -            -           aPI  _n            mao_
IRi.M                     I 40  4.490     430?        I I fy      -     -     -    93 9J1             34          9        -                        mJ       14       33.00
DeW               ml      2.2b  3.42l      4.9'       3n.2        1t   44   A3      7D       57       3 5        32        1 5.1        -           57       IN       3.90
LmSO               79  2.3  -   -                      1340r -5         - --    -    s    -                       3l    -               -           461   -    27.33W
101CO              84    23.hb   470*    4.0          12.9       3N   41   i9       33        379       9         1        35.1         -            W40      4        ^ 0,
ONAN               *2     0.9b  3.92ol,   2.9'         12.7'      -     -     -     lob?      713      43         is       -            94                    14      ..
mnrunL             79     9.ib  I.o4o      3.4        22.2       S3  28   11        73       97        20        3e0       32.3         see         4 9S     1P 7       .30
ElWIAN            7N    22.3   2.100       3.9h        4.27,      -     -     -     in     I3b3        -                                93b  _      34kb    23b       10.*0"
3rAm               7s  17.0  4.920   2.*l             ae.w    -  -  -    -                     "    -            flb    -               -           *ph?   -    24.1nbP
1YR2A              78     3.4   1.170      4.43       10.1        39   23   24      In       a7b1      30        3*b       -            43          4'?      21b      12.40
TEIIDA             79     6.4   Il3l0      7.0o        19.0       42   le   3a      b5b      3n00      so         39b      12.0          30         10       30       4.00
TUK?T             a3      47.3  13220      1.3        16.2        30  22   24       F3b     I0o        77        3I        n.0           3          24        3       3 o.00
131 A.B.          3o      4.l     420      3.0"        12.0       94     I 7        2$b      37        12-        ay       a 1.0        32           3       20        1.10
TRW   F.0.X.       82     2.0     42*b   7.4           9.7        430  IU4  -1    D          *1        34        25        22.90        44          17       20        2.10
Numbr ofac_ntridei                        4              93      70   49   *7      13       92        SM        93        43            75         91       U        33
Plues                                    (1            (3.7-  (23-  (F-  (3       (3-     (32-      (12-       137-      (1.4-        (10-        (3-      (3-     (0.W3-
10.01         34.33  943   46)  33)    ")        119)     993         773      67.03         1003        43       4333    29.0)
Qsartile  Upper:t                         3.4           21.7 I   31   3    22        I      98        30        43        20           a7          47       24       32.0
MdIaSn,                       4.0          13.1      43  27   19       3   31             61         35       13            45         24        22       3.7
Lorr                          3.0           11.0     31  21  t3        23        U0       33         23        9            40         14        39       3.0
Ooartile Dev-Itleas                       1.3            1.4    6.3  1.3  4.5   23.0      19.0      22.3        7.0      3.4         23.5        36.5      3.3        5.0
He'                                       ^4.4          17.0       6  23   13      D3        71       39        36       13            *2          31       21        a.,
BroeTnd deelatlop:                        1.9            3.7     32   10    7      29       27        24         I3       II           27          23        7        7.4
MedIan:                                   4.0           34.0     432 3 9           33       93        41        33        1I           43          26       22        3.7
IDIJs                                               Pe~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rorODTEMI
-          OI131 UAWAIUAS                                              A - OAII 9t 109 't0 LAW TAR                a - 310TR7 or  IaT703 (ME)3 aOsi
... UITOO5 NIL 03 11GLlCl.lM                                       a - palmNowr           YS T M Mm TYER      r - IoC  MlO  Arg COVREMN     OWL?
t      O mu riAouAU                                                     M - C031mw PraCm                           1 - ro3e00 CU131373   ONLY
0      Cmn O   AIraw-r    rouurs                                        I - METr mmwLLoWr mRi                      X -  amLOS oia-sif WbODUs
r - CGIi EDtLUCr mriD                      Y - MUMe  OURNCS
p - enr
303135:         Colmab  I and 2   World sana  At lAo or  docauieo  settr field  elsednse.
Colun-e  3 to 14   rIold _Ir idoctito, sctor dlaots. Covrn_nut smroe. mud/or the tontc I ftatltlea1 Yearbook.
Csrauive eduMoati. OSta ore uwsfl *. th e euolai  of varios actio  q.tomamd amalgele of relatile .tar   of edscsteoal developmet bottom  vriteu
comuerlom. IN_vwr, -  the bode of the pres_t data- creom.tlowal eome... obould be appreched eitb set rmtlt.  Ots presentad Is the aboe  table bom
b_    collected lorxoy by tbrnk  ielslme tre bovernent ooureel the reainder ore stff *otlostee or dots from Dse-ce. Efforts hoe bomo unsd  to atmWdrdias
dofialtiats md. dithls Ilstte  to check cbthe accrcy of the doto.    vertbeloeso. srh data oef still Iserfect It several repoco mud the but is eoukle  to
lsprov  tb_o prowreselvls at rh toe oesAbda  of It. oewrtlool verb.  t0 the use of these data, the ftllomig qoaificotiate atatld bhe ket Iu stdds
(1)    Edostiso   *a dat tad to th- toblo Inclodos all  d tloa  md traisass. batb terul sd nGt-forol.
(23   -lrlarv  edtcation refers to  edctise at the flIrt 1.e1  mud 'scmudarv  edocotln refers to s11 edocetise at the sesdry levwl resrdlas of tyro
(e.g. neurstl. tSoceial  o. irtruoltr ).
(31    Lirerrcy rat e   (col.  1 *re oftin obtatuod from cootry aenses__  o semy countries they are ooly aopreestbse  aS It to dabtfil Ctht *y -slfew
detiuitlo  of 'lItertt- hao boss follaod catedourtly.
(4)    rebUe eupeuditre Is adootl_' f(ole. 4 Sd r3 rforo to a11 mpital nd r mear t expenditurea devoted to odcAtion by psbile ad quasi-mbile
(3   'Ibrolla_nt ratle  C(eola  7. 12 aud 343refar to sbol yar _d are the percat    of olisible eb5ldrte eurole   ull-ti.  Is the app-rorlate schl.
poblic mud prIvte by levl. They are ofteo sblect to a ddn ustdon of error to the dreeovion  eantrleo oesx to varlattoos in the acc*etry of boqle
dots (i.e. * ae-epecte icpoputlea   and e_roll_snta).  Ibrtll_t fliuree frequestly are higher thus  the nmuber of atdouts ac-t_lly is ohbol.
Ov_r_-ood tudouta oa  bhe Iuclud Is these flmsro mud can lntlate te rottlO.



SOLOMON ISLANDS
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Structure of the Education System 1984
National Gosw,vrwnt Secandov Sctiaano
{HA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
21~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Provinc al & Priwnte
Primanri Schools               No:tbncol Chusch eod  Shs
Gmde  1    2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                       I11
X _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FuDation
~i1t  A  A   A 4r                  l   ±                     4 
Grade  1    2    3      4     5    6         7    a      9       10   I11         12                13
A9ge  7    8    9    10   11    12         13  '14   15        16    1 7        18                19
Kwv.    Cesificate
*D4Ima                                                                                            Wft dDm*-2711B               h



-23 -                              ANNEX 3
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
List of Subjects in Secondary Education Curriculum
National                      Provincial
secondary schools             secondary schools
Common core               English                        English
curriculum              Mathematics                    Mathematics
Christian education            Christian education
Compulsory                Science                        Developm2nt studies
subjects /a             Social science                 Agriculture
Randicrafts
lomecrafts
Electives                 Agriculture                    Other sublects
Manual arts                    approved by MET
Arts and crafts               to meet local
Business                       conditions
Home economics
/a  The Government is considering adding science as a compulsory subject in
the PSS.



24-                              AU=  4
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Organizotton  Sucdum o Prd lnclol Educaflon Admknidnraon
MhIy~a.1~  I
ChbtAdNsltttl
ftm~~~~~m ~   ~o0ft
Each Pm
I
EahPlomAncla
Ptolnchlo I
E~~~~c~~~ ~  01
Education
I x 
Iom Ir
World Bcnk-27437



- 25 -                          ANX 5
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Government Expenditure on Education 1978-1984
(SI$ Million)
1978  1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984
Racurrent to education                      2.9   3.5   4.3   5.5   6.8   8.3   8.5
Total Government recurrent                 16.7  19.9  24.1  32.2  35.7  41.1  52.4
Recurrent education as
% of total Government recurrent            17    18    18    17    19    20    16
Capital to education                        0.4   0.9   1.2   1.2   1.3   3.3   3.1
Total Government capital                   13.4  15.0  17.8  16.3  16.9  16.8  14.0
Capital education as
Z of total Government capital               3     6      7     7      8    20    22
Total Government expenditure
on education                              3.3   4.4   5.5   6.7   8.1  11.6  11.6
Total Government expenditure               30.1  34.9  41.9  48.5  52.6  57.9  66.4
Total Government education expenditure
as % of total Government expenditure    11    13    13    14    15    20    17
I of GDP to education                       3.8   3.9   4.6   4.8   5.0   6.6   5.1



-26 -                               ANNRX 6
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
The Demand for and the 8upply of Places at Form I,
Assumint no Changt In the System
Demand for     Supply of places/      Shortage of     Admission rate
Year      places /I      student admission        places         Into Form I (%)
1980         3,994              1,280              2,714              32.0
1981         3,662              1,264              2,398              34.5
1982         3,776              1,415              2,361              37.5
1983         3,745              1,518              2,227              40.5
1984         3,620              1,520              2,094              42.0
1985         4,170              1,520              2,650              36.5
1986         4,320              1,520              2,800              35.2
1987         4,580              1,520              3,060              33.2
1988         5,830              1,520              4,310              26.1
1989         6,570              1,520              5,050              23.1
1990         7,930              1,520              6,410              :9.2
/a  Based on actual and projected applications for admission.



- 27                               ANN-X 7
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Proportion of Form I Places In Provincial Secondary Schools
Relative to Cohort ARed 12 by Province. 1983
No. of Form I         Cohort       % of 12 year old Cohort
Province              Places            Aged 12          to Form I Places
Malaita                   140               1,989                    7.0
Yeabel                     140                355                   39.4
Guadalcanal               140               1,090                   12.8
Western                    140              1,457                    9.6
Honiara                    70                 398                   17.6
Temotu                    105                 379                   27.7
Makira                    105                 489                   21.5
Central                   105                 477                   22.0
Total                 945              6,634                    14.3



- 28 -                                ANNEX 8
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
National and Provincial Secondary School Staff, 1984
National secondary   Provinclal secondary
schools                schools               Total
Number         X      Number          X       Number      z
Solomon Islands staff:
Degree                       19      15.0           2          1.5        21      8.0
DIplo0.-                     44      34.6          2R        20.7         72     27.5
Certificate                   7       5.5          89        65.9         96     36.6
Subtotal                  70      55.1         119        8R.1        189     72.1
Expatriate staff /a            57      44.9          16         11.9        73     27.9
Total                    127     100.0         135       100.0       262    100.0
Student enrollment          2,395                 2,714                  5,109
Staff-student ratio        1:18.8                1:20.1                 1:19.5
/a All expatriate staff have the minimum of a university degree.



SOLOMON ISLANDS
SECONDARY EDuTCATION PROJECT
Estimated School 4ge Population, Enrollments and Enrollment Ratios by Province, 1985 and 1991
(Formis I-III)
1985                                            1991
Esti-     Enroll-                               Esti-      Enroll-
Estimated            mated      ment            Estimated            mated       sent
p lon        age 13-15    enroll-     ratio     population aRe 13-15    enroll-        ratio
Province            Male    Female   Total   ment /a        (X)     Male    Female   Total   sent /a         (Z)
Central                770     650   1,420         3R0      26.8        920     800   1,720        380       22.1
Temotu                 550      560   1,110        360      32.4        650     700   1,350        360       26.7
Guadalcanal          1,680   1,530   3,210         550      17.1      2,0n20   1,900   3,920       960       24.5
Honiara                890      630   1,520        410      27.0      1,080     780   1,860        410       22.0
Makira                 770     740   1,510         370      24.5        930     920   1,850        460       24.9
Malaita              2,950   3,160   6,110         930      15.2      3,550   3,890   7,440      1,340       18.0
Ysahel                 530     530   1,06n         470      44.3        640     650   1,290        470       36.4
Western              2,130   1,960   4,090         830      20.3      2,570   2,420   4,990      1,230       24.7
Overseas & other       n.a     n.e      n.a         10       n.a.       n.a     n.a      n.a        10        n.a.
Total          10,270   9,760  20,03n      4,310       21.5    12,360  12,060  24,420       5,620 /b   23.0
la Assuming enrolluent would be roughly equal to the number of school places available.
lb This represents the addition to 4,310 places in 1985 of 1,220 new places provided by th.e project and 90
more places in Waimapura NSS.
n.a. - not applicable.



SOLOMON ISLANDS
sECoNnARY EDUCkTION PROJECT
Actual and Estimated Enrollment. and Enrollment Ratlos, 1980-1991
(Forms 1-111)
1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1q87    1988    1989    1990    1991
Population
aged 13-15            16,250  16,940  17,660  18,420  19,210  20,030  20,890  21,720  22,600  23,1RO  23,800  24,420/a
Total enrollment
Forms I, II & III°
Under the Project                                                                           4,540   4,940   5,340   5,620
Without the Project   2,861   3,483   3,827   3,968   4,211   4,310   4,400   4,400   4,400   4,400   4,400   4,400
Total enrollment as
I of population
aged 13-15
Under the Project                                                                            20.1    21.3    22.4    23.0
Without the ProJect    17.6    20.6    21.7    21.5    21.9    21.5    21.1    20.2    19.5    19.0    18.5    18.0
/a Averaging an annual increase of 3.9Z.
IH



- 31 -                            ANNRX 11
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Representation Index of Lower Secondary Fnrollments
Representation Index /a
Form I-II e*nrollments
Province                                        1985             1991
Central                                         1.25             n.97
Temotu                                          1.53              1.16
Guadalcanal                                     0.79             1.06
Honiara                                         1.25             0.96
Makira                                          1.15              1.08
Malaita                                         0.71             n.7R
Ysabel                                          2.06             1.58
Western                                         0.95              1.07
Gini Coefficient /b                       n.161             0,09q
/a The representatlon index indicates the degree to which a province is over-
or under-represented in its share of school places compared to its
proportion of the relevant school-age group. A representation index
higher than 1 shows over-representation, and lower than 1 shows under-
representation.
/b The coefficient ranges from 0 to 1, with 0 representing an entirely
equitable distribution and 1 representing a very inequitable distribution.



- 32 -                              ANNEX 12
Page 1
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Draft Term. of Reference for Studies
Feasibility Study for the Solomon Islands College
of Higher Education
Academic Master Plan. Under the direction of the Director of the
SICdE, the consuLtants should:
(a) review the recent study of the long-term manpower needs of the
Solomon Islands;
(b) investigate current training options both in-country and overseas
for meeting those needs;
(c)  review the current structure and recommend priority disciplines for
the SICHE;
(d) taking into account the projected output from secondary schools and
likely demand for middle level manpower, recommend the desirable
capacity of the SICHE;
(e) within each major discipline identify a course structure and output
levels (diploma, certificate, etc.); and
(f) taking into account possible budgetary resources both public and
private, availability of training options overseas, economies of
scale and priority training needs, suggest an appro'riately phased
expansion program for SICHE to meet optimum output levels.
Campus Master Plan. The consultants should review SICHE's existing
physical facilities at its several sites and the facilities that would be
necessary to fulfill the requirements of the Academic Master rlan and make a
recoowendation for any additional facilities or transportatiorn needed
including schedules of accommodation, site plans, preliminary tesigns and cost
estimates.
The consultants' reports should be reviewed by the Government in
draft and sent to IDA by June 30, 1987, for comment before finalizing.



-31 -                               ANNEX 12
Page 2
Study on Teacher Utilization and Incentives
Responsible to the Project Director and in coordination with the
Teachers Service Comission, MET, the Public Service Comission and relevant
provincial authorities, and utilizing preliminary findings from a study of
teacher incentives conducted by MET in 1984, the consultant should:
(a) examine the specializations of secondary teachers, the method by
which these teachers are assigned to the secondary schools, how many
are teaching in specializations other than those for which they have
been trained and the available supply of particular specializations
in relation to the demand;
(b) review the attrition rate of primary and secondary school teachers,
in all primary schools and in both national and provincial secondary
schools for the last five years and identify the major causes of
teacher attrition;
(c) study the teacher incentive structure including salaries, taking
into account any variations among provinces;
(d)  identify options for better utilization of teachers to reduce their
attrition rate, including a review of the bonding arrangements
recently introduced by MET;
(e)  make recommendations to MET as to the preferred options for better
utilization of teachers and for reducing their attrition rate;
(f)  outline a program of action for implementing these recomendations;
(g) estimate the impact of the action program on the recurrent budget
for education over the next five years; and
(h) investigate other related issues, as necessary.
The consultant's report should be reviewed by the Government in draft and sent
to IDA by June 30, 1987, for comment before finalizing.
Study on Financing of Education
Responsible to the Project Director and in consultation with the
Ministries of Education, Finance and Economic Planning and relevant education
authorities, the consultant should:
(a) estimate the resources required for primary and secondary education
in the Sc.omon Islands including:
(i)   the current recurrer.. unit costs per student, identifying
their causes and major components;



34 -                              ANNEX 12
Page 3
(ii) the ideal recurrent unit cost per student needed to operate
and maintain the schools at a satisfactory standard,
including the cost of implementing the recommendations of
the study on teacher utilization and incentives and
adequate grants to the schools for maintenance, equipment,
textbooks, materials and supplies, student boarding and
travel, ancillary staff, etc.; and
(iii)   recurrent cost requirements for the next five years using
ideal unit costs and taking into account implications of
all investments in new schools;
(b)  estimate the resources available including:
(i) the recurrent Government budget available for teacher
salaries and grants to schools over the next five years;
and
(ii)   school fees available and the fee structure; and
(c)  estimate the shortfall between resources required and resources
&vailable.
Taking into account these estimates, the consultant should make recommenda-
tions to MET and the Ministry of Finance on:
(a)  options for decreasing the unit cost of primary and secondary
education and increasing efficiency in the use of resources
allocated to education through such measures as economies of scale,
use of fewer specialized teachers, changing the student-teacher
ratio, etc.; and
(b) feasibly increasing school income such as through:
(i3   an increased Government budget for salaries and grants;
(ii)   increasing school fees, taking care that equity does not
suffer as a result; and/or
(iii)   finding other sources of income.
The consultant's report should be reviewed by the Government in draft and sent
to IDA by June 30, 1987, for comment before finalizing.



- 35 -                                        ANNEX 13
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Technical Assistsnce
Forelgn                      Fellowships
consultants      Number of     Duration of
(man-months)    candidates    fellowship         Man-months
Irprovement of Educational Opportunity
Preservice teacher training:
Diplom  program                                                   19       12 6 36 months            468
Attachment program                                                 6       2 months                   12
Speclal its:
Lecturers                                         180
Short-term consultants                             75
SIC!E feasibililty study                           12
Subtotal                                     267             25                                 480
Quality Improvement
In-service teacher training:
Diploam program                                                   60       9 weeks                   135
Short-term consultants                             36
Curriculum Development Center:
Staff training degree program                                      3       12 months                  36
Staff training overseas attachment                                 6       6 months                   36
Specialists                                        63
Guidance and Selection Unit:
Staff training                                                     1       24 months                  24
2       12 months                  24
Specialist.                                        36
Subtotal                                     135             72                                 255
Management Improvement
Implementation and Planning Unit                                  4        3 months                   12
staff training                                                   1       6 months                    6
Provincial education officers
staff training                                                  4        3 months                   12
Studies and preparation of future projects         12
Subtotal                                      12              9                                  30
Project Management
Implementatlon advisor                             36
Total                                    450            106                                 765



- 36 -                           ANNEX 14
Page 1
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SECONDARY EDUICATION PROJECT
Implementation Activities
Implementation Dates
Start         Complete
Construction, furnishing and equipping
New lower secondary schools:
Guadalcanal province                           January 1987    December 1987
Western province                                  July 1987         June 1988
Malaita province                               January 1988    December 1988
Preservice teacher training:
Classrooms, boarding, staff housing            October 1986    December 1987
Curriculum Development Center:
Staff housing                                 October 1986    December 1987
Office space                                   October 1986   September 1987
Specialists
Preservice teacher training                         July 1986         June 1990
Curriculum development                              July 1986    December 1990
Guidance and Selection Unit                      October 1986        March 1991
In-service teacher training                       March 1987          July 1989
Studies                                             July 1986         June 1987
Implementation advisor                              July 1986         June 1989
Fellowships
Preservice teackher training                     January 1987    December 1991
Curriculum Development Center                       July 1986    Decembrr 1990
Guidance and Selection Unit                      October 1986   September 1990
In-service teacher training                         July 1987    December 1989
Implementation and Planning Unit                 January 1987    December 1989
Provincial education officers (secondary)        January 1989         June 1990



37 -                            ANNIX 14
Page 2
Critical Date.
Start-up activities for the preservice
diploma traininR program                                   Due Date
Teacher trainers in post                                     Auguat 31, 1986
Detailed cnurse outlines and lists
of equipment and teaching materials
prepared                                                  November 30, 1986
In-service workshops
Submission of plans for conducting                     Annually, 60 days prior to
the workshops                                      the beginning of the workshops
starting from 1987
New staff                                                    Posts
Date to                Date to
No.     be created              be filled
Curriculum development
officer/subject
advisors (CDC)                     6            -/a                April 30, 1987
Guidance and Selection Unit:
Examinations officer                1            -/a                 June 30, 1986
Test selection and                  1        June 30, 1986           June 30, 1986
evaluation officer
Provincial education officers          3    December 31, 1988       December 31, 1988
(secondary)
/a Posts already exist.



-38 -                                    ANNEX 15,
,SOLOMON !SLANDS
SOCONDIMY KDIICATION PROtlCT
List of Textbooka Required by Lover Secondary Stludonts
Subject mad Xrade                          Proposed action
ARrfeulture
grade  7-9                              No student texts In cehools now
Three new local books to be produced
Rueinoes Studies
Crado 7                                 Five local books to he reprinted
Crade 8                                 Five local book. to be reprinted
Grade 9                                 One local book to be rrprinted
Christian Rducstion
Grades 7-9                              Six oversear books to be purchased
One book to be reprinted locally
Bibles to he purchaoed locally
English
Grades 7-9                              Three overseas books to be purchased
Dictionaries to be purchased locally
Rome Economics
Grades 7-9                              Three local books to be printed
(developed under UNDP project)
Mathematice
Crade 7                                 21 revised local units to be reprinted
Grade 8                                 19 revised local units to he reprinred
Grade 9                                 15 revised local units to be reprinted
Science /a
Grade 7                                 10 revised local unite to be reprinted
Grade 8                                 10 revised local units to he reprinted
Grade 9                                 1n revised local units to be reprinted
Social Studies
Grade 7                                 Three local texts to be reprinted
Crade 8                                 Four local texts to he reprinted
Six new local texts to be printed
Grade 9                                 45 new local texts to be printed
Atlases to be purchased locally
Other Books
Several subjects need supplementary books In
class sets of 35, e.g. English readers. All
subjects need teachers' books.
/a   Possibly will purchase or print new texts, If a decision is made In favor of
adding science as a compulsory subject.



-9                          ANWNC 16
- -                                -                            ---=' IX
-E a  n     |________ I___ __ ___ X__ __ ____ XIt
0 E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
751
!-       1      _ _       _   _                -   -    _   1.
!-      ,     =_  ___t ____                                    .-i!
iiD   E_          _ _  _ _                       _ _  }   t  t   
g~j1KE    _____    ____itx2XX



- 4n -                              ANNFX 17
SOLOMO1Z ISLANDS
SECONDARY EDUlCATION PROJECT
Project Monitoring Indicators - Lower Secondary Schools (Forms I-III)
Start of           Fnd of
project           project
(1985)            (1991)
Enrollments
Total                                                  4,31n               5,62n
Enrollment ratio for country (%)                          21                  23
Enrollment ratio for Malaita province (Z)                  15                 18
Enrollment ratio for Western province (2)                 20                  25
Enrollment ratio for Guadalcanal province (2)              17                 25
Z female (Forms I-III)                                    38                  43
Teachers /a
Teacher/student ratio                                   1:19                1:20
Supply of new local teachers                     -- To be monitored annually -
Deficit/surplus of local teachers                 -  To be monitored annually -
Number of expatriate teachers                             75                  so
As 2 of total number of teachers                          28                  25
Supply of new expatriate teachers                -  To he monitored annually --
Deficit/surplus of expatriate teachers            -  To he monitored annually -
Local teachers with diplomas (2)                          28                  45
Local teachers with degrees (2)                            8                  IR
Attrition rate (2)                                         6                   4
Transfer rate (Z)                                 -  To be monitored annually -
Textbooks/Other Instructional Materials
Number of texcbooks distributed                                           2n0,oo
Locally printed instructional pamphlets distributed    -                280,000
Recurrent cost per student CTUS$)                          410  -  To be monitored
annually -
/a Includes national secondary schools Forms IV-VI.



* 41-AN h                                                                   14
macouma IMua&yl mROJi
lb. of  c1ivi.          l t. am mek                    ats1a       I     te    ral-
manto    (  )      works   furniture  & atorglU    ert"u u            t        sh 11is .r .h*
,a     g and Smmal                                                                                                                     2 , 2,0n tin  sin  10  2,22n  3,180
karMna                                      1        403     3,310       200                       290                                 3,90       2,U4O
mtuft htmalni                                                1, ",N0 3ND                           120                                 3,160       r;0o
btotal uipnnlu                                          h l          4L9            o          WE                                  6.070      J4jfl
PftsrOdiy  t tw bar tEintgti                                                                                    1,070       430          1,909 o0
01:001m...                                  3        IN0       230                     230                                               340         220
Wardins                                     2        84        540                                                                       so         340
mutf havomlm                                A                  ale                                                                       290         170
shbtatal pruervl.s                                       1.0ne OJf                                                    4Ee          L*E        1.44
Total butet  ?mrowmnt                                    ,Jo         490            60        3-20        LEE7          n         30,70       6670
&ad _tetio                                                                             770                                               770         un
uritlaml  d,ulr_mp tI 3a                                                                                                      70 4u0 t                   n
start oa lmm                                G                  230                                                                       223        140
omtie. iput.                                3                   10                                                                        30          30
hbtatal mornlmlun do*Il " t                                240                                              390        70            70n        40
tre"tt"aing of Omidam..e md
Uaio tln bIbt                                                                            n                      310        so            260         160
Ia-.mrwt.ae upadlig of tmearer                                                                                    120                      120         70
Total Quaity lnrovmmt                                      240                     77D                      690       15D          1A0        1.150
l t      _~~~~t
3bbt"_t7iI_IItat n *VA
PImni, unit                                                                             s0                      220        20            290       10
TrEdaluu  of pmtmelsl educatlm
off ea.                                                                                                                     10            10          10
Ituili  mad |pmratmoa tf
future prjote                                                                                                   3o0                      100         60
tTAAl Ihmam        mu       t                                                       30                      120        30            *0         230
Total Umallm bat                                         7.820       490         1.4W         520         2.00        610         MOOD00      8.070
ibie M                                                           780         50          150         60           100        30          1,170        720
meion iner_                                                    1.070        010          220         60           J30       140         w1,00       1,ion
btotal                                                   1.82A       130           370        120           430       170         3.070      I1.90
1Xt coot
- H      k tOIl'000).670                                             620         1.130        60          2.310       780         16.070
C036000)  *                                            5.670       330        1.150         3-0 1.5iO               4U0                     _._70



42-                                    ANNEX 19
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Project Expenditure by Year and Purpose
Total coat
Base costs (SI2 million)           SI$    US$
1986f  1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   mln.   mln.
Improvemmnt of educational opportunlty
Expansion of lower secondary
schools                          0.1    3.9    4.1      -       -      -      8.1    5.0
Preservice teacher training        0.5    1.2    0.5    0.4    0.1    0.0    2.7    1.7
Subtotal                         0.6    5.1    4.6    0.4    0.1    0.0   10.8    6.7
Quality improvement
Provision of equipment, text-
books & materials                 -      0.4    0.3    0.1      -      -      0.8    0.5
Curriculum development             0.2    0.3    0.1    0.1    0.0       -      0.7    0.4
Strengthening of Guidance
and Selection Unit               0.0    0.0    0.n    0.0    0.1    0.1    0.2    0.1
In-service upgrading
of teachers                       -      0.1    0.0    o.n      -      -      0.1    0.1
Subtotal                         0.2    0.8    0.4    0.2    0.1    0.1    1.8    1.1
Management improvement
Establishment of Implementation
and Planning Unit and
training of Provincial
Education Officers               0.1    0.1    n.1    0.0    0.0       -      0.3    0.2
Studies and preparation
of future projects               0.0    0.1      -      -       -     0.0    0.1    0.1
Subtotal                         0.1    0.2    0.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.4    0.3
Total Baseline Cost              0.9    6.1    5.1    0.6    0.2    0.1   13.0    8.1
Contingencies:
Physical                           0.1    0.5    0.5    0.1    0.0    0.0    1.2    0.7
Price increase                     0.0    0.6    1.0    0.2    0.1    0.0    1.9    1.2
Subtotal                         0.1    1.1    1.5    0.3    0.1    0.0    3.1    1.9
Total Project Cost               1.0    7.2    6.6    0.9    0.3    0.1   16.1   10.0
Foreign exchange                   0.7    3.9    3.5    O.R    0.3    0.1    9.3    5.8



SOLOMON ISLANDS
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJFCT
Areas and Nnit Capital Costs for New Lower Secondary Schools
Gross area per student
place or housing unit              Estimated cost per student place or housing unit /a
Median FY81-83                      This project                      Median total cost
projects          Buildings                                        FYR1-83 projects
This      East      Rank-      and site        Furni-       Equip-               East       Rank-
project    Asia      wide        works           ture         ment     Total      Asia       wide
    -    (sq m)                                           - ------
Academic and communal        2.7        NA      5.9          1,220            90          420     1,730       NA       3,5RO
Boarding                     5.9        6.2     8.9          2,RRO           170           -      3,050     2,390      3,260
Staff housing               4R.3      128.n    86.0         23,600           150           -    23,750    26,570/b  31,240/b
/a  Unit costs exclude contingency allowances and professional fees.
/h Excluding furniture costs.
NA - not available



-44 -                             ANNME 21
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Financial Plan
(US$ million)
Government       ADAB            IDA       Total
Amount   X    Amount   2    Amount   x    Amount
Investment costs:
Civil works                  0.7     15     0.3      5     4.5    80     5.5
Furniture                    0.0      0     0.4   100      0.0     0     0.4
Equipment, textbooks
and materials              0.0      n     1.1   100      0.0     0     1.1
Professional services        0.0      0     0.4   100      0.0     0     0.4
Technical assistance:
Specialists                0.0      0     1.4    95    ().1    15      1.5
Fellowships                0.0      0     0.4   100      0.0     0     0.4
Unallocated                    0.0      0     0.3    45      0.4    55      0.7
Total                      0.7     10     4.3/a  40      5.0    50    10.0
/a  Of which $A 4.0 million from ADAB's co-financing facility and $A 2.5 mil-
lion from its regular bilateral aid program in the Solomon Islands.



-45-                              ANNEX 22
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Estiauted Schedule of Disbursements
Disbursements
IDA fiscal year     Amount per      Cumulatlve        Primary Education Project
and semester        semester      Amount    %         disbursement profile /a
(US$ millions) --                           (2)
1987
1               0.0          0.0       0                    0
2               0.1          0.1        2                   0
1988
1               0.3          0.4       8                   37
2               0.5          0.9       18                  49
1989
1               0.5          1.4      28                   63
2               0.7          2.1      42                   70
1990
1               0.8          2.9      58                   79
2               0.6          3.5      70                   91
1991
1               0.6          4.1      82                   95
2               0.4          4.5      90                   98
1992
1               0.2          4.7      94                  100
2               0.2          4.9      98
1993
1               0.1          5.0     100
/a The profile shows actual disbursement percentages for the first six
semesters under the Primary Education Project and the latest estimate for
the remaining semesters.



-46 -                               ANNEX 23
Page 1
SOLOMON ISLANDS
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.       "Central Bank of Solomon Islands:  Mid-Year Review 1984." Honiara:
Central Bank of Solomon Islands, August 1984.
2.       "The Human Factor:  An address by the Governor on the occasion of
releasing the Central Bank's Mid-Year Review, 1984." Central Bank of Solomon
Islands, September 5, 1984 (mimeographed).
3.       "Covernment of Solomon Islands:  Manpower Employment, Education and
Training Issues in Solomon Islands: A Labor Market Information Paper."
National Planning Office, May 1984 (mineographed).
4.       "National Trade Training and Testing Scheme."  Information Booklet
No. 6. Honiara: Labour Division, Ministry of Employment, Youth Social
Development, n.d.
5.       "Education Policy 1975-1979;" marked "approved." n.d.
(mimeographed).
6.       "Solomon Islands 1984 Manpower Review:  Education and Training
Sector." Draft. National Planning Office, n.d. (mimeographed).
7.       "Policy Documents Relating to Solomon Islands Education."  Curriculum
Development Center, Solomon Islands Teachers' College, 1983 (mimeographed).
8.       "Solomon Islands Secondary Schools:  Curriculum Handbook 1984."
Honiara: Solomon Islands Curriculum Development Center, 1984.
9.       "Report on Annual Secondary Curriculum Workshop 1983."  Honiara:
Ministry of Education, Training and Cultural Affairs and Curriculum
Development Center, Solomon Islands Teachers' College, 1983.
10.      "The Structure of the National Teaching Service." Approved White
Paper, Solomon Islands Government, 1980 (mimeographed).
11.      "Teaching Service Handbook."  Second draft.  Solomon Islands Teaching
Service, 1984 (mimeographed).
12.      "Report on Standard 6 Testing and Selection, 1983."  Confidential.
Ministry of Education and Training, Selection and Guidance Unit, 1983
(mimeographed).
13.      E. R. Treyvaud, "World Bank Primary Education Program, Solomon
Islands. Final Report." July 1984 (mimeographed).



-47 -                               ANNEX 23
Page 2
14.      "Secondary School Project Brief." Draft 3.  Ministry of Education,
Training and Cultural Affairs, March 1984 (mimeographed).
15.      "Junior Secondary Expansion Project Summary." September 1984
(mimeographed).
16.      "The College of Higher Education Act." Solomon Islands Covernment,
May 1984 (No. 2 of 1984).
17.      "Solomon Islands College of Higher Education:  the Foundation
Programme, 1985.  A synopsis submitted to the Advisory Council for their
consideration." 1984 (mimeographed).
18.      "Solomon Islands College of Higher Education Establishment - Project
Summary." October 1984 (mimeographed).
19.      "Solomon Islands CoLlege of Higher Education Establishment Project:
Review of Capital Works and Total Project Cost." Cameron McNamara, October
1984 (mimeographed).
20.      "Solomon Islands College of Higher Education - Establishment Project
Implementation ScheduLe." October .984 (mimeographed).
21.      William H. Bartsch, "ImpLications for Employment and Manpower Jupply
of Secondary and Higher Education in the Solomon Islands." August 1985
(mimeographed).
22.      "Equity, Relevance and Opportunity:  Recommendations for Teacher
Education in the Solomon IsLands with Particular Reference to the Secondary
Development Project - A Report to the Ministry for Education, Training and
'ultural Affair., The Solomon Islands." Draft. August 1985 (mimeographed).
23.      "Solomon Islands Secondary Education Project Teacher Education
Component." October 1985 (mimeographed).
24.      Working Papers.



S                            f-S
X .~~~~~~~ D                   8- -     --- r---  S 
-    .     511                                     I                                '1    R
I                             B~~~ L
| ll   'C I              ~'C                           I            
.'  f                            ,^w-                       II   t-i-
.~~ . 5 Ia 7m-22IT7- 
11     -            -C -t-               ICN       
I        -
h_ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                              _      _     .. .. .. .. ..... .______..____J.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..............  iU ;
L~~~~ ~ ~~ I iiv Z}1 ;tiav 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
I
99iZ'3                           3e         13   °        91i]            j2.~~~~~~~~~~~~1
z                                                         LiO  \  ,'   ___,_,_,,_._._.J    c  a4



