Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7634 JO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Additional Loan for the Amman Development Corridor Project) 
 
between 
 
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated January 21, 2009 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7634 JO 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated January 21, 2009, between THE HASHEMITE 
KINGDOM OF JORDAN (
“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing an 
additional loan for activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to 
this Agreement).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the 
Loan Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions 
or in the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II
 -
LOAN 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of thirty-three million United States 
dollars (US$33,000,000) (“Loan”), as such amount may be converted in 
accordance with the provisions of Article II of this Agreement, to assist in 
financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02.  The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with  
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. On or promptly after the Effectiveness 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay itself the amount of said fee. 
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 1 and September 1 in each year. 
Page  3
-
2
-
2.06.  The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Fixed Rate to a Variable Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
ARTICLE III
 -
PROJECT 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this 
end, the Borrower, through MoPWH, shall carry out the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that the 
PIP has been amended, abrogated or modified without the Bank’s prior consent. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following: the event 
specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a period 
of sixty (60) days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower. 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE V - EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI
 -
 REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Borrower’s Representative is the Minister of Planning and International 
Cooperation. 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation 
Post office Box 555  
Amman, 11118 
The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan 
 
Facsimile: 
 
962
464
9341 
6.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
AGREED at Amman, The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN 
 
By /s/ Suhair Al-Ali 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Ziad Badr 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in: (i) supporting more 
efficient transport and logistics services by removing key infrastructure transport 
bottlenecks; and (ii) providing access to affordable land for productive investment and 
urban development purposes. 
The Project consists of the Original Project.  
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 2
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I
.
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through MoPWH, shall implement the Project in accordance with 
the provisions of the PIP and the Procurement Plan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not amend or waive any provision of the PIP or the 
Procurement Plan, if, in the opinion of the Bank, such amendment or waiver may 
materially or adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the achievement of the 
Project objectives.  
2. 
The Borrower shall vest in MoPWH the overall responsibility for carrying out the 
Project. MoPWH shall carry out Part A of the Project and shall coordinate the 
implementation of: (i) Part B of the Project with GCD and MoT; and (ii) Part C of the 
Project with the Borrower’s Ministry of Municipal Affairs, GAM and other concerned 
municipalities and stakeholders. 
 
3. 
Without prejudice to the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 above, MoPWH shall 
implement: (i) the Environmental Management Plan with assistance from the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Environment and other stakeholders; (ii) the RAP in close coordination with 
the municipalities of the Amman Metropolitan Area; and (iii) the CRMP in coordination 
with the Borrower’s Department of Antiquities. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall, throughout the period of implementation of the Project and 
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, maintain the ADC Steering Committee established 
pursuant to the Council of Ministers’ Decision dated March 23, 2004, for the purpose of 
overseeing the implementation progress and the provision of guidance on promoting the 
Project. 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall, throughout the period of implementation of the Project and 
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, maintain the ADC Executive Committee established 
pursuant to the Council of Ministers’ Decision dated March 23, 2004, for the purpose of 
managing and organizing the land usages within the Project’s area of influence. 
 
6. 
The Borrower shall throughout the period of implementation of the Project and in 
a
manner satisfactory to the Bank, maintain the ADC Urban Development Technical Unit 
under the ADC Executive Committee, such Unit shall serve a vital advance planning 
function, with no decision-making responsibilities. The Technical Unit shall, 
inter alia
,
be responsible for: (i) carrying out urban planning studies for development within the 
ADC’s zone of influence; (ii) promoting and guiding development within and along the 
ADC; (iii) assisting industrial and real estate developers to locate and prepare their 
Page  8
-
7
-
subprojects; and (iv) assessing and monitoring transport and land use impacts of planned 
developments. 
 
7. 
For the purpose of ensuring effective management of Project implementation, the 
Borrower shall throughout the period of implementation of the Project and in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank, cause MoPWH to maintain the PMT, headed by a Project 
Manager and staffed with adequate number of engineers from MoPWH.  The PMT shall 
be responsible for: (i) reporting, monitoring and evaluation activities, the procurement 
process, financial management and audit requirements; (ii) 
ensuring effective 
implementation of the EMP and RAP; and (iii) working in close coordination with GCD 
and MoT appointed task teams, which are entrusted with contributing to the 
implementation of Part B of the Project.  
 
8. 
To ensure timely implementation according to specification and within allocated 
budgets, the Borrower shall, through MoPWH, retain an international construction 
management firm to assist the PMT with overall Project management, and which firm 
shall provide both a core team of specialists and a pool of specialized expertise, on which 
to draw skills on an “as needed” basis, in support of the PMT. 
 
B. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Borrower, through MoPWH, shall ensure that the Project is carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
C. Safeguards 
The Borrower, through MoPWH, shall: (i) carry out the Project in accordance 
with provisions of the Environmental Management Plan, the Environmental Assessment, 
the RAP and the CRMP; (ii) take all actions relating to the carrying out of the Project, as 
well as ensuring the provision of funds, facilities, services, and other resources, necessary 
or appropriate for the carrying out of the Project; and (iii) not take or permit to be taken 
any action which would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of the Project. 
 
Section II
.
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation
A. 
Project Reports   
1. 
The Borrower, through MoPWH, shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the 
Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of 
the General Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Bank. Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished by 
MoPWH to the Bank not later than one month after the end of the period covered by such 
report.  
Page  9
-
8
-
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall be 
furnished to the Bank not later than six (6) months prior to the Closing Date. 
 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits   
1. 
The Borrower, through MoPWH, shall maintain a financial management system 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower, 
through MoPWH, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days 
after the end of each calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project 
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
3. 
The Borrower, through MoPWH, shall have the Financial Statements of the 
Project audited in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General 
Conditions. Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal 
year of the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished by MoPWH to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such 
period.
 
Section III
.
Procurement
A. General
 
1. 
Goods and Works.  
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Schedule. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.  
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines and 
with the provisions of this Schedule.   
3. 
Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts 
refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, or 
Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works  
1. 
International Competitive Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  
Page  10
-
9
-
2. 
National Competitive Bidding.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 3 
below, goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National 
Competitive Bidding procedures subject to the Bank’s procurement procedures and the 
following additional procedures:  
(a)  Standard bidding documents approved by the Bank shall be used. 
(b) Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one widely 
circulated national daily newspaper and bidding documents shall be made 
available to prospective bidders, at least twenty-eight (28) days prior to the 
deadline for the submission of bids. 
(c) Bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or 
discount over the estimated cost. 
(d) Bidding documents shall be made available, by mail or in 
person, to all who are willing to pay the required fee. 
(e) Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding, no 
preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders, and having a 
presence in the Borrower’s territory shall not be made a condition for 
bidding. 
(f)  Qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications were not carried 
out) shall be stated in the bidding documents, and if a registration process is 
required, a foreign firm determined to be the lowest evaluated bidder shall be 
given reasonable opportunity of registering, without any hindrance i.e. no 
non-registration status should be considered as a non-eligibility-to-bid 
criterion and a one-envelope bid submission system should be employed. 
(g) Bidders may deliver bids, at their option, either in person or by 
courier service or by mail. 
(h) Except for late bids, bids shall be opened in public in one place 
preferably immediately, but no later than one (1) hour, after the deadline for 
submission of bids, and prices for all bids shall be read out at such public 
session and no disqualification shall be made at that stage. 
(i) Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the 
criteria disclosed in the bidding documents, in a format, and within the 
specified period, agreed with the Bank. 
(j)  Bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison 
with an official estimate without the prior concurrence of the Bank. 
Page  11
-
10
-
(k) Split award or lottery in award of contracts shall not be carried 
out. When two or more bidders quote the same price, an investigation shall 
be made to determine any evidence of collusion, following which: (A) if 
collusion is determined, the parties involved shall be disqualified and the 
award shall then be made to the next lowest evaluated and qualified bidder; 
and (B) if no evidence of collusion can be confirmed, then fresh bids shall be 
invited after receiving the concurrence of the Bank. 
(l) Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders 
within the initial period of bid validity so that extensions are not necessary. 
Extension of bid validity may be sought only under exceptional 
circumstances. 
(m) Extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior 
concurrence of the Bank: (A) for the first request for extension if it is longer 
than eight (8) weeks; and (B) for all subsequent requests for extensions 
irrespective of the period. 
(n) Negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or 
any other bidders. 
(o) Re-bidding shall n
ot
be
carried out without the Bank’s prior 
concurrence. 
(p)  All contractors or suppliers shall provide performance security as 
indicated in the contract documents. A contractor’s or a supplier’s 
performance security shall apply to a specific contract under which it was 
furnished. 
3. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods
.
The following methods, other than 
International Competitive Bidding and National Competitive Bidding, may be used for 
the procurement of goods for those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) 
Shopping, and (b) Direct Contracting.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which the said procurement methods may be used. 
C.
 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of Quality-and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following 
methods, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be used for the procurement 
of 
consultants’ services for those contracts specified in the Procurement Plan: (a) 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications (CQS); (b) Selection under a Fixed 
Page  12
-
11
-
Budget (FBS); (c) Least Cost Selection (LCS); (d) Single Source (SSS); and (e) 
Individual Consultants.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under 
which the said procurement methods may be used. 
 
D.
 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
 
1. 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
2. 
Shortlists of consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$200,000 (two 
hundred thousand United Sates Dollars) equivalent per contract may be composed 
entirely of national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.  
Section IV
.
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A.
 
General   
1.
 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such additional 
instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower (including the “World 
Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such 
instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 
below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the Categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to 
each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible 
Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures to 
be financed 
(exclusive of Taxes) 
 
(1)   Works other than for  
 
Parts A.1, A.3 and B.2 of 
 
the Project 
 
29,590,000 
 
85% 
(2)   Goods and Equipment 
 
100,000 
 
100% of foreign expenditures, 
100 % of local expenditures 
(ex
-
factory cost), and
85% of 
Page  13
-
12
-
Category 
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated 
(expressed in USD) 
Percentage of Expenditures to 
be financed 
(exclusive of Taxes) 
 
local expenditures for other 
items procured locally. 
 
(3)  
Consultants’ services  
 
other than for Parts A.1,  
 
A.3, B.2 and C.3 of the  
 
Project 
 
3,210,000 
 
95% for individual consultants, 
and 90% for consulting firms 
 
(4)   Front-end Fee 
 
82,500 
 
Amount payable pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this Agreement 
in accordance with Section 2.07 
(b) of the General Conditions 
(5)   Unallocated 
 
17,500 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
33,000,000
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for: 
 
(a) 
payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$5,000,000 (five million United 
States Dollars) equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or 
after December 15, 2008, for Eligible Expenditures; and 
 
(b) 
payments made for expenditures under Category (1), until evidence, 
satisfactory to the Bank, has been furnished to the Bank showing that the land acquisition 
process has been completed in accordance with the procedures, and on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in RAP.  
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods, works or services supplied from 
the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
Page  14
-
13
-
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower for goods, works or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3. 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2011. 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) 
the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayable amount to be 
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
 
On each March 1 and 
September 1 
Beginning March 1, 2014, 
through March 1, 2028.  
 
3.33 % 
On September 1, 2028.  
3.43 % 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the Withdrawn Loan Balance 
as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which is the original Installment Share specified in the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment 
Share”) and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original Installment 
Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such amounts repayable 
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies, such amounts repayable to be 
Page  16
-
15
-
adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, 
to which a Currency Conversion applies.
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any 
Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal. 
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if at 
any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on or 
after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall 
no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is repayable 
on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in the Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to the Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate. 
 
Page  17
-
16
-
APPENDIX 
Section I
.
Definitions
1. 
“ADC” means the Amman Development Corridor, transport link from 
which new residential, commercial, and industrial developments will be 
coordinated and efficiently served. 
 
2. 
“ADC Executive Committee” means the committee referred to in paragraph 1 (d) 
of Schedule 5 to the Original Loan Agreement. 
 
3. 
“ADC Steering Committee” means the committee referred to in paragraph 1 (c) 
of Schedule 5 to the Original Loan Agreement. 
 
4. 
“ADC Urban Development Technical Unit” means the technical unit referred to 
in paragraph 1 (e) of Schedule 5 to the Original Loan Agreement. 
 
5. 
“Amman Metropolitan Area” means the Greater Amman Municipality, Zarqa 
Municipality, Ruseifa Municipality and surrounding areas. 
 
6. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
7. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement. 
 
8. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and 
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank 
in May 2004 and revised in October 2006. 
 
9. 
“CRMP” means the Borrower’s Cultural Resources Management Plan, 
incorporated in the EMP (as hereinafter defined), dated February 20, 2004, and 
referred to in paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 5 to the Original Loan Agreement. 
 
10. 
“Environmental Assessment” means the Borrower’s environmental 
assessment, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, dated February 20, 
2004, including, 
inter alia
:
(i) the identification and assessment of potential 
environmental impact of activities to be carried out under the Project; (ii) an 
evaluation of alternative measures; and (iii) the EMP (as hereinafter defined) 
detailing the appropriate mitigation, monitoring, institutional and management 
measures required for the implementation of the Project with a view to ensuring 
compliance of the activities referred to in sub-paragraph (i) herein with said 
measures and to eliminating adverse environmental impacts, offsetting such 
impacts, or reducing them to acceptable levels. 
Page  18
-
17
-
11. 
“Environmental Management Plan” or “EMP” means the Borrower’s 
Environmental Management Plan, including the CRMP, all in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank, dated February 20, 2004, and incorporated in 
the Environmental Assessment. 
 
12. 
“GAM” means the Greater Amman Municipality or any successor thereto. 
 
13. 
“GCD” means the Borrower’s General Customs Department or any successor 
thereto. 
 
14. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008). 
 
15. 
“MoPWH” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Works and Housing or any 
successor thereto. 
 
16. 
“MoT” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Transport or any successor thereto. 
 
17. 
“Original Loan Agreement” means the loan agreement for the Amman 
Development Corridor Project between the Borrower and the Bank, dated 
September 17, 2004 (Loan No. 7228 JO), as amended to the date of this 
Agreement.  
 
18. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Loan Agreement.  
 
19. 
“PIP” means the Project Implementation Plan prepared by the Borrower’s 
MoPWH and submitted to the Bank on March 20, 2004, pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 3.01(b) of the Original Loan Agreement, setting out the 
principles and procedures governing the implementation of the Project, such plan 
to, 
inter alia
:
(i) define the respective roles and responsibilities of the agencies 
involved in the implementation of the Project; (ii) set forth the timetable of 
actions required to be carried out under the Project; (iii) identify the procedures 
to be used for monitoring and evaluating progress towards the achievement of the 
objectives of the Project; (iv) set out the details for the implementation of the 
EMP including CRMP; and (v) set out the details for the implementation of the 
RAP (as hereinafter defined).  
 
20. 
“PMT” means the Project Management Team referred to in paragraph 1 
(f) of Schedule 5 to the Original Loan Agreement. 
 
21. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006. 
Page  19
-
18
-
22. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the 
Project, dated October 20, 2008, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the 
same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraphs. 
 
23. 
RAP” means the Borrower’s Land Acquisition and Resettlement Action 
Plan dated February 12, 2004, approved by the Bank, setting forth, 
inter alia
,
the 
compensation entitlement, institutional arrangements, implementation program, 
monitoring mechanism and cost estimates for the resettlement and rehabilitation 
of people affected by the implementation of the Project, disclosed locally and 
through the Bank’s InfoShop, and referred to in paragraphs 1 (b) and 2 (b) of 
Schedule 5 to the Original Loan Agreement. 
 
Section II
.
Modifications to the General Conditions
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
 
1. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.07. 
Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the
 
Bank or the Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to 
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of 
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and
 
unpaid 
charges, if any,
 
on
the advance as at such date. The Bank shall pay the amount so 
withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
2. 
Paragraph (l) of Section 7.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 7.02. 
Suspension by the Bank 
 
... (l) 
Ineligibility
.
The Bank or the Association has declared the Borrower 
(other than the Member Country) or the Project Implementing Entity ineligible to 
receive proceeds of any financing made by the Bank or the Association or 
otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation of any project 
financed in whole or in part by the Bank or the Association, as a result of a 
determination by the Bank or the Association that the Borrower or the Project 
Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive 
Page  20
-
19
-
practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing made by the 
Bank or the Association.
”
