Document of
The World Bank Group
Report No: ICR2661
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
(IBRD-72280 IBRD-76340)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 71.0 MILLION
TO THE
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR AN
AMMAN DEVELOPMENT CORRIDOR PROJECT
June 10, 2013
Sustainable Development Department
Middle East and North Africa Region


﻿CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 04/16/2013)
Currency Unit = Jordanian Dinar (JD)
JD 1.00 = US$ 1.41
US$ 1.00 = JD 0.708
FISCAL YEAR; Jan. 1 - Dec. 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADC          Amman Development Corridor
ADC Area     Designated 300 km development area west of ADC
AFESD        Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development
AMA          Amman Metropolitan Area
ARR          Amman Ring Road
ARR-1        Phase 1 of Ring Road: 40-km Zarqa-Airport Hwy
CEMG         Construction Environmental Management Guidelines
CLO          Community Liaison Office (of MoPWH)
CPCS         A consultant firm
CRMP         Cultural Resources Management Plan
EIB          European Investment Bank
EMP          Environmental Management Plan
GAM          Greater Amman Municipality
GCD          General Customs Department
JD           Jordanian Dinar
LARP         Land Acquisition and Resettlement Plan
LSD          Lands and Survey Department
MoF          Ministry of Finance
MoPIC        Ministry of Planning & International Cooperation
MoPWH        Ministry of Public Works and Housing
MoT          Ministry of Transport
NPP          Negative Performance Point
PDO          Project Development Objective
PMT          Project Management Team (of MoPWH)
QIZ          Qualified Industrial Zone (US trade agreement)
TA           Technical Assistance
TEU          Twenty-foot Equivalent Unit (shipping container)
Vice President: Inger Andersen
Country Director: Ferid Belhaj
Sector Manager: Patricia Veevers-Carter
Project Team Leader: Abdelmoula Ghzala
ICR Team Leader: Said Dahdah
ii


﻿Hashemite Kingdom of JORDAN
Amman Development Corridor Project
CONTENTS
Data Sheet
A. Basic Information                                        ...................................................iv
B. Key Dates                       ........................................................iv
C. Ratings Summary                                          ...................................................iv
D. Sector and Theme Codes             ....................................   ..............v
E. Bank Staff........................................................v
F. Results Framework Analysis             ..............................................v
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .      ...................................vii
H. Restructuring (if any)          ..................................................... viii
I. Disbursement Profile......................................                ............... viii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design...........                 .................1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes        ..................     ........ 3
3. Assessment of Outcomes             ................................................... 10
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome..........................                    13
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance                          ..............................13
6. Lessons Learned .................................................... 15
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................18
Annex 2. Outputs by Component               ...................................      ......20
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis            .............................    .....21
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes..            ...........26
Annex 5. Environmental and Social Impact and Mitigation....................28
Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICRR and Borrower's Comments on the Draft ICRR........31
Annex 7. Pictures of the Project                                ...........................................39
Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents                               .....................................40
Non-Bank MAP
111


﻿A. Basic Information
-JO - Amman
Project Name:       Development Corridor
IBRD-72280,IBRD-
Project ID:          P081505              L/C/TF Number(s):     7634   0
ICR Date:            06/10/2013           ICR Type:             Core ICR
Lending Instrument:  SIL                  Borrower: eOsR:N
Ministry of Public Works and Housing
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
Arab Fund for Social and Economic Development
European Investment Bank (EIB)
B. Key Dates
Revised / Actual
Process           Date            Process       Original Date
Concept Review:     12/18/2003    Effectiveness:      12/06/2004       12/06/2004
Appraisal:          02/23/2004    Restructuring(s):                    10/25/201 1
Approval:           06/03/2004    Mid-term Review:
Closing:            06/30/2009        12/31/2012
C. Ratings Summary
.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Coutces                                 Moderately Unsatisfactory
rabFundfrSocisk ti Developmeubstantial
Boderately Unsatisfactory
orowes roac                    Mrocess       roderately Unsatisfactory
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
Bank                Ratings             Borrower               Ratings
Moderately
Quality at Entry:    Moderately Satisfactory Government:       Ustsatr
Moderately           Implementing
Quality of Supervision:                     e    e              Satisfactory
UnsRtngSm       a   tifcoyrgnyAgnis
Overall Bank         Moderately           Overall Borrower      Moderately
Performance:         Unsatisfactory       Performance:          Unsatisfactory
1V


﻿C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
Implementation          Indicators     QAG Assessments           Rating
Performance                                (if any)
Potential Problem Project                Quality at Entry
No                                   None
at any time (Yes/No):                     (QEA):
Problem Project at any                   Quality of
Yes                S     iiNone
time (Yes/No):                            Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before      Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:  Unsatisfactory
D. Sector and Theme Codes
Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                        16               14
General transportation sector                             8                9
Urban Transport                                          76               77
Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development   40               40
Regional integration                                     20               20
Trade facilitation and market access                     40               40
E. Bank Staff
Positions                  At ICR                       At Approval
Vice President:       Inger Andersen                 Christiaan J. Poortman
Country Director:     Ferid Belhaj                   Joseph P. Saba
Sector Manager:       Patricia Veevers-Carter        Hedi Larbi
Project Team Leader:  Abdelmoula Ghzala              Mohammed D. E. Feghoul
ICR Team Leader:      Said Dahdah
ICR Primary Author:   Christopher Willoughby
F. Results Framework Analysis
Project Development Objectives
The Project's development objectives are to: (i) support more efficient transport and
logistics services by removing key infrastructure transport bottlenecks; and (ii) provide
access to affordable land for productive investment and urban development purposes.
v


﻿Revised Project Development Objectives
(a) PDO Indicator(s)
Original Target                Actual Value
Values (from    Fomly         Achieved at
Indicator       Baseline Value                       Revised     cmplet
approval    TreVausCompletion or
documents)                   Target Years
Indicator 1: Cost to transport one TEU from QIZ to Aqaba Port (Amount(USD))
Value
quantitative or 385                 300              300          425
Qualitative)
Date achieved  04/30/2004           112/31/2009      12/31/2012   04/15/2013
Comments      The real value achieved is close to the target if we take into considerations the
(incl. %      increase in oil prices between 2004 and 2013 ( estimated at about 250% price
achievement) increase)
Indicator 2:  Travel Times: QAIA to Zarqa (in minutes)
Value
quantitative or 60                  40               40           48
Qualitative)
Date achieved  04/30/2004           12/31/2009       12/31/2012   04/15/2013
Comments      The original target value of this indicator - 40 minutes- should be fully met when
(inc. %
ac.      t   the southern half is completed so that the whole road will be open to traffic.
achievement)
Indicator 3:  Volume of traffic diverted from urban streets to ARR-1 (%)
Value
quantitative or 0                   10               10           8
Qualitative)
Date achieved  04/30/2004          {12/31/2009       12/31/2012   04/15/2013
Comments      The target value of this indicator - 10 percent- should be fully met when the
(inc. %
ac.      t   southern half is completed so that the whole road will be open to traffic.
achievement)
Indicator 4: Cargo Traffic Through New Custom Facility (Exports/Imports-Transits) (million
tons)
Value
quantitative or 2.4/0.0             3.5/1.4          3.7/1.6      0.0/0.0
Qualitative)
Date achieved  04/30/2004           12/31/2009       12/31/2012   12/31/2012
Comments      The new custom facility has not been built, however the cargo traffic through the
(inc. %
ac.      t   existing custom facility has increased by 44% between 2004 and 2012.
achievement)
vi


﻿(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
Original Target                 Actual Value
T            ~   ~~Formally  Acivda
Indicator       Baseline Value       Values (from      Revised      cmplet
approval     TreVausCompletion or
documents)                    Target Years
1t  I Completion rate of Amman Ring Road Phase 1 in accordance to Plan
(Percentage)
Value
(quantitative  0                      100              100          84
or Qualitative)
Date achieved  04/30/2004             12/31/2009       12/31/2012   12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %      Sections 2 and 3 are 100% completed, however Section 1 is 65% completed.
achievement)
Indicator 2:  Customs Depots Completed and in use (Percentage)
Value
(quantitative  0                      100              100          0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved  04/30/2004            112/31/2009       12/31/2012   112/31/2012
Comments
(incl. %      The new Customs Depot was not built
achievement)
Indicator 3:  Master Plan for Amman Ring Road Phase 2 and 3 (Yes/No)
Value
(quantitative  No                     Yes             Yes           Yes
or Qualitative)
Date achieved  04/30/2004             12/31/2007       12/31/2008   12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %      Financed by an EIB Grant.
achievement)
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
Actual
Date ISR                                                         Ata
No.     Ate                  DO                     IP              Disbursements
(USD millions)
1    06/07/2004         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.00
2    12/14/2004         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.19
3    04/05/2005         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.19
4    06/10/2005         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.19
5    12/27/2005         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  2.09
6    07/15/2006         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  2.09
7    12/20/2006         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  6.10
8    06/11/2007         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 11.29
9    11/12/2007         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 14.84
10    05/22/2008        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 22.16
vii


﻿ll    11/13/2008       Satisfactory           Satisfacior                 2891
12   05,19/2009       Satistactory           Satisfactory                33,34
13   12/03/2009        Satisfactory           Satisfaciory                37.92
14   06/24/2010         Satislactory          Satisfaciory                4379
15   02/14/2011        Satisfactory           Satisfacior                 55.66
16   07,15/2011        Satistectory           Satisfiatory                5933
17   12/22/20'l        Satisfactory           Satisfaciory                63.10
18   06/27/2012        Satisfactory           Satisfaciory                7072
19   12/25/2012       U    isfacoy       Moderately Satisfactory          70.92
unsseisflior
H. Restructuring (if sny)
SR Ratings at    Amount
Restructuring    Board     Restructuring Disbursd at   Reason for Restructuring &
Dares)      Approved                 Restrueuring      Key Changes Made
DOChåge       DO      lp      in IISD
Inillions
The elesing date forothe
additional loan ( 76340) was
10/25/2011       N          s      s        63.10    extended fromDec 31, 20'ltill
Dec 31,2012.No other changes
have been litade-
. Disbursement Profile
Original    Formally Revised -- Actual
60-
40-
= 20-
viii


﻿1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal
1.     Given the country's limited agricultural and mineral resources, Jordan has based its
development principally on two important other areas of comparative advantage, its strong human
capital base and location at the center of trade routes serving all the surrounding countries to
greater or lesser degree. Such strategy required careful attention to keeping ahead of development
pressures in the country's capital and major commercial and industrial center, the Amman
Metropolitan Area (AMA) and Zarqa Metropolitan Area, which accounted already in 2000 for
more than 50% of the country's population and employment, and 80% of its industrial sector.
2.     At the beginning of the new century several factors came together to indicate that the time
had come to make a start on building an Amman Ring Road, a concept discussed and developed in
ever-increasing detail since the early 1980s. Construction of the 40-km section of this road that
would run down the eastern side of the AMA was expected to help meet three vital needs.
3.     First, it would significantly reduce congestion on the existing AMA network, particularly
by providing a direct link from Zarqa, Amman's most important industrial suburb (northeast of the
city), to the south, a by-pass to travel through the city.
4.     Second, it would respond to the rising scarcity of sites for commercial and industrial
development within the city by increasing access to the areas to the east, which offered more
potential for such uses than those on the other sides of the city.
5.     Third, the eastern location of the new road would also make it suitable for handling many
international trade movements, to and from Syria, Saudi Arabia, West Bank, Iraq and the Gulf
states, all with significant traffic volumes.  This advantage would, moreover, be further
strengthened by moving the Customs Depot, through which most international shipments have to
pass, from its heavily congested location on the southeast edge of the city to a dedicated site at one
of the main intersections on the new highway. There it would have a custom-designed facility in
an inland port area accommodating also other relevant services or, alternatively, a spacious
logistics area of its own. In response to all three reasons this first 40-km section of the Ring Road
was adopted as the Amman Development Corridor (ADC), and prioritized.
6.     As an essential support for the expansion of trade and commerce, and of AMA industrial
production, the ADC project would contribute to the operational objective emphasized in the
Jordan Country Assistance Strategy that had been approved in January 2003:  enhancing
conditions for growth led by the private sector.  The government hoped that the Bank's
involvement might help attract financing from the other sources which would need also to be
involved, international agencies initially but probably private investors in addition for follow-on
stages of the ring road. The experience that the Bank would bring in the areas of municipal
planning, trade logistics, effective management of land acquisition and environmental monitoring,
was also felt to be potentially important.
1


﻿1.2    Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
7.     The project's development objectives were: (i) to support more efficient transport and
logistics services by removing key infrastructure transport bottlenecks, and (ii) to provide access to
affordable land for productive investment and urban development purposes. Four key indicators
were selected to measure fulfillment of the first PDO:
- Travel time from Queen Alia International Airport to Zarqa
- Cost to transport one TEU from QIZ to Aqaba Port
- Volume of traffic diverted from urban streets to ARR- 1
- Cargo Traffic through New Customs Facility.
8.     No specific key indicators were chosen for the second PDO, but an intermediate indicator
associated with this PDO was formulated. It was in the form of surveys measuring development
within ADC. Data such as the number and scale of urban and industrial land transactions of
different types in the very large ADC zone - between the new road and the edge of the more built-
up areas - were summarized in these annual surveys.
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
9.     The PDOs remained unchanged. During the 2008 additional financing appraisal, the key
indicators were slightly revised for clarity purposes and the dates for achieving the target values
were updated to reflect the new project closing date in line with the project extension granted with
the additional financing. The table below summarizes the changes to the key indicators.
Original Indicator    Original Target Value  Revised Indicator    Revised Target Value
(Date)                                      (Date)
Travel Times: QAIA    40                    Average Travel Time   40
to Zarqa (in minutes)  (Dec 31, 2009)       between Queen Alia    (Dec 31, 2011)
International Airport
and Zarqa (in
minutes)
Cost to transport one  300                  Cost to transport one  300
TEU from QIZ to       (Dec 31, 2009)        20 foot equivalent    (Dec 31, 2011)
Aqaba Port (US$)                            container from
Amman qualifying
industrial zone to
Agaba Port (US$)
Cargo traffic through  3.5/1.4              Cargo traffic through  3.7/1.6
new customs facility  (Dec 31, 2009)        new customs facility  (Dec 31, 2011)
(export                                     (exports &
&imports/transit in                         imports/transit)
million tons)                               (million tons)
2


﻿1.4 Main Beneficiaries
10.    The main target groups, as foreseen in the PAD were the transport and trade industries, as
well as developers. But it was also expected that the general urban population of the AMA would
participate in first-round benefits, through reduced traffic congestion. The economic analysis
reflected the benefits to both groups.
1.5 Original Components
11.    The components of the project were divided into three groups, A, B and C, with land
acquisition (required for all main works envisaged) treated as a separate category.
Component A: Construction, and Engineering Supervision, of 40-km Phase 1 of Amman Ring
Road (4 lanes to international expressway standard with central concrete divider throughout, plus
service roads on one or both sides on some stretches), in three sections, of which the Bank would
contribute to one, 14.5 km in length, and the others would be assisted by the Arab Fund for
Economic and Social Development (AFESD) and by the European Investment Bank (EIB).
Component B: Inland Port and Trucking Industry: planning, plus provision of initial infrastructure
and utility connections, for an inland port and a new Customs Depot, and technical assistance for
ongoing deregulation and reform of the trucking industry, the Bank being responsible mainly for
support on the trucking reform and infrastructure for the inland port/Customs Depot, and EIB for
the Customs Depot superstructure.
Component C: Project Management and Planning: technical support for urban and transport
planning, traffic engineering and, especially, overall project management, with the Bank mainly
responsible for the outside support on all parts other than longer-term planning for the ARR, which
would be supported by EIB.
1.6 Revised Components
12.    There was no change in the project components or their activities.
1.7 Other significant changes
13.    Following the unanticipated increases in the costs of key inputs and additional
construction works required due to technical modifications to the designs during construction, the
overall cost of the project was updated and an additional financing plan was approved by the three
financiers in 2008. The project closing date was extended 30 months until December 31 2011, and
it was ultimately extended again, in 2011, for a further twelve months, to December 31 2012.
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
14.    The project was exceptionally fast, from Concept Review in December 2003 to Appraisal
in February 2004 and Board approval in June, still within the Bank's fiscal year 2004. This rapid
treatment was possible because there was such a large amount of preparatory work by the
government and the Bank on the Ring Road concept in earlier years. However, great attention was
3


﻿also given to several aspects to ensuring that long delays would not arise during implementation.
In particular, the need for large-scale land acquisition had been announced with much publicity
nearly two years before and most of the valuation required was carried out in 2003. The procedure
of actually taking over the land, compensating people, and helping those who had to move, had
started in March 2004. The experienced consultants hired to assist the Ministry of Public Works
and Housing (MoPWH) in the management of the project were fully in place by the time the
Bank's loan became effective, in December 2004. The required Environmental Management Plan
and Cultural Resources Mitigation Plan, given the project's Category A rating, was prepared ahead
of time and moved into timely initiation. This quick preparation affected positively the safeguards
but not the land development aspect which would have benefited from wider discussions among
concerned local authorities to clarify needed priority step, depending on local circumstances.
15.    The combination of road building with work to bring new lands into industrial/commercial
use and relocate the Customs Depot was largely a new ground for the Bank as well as for Jordan.
Discussions with a wide range of government officials in Amman, and some representatives of the
private sector, had indicated very strong support. However, the lack of detailed design for this
project feature, including absence of a measurable key indicator and the complexity of
implementation arrangements inevitably involved in land development, proved to impact
negatively the achievement of the development objective emphasizing this dimension of the
project.
16.    It had been agreed that an inter-ministerial ADC Steering Committee and an Executive
Committee would be set up and maintained throughout project execution (as emphasized in the
Loan Agreements), with membership from concerned ministries and municipalities as well as the
Prime Minister's office. The main function of the committees was to ensure that development
within the Corridor area would be planned and undertaken in a comprehensive, unified and
coordinated manner. Their establishment had been agreed in Cabinet decisions, and this structure
was expected to be supported by a Technical Unit, financed by the project, which would
collaborate with all municipalities managing lands within the 300 square-km area. Based on the
implementation arrangements which are discussed in the next section, there is evidence that other
arrangements would have been more appropriate to achieve both the land development and the
accessibility objective of the project.
2.2 Implementation
17.    Cost overrun: by the time section 1 is completed; the cost of constructing the three
sections of the ADC will ultimately reach nearly three times what was estimated in 2004. The cost
overrun of 184% results from: (i) price increase of key inputs, (ii) additional works required due to
modifications of project coverage and designs, and (iii) repeated delays in the completion of works
since 2010, additional management costs and unit prices resulting from general inflation.
18.    Delays in construction: the construction of the three sections into which ARR-1 was
divided, each financed by a different international finance institution proceeded much as planned,
but with substantial delays. Particularly, serious delays occurred on the southern section (section
1) which is now expected at best to be opened to traffic in the later part of 2014. As results, the
complete 40-km stretch of the ARR-1 will become available five years later than foreseen at
original appraisal. Despite the attention given to avoiding delays, virtually all the specific forecasts
proved overoptimistic. For instance, the original appraisal aimed at bids being called at the same
time as the corresponding loans became effective, and construction starting about six months later,
but those expectations seem to have been unrealistic given the amount of work to be done at each
stage, including initially pre-qualification of bidders, and then the time needed for actual bid
4


﻿preparation, evaluation of bids, selection and finally mobilization. Bids were ultimately called
about six months after the loan effectiveness, and the construction of the Bank-financed section
(section 2) began fifteen months later. The road was opened to traffic about 5 years after
construction began, instead of the 4 years as projected at appraisal.
19.    The important delays as described in Section 1 result from initial retendering (only two
bidders participated in the first round) pushing most of the construction over into the extremely
difficult period that the Jordanian government and economy have been facing since 2010 for
reasons largely unrelated to the project but with serious consequences for its implementation,
particularly because of government's budgetary constraints. Relatively expansionary fiscal and
monetary policies helped minimize the effects of the international financial problems in 2008-09
on Jordan. Since then the country has faced very low growth. Particular problems have: (i)
included the repeated sabotage of the Arab Gas Pipeline in the Sinai Peninsula bringing relatively
inexpensive gas from Egypt, and the need to substitute this gas with expensive liquid fuel from
elsewhere to maintain electric power supplies, (ii) lower than expected grants from other Arab
governments, (iii) rising outlays for hosting Syrian refugees, and (iv) much slower economic
growth than the country had enjoyed up to mid-2009. There is no doubt that these factors have
contributed to slowing the momentum for gradually bringing lands in the ADC area into higher-
productivity industrial or commercial uses.
20.    Serious implementation problems of more institutional and technical nature resulted from
the land development program of the project, which was designed to help meet the needs of
commercial/industrial sectors for affordable land to expand their activity, and to facilitate and
promote international trade.
21.    On the trade side, a study was carried out to identify the best way to structure the
management of logistics areas between the government and the private sector, and some 500
hectares of land (not included in the 2004 project cost estimates) were acquired at the chosen
intersection at Madounah for the new customs depot and accompanying inland-port facilities.
However, in 2006 the government announced the creation of a Mafraq Special Development Zone,
closer to the Syrian border, and works were abruptly suspended on any further conceptualization
and design for an inland port. In 2008, further development of the new Customs Depot was
suspended. No development has occurred on the lands acquired at Madounah beyond the land
leveling, advance works and utility bulk supply lines undertaken in 2005-06. Consequently,
neither has an inland port been created nor has the Customs Depot been moved from its current
congested location at the edge of the city to the Madounah site near ADC. The suspensions of
works to construct the new customs facility at Madounah were driven by a decision taken at that
time by the Army to build a Medical Center at Madounah. However, this plan was never executed
and there is evidence that the new customs depot and related logistics platform might still be
constructed at Madounah. This was verbally confirmed by the Ministry of Transport and by the
Customs Department but without an official written decision.
22.    The Steering and Executive Committees do not seem to have been maintained beyond the
first years of the project, in part because the Greater Amman Municipality took over full
responsibility for planning and zoning throughout the ADC area, reducing the need for
coordination between different government agencies at that level. The Technical Unit which had
been expected, with its high-level sponsorship, to play a very crucial role in assisting the local
planning authorities on land development was never created.
5


﻿23.    One noteworthy feature of the large road investment was the development in 2008 of an
improved pavement design, responsive to long-standing local problems of temperature-induced
cracking. This initiative was a direct result of a close cooperation between MoPWH, its engineers
and consultants, and Bank staff. Experiments were made in the development of stronger and more
even base course, pre-mixed and applied by paving finisher machine rather than grader, and harder,
less slippery wearing course, using basalt aggregate (instead of local limestone which is subject to
polishing) and mixing it with polymer-modified bitumen to yield stiffer end-product more resistant
to rutting. Experience showed that the execution of the works had to be managed carefully to get
the best results. Yet the achieved results will yield significant savings on maintenance and
rehabilitation. An adjustment of some JD 3 million ($4.2 million) was made to the costs of the
ARRI-1 project as a whole to enable this design to be used on all three sections. It has since also
been applied on other road works in Jordan.
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
24.    M&E Design: the results framework included adequate key indicators to measure the
achievement of the transport objective of the project. However, it did not include a measurable and
attributable indicator for the land development objective. On the one hand, annual surveys to
measure the development within the ADC area were the only proposed intermediate indicator for
this project component. On the other hand, appropriate intermediate indicators which could have
helped indicate whether traffic volumes and costs were moving as expected in the interim were not
selected. For example, an intermediate indicator to measure the existing traffic volume between
Zarqa and Queen Alia Airport could have been one useful guide to the level of traffic to be
diverted to ADC once constructed.
25.    M&E Implementation: There is very little indication that either the Bank, or the
MoPWH which was officially responsible under the loan for all M&E, gave any priority to the
economic and results monitoring - or comparison with evaluation model results - which the
appraisal team recommended. The work of the local research institution on the land development
dimensions of the project focused solely on region-wide aggregation of data that might possibly
become useful in the longer term, yet showing no linkage with progress of the project road
building, as emphasized by researchers' report. Unfortunately, this work did not tackle all the
critical start-up issues related to the initiatives to be taken by the public authorities and responsible
for areas nearest to the new highway to begin the necessary rezoning, reservations of routes for
local roads, or other measures, such as encouragement of utility-company interest to facilitate
action by investors seeking sites for establishing productive activities.
26.    M&E Utilization: Little reference was made during implementation to the key indicators
selected, mainly because they apply mostly to the situation when the investments reached the
operational stage. MoPWH and its consultants did of course make extensive and effective use of
monitoring and evaluation systems at more microeconomic levels, and particularly in connection
with the environmental aspects of the construction and road operations, as discussed below.
6


﻿2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
27.    Given the project's assignment to Category A, a detailed environmental assessment was
prepared and made available to the public. An Environmental and Management Plan (EMP) was
also produced. The assessment indicated that the main adverse environmental impacts would be
connected with the construction period. They could be minimized through careful planning and
supervision of construction activities, together with sound monitoring. The EMP stressed the need
for environmental supervision of the contractors as well as other actions to ensure environmental
protection during construction. Responsibility for this work was clearly assigned to PMT assisted
by the construction supervision consultants. In addition, the project paid for a training program in
environmental management reaching a much wider range of participants. PMT, with the help of
its consultants Dar Al-Handasah, developed a scheme that was notably thorough, and perhaps
fairly original, to closely monitor each contractor's performance and apply temporary financial
penalties until shortfalls were rectified (see Annex 5). This is considered to have made a
significant positive difference to the quality of environmental performance attained.
28.    The scale of land acquisition required for the project was far greater than any land
acquisition program implemented previously in Jordan. The number of people ultimately affected
(i.e., owners/occupants who lost some of their land, housing or other physical assets) was 3,028,
and compensation payments have amounted to about US$ 160 million equivalent. Three-quarters
of the compensation (440 ha, 850 plots and 2250 PAPs) was for the 40-km ARR- 1 route and one
quarter (500 ha, 240 plots and 778 PAPs) was for areas at Madounah which were selected in 2006
for the Customs Depot and the Inland Port. A Land Acquisition and Resettlement Plan (LARP)
was prepared in 2004, and the responsibility for its implementation assigned to joint effort
between the MoPWH (and particularly its Community Liaison Office) and the Department of
Lands and Surveys, which had been working together since early 2003. Their work was strongly
backed and closely followed by members of the PMT team. Particular attention was given to
people affected who were considered vulnerable, including female landowners, tenants and people
dependent on customary rights (e.g., herders) and the 300 or so owners/occupants who had to find
new places for their dependents and themselves to live.
29.    An innovative feature, compared with previous practice in Jordan, was to include as early
as possible in the execution of the program, a year or so before the project's Mid-Term Review, a
thorough assessment by an independent monitor. She carried out some physical and many
telephone interviews, and reached broadly positive conclusions. The situation was complicated by
the happenstance that the land acquisition finally occurred in a period of rapid increases in land
values and costs of building. Fortunately, in recognition of the fact that the road to be built would
be a limited-access facility (the first in the country), the government agreed to pay each owner for
all the land taken (rather than 75% of it, as permitted under Jordanian law and applied in previous
requisitions of land for public purposes). The way the land acquisition was handled appears to
have given some degree of satisfaction to most of those who had to give up part or all of their
lands. In addition, there is no evidence of people seriously hurt and without recourse.
7


﻿30.    Fiduciary responsibility was largely in the hands of the MoPWH and exercised mainly by
the PMT and the Ministry's Finance Department in coordination with the Ministry of Planning and
International Cooperation (MoPIC). The Ministries had extensive experience of work with the
Bank's procurement, accounting and auditing standards and reporting requirements. The
management consultants hired by the PMT brought additional international experience, especially
on procurement. The work proceeded without incident.
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
31.    The large delays that have arisen on the institutional side with regard to management and
use of the Corridor lands, and on the road infrastructure side with respect to full completion of
ARR-1, mean that much has yet to be done to bring substantial benefits to Jordan from the very
large effort made. On the road construction side this will be mostly a matter of timely fulfillment
of the final stages of construction, followed by good management and maintenance of the high-
grade stretch of road added to the network. On the land development side, the Customs Depot
may yet be confirmed as the future occupant of the site near Madounah Interchange that had been
identified and part-prepared for it in 2006, but decisions do not appear to be imminent on this or
on responsibilities for management of the logistics platform around the Depot or any wider
development, such as an inland port.
32.    For the road itself the key issue will be the assurance of good maintenance and avoidance
of right of way encroachments which have reduced capacities of some other main roads in the
country. Engineering designs have been adjusted to rule out such intrusions, but continuing
enforcement will be needed. Important work has also been done under the project to develop the
high-grade, smoother road surface (para. 20), but routine and periodic maintenance will be
essential. The Bank's appraisal suggested that it might be desirable to tender a contract for private
operation and maintenance of the road once completed, preferably using performance based
maintenance contracting or an adapted form suitable for Jordan. The International Finance
Corporation (IFC), which has been very active in the country in recent years, has promoted the
concept of road concessions for tolled operation, thereby directly raising the funding needed for
maintenance, and possibly combining responsibility for operation of the ARR-1 stretch with that
for construction and subsequent operation of Phases 2 and 3 of the Ring Road in simultaneous or
unified contracts, as has been done in a few Latin American cities. A serious immediate problem
to be resolved due to the unfortunately lengthy period of partial operation, and consequently
limited night-time traffic, is the repeated stealing by robbers of large lengths of the copper cable
feeding the overhead arc lighting installed down the center of the highway sections already
completed.
33.    As regards broader road transport issues, high priority still attaches to improvement of
both the efficiency and the quality/safety of Jordan's long-distance freight transport services.
Funds included in the 2004 loan to finance technical assistance for this purpose were substituted
by other sources and freed for other uses, but the projections of improved performance remained
an element of the project. Reform efforts, aimed at gradually eliminating the large excess capacity
in the country's heavy trucking fleet and securing better quality-price combinations by
deregulation and competition, have had some success - especially on the crucial Amman-Aqaba
route following major reform in 2006. The severely over-age share of the heavy truck fleet (over
15 years old) was also brought down from nearly two-thirds in 2003 to less than a third by 2009.
But there is still a large excess of heavy long-distance freight vehicles, many of them in poor
condition and owned by individuals rather than companies, exerting important depressive effects
on prices for services but also on quality and safety of services.
8


﻿34.    Government's capacities for effective regulation of the industry have been strengthened by
creation in 2010 of the Land Transport Regulatory Commission (LTRC). The pace at which these
efforts can progress nonetheless depends to significant extent on private-sector progress in
generating enough alternative employment opportunities for ex-drivers. Provided reasonable
progress on this front continues, top priorities in the trucking sector at this stage are continued
tight restriction on imports of heavy vehicles more than one year old, much more effective
enforcement of existing regulations (such as driver licenses, vehicle condition, dangerous goods,
and securing of loads) and introduction of stronger safety programs, limitations on driver hours
behind the wheel, higher registration fees for older trucks. It is worthwhile noting the recent
decision taken by the Minister of Transport to establish new units within LTRC, including a
transport safety unit.
35.    Whether directly adjacent to the Customs Depot or on a larger scale, as in an inland port,
logistic facilities were always foreseen to be matters for private investment and management. Yet,
overall management of an estate devoted to this purpose, especially for international trade, might
still be better left in public hands, as in the landlord port-authority formula that has been adopted
in so many countries for running their seaports. Final decisions are urgently needed on these
matters in Jordan to enable private investors to be effectively mobilized and to give them enough
confidence in the scheme to participate.
36.    Important work remains to be carried out to improve the capacities of the local authorities
responsible for the different parts of the ADC area to manage their areas to best advantage of their
inhabitants for the long-term. Land planning responsibility was centralized with Greater Amman
Municipality (GAM) in 2008. However, some of the local authorities found GAM's charges under
the unified set-up too high and took back fuller control of their areas in 2011. By the interchanges
and overpasses it provides, ARR-1 helps to set a strong framework for development of the trunk
routes across the area. Agreement was reached gradually to upgrade an existing North-South road
running up the center of the ADC area. Yet, responsibility for all collector and smaller roads
remains with the local planning authorities, whether GAM or the municipalities themselves.
37.    The authorities responsible for each area have to adjust the zoning of their lands in tune
with emerging opportunities and possibilities, apply those provisions once agreed and approved,
and attract potential users, often including in the first stage the utility companies to bring trunk
connections. Lands must be reserved for local roads and links with neighboring towns. The extent
of action required will clearly vary greatly across the region, depending principally on suitability
of sites for meeting the near-term needs that the economic progress of Greater Amman creates.
Current indications indicate that the earliest substantial rezoning of areas for denser development
may occur in the northeastern part of the ADC area, closest to Zarqa, where the responsibility
remains in the hands of GAM. However, because of lack of funds for local road building mean, it
is expected that progress will be slow.
38.    Given the delays that have accumulated and the large amount of leeway to be caught up, it
would be highly desirable that the Government commit itself today to a full economic re-
evaluation of the Amman Development Corridor project in about four or five years' time, say 2018.
The purpose of such announcement would be to give the Jordanian public and authorities every
incentive to build the consensus and compromises that are needed to reach firm decisions around
large infrastructure investments and enable effective actions to implement them.
9


﻿3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
39.    The ADC project remains very relevant to Jordan's current national development
objectives, for the same triple purposes of de-congestion, international trade facilitation, and
increasing the space available for commercial/industrial investments, for which it was originally
approved. The Bank's most recent strategy paper for its work with Jordan, reviewed by the Board
in February 2012, gives great emphasis to the reinforcement of the country's growth performance,
finding better ways to get more benefit from the comparative advantages highlighted here. As one
of the three specific ways in which it proposes to help, the Bank will seek to strengthen the
foundation for sustainable growth with a focus on competitiveness and support priority
infrastructure, including by leveraging private-sector investment. It refers to the ADC project as
one from which the country should be drawing significant fruit in the coming years.
40.    Quite apart from the major upgrade brought about in one of the most important pieces of
the country's infrastructure - corresponding to the large scale of the capital investment carried out
- a big investment has also been made in the discussion and review of alternative ways of
managing the future development of transport, foreign trade movements and land development in
the Amman area, some of it reflected in the project outputs listed in Annex 2. Promising solutions
were identified and were first implemented but had to be suspended. Today, those solutions and
plans need to be dusted off, double-checked for the extent to which they will attract, and contribute
to, a genuinely competitive private sector (in the provision of transport and logistical services and
in development and supply of land and buildings). As new issues and disagreements between
different public authorities will certainly come up in the course of bringing these arrangements to
life, it is important to find ways of resolving such disagreements for these institutions more
quickly than during the first five years of this project's life.
41.    For this new stage of the project, directly serving a mainly business clientele, whether on
the transport infrastructure or in the Corridor lands, the needs for a more practical and useful
monitoring system will be very much the same as described for the higher management level in
paras. 19-21 above: specific year by year targets for the particular service/s being offered but
comparable with the soundest figures that can be generated for the clientele that is going to
competitors or simply being missed.
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
42.    There is every reason to expect that the 40-km first phase of the Amman Ring Road will
deliver substantially on its transport objectives once it is finally opened all the way from Zarqa to
the Airport Highway, but the funds needed to fulfill outstanding commitments to the contractor of
Section 1 and to enable him to complete the project have not yet been finally committed, so that no
firm target date for completion can yet be given. The latest indications, showing the effects of the
half of the road that has been in full operation since early 2012, demonstrate significant progress
toward the achievement of the PDO targets most directly reflective of the road's performance.
Surveys in April 2013 show that travel time from Queen Alia International Airport to Zarqa has
now fallen from 60 minutes to 48 minutes and that as much as 8% of traffic volumes on relevant
urban streets has been diverted to the part of the road now open. The original target values of
these two indicators - 40 minutes and 10% of urban traffic diverted - should be fully met when the
southern half is completed so that the whole road will be open to traffic.
10


﻿43.    Trends have also been quite positive on the other two indicators that are related to the
transport objectives of the Development Corridor but largely independent of its construction.
Current indications are that the cost to transport a twenty-foot container from the Zarqa QIZ to
Aqaba Port is US$ 425 equivalent, which is a little less than the current value of the US$ 300
target set in 2004, which is estimated at US$ 450, if we take into consideration that the current
price of oil in Jordan is about 250%  above 2004 levels.   Broader indications about the
development of the country's trucking services are also that some progress has been made in
reducing excess capacities and raising service standards thanks to the liberalization and
deregulation that had already been started when the Bank's loan was made.
44.    As regards traffic passing through Amman Customs, despite the non-existence of the
planned new Customs Facility, it has grown at rates quite similar to those projected in 2004.
Definitions have changed somewhat and Amman Customs have not been handling transit trade at
all, but the total volume of imports and exports passing through the Amman Depot rose some 44%
between 2004 and 2012, compared with the 53% targeted in the Bank's indicator. The increase
achieved by 2011 was in fact 53 %, but volume fell substantially between 2011 and 2012 due to the
difficult political and economic situation confronting the region. While Customs have done their
best to adapt their facilities and procedures to cope with the expansion of traffic, they, their clients,
and the latter's transporters feel the need for more spacious and convenient facilities much more
seriously now than ten years ago.
45.    How long it may take to generate results convincingly meeting the project's other main
objective, regarding access to affordable land, is more difficult to say because a valid answer will
anyway be much more judgmental and the market being assessed is a lot more complicated than in
the case of specific transport services. But equally it is very certain that the road will be
facilitating access to more affordable land, exactly as intended, and that its full opening will be
followed by increased development of sites for industries, enterprises and apartment buildings.
Broader developments in Jordan and the economic situation of the region, and in the expansion of
international trade even more widely, will also obviously be important in determining the growth
of demand for space - in Jordan, in Amman and in the Corridor. To conclude, the second PDO
was not achieved to date and it is as yet unclear when the access that the road provides to more
affordable sites for industrial/commercial activity will become a significant factor in AMA's
development.
3.3 Efficiency
46.    The Mid-Term Review in March 2008 indicated that dollar costs of the project had more
than doubled since the original appraisal in 2004. The principal increase was in the costs of the
road construction works. It was mainly attributable to rapid increase in prices of oil-based and
energy-intensive inputs (changes in world prices, further magnified in Jordan by simultaneous
decisions of government to abandon some earlier subsidization policies) since the 2004
engineering estimates. Adjustments to the physical content of contracts, in the course of their
execution, had been significant but not greater than normal for such a project. All the original
financiers contributed substantially to covering the cost increases. Despite the very large cost
overruns and long delays incurred, the ARR Phase 1 road has continued to promise an Economic
Internal Rate of Return marginally above a 12% opportunity cost of capital. This is disappointing
compared with the original appraisal which estimated a return of 17%, based however on total
investment costs which do seem to have been on the low side in an increasingly unstable regional
situation. All the economic analyses, from those carried out at appraisal in 2003 to the current
(2013) re-estimate have followed exactly the same methodology, updating simply for revised
estimates of investment costs and updated figures for the standard vehicle operating costs and for
11


﻿commercial drivers' wage-costs (see Annex 3). Traffic forecasts for ARR-1 have been kept
basically the same for the coming years as projected in the original appraisal, an assumption whose
validity is to some degree confirmed by the first actual traffic counts, of April 2013.
47.    The main reason for the current analysis (indicating rate of return of 12.7% and NPV of
JD 11.7 million) to continue to yield results closely similar to those of 2008 is the further build-up
of traffic demand with the passage of time, now demonstrated on the road itself in the form of the
high flows on the completed northern portion that was opened in 2012. However, further delay in
completing the southern portion, and hence the whole link from Zarqa to the south of Amman,
could still undermine these positive results. It should be noted, however, that the road was, and
still is, expected to yield some non-quantifiable benefits in the form of significant improvements in
environmental conditions on the streets (in generally heavily populated areas) from which the
freight vehicles as well as many cars would be transferring to the new road. Air quality and safety
on those streets should in particular be notably improved. To conclude, the project was efficient
despite the lower rate of return achieved.
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
48.    Based on the combination of relevance, efficiency and the fact that objective 1 has not yet
been fully achieved (although likely) and objective 2 was not achieved and is unlikely to be fully
achieved in the near future, the overall outcome for this project is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.
The centerpiece of the project remains uncertain of reaching the operational stage even now when
nearly twice the expected construction time has passed. Supporting pieces of the project, such as
Customs Depot, inland port and strong support to local governments towards land development
have gradually been dropped without significant explanation or evident rationale.
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a)    Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
49.    The project was focused toward economic growth and efficiency, and it succeeded in
adding to Jordan's land acquisition procedures significant steps to ensure that female land-owners
received equal rights and treatment with those given to males. One key step was to ensure that
some of the Community Liaison Officers were females. A second was to include all female PAPs
automatically in the 'vulnerable group' requiring more than standard attention. A third was to
provide any financial compensation due to female PAPs in a form that could be accessed by no-
one other than the women themselves: they had to pick up their own checks made out in their
names as affected persons.
(b)    Institutional Change/Strengthening
50.    The most significant capacity building may have been accomplished (by consultants, but
with support from World Bank staff) on project management and land acquisition, including the
close inter-agency cooperation required (MoPWH, LSD and MoF), and on environmental
supervision in public works operations, including contractor execution of major construction or
maintenance contracts (see Annex 5). This kind of contribution may have extended to zoning and
land-use planning and development in a few local authorities in the ADC area.
12


﻿4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial
51.    The history of the project to date combined with the exceptional financial difficulties that
the government has confronted over the last three years and continues to face, indicate high risks
of further delays, especially on completing Section 1 and the construction of the new Customs
Depot and land development issues. Yet, there was a confirmation from the Ministry of Planning
and International Cooperation that a portion of the United Arab Emirate (UAE) grant to Jordan
approved on May 14, 2013 will be used to cover the remaining cost of Section 1. At the same time,
the Ministry of Transport and the Customs Department seemed optimistic on the construction of
the new customs depot and logistics platform at Madounah site as originally planned.
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
52.    The Bank had given much attention to the preparation of this project and was enterprising
and thoughtful in contributing to the multi-sectoral formulation of it, including logistics and land-
access dimensions. Outstandingly good work had been done on land-acquisition and
environmental aspects of the project, and effective arrangements were made to ensure timely and
high-quality handling of these vital aspects. The Bank may, however, have misread the degree of
support for the multi-sectoral formulation across the government as a whole, or allowed
insufficient time for real consensus to develop. However, it also built in provisions in the loan
agreement, such as the formulation and maintenance of a Steering Committee, Executive
Committee and Technical Unit, to facilitate continued discussion and learning between various
agencies, assisted by consultants with direct experience of the way the issues were being handled
in other countries. A weakness which had even more serious medium-term consequences than
expected was the reliance on cost estimates that proved to be insufficiently updated, along with
price contingencies of only 4%. More attention should have been given to the development of a
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) framework during preparation which could have been better
suited to the different purposes and dimensions of the project.
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
53.    Bank's supervision efforts through to the period following the Mid-Term Review made
important contributions to project achievements, especially in several specific areas, for example,
in the large land acquisition and the research and experimentation to develop a pavement design
better suited to local conditions. But whether for reasons of lack of time, absence of interest, or
doubt about the likelihood of real improvement, supervision was not able to give the attention that
would have been required to secure greater progress on the 'access to affordable land' PDO.
Supervision appears normally to have been taken by surprise when the government progressively
jettisoned components: Technical Unit (never recruited), Steering Committee (no meeting since
2006), Inland Port (dropped when Mafraq scheme was announced), and Customs Depot (no
13


﻿progress since 2008 despite continuing frequent reference to alternative possible sites). Optimism
that progress would still occur, so that it was appropriate to rate the project 'Satisfactory' on ISRs,
proved justified on occasion, for example trucking reform efforts. Yet, it proved persistently
inappropriate on some others, most seriously the Customs Depot transfer to the ADC area.
54.    Although the full extent of Government's financial constraints since 2010 would not have
been foreseeable, it would probably have been worthwhile to undertake a restructuring exercise of
the project in 2009, after the Mid-Term Review in order to re-focus the objectives more precisely,
including 'post-completion' actions and to adopt more appropriate key indicators and firm up
financing arrangements.
Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
55.    The Overall Bank performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory based on a combination
of: (i) Moderately satisfactory rating for Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry, (ii)
Moderately unsatisfactory rating for quality of supervision, and (iii) Moderately unsatisfactory
rating for overall outcome of the project.
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
56.    The government succeeded in delivering, in a timely manner, the financial resources
required for a land acquisition program far larger than it had ever previously undertaken. It also
carried, from its own resources, nearly one-half of the $300 million cost overrun incurred by the
project, a contributory cause of the acute financial stringencies the government has suffered since
2011. Nonetheless, the inconsistency of its own actions, sudden reversals of its earlier decisions
without explanation and failures to deliver decisions promised on outstanding issues, have been
the main reasons for weak and much delayed achievement of the potential benefits of the project.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
57.    The Ministry of Public Works and Housing devoted much thought and effort to the project
at all stages, particularly basic conception, coordination with other government bodies, selection
and management of effective consultants and contractors. Greater attention to the adequacy of
cost estimates when the original tenders were floated in 2005, and to the packaging of requested
bids, would probably have enabled the Ministry to avoid the rebidding required for ARR- 1 Section
1, which had such dire eventual consequences, extending the contract into the period of
government's extreme financial stringency since 2011.
14


﻿Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
58.    The Bank's ICRR guidelines consider that a combination of mixed (satisfactory and
unsatisfactory) ratings for Government and Implementing Agency on the one hand, with a
"Moderately Unsatisfactory" outcome rating for the project on the other hand, results in a
"Moderately Unsatisfactory" rating for the overall Borrower performance.
6. Lessons Learned
59.    The three-dimensional concept of the Amman Development Corridor project (transport,
land and trade) was an imaginative response to Amman's needs, but the lead agency for
developing the needed consensus and coordination would probably better have been the Ministry
of Municipalities and Greater Amman Municipality (GAM) - with which the Bank was already
collaborating quite successfully on other subjects. The MoPWH would still have been brought in
to take full responsibility for implementation of the agreed design of the centerpiece road, since it
would necessarily be a national highway rather than a municipal road. Nevertheless, the GAM,
and the small municipality authorities which are responsible for much of the land area included in
the Corridor, would together have taken a more active lead role in bringing the other dimensions
of the project to reality in ways that would best serve the interests of their populations. Master
Planning would have proceeded much as it did with GAM's efforts for Amman and then more
broadly for ADC area but there would have been more activity at the local level to contribute to
that planning and move gradually towards the measures by which the plans would become
effective. A strong coalition of all the local authorities might also have been able to work with
trade interests to enable the government to stick to its commitment for the more efficient (and less
polluting) arrangements for handling international trade in the Amman area.
60.    An alternative and perhaps more promising approach to securing a better combination
between capacities for transport and urban development - in the country and in the Bank - would
have been to depart more radically from the perhaps overly complex and ambitious single-project
concept and to seek instead a programmatic approach, with a broad vision jointly developed by
transport and urban authorities with the support of respective Bank units and a series of perhaps 3
or even 5 follow-on projects each focused on a clearly delineated component set in such a way as
to make an important contribution to effective realization of the agreed overall vision. With strong
support from the central leaders of government, a programmatic approach might have been able to
achieve more over the last ten years in Jordan than what was possible for GAM or any single
authority, given the stresses to which all have been subject.
61.    Especially when the implementation of a major project will depend on timely completion
of a number of large and complex independent contracts, it is vital to precede the eventual launch
of bidding with (a) double-check that cost estimates are fully up-to-date with latest information on
prices of major inputs and current market conditions, so that sufficient funds are in hand to
proceed immediately with the project, and (b) experienced and knowledgeable packaging of the
bids - including division of the works amongst different packages - so that they do succeed in
attracting enough offers to enable a sound decision in favor of one bidder for each package and,
consequently, timely commitment of all the contracts required for implementation of the project.
While the bidding stage is particularly key to any project, there are of course many facets of
financing agencies' work that are important to the pace and success of development efforts.
15


﻿62.    The development objectives should be attributable to the specific interventions
implemented by the project. They should focus on the outcomes for which the project can be held
accountable given its duration, resources, and design be clear and precise, and not encompass
ambitious higher level objectives that depend on other efforts outside the project scope. The results
chain should be clearly identified for this type of projects and SMART (Specific, Measurable,
Adequate, Realistic, Time bound) indicators should be adopted for every aspect of the
development objective. A step which might interest the increasing number of partners
contributing to the financing of parallel parts of a project/program, like ADC, would be to agree in
advance, and to monitor, key performance indicators capturing the work and the contribution of
each financier, as a help to the sharing of experience and lessons.
63.    One contributor to the difficulties that the MoPWH has had in bringing to conclusion
construction of ARR-1 is the spending cap that the Ministry of Finance has introduced to avoid
problems of excessive indebtedness. Caps have been set on the aggregate spending by each line
ministry, and within that cap, the line ministry prioritizes expenditures. Over the past several
years, disbursements on projects financed by the Bank have been restricted in order to stay within
the ceilings, and this has delayed implementation and compromised the achievement of project
outputs and outcomes. This situation has affected all sectors and many other IFIs beyond the Bank.
To prevent such situations in the future, line Ministries and the Ministry of Finance would be
advised to ensure that Bank (and other IFIs) projects are reflected in the Government's spending
plan for the fiscal year. The Bank's country management unit is working closely with the
government to find the best ways of adjusting the management of sectoral capital investment
programs to fit within the constraints of the government's fiscal and public-debt situation.
64.    As regards land acquisition activities, government's agreement to pay for the first time for
all land requisitioned was obviously crucial, but the package of arrangements introduced to ensure
good implementation on the ground, sensitive to the needs of the different people directly affected,
was an important factor in the overall success and the basis it establishes for future land
acquisition programs. Key elements to the package were: early development within the executing
agency (MoPWH), of the Community Liaison Office for active linkage with PAPs throughout the
process; inclusion of female as well as male staff in the Community Liaison Office; early
development of strong collaboration between CLO and DPS; provision from the beginning for
special attention to vulnerable categories among the PAPs and to ways of easing their adaptation
to the new situation; establishment of direct lines of communication between the authorities and
families which had to re-establish themselves in new locations; and, of course, development and
maintenance of a very strong central data base on all concerned land owners/occupants, preferably
including brief note of all contacts (not only those on financial compensation) that occur; and
sound mechanisms to ensure female owners/occupants do receive the compensation intended for
them.
65.    Systematic environmental monitoring, reinforced by small monetary incentives, can make
a worthwhile difference to contractors' adherence to good environmental standards throughout
their work. For the ADC project, bid winners were provided very detailed lists of the standards
(Jordanian and international) required to be fulfilled in each phase of the work and guidance on the
ways performance would be monitored and graded by thorough independent inspection each
month. They were required to sign a statement of commitment to these standards. All the
contractors on the project became subject to withholdings at various times for different matters -
most frequently, poor management of borrow pits, excessively high stacking of loose material in
them, and insanitary conditions in worker camps, but also many other individual items. The
system brought about useful improvements over the course of time in adherence to desired
standards.
16


﻿66.    Initiatives taken by Amman in connection with air-quality aspects of transport and
construction will also merit replication in other projects and countries. Jordan signed the
Emissions Reduction Purchase Agreement and several of the activities for which it hoped to earn
credit were supported by the ADC project, including the ARR-I itself (for reduction of congestion
on the urban routes from which traffic would be diverted) and planned fixed-rail lines. A
systematic Environmental Quality Monitoring (EQM) program was also started in 2006 for regular
monthly monitoring of noise and five key air-quality measures (Lead, PM1O, N02, S02 and CO)
in the peak traffic hour at 13 sampling locations chosen for proximity to project construction sites
near roads offering different kinds of traffic conditions. The results showed that, despite visible
effects, construction was seldom a major problem but that traffic sometimes was. The system will
therefore be of great value for measuring the real difference to urban air quality that is made by
ARR-1 once fully open, although it is now felt that coverage of a larger number of sites, more
representative of the roads from which traffic would divert, should have been maintained.
MoPWH's staff were fully trained to take over this system and the special measuring equipment
involved from their consultants who had developed it, and to maintain regular monthly readings.
17


﻿Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)
Appraisal   Additional Financing  Actual Estimateb  Percentage
Components               Estimate         Appraisal        (March 15, 2013)   of 2008
2004           Estimate                           Appraisal
2008a
A. Amman Ring Road        106.92           220.99              279.87           127
Phase 1 Construction
Al: Section 1 (18.5 km)    43.60            89.63              116.10           130
A2: Section 2 (14.5 km)    34.16            62.94               77.00           122
A3: Section 3 (7.0 km)     29.16            68.42               86.77           127
B. Inland Port, Customs    8.07             40.35               3.01            7
Depot, Trucking
Bl: Access and             4.91             16.79               2.62            16
Infrastructure
B2: Building &             2.84             23.24                --             --
Superstructure
B3: Port/Depot Planning,   0.32             0.32                0.39            122
Trucking Reform
C. Project Management      4.71             11.84               14.66          124
& Planning
C1: ADC Area Master        0.79             0.79                3.12           395
Plan, Dev. Promotion
C2: AMA Transport          0.15             2.00                0.50            25
Planning, Traffic Eng.
C3: ARR Phases 2 & 3       0.50             3.10                2.22            72
Planning & Design
C4: Project Management     3.27             5.95                8.82           148
& Tech. Support
Land Acquisition           40.90            70.00              158.43           169
(Expropriation)
Total Project Cost     160.60           343.18              455.97           132
Physical Contingencies      8.55
included
Price Contingencies         4.27
included
Front-end fee IBRD          0.38            0.46                0.27             59
Total Financing       160.98           343.64              456.24           133
Required
(a) Financing
'World Bank Project Paper on Additional Financing for US$ 33 million, November 6, 2008.
b The actual estimate includes US$ 42 million to cover payments after December 31 2012 to close final bills for Sections 2 and 3 of
ARRI ($12 million) and to bring Section I to full completion ($30 million)
18


﻿Appraisal        Revised         Actual             Percentage
Source of Funds                Estimate        Estimate        Estimate'            of 2008
(2004)          (2008)          (2013)             Appraisal
Borrower                          51.08          110.97         194.63                175
Arab Fund for Econ. &             39.40           80.84          78.16                 97
Social Development
European Investment Bank          32.50           80.83          82.87d               103
International Bank for
Reconstruction and                38.00           71.00          71.00                100
Development
3Financing in the amount of US$ 29.58 million equivalent has yet to be obtained.
d Including grants, in the amount of US$ 4.92 equivalent, for ADC Master Plan and ARR Phases 2 and 3 studies.
19


﻿Annex 2. Outputs by Component
Component                Outputs Delivered               Current Status/Comments
A. Amman Ring Road 1 Construction and Supervision
Al. Section 1     1 Interchange                          18.5 kms of 2-lane dual
carriageway,
2 major interchanges and 4
overpasses, by October 2014
A2. Section 2     13.4 kms of 2-lane dual carriageway,
1 interchange,l overpass
A3. Section 3     8 km, two short sections of 2-lane dual
carriageway, 2 major interchanges, 3
overpasses
B. Inland Port and Trucking Industry
Bl. Port/Depot        -  8 km of roads up to sub-grade  Access and infrastructure to be
Access and Infra-        level                          finalized once the new customs
Structure             -  27 hectares of parking         depot and logistics platform/inland
-  Drainage facilities             port will be built together at this
-  Laying 400 mm water pipe from   Madounah site
Hizam road
-  Electrical cable connection ( 2*33
kv) from Sahab sub-Station
B2.Customs Depot No outputs                              Final decision to construct a new
Building and                                            customs depot and logistics
Superstructure                                          platform/inland port at this
Madounah site is still pending
B3.Trucking &         -  Technical Assistance on        The Trucking Sector review was
Port Planning            Trucking Sector Review         financed by an EU grant
-  Technical Assistance on Port &
Depot Planning
C. Project Ma agement and Planning
Cl. ADC Master        -  ADC Master Plan                    -   ADC Master Plan financed
Plan & Develop-       -  Monitoring Development Report         by an EIB grant
ment Promotion           (land values, building permits,
licensed areas and business
license)
C2. AMA Trans-        -  Feasibility and preliminary design  -  Detailed design and
port Planning &          study of public transport             bidding documents yet to
Traffic                  development, focusing on rail-        be prepared
Engineering              based mass transit alternatives
C3. ARR Phase 2       -  feasibility for ARR 2 & 3 ( 80     -  Feasibility study Financed
and 3 Planning &         km)                                   by EIB grant
Design                -  PPP study to construct ARR 2 &     -  PPP study financed by IFC
3
C4. Project Mana-  Project Management Consultant retained
gement and Tech-  from 2004-2012 for overall management,
nical Support     monitoring progress, backing environment
and resettlement
20


﻿Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
1.     The Amman Development Corridor will replace, and/or alleviate overload on, the existing
link between the south and the northeast of Amman. The existing route (Airport Road to Zarqa via
Hizam Road) runs through urbanized areas and is becoming heavily congested as it handles
substantial volumes of freight traffic.
2.     The Bank's 2004 PAD included an economic evaluation of the Corridor project
showing:
*   Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) = 17.5%
* Economic Net Present Value (ENPV) = JD 86.3 million
3.     Updated evaluations were prepared in December 2007, May 2008, July 2008, and August
2008, yielding the following results:
Table 3.1 Results of Previous Economic Analysis
Date of Analysis                    EIRR     ENPV
December 2007                       15.89%   JD 57.46 million
May 2008                            12.94%   JD 16.64 million
July 2008                           13.01%   JD 17.52 million
August 2008                         12.73%   JD 12.81 million
4.     The economic evaluation compares the costs to society of a proposed project (the with-
project case) and the alternative costs to a society if this proposed project is not implemented (the
without-project case). The comparison between the two cases leads to the estimation of the project
benefits to society as a whole. The benefits in the case of road projects will be time savings and
lower vehicle operating costs, for both normal and diverted traffic.
5.     Consistent with the previous studies done on the ADC project, the following are the main
parameters used in this economic evaluation:
*   Investment costs are adapted to economic costs using a Standard Conversion Factor (SCF)
of 0.93 (based on value of imports less taxes).
*   The 2004 update study used a discount rate of 12% and this rate is retained for the current
exercise.
*   The project evaluation period is 25 years, starting in the year 2004, when the first
expenditure took place, and finishing in the year 2028.
*  All costs used in the economic analysis are in Jordanian Dinars, in constant 2007 prices.
*   Residual values are estimated for the investment, based on a life of 40 years.
6.     The economic evaluation identifies costs and benefits in each year of the evaluation period,
and calculates the net benefits to estimate the Economic Internal Rate of Return and, using
discounting techniques, the Economic Net Present Value. The previous evaluations of the ADC
have all used this approach.
7.     The updated cost of the construction and supervision elements of the Project, including
land acquisition for the road and related technical assistance, are shown in Table 3.2 below (in
2007 prices for comparison with previous evaluations):
21


﻿Table 3.2 Project Costs by Components
Component                                       Total Costs (JD millions)
@2007 prices @ Prices paid
A. Construction and Supervision                  181.65          198.31
B. Inland Port and Customs Depot                  2.12            2.12
C. Project and ADC Management                     5.18            6.15
D-G Land Acquisition and Financial Charges       75.30           83.70
Total                                           264.28          290.40
8.     The investment costs taken into account in the economic analysis are the same as those
listed in Annex 1 except for three items excluded here: the US$ 40.43 million (JD 29 million) of
land acquisition costs that were used to acquire land for the Customs Depot/inland port which have
not gone ahead, and the two EU grant-funded studies (ADC Master Plan and Amman Ring Road
Phases 2 and 3), together costing US$ 4.92.
9.     The 2003-04 Amman Development Corridor study was based on the 1999 Greater Amman
Urban Transport Study (GAUTS) model. The Consultant built a base-year model using SATURN
software, from the 1999 GAUTS with the aid of information from additional traffic counts. Then
by employing matrix estimation techniques, the base-year 2003-04 was produced. The forecast of
traffic from the base year 2003 took into account the general growth of traffic in Greater Amman
and the proposed land use expansion program to the east of Amman, between Hizam Road and the
proposed ADC.
10.    Based on the traffic model developed for the 2003-04 ADC study, traffic volumes were
estimated for various flow groups for both the Do Minimum (DM) without-project case and the
Do Something (DS) with-project case for three forecast horizon years of 2008, 2018 and 2028.
The economic viability of the ADC was analyzed using the 2003-2004 ADC traffic model results.
Table 3.3 Average Forecast Daily Traffic
Average Forecast Daily Traffic
Section          ADC Section Name                 2014    2018    2028
1.               Airport Rd-Sahab Rd.            19,708  41,654  82,779
1/2              Sahab Rd.-Madouna Rd.          29,527   43,700  71,200
2                Madouna Rd.-Zarqa Highway       21,945  33,000  60,800
3                Zarqa Through Route-1st. section  14,248  23,800  50,200
3                Zarga Through Route-final section  14,861  18,500  27,200
3                Zarga Eastern Bypass             6,211   7,700   9,700
11.    As Section 1 of ADC will not be completed before mid-2014, while Sections 2 and 3 have
already been completed and opened to traffic since February 2012; a limited traffic count was
conducted on April 2013 to measure the actual current traffic volumes on the opened sections of
the road and to give an indication of the current benefit and the amount of traffic being diverted
along these opened parts of the ADC. This exercise was not meant to replace the original traffic
model and its forecasted traffic volumes for the horizon years but to get a sense of the level of
traffic that is currently on sections 2 and 3 of ADC.
22


﻿12.    The traffic at 2 peak periods covering the morning and evening peaks (2-hour periods)
were measured with the following results:
AM Peak period (0600-0800) = 1610 veh/2hrs
PM Peak period (1500-1700) = 1386 veh/2hrs
13.    From these counts, the two-way peak hour traffic and ADT in 2013 were estimated as
1047 veh/hr and 16,400 veh/day respectively. These counts were conducted "manually" on a
partially opened road (section 2), representing approximately 75-80% of the eventual traffic that
was originally forecasted for section 2. This means that the 2014 forecast will likely be met and
even exceeded once the corridor has been fully open to traffic.
14.    The breakdown of 2014 traffic forecast daily traffic has been conducted using observed
2007 vehicle composition during three peak periods along the existing North-South corridor. The
resultant 2014 daily traffic split is given below.
Table 3.4 Breakdown of the Dail Traffic (2014 forecast)
ADC Section Name                     Cars    Trucks Buses Small Pick-ups/
Buses Vans
Airport Rd.-Sahab Rd.                 10,839  1,577  197      788    6,307
Sahab Rd.-Madouna Rd.                16,240  2,362   295     1,181   9,449
Madouna Rd.-Zarga Highway            12,070  1,756   219      878    7,022
Zarqa Through Route-1st. section      7,837  1,140   142      570    4,559
Zarqa Through Route-final section     8,174  1,189   149      594    4,756
Zarga Eastern Bypass                  3,416    497    62      248    1,988
15.    Vehicle Operating Costs have been derived for each of the vehicle types expected. These
costs are composed of the following items: Fuel, Oil, Tires, Capital cost, Maintenance, and Time
(of commercial vehicle drivers and assistants). The actual investment cost for the project
components are presented in Table 3.5.
16.    The economic analysis has been re-evaluated using the actual project costs and benefits.
The traffic projections used in the 2008 analysis have been kept the same with the exception of the
years 2011, 2012 and 2013 where actual traffic volumes have been used.
23


﻿Table 3.5 Actual Project C sts by Co ponents (JD million)
Year            Component                     Cost (in          Cost Paid
2007 prices)   (including full
price increases
"6escalation"
A         B       C      D-G
2004       0.00     0.00    0.00    4.40        4.40             4.40
2005       0.00     0.00    0.05    6.90         6.95            6.95
2006       6.20      1.42   0.32    2.71         10.65           10.65
2007      17.94     0.70    0.46    8.57        27.67           27.67
2008      26.325    0.00    0.73    7.19         34.25          38.62
2009      23.75     0.00    0.63    26.3         50.68          57.11
2010      42.07     0.00    1.16    3.70         46.94          49.09
2011      17.69     0.00    0.51    12.8         31.00          39.58
2012      17.67     0.00    0.60    2.75         21.02          25.16
2013      15.00     0.00    0.72    0.00         15.72           16.02
2014      15.00     0.00    0.00    0.00         15.00           15.00
Total     181.65     2.12   5.18    75.32       264.28          290.25
17.   Based on the input data outlined in the preceding section (the actual investment cost and
the traffic volumes output from the original traffic model), the Economic Internal Rate of Return
(EIRR) and the Economic Net Present Value (ENPV) have been calculated. The results are
summarized in table 3.6 below.
18.   It should be noted that a shadow conversion factor (0.93) has been applied to the
financial construction costs (table 3.5) to give the economic construction costs used in table 3.6.
The results of the economic analysis indicate that the viability of the ADC project is still positive,
with an EIRR of 12.710%, despite the increase in investment costs since the original evaluation and
the delay in completion.
24


﻿Table 3.6 Economic Evaluation Results (JD million, in 2007 Prices)
Year             Invest  Maint.  Benefits  Undis B-C  Disc B-C
2004              4.40                        -4.40    -4.40
2005              6.95                        -6.95    -6.21
2006             10.12                        -10.12   -8.07
2007             26.37                        -26.37   -18.77
2008             32.40                        -32.40   -20.59
2009             49.02                        -49.02   -27.82
2010             43.99                        -43.99   -22.29
2011             29.76     0.00      0.00     -29.76   -13.46
2012             19.78     0.00      6.12     -13.66   -5.52
2013             14.67     1.82      7.68     -8.81    -3.18
2014             13.95     3.63     23.80      6.22    2.00
2015                       3.63     28.05     24.42    7.02
2016                       3.63     33.05     29.42    7.55
2017                       3.63     38.95     35.32    8.09
2018                       3.63     45.89     42.26    8.65
2019                       3.63     54.08     50.45    9.22
2020                       18.17    61.78     43.61    7.11
2021                       3.63     70.57     66.94    9.75
2022                       3.63     80.62     76.99    10.01
2023                       3.63     92.10     88.47    10.27
2024                       3.63     105.21    101.58   10.53
2025                       3.63     118.16    114.53   10.60
2026                       3.63     132.71   129.08    10.67
2027                       3.63     149.05   145.42    10.73
2028            -151.91    18.17    167.4    301.14    19.84
Total             99.50    85.35   1215.22   1030.37   11.75
EIRR:                  12.71%
ENPV (JDm):            11.76
25


﻿Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
(1) Task Team members
Responsibility/
Names                         Title               Unit       specilty
Specialty
Lending
Supervision/ICR
Abdelmoula Ghzala         Lead Infrastructure Specialist  MNSTR    Supervision TTL
Said Dahdah               Transport Specialist            MNSTR       ICR TTL
Nazaneen Ismail Ali       Senior Procurement Specialist   MNAPC
Fatiha Amar               Program Assistant               MNSSD
Robert Bou Jaoude         Program Coordinator             SACPK
Ibrahim Khalil Dajani     Senior Operations Officer       MNSTR
Diana C. El Masri         Consultant                     MNAFM
Mohammed D. E. Feghoul    Consultant                      MNSTR
Sepehr Fotovat Ahmadi     Senior Procurement Specialist   MNAPC
Rima Abdul-Amir Koteiche  Sr Financial Management Specialist MNAFM
Jerome Leyvigne           ET Consultant                   MNSSD
Jad Raji Mazahreh         Sr. Financial Management Specialist MNAFM
Ahmed Merzouk             Senior Procurement Specialist   SARPS
Francois Noisette         Senior Urban Management
____________IMNCO2___
Specialist
Knut Opsal                Sr. Social Scientist            EASER
James A. Reichert         Senior Infrastructure Specialist  EASNS
Kingsley 0. Robotham      Consultant                      MNSSD
Imad Saleh                Operations Adviser              LCSDE
Terje Wolden              Consultant                      MNSTR
Christopher Willoughby    Consultant                      MNSTR
26


﻿(2) Staff Time and Cost
Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                              USD Thousands (including
travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY04                                                       121.99
FY05                                                        0.00
FY06                                                        0.00
FY07                                                        0.00
FY08                                                        2.76
FY09                                                       51.04
Total:                                175.79
Supervision/ICR
FY04                                                        0.00
FY05                                                       116.48
FY06                                                       63.71
FY07                                                       109.50
FY08                                                       99.62
FY09                                                       75.24
FY10                                                       77.01
FY11                                                       95.28
FY12                                                       110.71
FY13                                                       126.00
Total:                                873.55
27


﻿Annex 5. Environmental and Social Impact and Mitigation
1.     The scale and significance of the Amman Development Corridor project in Jordan's
development efforts, as well as the expectation that it would be followed gradually by further
projects to extend the Ring Road, led the Jordanian authorities to give particular attention to ways
of minimizing adverse side effects. Among the many measures adopted, relatively unusual and
innovative steps were taken to monitor and follow up on the possible emergence of such negative
effects and bring additional remedial actions into play. This annex focuses on these aspects.
2.     Social and environmental safeguard arrangements for the project benefited from the large
amount of work carried out in earlier years on the possible Ring Road more generally. With the
assistance of a qualified international consulting firm, MoPWH had prepared already in 1999 a full
Environmental Assessment, a Resettlement Action Plan, and a Cultural Resources Impact
Assessment. It had also mounted a proactive Information, Participation and Consultation Program.
The work was carried out by an interdisciplinary team of national, regional and international
specialists, which was mobilized again in 2003 to update the work and contribute to formulation of
substantial key documents - Environmental Management Plan (EMP), its associated Cultural
Resources Management Plan (CRMP), and Land Acquisition and Resettlement Plan (LARP) -
which all had to be completed before the project could go ahead with World Bank and other
international financing.
Contractors' Environmental Performance
3.     The Environmental Assessment had found that the greatest potential environmental
impacts would occur during the construction phase: disruptions in communications and utilities,
drainage problems, imbalance of Cut and Fill, noise and air pollution, deficiencies in borrow pits
and sites used for disposal of surplus materials, side-effects and residues from construction camps.
As much as possible had been done in the course of detailed design to reduce environmental risks
by adjustments in alignment, provision for underpasses and culverts, additional fencing and
suchlike. The key next step was therefore to try to ensure full recognition and observance of
environmental standards by the contractors and their subordinates and employees.
4.     The monitoring system developed had two main components. Contractors who won
contracts had been required to sign a statement committing themselves to comply with the contents
of the project's Construction Environmental Management Guidelines (CEMG). The CEMG also
required that contract sites be visited by the PMT on a regular basis during construction. The
primary mechanism for ensuring compliance was therefore systematic application, in the course of
such visits, of the checklists included in CEMG and of the negative points specified there for each
weakness that might be found - 15, for example, for serious infringements, down to more nominal
for minor deficiencies. The other, supplementary source of monitoring information was the output
from systematic monitoring of air-quality and other ambient effects at key points distributed
throughout the construction area, 23 to establish relevant baselines and 13 for regular monthly
follow-up.
5.     PMT site inspections used the CEMG assessment packages corresponding to the stage of
work reached and hence the type of main activities underway. The supervising Consultant
Engineers for each contract were also responsible for carrying out site inspections using the
CEMG checklists. Performance points given by the PMT and Supervising Consultants were then
used to measure contractor compliance. The incentive to compliance took the form of a standard
structure of responses to the aggregate score prevailing for each contractor at any moment: formal
requests for corrective action for Negative Performance Point (NPP) scores of less than 30,
28


﻿warning of issuance of an order to stop work for any score above 30, and, at 60 points, the right for
the owner to issue a 'Stop Work' order until remediation or corrective measures were taken.
Following the site visits, the scores could be corrected, but only after the contractor had satisfied
PMT that the issue/s had been dealt with in a timely and environmentally acceptable manner.
6.     After a few rounds applying this procedure failed to generate the kinds of improvement
efforts by the contractors that had been hoped for, MoPWH's consultants recommended adoption
of a more incentivized system which did indeed prove more effective. The performance rating
system described above was directly linked with a system of financial penalties, withholding one
percent of the monthly payment due to a contractor in the first month inspection awarded him 60
negative points, rising by an additional 1% each month that the score for these matters remained
above 60. Amounts withheld could mount rapidly if new sets of problems were identified and
began earning withholdings while the monthly retentions were still growing for failure to remedy
the problems identified earlier. All the contractors on the project had periods when they exceeded
60 NPPs but they managed to remedy them quickly enough that withholdings did not become too
great.
7.     More importantly, the system did help to bring about improvements on many issues of
contractor performance, especially in connection with such issues as siting and management of
borrow pits and refuse areas, dumping of oil, temporary traffic signaling and maintenance of
construction camps. Some of the contractors adopted similar approaches for the management of
their sub-contractors. The system was considered to have proved its worth in securing an overall
improvement in the quality of work delivered.
Land Acquisition and Resettlement
8.     A socio-economic survey and census of Project-Affected Persons (PAPs) had already been
carried out, also in 1999, as part of the Environmental Impact Assessment. An update of the
ownership status of lands required for the ADC part of the Ring Road was carried out in August
2002, and an updated land acquisition analysis was issued in November 2003. A draft Land
Acquisition and Resettlement Plan (LARP) for the project was submitted to the World Bank and
disclosed for public inspection in February 2004. It indicated that the road project would impact
about 500 plots, with about 1,900 identified owners, the very large majority being private parties.
An important adjustment to standard Jordanian practice up until that time was provision for post-
compensation monitoring of PAPs, as required under World Bank guidelines. And a crucial
element in the smooth implementation of the large-scale expropriation required for
accomplishment of the project was the close cooperation that had begun already in 2003 between
the two bodies mainly responsible: MoPWH (PMT and the Community Liaison Officers) and the
Department of Lands and Survey (DLS).
9.     Special attention in the planning and management of the land acquisition was given to
groups considered more vulnerable, and especially to women who accounted for about one third of
the owners identified, so that particular efforts were needed to ensure that they were properly
informed, enabled to make their own decisions, and would actually receive the compensation and
any other assistance offered. A particularly important measure was recruitment into CLO, the unit
responsible for direct contacts with PAPs throughout project implementation, of high-quality
female staff. Another much smaller group of PAPs that was also considered potentially vulnerable
and in need of special attention was the users of customary rights, with livelihood almost totally
dependent on the rangelands through which most of the project runs.
29


﻿10.    Three forms of monitoring were envisaged at the stage of project design and applied:
internal, independent and external. Internal monitoring was to be carried out principally by the
Community Liaison Officers, MoPWH staff members. Independent monitoring of compensation
processes and negotiations was to be carried out by an independent, neutral individual of high
standing, appointed by the Ministry and reporting to it and to the funding agencies. External
monitoring would be by staff of the World Bank and other funding agencies as part of their
supervision missions and other reviews.
11.    The independent monitor review - another innovation relative to past practice in Jordan -
took place at the turn of the year 2006/07, before the mid-term review of the project as a whole but
later than had been intended due to difficulties encountered in locating and recruiting an
appropriate expert. . On the basis of wide discussions in the Ministry and many interviews, by
telephone and on the ground, the monitor concluded that the land acquisition effort had set
ambitious goals and worked up "an exemplary approach to be pursued in similar future projects."
The expert monitor also identified several areas for further improvement, perhaps most
importantly greater follow-up with PAPs after their lands have been given up, and better recording
of the substance of contacts between them and concerned officials over time.
12.    Responding to these suggestions, the CLO/PMT carried out a series of interviews with a
sample of PAPs, especially women and those physically resettled. The individual interview
reports record widespread concern particularly about the slow payment of compensation - with
eight months seeming to be found often acceptable, but not periods well in excess of one year as
seem to have arisen not too often but nonetheless more frequently than expected. An important
problem was that the period of compensation payment and resettlement (2004-08) happened to be
one dominated by major increases in the cost of building materials and prices of land, especially in
the early years due to combined effects of multiple pressures including oil price rises and reduction
of earlier subsidies, and influx of people fleeing the fighting in Iraq.
13.    But there were also interviews which revealed concrete instances of flexible response by
the Ministry to cases that risked severely negative social impact. Major effort was made to
maintain an open door and help ease hardships that arose. Initiatives taken ranged from small
actions such as systematic watering to reduce the dust that had been damaging olive harvests to
construction, as in several cases, of additional animal underpasses to re-unite herders' grazing
lands and even small modifications of road alignment to eliminate the need to take small pieces of
properties. Measures were taken in several cases to accelerate financial compensation to PAPs
who had run into exceptional difficulties.
14.    The conclusion drawn from the first application of independent monitoring to land
acquisition programs in Jordan was positive, with special emphasis on early timing, preferably
well before the half-way point in a major program of land acquisition activities, so that fresh
lessons, based on living reality, could be identified at moments when improvements could still
have rapid impact. Other concepts which had been talked about in Jordan, such as that of a full-
time independent monitor staying with a program throughout its life or an independent review at
completion, were considered to have much more limited constructive potential. Specialist Bank
staff gave strong and focused support on both environmental and land acquisition issues, by means
of brief visits throughout the period from preparation to completion of the ADC project and the
substantive advice and comment provided. The Bank's land acquisition/resettlement expert for the
MENA region himself made more more than a dozen visits during project implementation.
30


﻿Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICRR and Borrower's Comments on the Draft
ICRR
Achievement of Project Development Objectives
1.     The main objective to support the transport system and remove the bottleneck from the
existing road network has been achieved through the implementation and construction of ARR- 1 that
will provide alternative route to bypass the congested areas within the city of Amman. In this respect,
Sections 2 and 3 of ARR-1 are now complete and fully open to traffic, while Section 1 is still under
construction with anticipated completion in Mid. 2014. Currently, the through traffic on the open
sections of the new road traverses from the two northern ends of Section 3 to Madounah Interchange
(within 1 Km from the start of Section 2) where the traffic has being diverted to existing local roads to
reach respective destinations. Once Section 1 is complete, the traffic will continue the journey along
that section of the road all the way to the Airport Road.
2.     The objective for accessibility to affordable land for investment and urban development was
the focus of the Project through the undertaking of a Master Plan for the development of 300 sq.km,
which is the area bounded by the new Ring Road-I and Hizam Road. This study provides the strategic
framework that will guide the respective Municipalities, including GAM, for any future development
in that area.
3.     Concentric effort for the establishment of a modem inland port and relocating the Customs
Depot to the Madounah site has been carried out at the start of the Project, based on the
recommendations of previous detailed assessment and feasibility studies. This included detailed
advisory services that were provided by a specialized international consultant to validate the
institutional arrangements and establish the framework with detailed requirements for such task.
However, the relocation of the Customs Depot to its new location at Madounah and the new inland
port could not be implemented by the time of the preparation of this ICR due to problems associated
with the availability of the site at Madounah. Continuous efforts are still ongoing to search for new
suitable location.
4.     The support for on-going reforms to restructure the trucking industry was part of another
Government assignment being carried out under a different project. Henceforth, it was decided early in
the Project not to duplicate the effort and to drop this sub component from the Project.
Feasibility study and final design for the two remaining stretches of Amman Ring Road along the
western and northern perimeters of Amman (ARR-phases 2 & 3) were carried out and completed, with
the total length of the ring road being 120km (40 Km for Phase 1 "under construction" and 80 Km for
Phases 2 and 3).
Key Performance Indicators
5.     The Project development objective of diverting the traffic from the locally congested areas of
Amman to the Ring Road was largely achieved, even though Section 1 of the ADC is still not
complete and only Sections 2 and 3 are currently complete and open to traffic. This is illustrated in the
following indicators:
- The actual measured travel time from Zarqa to the Airport along the open sections of the ADC up to
Madounah Interchange and then using the local roads is 48 minutes. This represent a 12 minutes
saving on the original baseline of 60 minutes and only 8 minutes longer than the target of 40 minutes,
which is expected to be easily achieved once the full ADC is open to traffic.
31


﻿- Traffic count that was carried out in April 2013 on the completed section of the ADC gave a
representative value of the current traffic along that stretch of the road of 1047 V/h (AM peak). This
indicates a level of diversion of approx.8% from urban streets has been achieved to date in comparison
with the eventual projected target of 10% that will be easily achieved once the full length of the ADC
is open to traffic.
6.     Additionally, the following indicators are also relevant to the Project Objectives:
- The current value for the cost to transport one TEU from (Qualified Industrial Zone at Zarqa (QIZ) to
Aqaba Port is 425 US Dollar.
- Saving on the cost of transporting a container along roads improved through the Project is expected
to be 5.83JD/trip for heavy trucks and 5.3 JD/trip for articulated trucks; based on estimated 20min
travel saving.
- The current available statistical data shows that the total tonnage of cargo being handled by existing
Amman Customs Depot (export and import) has increased from 2.07 M tons in 2004 to 2.99 M Tons
in 2012; marking an increase of approx.45%.
Institutional Management and Development
Environmental Safeguard
7.     Environmental considerations were an integral part of the design and construction of ARR-1,
highlighted with the preparation and provision of Construction Environment Management Guidelines
(CEMG) that provided the framework for ensuring and monitoring the fulfillment of the CEMG.
8.     Environmental Quality Monitoring (EQM) program was developed and baseline surveys were
carried out at 23 selected sites. Regular air and noise quality measurements were taken periodically to
monitor their respective quality against the baseline measurements and mitigate any impact. No major
abnormalities were recorded, and any minor problems were mitigated immediately. Post construction
quality measurements shall be carried out by trained Ministry's staff based on detailed program as set
out in the guidelines.
Social Safeguards
9.     Land Acquisition and Resettlement Plan was performed in full compliance with the Bank's
operational procedure for this task. The Work on this task was initiated at early stages in the Project to
ensure smooth operation and monitoring with adequate mitigations to any social impact. The task was
performed under the supervision of qualified and dedicated personnel based on pre-defined guidelines.
Vulnerable groups of land and property owners were particularly targeted with special attention and
their social status was carefully monitored throughout to ensure minimum impacts.
10.    This land acquisition process is considered the largest in scale in the history of infrastructure
projects in Jordan, requiring very elaborate methodology and approach to ensure compensation
fairness, successful implementation and social justice. The elimination of the 250% land acquisition rule
from this Project with 100% compensation paid to the land / property owners was the highlight of the
process. This was implemented for the first time in Jordan, to minimize the impact on the owners,
although, at higher cost and burden to the Government.
11.    Every single case was individually analyzed and relevant details entered into interactive
database. The following steps were implemented:
32


﻿Monitoring the historic sequence of the operation from notification of land acquisition
requirement to the final stages of compensation,
Conducting interviews with affected persons, assessing their social impacts, and identification of
mitigation measures,
Post compensation and relocation impacts assessment
Follow up and determination of lessons learned from each case
Institutional Arrangement
12.    Various parties and ministerial bodies have been involved in the Project implementation, with
the Ministry of Public Works and Housing (MPWH) having the overall responsibility for
implementation and coordination. The MPWH has been assisted by a dedicated Project Management
Team (PMT) who was given the task of monitoring the Project execution to ensure full compliance
with all technical, financial, contractual and managerial related matters.
Financial Management
13.    In close coordination with the MPWH Finance Department and the Ministry of Planning and
International Cooperation (MoPIC) the PMT undertook the task of financial management through-out
the Project implementation that included processing financial statements issued by the various
contractors and consultants and reporting through the quarterly financial reports on the Project
financial status. All financial monitoring reports were satisfactory and in compliance with the Banks
guideline.
14.    Three financiers have been involved in financing this Project. The World Bank financed the
construction and supervision of ARR-1 Section 2, the management services of the Project as well as
the preparatory construction works at the original site of new inland port and customs at Madounah.
15.    The European Investment Bank (EIB) financed the construction and supervision of ARR-1
Section 3 as well as the studies related to ARR- Phases 2 and 3, and the ADC master plan.
The Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development (AFESD) financed the construction and
supervision of ARR-I Section 1. Iv.
33


﻿Procurement Management
16.    Procurement management was performed in full compliance with each financier guidelines
and standards with respect to their related financed contracts. The World Bank procurement
procedures, as set out in the Loan Agreement, were adopted for the Bank's financed Works and
Services.
Significant Changes and Key Factors Affecting Implementation
17.    No major changes to the objectives, general design, scope and implementation modalities of
the project were undertaken. However, to preserve the developing need of the local expanding
communities certain modifications/upgrading were necessary on Amman Ring Road -Phase 1. These
included a number of new underpasses and side road connections to facilitate better traffic
maneuverability and provide accessibility to newly developed areas. Furthermore, certain quality
enhancement measures were introduced to improve quality and sustain durability of the road. These
included:
Economic Evaluation
18.    The ADC will replace and/or alleviate the existing link between the south and the north east of
Amman. This existing route (Airport Road to Zarqa via Hizam Road) follows an urban area that is
becoming heavily congested as it handles substantial volumes of freight traffic.
19.    The initial "2003-2004" economic evaluation of the Project resulted in a value for the
Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) of 17.5% and for the Economic Net Present Value (ENPV)
of 86.3 JD million; both based on the financial plan and investment cost as estimated at that time.
With the current update of construction costs and vehicle operating costs and using traffic volumes
taken from the existing traffic model, an update of the economic evaluation has been undertaken;
taking into consideration the current status of completion, whereby, Sections 2 and 3 were fully open
to traffic in February 2012, while Section 1 is still under construction with anticipated completion in
mid-2014.
20.    The revised Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) is 13.07% and the Economic Net
Present Value (ENPV) is 17.47 JD million; concluding with the continuing positive viability of the
Project even though the investment costs have increased since the original study.
Overall Rating and Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
21.    The implementation and execution of the Loan was the result of combination of effort of all
stakeholders, including the Mission Project Managers at the Bank, the Ministry of Public Works and
Housing and the Ministry of Planning and international Cooperation. The World Bank team (all
Mission /Task Project Managers) have been very cooperative and responsive throughout the Project
implementation v.
22.    The Bank has also been very responsive when submitting the application for additional
finance, and extending the loan closing date.
23.    On the execution of the Loan, the evaluation of the implementing agency's performance is
satisfactory in all aspects, namely:
- Application of procurement procedure
- Application of financial procedure
34


﻿- Execution of Project objectives
- Responding to the Bank's queries and data requirements
- Reporting
Lessons Learned from the Project
24.    The implementation of this Project has provided the following main lessons to be learned:
V  Coordination between all stakeholders.
A team-work is an absolute necessity for the success of any project. In this Project the
team spirit that prevailed throughout its implementation has provided the framework and
the path for its eventual success.
V  Institutional arrangement, management control and monitoring.
The introduction of a dedicated project management team that managed and monitored
the Project throughout, was a successful development in the project management,
particularly in controlling the implementation of various project components,
monitoring financial transaction and budgeting, reaching resolutions on claims in
compliance with conditions of contract, and standardization of activities between all
sections.
/  Quality control and enhancement in the construction.
The introduction of a number of quality enhancement measures in the implementation
of ARR- 1 were highly beneficial for the durability and quality of the construction, and
their use on this Project was the focus of continuous utilization of all projects to come.
Project Safeguards
V  The Environment Construction Management guidelines have been very useful tool to
monitor contractors' compliance and ensure full adherence; particularly with the
implementation of the penalty clauses that gave the contractors the incentive to
improve their performance so as to minimize the negative points that could trigger the
penalty.
V  Environment quality monitoring was useful in controlling air quality and noise
emission. This to be continued after the construction completion to reflect the actual
impact of the road on the various parameters included in the EQM
V The introduction of Land Acquisition Resettlement Plan at the initial stages in the
Project was a paramount factor that added to the smooth operation of its
implementation. Social impact mitigation measures were applied in a constructive and
systematic way with visible benefits. However, certain additional measures could be
considered for future projects to enhance and optimize this process. These include the
prompt payment as early as possible, particularly to vulnerable and economically
disadvantaged groups to reduce any adverse impact, and starting personal
communication and interviews with affected parsons as early as possible to ensure
smooth operation and minimum social impact with continuous follow up.
35


﻿Capacity building
V   The involvement of the Ministry's staff in the Project as PMT members and working
closely with the PMT Consultant was very useful in ensuring efficient technology
transfer. This should be put to full use during the implementation of all future projects;
with particular emphasis on quality enhancement, the application of environment
quality and construction guidelines, and the efficient management of land acquisition
and resettlement plans.
Sustainability
V  The successful implementation of the Project has to be sustained through the
formulation and introduction of an elaborate follow up policy to preserve the integrity
of what has been constructed and to make useful application of what has been
produced and studied. For the ARR-1, the constructed facility has to be maintained
throughout its projected life span, supported with adequate maintenance contracts and
programming.
V  The various produced reports and studies related to the ADC Master Planning,
relocation of Customs Depot and establishment of Inland Port are to be used as
strategic and well documented studies for the implementation of any future planning
in the area.
36


﻿MPWH's Comments on Bank's Draft Implementation Completion Report
2.2    Implementation
pp. 8, Item 14.: correct "section 3.." in the 1st sentence to read "section 1..."
pp.8, Item 15 : correct "since 2001...." in the last sentence to read "since 2010...."
3.2    Achievement of Project Development Objectives
pp.14, Item 37: correct the sentence " ...but the funds needed to fulfill outstanding commitments to
the contractor and to enable him to complete the project have not yet been finally committed" to read:
"but the funds needed to fulfill outstanding commitments to the contractor of Section Ito enable ...."
ppl5, Item 40: Comment: the last sentence of this item concludes that the Second PDO (to provide
access to affordable land for productive investment and urban development purposes) was not
achieved to date and the prospects of achieving it remains unclear. In this respect, the Borrower
highlights that the prospect of achieving this objective is still high even-though it could not be
materialized yet due the recent opening to traffic of only two sections of the road and section 1 is still
under construction; noting that certain period of time is needed, after construction completion and
opening the full length of the road to traffic, for the development market to get acquainted with the
new norm and patterns in the area which is a major factor in attracting any new investment and
development. The newly completed master plan study for the ADC area was intended as a strategic
plan for the respective authorities to implement in due course and in line with their prioritized program.
Such implementation and business attraction requires time but the prospect, in our opinion, is
optimistic with due consideration to the traffic already being diverted on the opened sections of the
road which will eventually attract business development.
3.3    Efficiency
pp.15, Item 41: comment: it is stated under this item that "the updated EIRR is marginally above 12%,
and this is disappointing compared with the initial estimate of 17%". In this respect, the Borrower,
highlights that the attributing factor to this lower EIRR is the cost of price escalation that was duly
paid to the contractors in full compliance with the conditions of each contract, notwithstanding as well
the additional cost that resulted from introducing and applying the quality enhancement measures and
additional quantities, as coordinated, assessed and introduced to the Project jointly with the World
Bank during the various World Bank Missions, aiming at the construction of a facility to the highest
standard serving best the need of local inhabitants. This added technical and social benefits should
offset any negative impact due to increase in cost or decrease in the economic returns.
3.4    Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
pp.15, Item 43: comment: the statement in the 2nd line that "objective 2 was not achieved and is
unlikely to be achieved in the near future", is somewhat premature, as commented on above under
Item 40.
MOPIC's Comments on Draft Bank's Implementation Completion and Results Report
pp.5, Item 1: correct the sentence "the Amman Metropolitan Area (AMA), which accounted already
in 2000 for more than 50% of the country's population and employment, and 80% of its industrial
sector". to read " the Amman Metropolitan Area (AMA) and Zarqa Metropolitan Area , which
37


﻿accounted already in 2000 for more than 50% of the country's population and employment, and 80%
of its industrial sector".
pp.27, Item 12: correct the sentence "is the repeated stealing by heavily armed robbers of large
lengths of the copper cable ..." to read "is the repeated stealing by robbers of large lengths of the
copper cable ..."
pp.16, Item 47: the statement "this would still need a final approval from the UAE".
comment: MOPIC received the approval from the UAE in May 14, 2013
GAM's Comments on Draft Bank's Implementation Completion Report
Section 3.2. Suggested clarification/addition regarding land development/zoning:
Given the current budget structure, progress on land development is largely dependent on apatite of
investors as GAM does not have the resources to develop the needed infrastructure for a vast area
without an indication of the level of demand. Based on the requests for rezoning at present, this north
east area stands to be developed in the short to medium term.
Additionally, the current arrangement whereby utility providers follow a more passive rather than
active approach towards construction of utilities in newly developed areas, means GAM alone cannot
build new road structures while risking these same roads be compromised later for utility work. This of
course is an over-arching issue that affects the quality of roads under GAM's jurisdiction in Amman.
This supports the report's conclusions about the need to establish a coalition of not only of authorities
but also utility providers and land developers.
Also related to this issue is the fact that the relocation of the Customs Depot and the planned
development of the Madhouneh area played a key role in developing complementary land use plans for
the area by GAM.
Finally, it is important to note that the MPWH had indeed involved GAM in the master planning study
done for the corridor. This provided a valuable link between the Amman master plan and later the
Transport and Mobility Master Plan which took into consideration development impacts of the ADC
as well as potential internal links from/to the ADC.
The same comments apply to #55 in Section 6 - Lessons Learned.
38


﻿Annex 7. Pictures of the Project
ADC Section 2 by Night
Madounah Interchange
39


﻿Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents
CPCS Transcom International Ltd & Interdisciplinary Research Consultants 2011. For Ministry of
Transport, The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan: Trucking Sector Review: Final Report (2 June 2011
CPCS Ref. 09248)
Dar Al-Handasah 2012. Amman Development Corridor: Land Acquisition and Resettlement Plan
(LARP) Final Report. J0541-Report No.17-December 2012
Leen Fakhoury 2007. Amman Development Corridor Project Land Acquisition and Resettlement Plan,
Independent Monitor Specialist Report (Final)
Lotti, C./Engicon 2009. Feasibility Study for Phases 2 and 3 of the Amman Ring Road: Stage - Final
Design, Draft Report (February 2009) for MoPWH
Royal Haskoning 2004. For Ministry of Public Works and Housing, Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan:
Assessment of the Feasibility of the Inland Port and Customs Depot in the Amman Development
Corridor Project: Final Report (December 2004)
Urban Workshop 2011. ADC: Monitoring Developments in the ADC Area - Indicator Report IV
(April 2011)
World Bank 2004. Project Appraisal Document on Proposed Loan to Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
for the Amman Development Corridor Project.
World Bank 2004. Loan Agreement, Amman Development Corridor Project, September 17 2004.
World Bank. Supervision Missions' Aide-Memoires, Amman Development Corridor Project 2004-
2012.
World Bank 2008. Project Paper on Proposed Additional Loan to Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan for
the Amman Development Corridor Project.
World Bank 2011. Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Restructuring of Amman Development
Corridor Project Loan.
WSP/CC 2009. Amman Development Corridor Strategic Master Plan Study: Final Scenario Report,
for Ministry of Public Works and Housing, Jordan (EIB).
40


﻿AMMAN DEVELOPMENI CORRIDOR kd
Phoe3
ZARQA
A MMA N
Madounah
g...~ -te,cange
ADC MASTER
c~ Se tion 1 "-            .
ARR phase 2                  ADC Project
1~   Aiport Road
Interchange           e
SUrban Concentration


