Document of
FILE COPY                    ~~The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2361a-YU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
PRIVREDNA BANKA SARAJEVO
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A
BOSANSKA-KRAJINA AGRICULTURE AND AGRO-INDUSTRIES PROJECT
September 20, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. _



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
Currency Unit                                     Yugoslav Dinar (Din.)
US$1                                              Din. 18.53
Din. 1                                            US$ 0.0540
Din. 1,000                                        US$ 54.00
Din. 1,000,000                                    US$ 54,000.00
* The Yugoslav Dinar has been floating since July 13, 1973, as of
April 30, 1978, the rate was Din. 18.5340 = $1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AIPK                                 Agroindustri;ski i Prometni
Kombinat Bosanska Krajina
BOAL                                 Basic Organization of Associated
Labor
LDR                                  Less Developed Regions
(of Yugoslavia)
PBS                                  Privredna Banka Sarajevo
PU                                   Project Unit
SAS                                  Social Accounting Service
SFRY                                 Socialist Federal Republic
of Yugoslavia



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YUGOSLAVIA
BOSANSKA-KRAJINA AGRICUILTURE AND AGRO-INDUSTRIES PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Privredna Banka Sarajevo (PBS)
Guarantor:     Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Beneficiary:   Agroindustrijski i Prometni Kombinat "Bosanska Krajina" (AIPK)
Amount:        US$55 million equivalent in various currencies
Terms:         Amortization in 15 years including three years grace period,
with interest at 7.9 percent per annum.
Re-lending     The proceeds of the loan would be on-lent to the beneficiaries
Terms:        at 11 percent interest rate.  The foreign exchange risk of the
Bank loan will be borne by the sub-borrowers in the social
sector and by the Republic for the individual (private) farmers.
Project        The project forms a large and integral part of the agricul-
Descrilption:  tural development plan of Bosnia-Herzegovina.  Situated in
one of the least developed yet most promising rural areas in
the republic, the project will consist of the following com-
ponents: (a) primary agricultural production: intensification
of production on 12,000 individually-owned farms, extension of
agricultural production on 9,500 hectares of the social sector
land; (b) support services: an extension service, facilities
to provide improved livestock and crop breeds and varieties,
artificial insemination and machine repair services to indi-
vidual farmers; and (c) agro-industries component: provision
of processing capacity for meat, milk, fruit, vegetables and
barley. The project adopts an integrated approach, towards
agriculture based on formal cooperation between the individual
and social sectors. The individual sector will provide the
bulk of the incremental growth of primary production while
the social sector is expected to foster the growth of such
production through provision of support services to individual
farmers and diversify and expand processing facilities to
absorb this produce. Incremental production under the project
would consist of cereals, fruits, vegetables and livestock
products.
The incremental output from primary production would be sold
largely in the Bosanska-Krajina Region to the processing plants
and for fresh consumption. The incremental output from the
processing plants would be marketed in the region except for
dried plums and fruit concentrates which are geared towards the
export market.
This document has a restrictedi distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



The project would directly benefit about 12,000 farm families.
Indirect beneficiaires due to market accessability and tech-
nology transfers, would number about 20,000. Of the 12,000
direct beneficiaries, about 75 percent are in the target group
with average per capita income of about US$225 as compared to
the relative poverty income level of about US$350. With the
project, the average per capita farm income would increase by
about 120 percent. At full development, about 30 percent of
the incremental benefits would accrue to the target group.
Over 4,500 man-years of additional employment would be created
in individual and social sector enterprises, in addition to
which labor utilization on individual sector will increase
by 12,000 man-years. During project implementation, 6-7,000
man-years of employment would also be generated.
The institutional strengthening required to ensure efficient
farmers associations and provision of technical expertise for
the agro-industries and support services to individual farmers
do present some risk in that there may be some initial delays
and shortcomings. However, given AIPK experience and per-
formance and given that a pool of trainable manpower is readily
available in the Republic, the risk is considered prudent and
acceptable.
Estimated
Cost:                                Total         Foreign         Local      Percent
----------(US$ Million)----------
Primary Agricultural Production    79,901          19,000          60,901        39
Support Services                      14,678        3,460          11,217         7
Agroindustries Development            58,541       26,079          32,463        29
Total Physical Contingencies           8,843        2,671           6,172         4
Total Price Contingencies             41,814       13,087         28,727         21
Total Project Cost
Including Contingencies              203,777       64,297        139,479        100
Financing Plan:                          US$ Million            Percent
IBRD                                       55.0                 27
SubBorrowers                               40.8                 20
PBS (including co-financing)              108.0                 53
Total                                 203.8                100



- iii-
Estimated Disbursement:                --------------US$ Million--------------
Bank FY   1979       1980     1981    1982       1983
Annual                                1.0      19.5      19.5    12.0       3.0
Cumulative                            1.0      20.5      40.0    52.0      55.0
Rate of Return (%):         22 percent
Appraisal Report:           Report No. 2065a-YU
Date: September 20, 1978






INTERNATIONAL IBANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECIJTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
PRIVREDNA BANKA SARAJEVO WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
1.        I submit the fo:Llowing report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Privredna Banka Sarajevo (PBS), with the guarantee of the Socialist Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia, for the equivalent of $55.0 million to finance a part
of the foreign exchange costs of an integrated agriculture and agro-industries
project. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace
with interest at 7.9 percent per annum. The proceeds of the loan would be on-
lent to the constituent organizations of Agroindustrijski i Prometni Kombinat
"Bosanska Krajina" (AIPK), the implementing entity including various coopera-
tives of individual farmers with an interest rate of 11 percent and with a
term of 15 years including up to 5 years grace. The foreign exchange risk of
the Bank loan will be borne by the sub-borrowers in the social sector and by
the Republic for the private farmers. PBS is currently, actively seeking
co-financing arrangements with commercial banking institutions.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A Basic Economic Mission to review the Social Development Plan 1976-
80 and to assess the economic implications of the new institutional framework
emanating from the 1974 Constitution visited Yugoslavia in October and November
1976. Its report entitled, "Yugoslavia: Self-Management Socialism and the
Challenges of Development" 1615a-YU, was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 5, 1978. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
Economic Trends and Development Issues
3.        The economic development of Yugoslavia over the past two decades
has been impressive, characterized by rapid growth accompanied by dynamic
structural and institutional changes. GDP grew in real terms (1972 prices)
at an average annual rate of about 7 percent and, given an average population
growth rate of one percent per year, real per capita income more than tripled.
In 1976, per capita GNP was estimated at $1,680 (World Bank Atlas Methodology).
The activity of the social sector, especially industry, was the driving force
of the economy and the share of industry in GDP increased from about 23 per-
cent in 1955 to about 32 percent in 1976, and paved the way for the develop-
ment of a modern industry/service oriented urban society.
1/   Part I of this report is substantially unchanged from that in the Report
and Recommendation of the President for the Macedonia Strezevo Irrigation
Project, (Report No. P-2269a-YU) dated July 26, 1978.



4.        The population growth rate which averaged 1 percent per year during
the last two decades, however, varies considerably among the regions ranging
from an average rate of 1.6 percent for the less developed Republics and
Provinces (LDRs) to 0.7 percent for the developed ones (DRs). Structural
changes in the economy have permitted a sizeable transfer of the labor force
from agriculture to industry and services. Despite this, by 1975, 39 percent
of the employed resident labor force was still engaged in agriculture and
forestry, mostly on small private farms; industry (including mining) accounted
for 24 percent, and other sectors for 37 percent.
5.        The socio-political framework evolved through several constitu-
tional amendments which were consolidated in the new Constitution of 1974.
It strengthens three important features of the socio-political system of
Yugoslavia. First, self-management, whereby the use and control of the
socially owned means of production are entrusted to the workers' collectives,
is the fundamental right and obligation of every Basic Organization of
Associated Labor (BOAL--the smallest identifiable unit of production which
produces a marketable output) in every sector and activity. Second, the
responsibility for most important social and policy decisions is shifted from
the Federation down to the Republics and Provinces, and on to the communes.
And third, the management and financial responsibility for social activities
(health, education, welfare, etc.) is transferred from the realm of the state
to Communities of Interest (decision-making bodies which comprise delegates
of both suppliers and users of the specific services). Responsibility for
certain economic activities affecting large segments of the society (like
communal services, power production, highways and water management) is pro-
gressively similarly organized through Communities of Interest.
6.        The social sector, which includes government, enterprises and public
institutions such as libraries, hospitals, theatres and schools, has the lead-
ing role in economic and social development. It accounts for 85 percent of
GDP and employs over half of the total labor force. The private sector is
comprised predominantly of peasant farms (generally with a 10 hectare limit to
land holdings) and small enterprises (generally with a 5-person limit on the
number of nonfamily workers), mainly in handicrafts, construction, trade,
transport and tourism. In the past, the private sector had been relatively
neglected by government policy. However, lately increased attention is being
devoted to private farmers with a view to accelerating the growth of agricul-
tural production and reducing the rural/urban income disparity. New legisla-
tion has also been enacted to promote private business through the pooling of
resources in joint ventures with social sector enterprises or among private
small scale industrial, transport, trade or other entities. These measures
aim to encourage private sector productive investment and employment, by
circumventing the 5 employee limitation, and to absorb the returning migrant
workers and mobilize their savings.
7.        Regional income disparity--with a gradient of per capita income fall-
ing generally from North to South--is one of the most important development
issues facing the country. Four regions can be distinguished by stage of
development. The Republic of Slovenia is the high per capita income region
with incomes almost double the national average. The Republics of Serbia



- 3 -
and Croatia and the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina make up the middle income
regions, with incomes ranging from 100 to 125 percent of the national average.
However, even within these regions there are pockets of underdevelopment, which
basically coincide with private sector agriculture. The Republics of Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Montenegro aLnd Macedonia, with per capita incomes about two-thirds
of the national average, constitute the upper group among the officially
designated less developedL regions. The Socialist Autonomous Province of
Kosovo (Kosovo), with an average per capita income of only 30 percent of the
national average (about $500 equivalent for 1976), is the least developed
region. These inter-regional disparities can be traced back further to
intra-regional disparities. Within Republics and Provinces the per capita
income spread between communes can extend over the range of 10 to 1, and it is
the prevalence of stagnating poor rural communes within the LDRs which largely
determines the disparity between the regions. The rate of economic growth of
the LDRs as a whole was only slightly below the average for Yugoslavia, but
due to the faster population growth (1.6 percent per year versus 0.7 percent
in the DRs) the income disparity had until recently tended to widen. In order
to reverse the trend and to accelerate economic growth and social development
in the LDRs, mechanisms were instituted for sizeable transfers of financial
resources, initially on a non-returnable basis. Since 1971, net credits on
highly favorable terms (containing a grant element of around 50 percent) were
made available to the LDRs through the Federal Fund for the Accelerated
Development of Less Developed Regions, equivalent to about 20 percent of their
total investment in the social sector. These transfers amounted to about $430
million equivalent in 1976 in addition to about $250 million equivalent being
transferred as budgetary grants for social services. The mechanism for both
categories assures a growth of transfers in line with the growth in GDP.
8.        The rate of open unemployment to the total resident labor force
amounts to about 5 percent but understates the magnitude of the employment
generation problem because of the existence of large reserves of rural under-
employed and the need to employ returning migrant workers. The rate of regis-
tered 1/ unemployment to social sector employment averaging about 11.9 percent
for the country as a whole in 1976 is perhaps a better measure. A rapid
growth of the social sector which provides more productive employment is,
therefore, imperative if the natural increase of the labor force, in addition
to the returning migrants, is to be absorbed and the ranks of the unemployed
reduced. This problem takes on added urgency as the incidence of unemploy-
ment 2/ is highly regionalized ranging from 25.4 percent at one extreme in
Kosovo to 1.5 percent in Slovenia.
Recent Developments
9.        In 1975, the growth rate of the economy receded to 4.5 percent, fol-
lowing the rapid increase of GDP of 9 percent in the previous year. This was
1/   In Yugoslav definition, unemployment is measured in terms of registered
job seekers actually unemployed as well as those employed but seeking new
jobs.
2/   Ratio of registered unemployment to social sector employment.



- 4 -
due mainly to the combined effects of a restrictive monetary policy, stagnat-
i[Ig >-ports and a reduced growth of personal incomes and leveling consump-
tIori; economic investment and housing construction provided the major growth
st i.nU1s during 1975.  The inflationary pressure, which built up during 1974
And extended into 1975, receded drastically in the second half of the year;
t l-e rate of increase of industrial producer prices  decreased from 30 percent
for 1974 Lo 22 percent in 1975, and the index of real personal receipts stag-
nated for the whole of the year.   The good harvest in 1974 had a favorable
impact on the balance of payments, although meat exports were severely affected
by the E£uropean Community ban on meat imports. Exports to oil producing coun-
tries and to the non-convertible currency area continued to expand rapidly
in 1975, but were insufficient to compensate for the sharp decline in exports
to the convertible currency area. As a result, commodity exports declined
by 2 percent in real terms. Workers' remittances and receipts from tourism
increased marginally. However, a larger contraction of imports and an
improvement in the terms of trade led to some decline in the current account
deficit to $1.0 billion as compared to $1.2 billion in 1974.
lo.       Further reduction of the balance of payments deficit and of the
inflationary pressures in the economy were the major objectives of economic
policy during 1976. As compared to a nominal increase of 22 percent in 1975,
GDP grew by 14 percent in nominal and 4 percent in real terms in 1976. Fol-
lowing a near stagnation of industrial production (and economic activity in
general) in the first half of the year--as a result of the implementation
of new legislation enforcing greater financial discipline on enterprises--
industrial growth picked up in the second half of the year and recorded a rise
of about 4 percent. The combination of the economic slack and price policy
resulted in a cutback in the rise of producer prices and the cost of living to
less than 10 percent, i.e. less than half the previous year's increases.
Favorable results were also realized in the field of foreign trade. The
marked deceleration of inflation, the slackening of domestic demand and the
revival of Western European demand, as well as foreign trade policy, resulted
in a 20 percent growth of merchandise exports and about 4 percent decline of
imports in nominal terms. The reduced balance of trade deficit was also
aided by the inflow on account of invisibles, resulting in a $150 million
current account surplus for the year. Foreign exchange reserves also
reached a record of over $2.0 billion. Social sector employment grew by
3.1 percent and allowed the absorption of some returning migrant workers yet,
with the realized GDP growth rate, this meant a virtual stagnation of average
workers' productivity for the year.
Estimates for 1977 and Prospects for 1978
11.       Although initial projections for 1977 envisaged a moderate GDP
giiowthi rate of about 5.5 percent and a balance of payments deficit of some
$500 million, estimates for the year indicate both a higher economic growth
rate and balance of payments deficit than expected. The pick-up of economic
activirty which started in the second half of 1976 continued into 1977 with
industrial production growing at a rate of about 10 percent in the first half
of the year. The large monetary expansion in 1976 also enabled the expansion
of investment and other components of domestic demand and resulted in a some-
what higher inflation rate than anticipated (cost of living rise of 13-15



percent). For the year as a whole, GDP is estimated to have risen by almost
7 percent with industry growing by 8 percent and agriculture by 4 percent.
Employment is estimated to have grown by about 3.5 percent and average workers'
productivity at an almost equal rate. The most significant deviation, however,
occurred in the foreign trade sector. As a result of the slow growth of
exports and the fast growing imports connected with expanding industrial
production, which was not compensated for by the growth of invisibles includ-
ing workers' remittances, the balance of payments deficit for 1977 is expected
to amount to $1.3 billion matching that for 1974. The country was able to
contract the necessary foreign financing in 1977, however, maintaining its
external reserves at about. the previous year's level. The program for 1978
envisages the stabilization of the economic growth rate of 6-7 percent, a
reduction of the inflation rate and a major consolidation of the foreign trade
sector to improve the balance of payments position.
Medium- and Long-Term Objectives and Prospects
12.        The surfacing of major economic problems during 1974, such as high
international inflation and balance of payments pressures, led to a reappraisal
of development objectives. More emphasis was to be given to the development
of Yugoslavia's own natural resources, with the development of the energy
sector as the highest priority. The focus is on electric power, where the
generating capacity is falling critically short of the rapidly rising power
requirements of the expanding economy. The development of the power sector
will be based primarily on the viable hydropower potential remaining to be
developed and soft-coal reserves of the country. Other priority activities
are ferrous metallurgy, some segments of non-ferrous metallurgy (notably lead,
zinc, copper, nickel and bauxite/aluminum), technologically advanced production
equipment, basic chemicals including petroleum refining, agriculture and food
processing, interrepublic transportation, multipurpose works, and housing and
basic construction material.
13.        This emphasis on accelerated development of the raw material basis
and of the economic infrastructure requires a more capital-intensive invest-
ment pattern, associated with longer time lags between investment and out-
put. To sustain this development path, both continued high borrowing abroad
and an increased savings rate will be essential. Since, with the possible
exception of private savings, interest rates have not been given a signifi-
cant role to play in the determination of the level of aggregate savings, the
income policy--i.e. the guidelines governing the distribution of enterprise
income between workers' income and accumulation--will have to play a crucial
role.
14.        The new Five Year Plan (1976-80) focuses on the implementation of
these objectives. For GDP growth, an average rate of 7 percent per year is
proposed, compared with a target growth rate of the previous Plan of 7.5 per-
cent and a realized growth rate of 6.5 percent. For employment, the average
planned growth rate would come to about 3 percent with annual increments
exceeding the natural increase of the labor force by growing margins. This
would permit more vigorous pursuit of two major social objectives: the reduc-
tion of the number of temporary migrants abroad (estimated at about 900,000 in



- 6 -
1975), and an increased absorption of the rural underemployed into the social
sector, which is likely to have significant impact only in the DRs. The
economy will continue to be open to the world market, although the composition
cf foreign trade is expected to change with a reduced share for raw material
and semi-finished products on the import side, and an increased share for
agricultural products and manufactured goods on the export side. Workers'
remittances are not expected to increase in real terms, but rising tourism
receipts and construction work abroad are expected to compensate for the
expected declining importance of workers' remittances.
15.       The reduction of regional disparities is another priority objective
of the new Five Year Plan. To that end, the mechanisms for the transfer of
financial resources to the LDRs in the form of loans at concessionary terms
for economic investment and of budgetary grants for social development will be
continued, with some marginal increase in contributions as a proportion of
GDP. Since most of the natural resources of the country, including hydro-
power, are to be found in the LDRs, these regions will also benefit from the
increased emphasis on the development of power and basic industries which will
be financed jointly through direct financial contributions from the consuming
regions.
16.       The new Five Year Plan was prepared according to the self-management
principle stipulated in the Constitution of 1974. Self-management planning is
perceived as an iterative process of sequential, converging consensus-finding.
In the initial stage, broad priorities (as to sectors and activities) and
general quantitative targets and constraints (like growth rates of social
product and the volume of savings and investment) are determined on the basis
of consensus by the Assemblies of the socio-political communities (Govern-
ments at the Communal, Republican and Provincial, and Federal levels). Sub-
sequently, the planning process starts at the bottom with individual enter-
prises and Communities of Interest setting out expectations and targets. The
planning process then proceeds through successive and partially overlapping
stages of horizontal adjustments within sectors and branches (aimed primarily
at eliminating gross duplications), vertical adjustments between closely inter-
dependent sectors and branches (aimed at determining realistic orders of
magnitudes of production, conceptually within an input/output framework), and
regional adjustments between Republics and Provinces (aimed at both horizontal
and vertical consolidation). The socio-political communities participate in
this process by ensuring observance of the broad priorities, targets and con-
straints, and by resolving conflicts which cannot be resolved by the direct
participants. The evolving consolidated programs of action, which in their
totality constitute the operational portion of the Plan, are codified in the
form of "Social Compacts" 1/ or "Self-Management Agreements" 2/ which are
1/   "Social Compacts" regulate broader economic issues or policies and are
concluded among Socio-Political Communities and also involving Economic
Chambers and Associations of Enterprises and Trade Unions.
2/   "Self-Management Agreements" are more specific and regulate most rela-
tions, rights and obligations within, among and between economic organ-
izations like BOALs, enterprises and banks.



- 7 -
legally binding for the whole Plan period unless renegotiated in the case of
major deviations occurring in the course of Plan implementation. The new Plan
differs from the previous one in strengthening and formalizing the commitments
for implementation by enterprises, banks and government institutions.
Creditworthiness
17.       In spite of the recent balance of payments problems, the prospects
for Yugoslavia's continued economic growth during the next decade are good.
The country's endowment of natural and human resources, its relatively low
dependence on imported primary energy, its pragmatic approach to economic
problems and its readiness to undertake institutional changes, combine to
give grounds for a favorable assessment of future prospects. Yugoslavia will
need to continue to raise foreign capital on a fairly large scale, mostly
from established channels such as the Euro-currency market, suppliers' credits
and the World Bank. In addition, greater use may be made of credit lines from
COMECON countries and the European Community, and efforts are being intensi-
fied to open up new sources of capital in OPEC countries. The debt service
ratio amounted to about 16 percent in 1976 and is expected to level at about
17 percent in 1977 and subsequent years. Taking into account Yugoslavia's
debt service record and the measures taken in the past to control balance of
payments problems, as well as the prospective growth of production and struc-
tural improvement of the balance of trade, Yugoslavia remains creditworthy for
a substantial amount of Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA 1/
18.       The Bank has made 53 loans to Yugoslavia totalling about $2,063
million. Of this amount, approximately 42 percent ($856.4 million) has been
for 17 loans for the transportation sector--9 for highways, 5 for railways,
and one each for a natural gas pipeline, an oil pipeline, and a port project.
Bank lending has generally concentrated on infrastructure including, in addi-
tion to the transportation loans, four power loans, one telecommunications
loan, two water supply and sewerage and five multipurpose loans (two of which
include substantial irrigation components). Six loans totalling $288 million
(about 11 percent of the total amount lent to Yugoslavia) have been made for
agriculture (including one for irrigation) and agro-industries. Fourteen
loans amounting to $300 million (about 15 percent of the total) have also been
made for industry and two for tourism amounting to $30 million. The $27
million first Bank loan for air pollution control was approved May 25, 1976.
In addition, IFC has made investments in twelve Yugoslav enterprises totalling
about $171 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Loans and
IFC investments as of July 31, 1978 and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
1/   Substantially unchanged from Part II of the President's Report for the
Macedonia Strezevo Irrigation Project (Report No. P-2269a-YU) of July 26,
1978.



- 8 -
19.       The interrelated objectives which the Bank has pursued in its lend-
ing to Yugoslavia remain essentially unchanged. These objectives are:
(a) to support Yugoslav efforts to address the critical issues
of regional disparities and unemployment;
(b) to promote agricultural development in both the individual
farmer and social sectors by providing basic infrastructure
and credit facilities;
(c) to encourage structural reforms in the major sectors through
improved coordination, institution-building and technical
assistance;
(d) to help in identifying and financing gaps in basic infra-
structure-particularly transport and energy; and
(e) to alleviate critical shortages of convertible foreign
exchange by providing part of the required long-term capital,
encouraging and promoting Yugoslavia's efforts to tap other
sources of medium- and long-term capital, and supporting
projects which generate or conserve foreign exchange.
It is obvious that each and every Bank operation cannot address all these
objectives nor be entirely oriented towards the welfare of the less developed
regions (LDRs), but the basic thrust of the Bank's activities in Yugoslavia
has increasingly been towards the development of the LDRs and the agricultural
sector in particular.
20.       The Bank's emphasis on assuring the accelerated development of the
LDRs is fully in accord with the Federal Government's avowed policy to narrow
the gap between the richest and the poorest regions. The new development Plan
assigns even higher priority to redressing such disparity, and to that end the
Federal Government has now obtained consensus of its constituents, not only on
the channeling of domestic resources to the LDRs through the Federal Fund
mechanism (see para. 7 of this Report) but also on the distribution of external
resources including Bank lending. The Bank has actively cooperated with the
Government in evolving a distribution pattern for Bank lending which gives
weight to the income levels and population size of particular regions and has
on this basis over the last three years effectively directed more than two-
thirds of its lending to the LDRs. While the Bank's ability to achieve such a
distribution is clearly influenced by the ability of the regions to generate
viable projects, recent experience in bringing forward well designed and eco-
nomically sound projects for the LDRs is cause for confidence in our ability
to maintain the level of Bank activity in the LDRs, though there will undoubt-
edly be year-to-year fluctuations.
21.       In recognition of the fact that such an expanded investment program
for the LDRs would need to be preceded by a systematic survey of these regions
to take stock of development potential and identify constraints, the Bank
undertook and completed economic surveys of the four LDRs (Kosovo, Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro). These regional surveys, coupled with



- 9 -
intensified Bank assistance in project formulation and ongoing economic and
sector analysis, reinforce the impact of the Bank's participation in the
development of these regions.
22.       Over the past several years, more than two-thirds of our lending, as
noted in paragraph 20 above, has been to the LDRs. Operations, such as this
proposed agriculture and agro-industries project and the recently approved
third and fourth industrial credit projects and Macedonia Strezevo irrigation
project, as well as operations envisaged for LDRs over the next two years,
including loans for water supply and sewerage and multipurpose water resource
and agricultural development, emphasize our continuing orientation to the
needs of the LDRs. Recently approved loans for a Ninth Highway Project and a
Fifth Railway Project and a Middle Neretva Hydro Power project, as well as the
Second Power Transmisson Project approved in 1977, will both assist the LDRs
and promote structural reforms in the transport and energy sectors. IFC is
currently investigating several new investment opportunities to encourage joint
ventures which would provide technical, management and marketing expertise as
well as long-term capital.
23.       The Bank helped formulate the 1973 "Green Plan", a comprehensive
framework for agricultural development, which recognized the need to encourage
the role of the individual, low-income sector (which holds almost 85 percent
of the cultivated land and employs over 90 percent of the farm population).
As a follow-up, the 1976 "Green Plan" calls for even greater attention to
agriculture and clearly recognizes that the impetus for accelerated growth
must necessarily be derived from the underexploited resources of the indi-
vidual farming sector. It is now generally appreciated that the individual
farmer sector can generate significant increases in production if provided
with sufficient support in terms of extension services, credit for inputs and
basic infrastructural facilities. The loans for the Ibar Multipurpose Project
(Loan No. 777-YU) and the Metohija Multipurpose Project (Loan No. 1360-YU) in
Kosovo, the first and second Agro-Industries Projects (Loan Nos. 894-YU and
1371-YU) in Macedonia, the first and second Agricultural Credit Projects (Loan
Nos. 1129-YU and 1477-YU, respectively) and the Macedonia Strezevo Irrigation
Project (Loan No. 1616-YU), as well as the proposed project, have given special
attention to the needs of the individual farmer sector.
24.       The agricultural sector deserves attention for a number of develop-
mental considerations. It is the obvious vehicle for addressing the problems
of rural poverty which underlies regional disparity; it can provide opportuni-
ties for productively employing the rural population, thus reducing the pres-
sure for creating non-agricultural employment; and it contributes to reducing
reliance on imports and improving the prospects for exports of food and other
agricultural products. Forthcoming projects for irrigation and rural develop-
ment will support agriculture development in general and in particular, the
individual farmer sector.
25.       Decentralized management, which is the cornerstone of Yugoslavia's
socio-economic philosophy, adds to the inherent difficulties involved in for-
mulating coherent sector plans. One of the principal features of the 1974
constitutional changes and subsequent legislation, however, has been to revamp



- 10 -
the institutional framework and to introduce mechanisms for coordination. The
new system of self-management planning requires that the programs of all enter-
prises are discussed, negotiated and reflected in legally binding agreements.
Tn order to support these efforts for improved coordination, the Bank intend-
to pursue vigorously the initiatives it has sponsored in terms of establishing
the basis for evolving coherent sector policies.
26.       Given the complexity of the Yugoslav system, which requires reaching
a consensus of all parties affected by any substantive decision, the process
of dealing with problems and of evolving acceptable solutions is cumbersome.
The Bank sees it important, however, to continue exerting its influence in
shaping the policy framework and having a further beneficial impact on foster-
ing coordination, particularly in the power and transport sectors where sig-
nificant progress has already been achieved. For instance, the Eighth Highway
Project (Loan No. 1377-YU) approved March 15, 1977, provides for studies of
road-user charges and railway costs which the Government and we believe essen-
tial for developing intermodal coordination and devising a policy framework
for the transport sector. The Second Power Transmission Project (Loan No.
1469-YU approved June 28, 1977), an extension of the interconnected transmis-
sion system, partly financed by the Bank in 1972 (Loan No. 836-YU), will
enable the supply of power throughout the country and thereby encourage power
exchange coordination among all republics/provinces. The promise of further
progress in the coming years is reassuring and additional improvements in
sector coordination and policy are foreseen in conjunction with upcoming
projects.
27.       A persistent foreign resource gap looms as the major impediment to
Yugoslavia's ability to maintain its growth momentum and ability to address the
critical issues of unemployment and regional disparities. While the Yugoslavs
are making concerted efforts to open up and enlarge access to Western finan-
cial markets and institutions (including the European Investment Bank), there
is no concrete evidence of substantial additional inflows. The Bank, there-
fore, remains a major source of long-term external capital for the foreseeable
future, and its significant level of operations in Yugoslavia not only consti-
tutes the largest source of long-term external capital but, equally important,
is regarded by international financing institutions as evidence of inter-
national confidence in Yugoslavia's economic performance, policies and
prospects. In financing of infrastructure as well as industrial and agro-
industrial projects, we continue to devote particular attention to possibili-
ties for attracting co-financing. In our support of projects in the directly
productive sectors, we have and will continue to devote attention to those
which generate or conserve foreign exchange.
28.       Yugoslavia's debt to the Bank amounts to about one-fifth of its
total public debt, outstanding and disbursed. The outstanding debt to the
Bank is, however, expected to decline gradually from its current level to
about 10 percent of Yugoslavia's total external debt. Service on Bank loans
as a proportion of total debt service was 4.7 percent in 1976 and is projected
to be about 5 percent by 1980.



- 11 -
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agriculture in Yugoslavia 1/
29.       The agriculture sector grew at an average rate of about 3 percent
during 1970-75, occupied over one-third of the Yugoslav population and
accounted for around 15 percent of the GMP (Gross Material Product) 2/. In
view of continuing rural poverty and emerging food deficits, increasing
emphasis is being placed upon accelerating agricultural development. The
1976-80 Plan projects an increase in the growth rate to about 4 percent over
the period.
30.       The country has three distinct climatic zones and a predominantly
mountainous terrain. Agricultural activities are consequently varied, rang-
ing from cultivation of wheat, maize and sugar beets in the fertile plains,
to livestock rearing in the upland pastures, and cultivation of sub-tropical
crops and fruits along the Adriatic Coast and in the catchment basin of the
Aegean Sea.
31.       An important feature of Yugoslav agriculture is the co-existence of
social and individual sectors. The social sector, which grew out of postwar
collectivization, operates under principles of social ownership of the means
of production and workers' self-management. It includes kombinats (integrated
farms and processing facilities), cooperatives and research institutions.
This sector produces one-third of total agricultural output, controls 15
percent of agricultural land, and employs about 6 percent of agricultural
man-power. In contrast, the individual sector, which owns 85 percent of the
cultivated land and employs over 90 percent of agricultural manpower, is
handicapped by small, fragmented and poor quality landholdings, and has been
neglected in terms of access to basic infrastructure, financing and tech-
nology. The Government now recognizes that further significant growth in
production will have to emanate from the individual sector, and has launched
programs in agricultural credit and extension, cooperation with the social
sector and marketing services.
32.       Responsibility for formulating agricultural policy rests with the
republics and provinces, all of which are represented on the Federal Committee
for Agriculture, the President of which is a member of the Federal Executive
Council with the rank of Minister. The Committee sets the principles for
development, establishes major policies, links the agricultural sector with
the overall national development plan and is responsible for coordination of
1/   This section of the report is identical to that in the Report and
Recommendation of the President for the Macedonia Strezevo Irrigation
Project (Report No. P2269-YU) dated March 23, 1978.
2/   GMP (Gross Material Product) corresponds to GDP (Gross Domestic Product)
less output of certain services, such as public administration, defense,
education, health and social insurance.



- 12 -
agrarian policy, legislation and prices and exports. There is also at the
Federal level the Federal Chamber of Economy, within which there is a unit
dealing with the agricultural sector which includes specialized committees.
The responsibilities of these committees are to promote coordination in such
specialized areas as research, planning and finance. The Federal Chamber of
Economy attempts to ensure overall coordination within the economy. Chambers
of Economy also exist at the republican/provincial levels; like the Federal
Chamber of Economy, they comprise social sector enterprises and, as such, seek
to achieve maximum self-management coordination among and serve as intermedia-
ries between, enterprises in the negotiation of "social compacts" within their
respective republics/provinces. They also examine all legislation to be placed
before the respective assemblies, forecast markets, provide economic services
and scrutinize plans of enterprises. At the local level, the commune is the
link between the community and enterprises, and seeks to reconcile the various
interests of the enterprises and the community.
33.       Due to decentralized decision making, all functions associated with
policy implementation rest with autonomous self-governing organizations, such
as kombinats and cooperatives, which implement production and investment plans.
Even though it accounts for only about 15 percent of total cultivated land,
the social sector is the primary medium for policy implementation regarding
production and investments, since it has a virtual monopoly of technicians,
management skills and production processing and marketing activities outside
the small-scale sector.
Agriculture in Bosnia-Herzegovina
34.       Bosnia-Herzegovina is the largest of the less developed regions of
Yugoslavia with an estimated per capita income of $1,160 in 1976, roughly 70
percent of the national average. While the rapid progress of industrializa-
tion has significantly reduced the contribution of agriculture to GMP from
26 to 14 percent during 1961-75, development of the agricultural sector still
remains a crucial element in the overall development of Bosnia-Herzegovina.
The importance of the sector lies in the fact that around 48 percent of the
labor force depends on agriculture for its livelihood and the low productivity
and high incidence of poverty in the rural population is one of the principal
factors underlying the relatively lower per capita income of Bosnia-Herzegovina
as compared to Yugoslavia. These pockets of rural poverty are directly related
to the size of the individual sector which, in Bosnia-Herzegovina, owns 94
percent of the agricultural land and livestock. In 1976, some 30 percent of
the rural population was estimated to have been in the relative poverty target
group with incomes per family member of less than $350 per year. A corollary
of rural poverty has been the high level of unemployment and particularly
under-employment in the rural areas relative to the national averages. Lack
of gainful employment and income opportunities in the rural sector have caused
widespread emigration of the rural population to the cities within Yugoslavia
and abroad. This has placed considerable pressure on the non-agricultural
sector to create jobs which would absorb the migrant population. Increased
income opportunities in agriculture, particularly in the individual sector,
would help reduce the outflow of labor.



- 13 -
35.       There is considerable unrealized potential in the agricultural
sector. In terms of land and active agricultural population the agricultural
sector in Bosnia-Herzegovina represents about one-fifth of the national total
yet it accounts for only 10 percent of the national agricultural social
product and 6 percent of marketed production. While one of the contributing
causes for low productivity is natural endowment in terms of adverse topo-
graphic conditions, other factors which can be addressed have also had a
significant impact on constraining agricultural productivity. As with the
rest of Yugoslavia, the agricultural sector is characterized by a parallel
existence of the social and individual sectors with the individual sector
predominating. In Bosnia-Herzegovina, however, the dominance of the indi-
vidual sector is much stronger and productivity levels much lower. This is
the single most important factor underlying the low productivity of the
agriculture sector in Bosnia-Herzegovina compared with Yugoslav averages.
36.       In contrast, the social sector is relatively well endowed with
advanced farm technology, g;ood quality farm land with drainage and irrigation
facilities and adequate market and credit services. Social sector agricul-
ture recorded an average increase in production of 8 percent annually between
1971 and 1975, over three times that of the individual sector. In 1975,
although the social sector held only 15 percent of Bosnia-Herzegovina's culti-
vated land and employed 3 percent of the agricultural labor force, it con-
tributed 12 percent of the Republic's agricultural value added and 50 percent
of the total marketed agricultural output. The much higher productivity
levels and market orientation of the social sector reflects the sector's
access to investment, the heavy "intellectual input" by university trained
workers and the sector's emphasis on research.
Agricultural Policy
37.       The importance of agricultural development and the need to alleviate
the constraints facing the sector particularly among individual farmers are
recognized and are addressed in the Republic's five-year agricultural develop-
ment plan (1976-80). Agriculture has been designated as a priority activity
with investment anticipated to grow by 18.8 percent per annum compared to the
overall plan investment growth rate of 12.3 percent. The plan aims at a 3.8
percent per annum agricultural production growth for the period 1976-80 with
the social sector expected to grow at 9.5 percent and the individual sector at
3.0 percent. The less rapid growth of the individual sector reflects its
limited absorptive capacity and the difficulties in providing the large number
of individual farmers involved with appropriate inputs and markets.
38.       The plan strategy is based on increased formal cooperation between
the social and individual sectors, with each sector drawing on their respec-
tive comparative advantages. The individual sector through its considerable
resources of under-utilized land and labor, provide excellent potential for
increased primary production. In contrast, the social sector with its limited
supply of land, has reached a level of technology which provides only limited
opportunities for expansion of primary production. The expansion of proces-
sing facilities, which are exclusively in the social sector, would thus be
constrained through a lack of primary produce unless the resources of the



- 14 -
individual sector could be mobilized. Thus, the main thrust and innovation of
agricultural policy is to foster increased cooperation between these two
disparate sectors; by providing individual farmers with technical know-how,
the necessary inputs, and a market, the social sector encourages the growth
and development of the individual sector, this in turn provides the social
sector with the inputs it requires to ensure the continued expansion of its
processing facilities. Such cooperation, which has been evidenced in a number
of Bank supported agricultural activities in Bosnia-Herzegovina and other
parts of Yugoslavia, has generally been based on a direct relationship between
individual farmers and a social sector enterprise. As contemplated by the
1973 Green Plan (see paragraph 23 above), this cooperation is evolving into a
more organized system which is particularly evident in the project area.
39.       The vehicle for such cooperation in the project area are the
Zadrugas and basic organizations of contract farmers. Except for minor legal
differences, both are similar organizations and are henceforth referred to as
Zadrugas. These organizations have identical legal status to other social
sector self-managed entities (the legal basis for which is set out in the Law
on Associated Labor) yet consist of groups of individual farmers that chose
to be associated with each other, either on a long- or short-term basis. The
Zadruga is owned by the farmers who maintain the rights to the land and are
free to cooperate in any way they choose and are typically associated with
a kombinat. The creation of a Zadruga provides farmers with a number of
advantages: it provides a mechanism for integrating the individual and social
sectors with minimal restrictions on individual farmers, thus farmers can draw
on the kombinats access to technical know-how, credit and inputs; it provides
farmers with access to health and pension schemes like other social sector
organizations; and finally, it provides farmers with a means of participating
in decisions that directly affect their welfare such as the overall develop-
ment program of the kombinat. The Zadrugas thus provide a vehicle for serving
the interests of both the social and individual sectors and perhaps most
importantly, place the individual farmer on parity with the larger social
sector enterprises. Experience so far is insufficient to permit a definitive
assessment of the effectiveness of the Zadrugas, however, encouraging results
have been achieved in the short time since their inception in 1974.
Bank Involvement in Yugoslavia's Agriculture Sector
40.        It has been part of the Bank's strategy in Yugoslavia for some years
to find ways of assisting with the development of agriculture, with a special
emphasis on helping the individual farmer. The 1973 Plan, as revised in 1976,
provides a suitable framework for Bank lending, since it aims by explicitly
supporting the individual farmer sector, to promote more even income distribu-
tion within the sector.
41.       The proposed Bosanska-Krajina Agriculture and Agroindustrial Project
(which is primarily involved with the individual sector) would represent the
eighth Bank loan for agriculture and agro-industries in Yugoslavia, following
the First Agro-industries Project in Macedonia (Loan No. 894-YU) in 1973 (pri-
marily involved with the social sector), the First Agricultural Credit Project
(Loan No. 1129-YU) in 1975 (about 47 percent of which is directly involved



- 15 -
with the individual sector), the Metohija Multipurpose Project (Loan No. 1360-
YU) in 1977 (primarily involved with the individual sector), the Agriculture
and Agro-industries Projects for the Republics of Montenegro and Macedonia
(Loons Nos. 1370-YU and 1371-YU, respectively) in 1977 (the first primarily
involving the social sector and the second having significant involvement in
the individual farmer sector), and the Second Agricultural Credit Project
(Loan No. 1477-YU) in 1977 (about 57 percent of which is directly ii,volved
with the individual sector) and the Macedonia Strezevo Irrigation Project
(Loan No. 1616-YU) in 1978 (about 60 percent of which is directly involved
with the individual sector). Other Bank loans for multipurpose projects have
included agricultural components; such as, irrigation works under the Ibar
Multipurpose Project (Loan No. 777-YU) of 1971 and two pilot irrigation proj-
ects under the Morava Reg:ion Development Project (Loan No. 1262-YU) of 1976,
both involving primarily individual sector farmers. These projects, the
progress of which is summarized in Annex II, are proceeding satisfactorily.
The mix between involvement in the social and individual agricultural sectors
in Bank projects in Yugoslavia has been determined in each particular case by
the Federal and Republican/Provincial Governments' own efforts for the social
and individual farmer sectors and the high priority attached to the specific
agricultural production and processing schemes.
Performance Under First Agricultural Credit Project in Bosnia-Herzegovina
42.       The proposed loan will be the first Bank loan in the agricultural
sector of Bosnia-Herzegovina. However, Privredna Banka Sarajevo (PBS),
the proposed borrower under this project, is a participant bank in the Bank's
first and second (nationwide) Agricultural Credit Projects in Yugoslavia
(Loan No. 1129-YU in 1975i and 1477-YU in 1977). In both of these projects
funds were made available through the various participating banks for lending
to social enterprises and individual farmers in the agricultural sector. The
funds were used to finance increases in production, improvements in product
quality and increased productivity and incomes, especially on individual
farms. Under the two projects, PBS has been allocated $5.4 million and $12.7
million out of total loan amount of $50 million and $75 million respectively.
PBS's performance under the first project has been good, committing 100 per-
cent of the funds available to it. Its performance in terms of disbursements
(42 percent disbursed) is above the average reported for the project as a
whole. The Second Project became effective in January 1978 and implementation
is beginning. In the project area, PBS has made four subloans totalling about
$1 million under the First Agricultural Credit Project. It is expected that
the project area will not receive any substantial funds from the Second
Agricultural Credit Project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.       The proposed project will be located in the Bosanska-Krajina Region
(see Map-IBRD 13952) of the Socialist Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina. Although
the Bosanska-Krajina Region covers most of the productive plains of Bosnia-
Herzegovina it remains one of the least developed regions in Yugoslavia with



- 16 -
incomes per capita ($957) well below the Republic's average. Following the
serious physical damage and economic disruption of the region caused by an
earthquake in 1969, the government took steps to investigate the reconstruc-
tion and developmental needs of the area. Amongst other steps, it obtained
UNDP assistance for preparing a regional development plan. The proposed
project emerged from these UNDP financed studies which recommended that the
development of the region should be based on promoting increases in farm
production, mainly in the individual sector, parallel with increases in
processing capacities and an expansion of marketing opportunities. Based on
this development strategy and other findings of the UNDP project, the Govern-
ment established an agro-industrial trade kombinat, AIPK in January 1974, as
the regional development enterprise for development of the Bosanska-Krajina
Region. AIPK prepared the proposed project with the assistance of the FAO/
IBRD Cooperative Programme. The project preparation report was issued in
October 1977, and the project appraised in December 1977. Negotiations were
held in Washington in July 1978. The Yugoslav delegation was headed by Mr.
Milan Mandic, Deputy Secretary for Agriculture, Bosnia-Herzegovina.
Sectoral Context of Project
44.       The proposed project is a large and integral element not only of
the development plan of the region but of the entire Republic's agricultural
plan. The project area covers 30 percent of the agricultural land of Bosnia-
Herzegovina and half of the agricultural population. It provides 23 percent
of the Republic's production of milk, fruits and vegetables, nearly 30 percent
of meat and 36 percent of cereal production. Its contribution of processed
products is even higher. By the end of 1980 the region is expected to provide
37 percent of the Republic's cereals, 22 percent of fruit and vegetables, 25
percent of milk and 32 percent of meat production. Thus the project represents
a significant portion of the overall sectoral plan.
Project Objectives and Description
45.       The project is described in detail in the Staff Appraisal Report
"Bosanska-Krajina Agriculture and Agroindustries Project," Report No. 2065a-YU,
dated August 30, 1978, which is being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors.
46.       The novel feature of the project is that it strives for an integ-
rated approach to the agricultural development of one of the large and yet
least developed rural areas of Yugoslavia. The individual sector is expected
to provide the bulk of the incremental growth in primary production. The
social sector is expected to play an important role in fostering the growth of
such production. It will, through the provision of a host of services either
directly to individual farmers or through their Zadrugas (see paragraph 39
above), provide individual farmers with access to the inputs and know-how
that is crucial for the realization of their growth targets. At the same time,
through the expansion and diversification of processing facilities and access
to its extensive marketing network, the social sector will provide primary
producers a secure market for their produce. The project is thus expected to
result in significant increases in the productivity and income levels of the



- 17 -
rural population and increases in the availability of processed products and
products of improved quality to the consumers.
47.       The project would consist of a (i) primary agricultural production
component: subloans to individual farmers through Zadrugas for livestock
development to produce milk, beef, pork, chicken and lamb, and fruit and vege-
table production. In addition, production of maize, barley, other cereals and
potatoes would be increased through providing subloans to Zadrugas to set up
extension services, grain drying and storage and machinery services for these
farmers. Subloans would also be provided under the component to the social
sector enterprises for land reclamation of about 8,300 ha in the social sector
and 1,500 ha in the individual sector and irrigation of about 1,200 ha in the
social sector; (ii) support services component: provision of broadly based
support services by AIPK for individual farmers emphasizing transfer of tech-
nology developed and tested in the social sector. Investments in (a) a heifer
rearing farm; (b) a pig breeding farm; (c) a cattle breeding and progeny test-
ing service; (d) a sheep research farm; (e) a seed processing facility; (f) a
technical support unit for subject matter specialist assistance to extension
workers in the project area; (g) a fruit plant nursery; and (h) a farm
machinery workshop, would lprovide the necessary inputs which would benefit
not only individual farmers in the project area but in other parts of the
Republic as well; and (iii) agroindustries component: provision of processing
capacity to ensure an adeqlaate and stable market for incremental agricultural
production in the Bosanska-Krajina Region. Investments would include estab-
lishment and expansion of 10 agroindustries concerned with processing of milk,
meat, poultry, fruits, pluims, potatoes, vegetables and a maltery.
Project Organization Implementation
48.        Institutional Arrangements.  The borrower of the proposed loan would
be Privredna Banka Sarajevo (PBS). It would on-lend the Bank funds, together
with its own resources and funds from Federal and Republic sources, to the
constituent organizations of AIPK including the Zadrugas borrowing on behalf
of the individual farmers (for on-lending through Zadrugas, see paragraph 53,
for on-lending terms see paragraph 59).
49.       PBS is a borrower under five previous Bank loans comprising two
agricultural and three industrial credit projects. PBS is a major source of
all credits, including agricultural, in the Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina.
The organization, managerial, lending policies and procedures and the finan-
cial situation of PBS are satisfactory. It has good experience in lending for
agricultural and agroindustrial production in Bank projects and in its other
activities. The quality of appraisals done by PBS under IBRD financed proj-
ects has been acceptable. Although similar in scope, the agroindustries
investments under this project are larger in size and complexity. PBS
appraisal capability needs to be strengthened for reviewing the technical
aspects of the potato processing plant and in reviewing marketing aspects of
all agroindustries. In addition, PBS would need assistance to supervise
international procurement following Bank Guidelines, since it has limited
experience in this area. Consequently assurances have been obtained from
PBS that (a) it would by ]December 31, 1978 appoint a marketing specialist and



- 18 -
a procurement specialist on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank as
consultant or regular staff (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(a)(i)); and (b) for
technical appraisal of potato processing plant it would engage an internation-
ally experienced consultant who would be acceptable to the Bank (Loan Agree-
ment, Section 3.01(a)(ii)).
50.       PBS will carry out full appraisal of each subloan request paying
particular attention to its technical, financial and economic viability; orga-
nization and management capabilities of the subborrower; marketing aspects;
adequacy of contingency allowances and the creditworthiness of the subborrower.
PBS would put forward to the Bank for review and approval, its own appraisal
reports for the social sector subprojects whose total costs exceed $1.5 mil-
lion.  In addition, PBS would forward to the Bank for approval the first sub-
project for lending to the Zadrugas for individual farmers and the first
subproject for lending to the Zadrugas for farm machinery services or grain
storage and drying services.  PBS would supervise the sub-loans to ensure
adequate technical and financial supervision of the subprojects during and
after the construction.
51.       AIPK is the only kombinat in the Bosanska-Krajina Region and acts as
a regional development enterprise. AIPK, a financially autonomous enterprise,
ranks among the top 20 enterprises in Yugoslavia and third among the agro-
industrial kombinats. It comprises 99 BOALs which have associated themselves
through an (self-management) agreement on association to create AIPK, 23 of
which are for cooperation with individual farmers (Zadrugas). Each BOAL is a
legal entity and will be directly responsible for construction, equipping and
operation of the facilities to be financed under the project. The central
organization of AIPK represents collectively the various BOALs and is responsi-
ble for coordinating their activities and overall development. Responsibility
for project implementation and overall coordination between the various BOALs
would rest with the central management of AIPK which through a management
board is responsible for day-to-day work of AIPK. The management board, in
effect, carries out the functions of the general manager. AIPK is adequately
staffed and managed and is considered to be a competent entity for undertaking
its responsibilities for the project.
52.       The Bank would sign a project agreement with AIPK which would detail
its responsibilities and obligations under the project. In exercising these
functions AIPK's central organization would work through the normal organiza-
tion channels and enterprises within AIPK. However, to handle the additional
work relating to the project during its implementation a Project Unit (PU)
would be established in the central organization of AIPK. The PU will supple-
ment and strengthen the central organization of AIPK during project implemen-
tation. All loan requests by the constituent organs of AIPK would be submitted
to PBS through the PU. The PU would be headed by an experienced Director, who
would report directly to the Management Board of AIPK. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that the PU would be created, and that an experienced
Director would be appointed to head this Unit prior to the effectiveness of the
proposed loan (Project Agreement Section 2.01(b)). During negotiations, assur-
ances were also obtained that the PU would have adequate staff and that AIPK
would appoint the key staff in the PU by February 1, 1979 (Project Agreement
Schedule 2 paragraph 3).



- 19 -
53.       Implementation.  The individual farmers will carry out their invest-
ment through the Zadrugas. The Zadrugas in AIPK, which currently number 23
and which will be increased to 40 to reach a larger number of individual farms,
will serve the needs of their members through providing credits, extension
services, and a market for the incremental production of its members. Under
the project the Zadrugas would receive subloans from PBS to be on-lent to its
member farmers for primary production. Farmers may, however, also submit
their loan requests directly to PBS. In addition the Zadrugas would receive
subloans themselves to set up farm machinery services and grain drying and
storage facilities. The costs of all services provided by the Zadrugas will
be fully recovered from individual farmers. An important element in the work
of the Zadrugas will be a considerable expansion of their extension services
which are at present inadequate to serve the individual farmer. Assurances
have been obtained that prior to the effectiveness of the loan, a detailed
program of extension services will be submitted by AIPK through PBS to the
Bank (Project Agreement Section 2.01(c). Assurances have also been obtained
that the program would be implemented and necessary funds made available by
AIPK (Project Agreement Section 2.01(c)).
54.       The investments under the support services component and land
reclamation component of the project would be undertaken by social sector
BOALs within AIPK which already exist and the project investments would be
an expansion of their existing operations; no special arrangements for imple-
mentation of these components would be needed.
55.       As regards investments in the ten agroindustries to be financed
under the project, four would be undertaken by existing BOALs in AIPK expe-
rienced in the same or similar operations. For the remaining six investments,
new BOALs would be created in AIPK for implementation of the investments and
subsequent operation and maintenance of the facilities.  Assurances have been
obtained during negotiations that AIPK would establish a new BOAL for each
of these investments (Project Agreement Section 2.07). These arrangements
together with the technical assistance and performance guarantees to be
provided by the contractors for construction and equipping of agroindustrial
facilities under the project, and appraisal criteria to be followed by PBS
provide a satisfactory basis for efficient implementation of the agroindus-
trial component of the project. Assurances have also been obtained that at
least 50 percent of the processing capacity of the agroindustries would
utilize primary productior, from the individual sector and that the seasonal
credit requirements for eaLch subborrower during the implementation of sub-
projects would be available (Loan Agreement Schedule 4(B)(i)(b) and (C)(iii)
(b)).
56.       The project includes funds for extension service which will provide
training and technical assistance to the individual farmers. Provision has
also been made to establish a Technical Support Unit for the training of
extension workers. SpeciaLlized training to the key staff of the agroindus-
tries to be established under the project will be necessary for efficient
operation of these facilities; this will be provided by the suppliers of the
equipment. Assurances have been obtained that the relevant BOAL's of AIPK
would employ specialized consultants to provide technical assistance in



- 20 -
design, procurement and operation of two meat processing plants, a poultry
processing and a meat rendering plant and a potato processing plant (Project
Agreement Section 2.02(a)).
Monitoring and Evaluation
57.       The PU in AIPK would be responsible for monitoring and evaluating
the project and would submit quarterly progress reports and annual evaluation
reports to the Bank. To prepare these, assurances have been obtained that
AIPK (a) would by February 1, 1979 hire a consultant, under terms and con-
ditions satisfactory to the Bank to design a monitoring and evaluation system
including an appropriate management information system, and (b) would imple-
ment the system by May 1, 1979 (Project Agreement Section 2.02(b) and (c)).
Project Cost and Financing
58.       The estimated total cost of the project, including physical and
price contingencies, taxes and import duties, but excluding interest during
construction, based on December 1977 price levels, is about US$204 million,
with an estimated foreign exchange component of US$64.3 million. Details of
the cost estimates are shown in the Loan and Project Summary. The estimated
costs include duties and taxes (about 3 percent of project costs). A physical
contingency of 10 percent on civil works and 5 to 7 percent on equipment and
an average 25.8 percent price contingency on base cost plus physical contin-
gencies have been applied to provide for investment design variations and to
meet expected inflation in foreign and local costs during the project imple-
mentation period of five years. A total of 15 man years of consultants are
expected to be employed at a cost of about US$4,300 per man month.
59.       The proposed Bank loan of US$55 million would finance 85 percent of
foreign exchange costs of the project. The Bank loan would be made to PBS for
15 years including three years of grace. As in the case of other agricultural
loans, the foreign exchange risk of the Bank loan would be borne by the sub-
borrowers in the social sector including Zadrugas for their own use and by the
Republic for the private farmers. PBS would take adequate steps to protect
itself against the exchange risks on subloan repayments accruing earlier than
amortization payments of the Bank loan. Assurances on these arrangements have
been obtained during negotiations. PBS will on-lend the loan proceeds together
with US$108.0 million equivalent from its own funds, including funds obtained
from co-financing, to individual farmers, Zadrugas and social sector enter-
prises in the Bosanska-Krajina Region, for terms up to 15 years (including
grace period up to 5 years) at an interest of 11 percent p.a. on Bank funds
and a minimum of 6 percent and 5 percent on local funds lent to social sector
including Zadrugas and individual farmers respectively. The domestic rate of
inflation between 1976-78 has averaged about 11 percent and is expected to
average between 11 and 12 percent over the next three years. On-lending local
interest rates are about 10 percent for funds from the commercial banks and
4-5 percent from funds available through budgetary transfers. The on-lending
rates to the social sector for Bank funds under this project are expected to
be significantly positive in real terms given that they would also be bearing
foreign exchange risk. For the private sector, the rates, though higher than
those charged by local banks will nevertheless not result in positive real
rates. With the new system of planning in Yugoslavia (see paragraph 10)



- 21 -
the macroeconomic, allocative role, of interest rates is limited, as also is
its impact on resource mobilization (see paragraph 13). Interest rates may
play some role at the micro level, particularly in the choice of technology.
This issue is currently being pursued in a special study being undertaken
under the Second Agricultural Credit Project. As an interim measure, how-
ever, it was agreed that uniform floor interest rates be set for on-lending
of local funds, a policy that has been pursued in subsequent agricultural
projects. Since the project components and design have all been appraised
by the Bank and found to be satisfactory, it has been decided, pending the
findings of the study, to maintain on-lending rates at the same level as
those under the Second Agricultural Credit Project. PBS is presently at an
advanced stage of negotiating co-financing arrangements with a number of
commercial banking institutions. PBS is expected to seek a cross-default
clause between the Bank loan and funds obtained from the commercial banks.
Should co-financing arrangements be satisfactorily concluded a proposal to
amend the legal documents if necessary, will be submitted to the Board for
its approval. The sub-borrowers will provide 20 percent of the project
costs, estimated to be US$41.0 million.
Markets
60.       The project's output would be marketed domestically and mainly in
the Bosanska-Krajina Region and in the nearby tourist areas on the Dalmatian
coast in the tourist season. On the basis of 1.3 percent projected annual
growth of population, 4 percent real wage increases, rise in tourism and
increasing urbanization the market potential for the project's output is wide.
To avoid duplication of capacity and bottlenecks the new system of planning,
underlying the current plan, is based on a process of ex ante coordination by
all producers and codified in a contractual agreement between the parties.
The current social compact on agricultural and agroindustrial development in
Bosnia-Herzegovina is a product of this process and hence is expected to
minimize the risk of overproduction and to ensure orderly market expansion.
The marketing arrangements of the project's output are adequate. The proj-
ect's output will be marketed in the Bosanska-Krajina Region by AIPK through
its network of more than 1,000 shops. AIPK owns and operates nearly all the
retail and wholesale market outlets in the Bosanska-Krajina Region and has
retail shops in nearby major metropolitan areas of Zagreb and Sarajevo.
Trading is an important activity of AIPK and it has considerable experience
in it. The major market centers identified for the project output are within
a radius of 250 km from AIPK'S headquarters in Banja Luka, hence no serious
transport problem is foreseen. Furthermore AIPK enters into marketing arrange-
ments with marketing organizations on the Dalmatian coast and for nationwide
distribution of its products. In return it acts as the marketing and distri-
buting agency for products from outside its production in the Bosanska-Krajina
Region. In view of the above, no marketing constraints are foreseen.
Accounts and Audit
61.       The accounts of the PBS are audited annually by the Social Account-
ing Service (SDK), as required by Yugoslav law. A full audit of the PBS,
according to internationally accepted standards, was completed for the first
time for its 1976 accounts, under the Second Industrial Credit Project (Loan
1277-YU). This audit arrangement has continued under the Fourth Industrial



- 22 -
Credit Project (Loan 1612-YU). Assurances have been obtained from PBS that it
would continue to submit such audited accounts to the Bank within six months
of the close of each fiscal year (Loan Agreement Section 5.03).
62.       Assurances have been obtained from AIPK during negotiations that
it would maintain separate accounts for transactions under the project and
submit annual audited reports acceptable to the Bank within six months of the
end of each fiscal year (Project Agreement Sections 4.02 and 4.04).
Procurement and Disbursement
63.       Agroindustrial plants and equipment estimated to cost about $66.5
million would be procured following international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank guidelines. This procurement would include a poultry
processing plant, a meat rendering plant, a fruit juice processing plant, a
potato processing plant, a plum processing plant and a maltery (estimated
value US$56.3 million); the equipment for a milk processing plant, meat pro-
cessing plants and vegetable processing plants (estimated value US$8.7 mil-
lion); and vegetable planting and harvesting machinery valued in aggregate
at about US$1.5 million. The above items will be bulked in lots of not less
than US$500,000. In bid comparisons domestic manufacturers would receive a 15
percent margin of preference or the actual level of import duty whichever is
less. The processing plants would be procured on a turnkey contract basis, or
on other procedures acceptable to the Bank. Contracts for the procurement of
equipment for processing plants would include provisions for equipment sup-
pliers to furnish erection supervisors, guarantee performance and train local
staff in operation and maintenance of the equipment. It is estimated that,
out of about US$66.5 million, foreign suppliers would probably be awarded
contracts totalling in value to about US$30 million (45 percent). During
negotiations assurances have been obtained that procurement arrangements
outlined above would be followed.
64.       International competitive bidding would not be suitable for works
and equipment connected with other project components totalling in value
US$137.5 million. The civil works and the equipment to be procured under
these components are not suitable for bulk procurement and are not likely
to be attractive to foreign contractors and suppliers due to dispersion of
investors, wide differences in the type of construction and equipment required,
phasing of contracts over four years, and the relatively small size of each
contract. They would therefore be procured following local procurement pro-
cedures satisfactory to the Bank. Bank disbursements would extend over about
five years. An estimated disbursement schedule is given in the Loan and
Project Summary. The Bank loan would finance 100 percent of foreign expendi-
tures or local expenditures up to a maximum of 50 percent of total disbursed
amounts by PBS for subloans to individual farmers through Zadrugas, and up to
a maximum of 37 percent of local expenditures for subloan under the support
services components and subloans to Zadrugas to set up extension, machinery
and grain drying services and up to a maximum of 19 percent of total disburse-
ments by PBS for land reclamation investments, and up to a maximum of 24 per-
cent of total disbursements under the agroindustries component of the project.



- 23 -
Benefits and Risks
65.       The proposed project would be of major importance to the economy
of Bosnia-Herzegovina and Yugoslavia. Firstly, the project would serve to
reduce regional income disparities within Bosnia-Herzegovina and Yugoslavia
through dealing with the source of the problem, namely, the high incidence
of individual farmers in less developed republics and their low productivity
and income levels. The Bank loan would directly benefit some 12,000 indi-
vidual farm families raising their net average incomes by 120 percent at full
development. Approximately 9,000 of these farmers receiving an estimated 30
percent of the project benefits belong to the target group with per capita
incomes below $225. In addition, the project would indirectly benefit a
further 20,000 farm families through providing marketing outlets for their
produce and technical assistance and improved inputs. The project is expected
to create 4,560 new jobs while a further 12,000 man years of work will be
created for individual farmers in realizing their projected output targets for
primary production.  Including the families of farmers, the project total
beneficiaries in the individual sector would number 150,000 or nearly 10 per-
cent of the agricultural population of Bosnia-Herzegovina.
66.       The project will provide significant increases in the production of
both crops and livestock. The principal production increases resulting from
the project will be cereals (118,000 tons), fruits and vegetables (79,000
tons), meat (29,000 tons) and milk (19,500 tons). The incremental output
would mainly be processed into higher value processed product. The main pro-
cessed products would be pasteurized and UHT (ultra-high temperature heated)
milk, processed fresh and cooked meat products, processed potato products,
ready to eat meals, fruit juices and syrup, fruit pulp, dried plums, baby
food, and jams by agroindustries to be financed under the project as well as
livestock feed, corn syrup, bread and other bakery products by agroindustries
already existing in the project area. Institution building aspects include
establishment of a more effective linkage between the private and social
sectors in agriculture by giving individual farmers the means, incentives and
technical advice to supply produce for social sector processing and marketing
channels. The project represents one of the first completely integrated
approaches to individual farm development, the success of which could lead
to similar approaches in other areas in Yugoslavia. Finally, the establish-
ment of a more effective extension and other support services system in the
Bosanska-Krajina Region to help individual farm sectors, would serve as a
model for extending the system to other areas.
67.       One risk likely to be faced by the project is institutional.  The
success of the project will, to a large extent, depend on the success achieved
in strengthening the institutional links between the social and individual
sectors through the Zadrugas. The Zadrugas are relatively new (started in
1974) and may experience delays and shortcomings in their operations. How-
ever, the experience so far in the project area and in Yugoslavia has been
promising. Both individual farmers, through gaining access to better quality
inputs and a secure market, and the social sector, through assuring itself of
a steady supply of raw material for processing, have a strong vested interest
in the efficient functioning of the cooperative mechanism. The Zadruga is
particularlv attractive to individual farmers because they do not forego
rights to ownership of their land and face minimal restrictions. Given the



- 24 -
above, AIPK's experience and performance, and in particular, the availability
of a pool of trainable manpower in the Republic, the risk is considered to be
prudent and acceptable. A further potential risk is the inadequacy of ade-
quately specialized technicians to operate some of the more complex agro-
industries. The project, through the provision of technical assistance by
consultants should reduce this uncertainty. Since the project output will
be consumed mainly in the Bosanska-Krajina Region which offers good market
prospects and since the project was conceived as an integral part of the
medium term plans of Bosnia-Herzegovina and Yugoslavia, significant market
risks are not anticipated.
Economic Rate of Return
68.       The average economic rate of return for the project is 22 percent,
with an estimated economic rate of return of 19 percent for the primary pro-
duction component (including costs of extension service), the cost of which
is $106.8 million (including price and physical contingencies), 10 percent
for the support services component, the cost of which is $18.9 million and 33
percent for the agro-industries component, the cost of which is $78.0 million.
These rates of return do not take account of the following non-quantified
benefits: additional financial benefits to an estimated 20,000 beneficiaries
of the support service components in the Bosanska-Krajina Region as well as
in other parts of the Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina; the effect of project
investments on reduction of flight of the active agricultural labor force from
the Bosanska-Krajina Region; and the indirect benefits, in term of generating
new employment and income opportunities, to the economy of Bosanska-Krajina
Region (population 826,000) as a result of an average annual investment of $41
million in the project area for five years and the multiplier effects of the
area's increased purchasing power. Sensitivity tests were conducted to assess
the stability of the respective rates of return to variation in project costs
and benefits streams and even under adverse assumptions the project's economic
rate of return does not fall below 15 percent.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Privredna Banka
Sarajevo; the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and AIPK; the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Socalist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and
the Bank; and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
70.       Provisions of the agreement of special interest were noted in para-
graphs 49 through 63 of this report and are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Special conditions of effectiveness for the proposed loan (Loan Agree-
ment, Section 7.01) are:
(i) AIPK to create a Project Unit and appoint a Project Unit
director (Project Agreement Schedule 2);



- 25 -
(ii) AIPK to prepare and submit to PBS for Bank comments and
approval a detailed program for extension services to
individual farmers in the Bosanska-Krajina Region (Project
Agreement Section 2.01(c)).
P'ART VI - RECOMMENDATION
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
September 20, 1978
Washington, D.C.






TABLE 3A                                             AMN    I
YUGOSLAVIA          - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                           Page I of 4 pages
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                  ----------a---- - -  ----4 -p--------------
YUGOSLAVIA                           REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL       255.8                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      144.2                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE           ROMANI        SPAIN           GERMANY FED.REP. OF***
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     380.0 *  830.0*  1680.0 */a              550.0 /a  1580.0*    4420.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)            18.4       20.4       21.5 /a            20.3         33.6        61.6
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        72.0       80.0      84.0 /a             85.0        67.o       240.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        124.0      139.0     149.0 TE            136.0       105.0       439.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)          26.8       21.0       18.2               19.0        21.0         17.3
CRUDE DEATH F-TE (/THOU,AV)           11.5        9.1        9.2                8.9         8.8         11.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)         88.0       55.5      40.5                49.4        27.9        23.6
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)        63.7       67.7      68.0                67.7        70.5        70.3
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                1.4        1.3        1.3                1.3          1.4         1.2
POPULYTION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                  1.2        1.0        0.9                 1.0        1.1          1.0
URBAN                                  6.0        4.6         ..                3.4         2.0         4.1
URBAN POPULATION (x OF TOTAL)           27.2       38.7       39.0 /b            40.8         59.1        82.4
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        30.7       28.3       26.3               25.9        27.8        23.2
15 TO 64 YEARS                        63.2       64.3      65.4                65.5        62.5        63.6
65 YEARS AND OVER                      6.1        7.4        8.3                8.6         9.7         13.2
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.6        0.6        0.5                 0.5         0.6         0.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0          .        0.8 /C.            0.7 /b       1.1         0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            ..         ..         ..                  ..          .
USEkRj (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..         ..         ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)          8300.0         ..      9150. Qd          9900.0    11900.0    26500.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (X)          57.0         ..        39. E             49.0        25.0         8.9
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)            7.0         .ai                            .-e        1.1         0 0.7
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
_- _--- - - -- -  - ___- -. __- ---
% OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             16.4 Li   15.1          ..
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             41.5 Li   41.4          ..
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              6.9        6.6        ...
LOWESt 40% Of HUSEHOLDS               19.0       11.4         ..
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
____________ ___ _____________
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS (12        15.1**    15.1**    15.1**
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS(uI)   B4.9**    84.9**    84.9**
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             1400.0 /]1010.0        850.0               680.0       740.0 /b   580.0
POPULATION PER NUR_ING PERSON         3      /L 410.0       450.                200.0           *-      350.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED                       170.0      170.0              140.0 /    220.0         90.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (x OF REQUIREMENTS)         115.0      124.0     137.0               118.0       107.0       121.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               91.0      92.0       97.5                92.0        81.0        88.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          27.0      29.0       35.4                28.0        40.0        56.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4              4.5        2.6        1.7                2.4         0.9          0.9
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        96.0       94.0      96.0 La            113.0       123.0       129.0/a
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      34.0       45.0      49.0 I8             44.0        57.0        66.o7Ta
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED                                                                                    -
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              12.0       12.0      12.0              12-13         11.0        15.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(x OF SECONDARY)                      72.0      72.0       74.0 .L             58.0        20.0        48.0/a
ADULT LITERACY RATE (x)                 77.0       85.0         .                   ,         94.0        99.0
HOUSING
PERSoNS Pt'. ROOM (URBAN)                1.7         ..        1.3/b               1.3 /d       .          0.7/b
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (x)                         ..         ..      61.5!1/&1           88.0 /d,e    ..          0.3/c
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(x OF ALL DWELLINGS)                  54.5         ..      89.2/a              49.0 /d       ..       100.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                    36.1         ..       eo.i/b             27.0 /d        .
CONSUMPTION
_ _    _   --  _ _  _
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER-THOU POP)          85.0     163.0      193.0                152.0       214.0       318.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            3.0       3S.0      72.0                   ..        71.0       220.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           480.0    1288.0                          1615.0      1634.0      4128.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                2.3        433 18878                      2.6         5.8        17.7
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNELX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
Unleos othervie noted, data for 1960 refer to sny year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Most Recent Eatimate between
1973 and 1975.
a    GNP per c-pita data are based on the World Bank Atla- methodology (1974-76 basis).
I.  Agriculture land held by social sector (fombinete).
n   II. Agriculture land held by private smsil-holders "10 hectarens olnun'
n    Selection of Federal RepnbLic of Germany es en objective country is based on the close econopic ties maintained by the two countries as well
an on the fact that the greater part of Yuagoavlie's around one million worker  temporarily abroad have found employnent in the Federal
Republic cf Ger.any.
YGOSLAVIA                   1960    /a  1963;    /b  1962.
MOST RECENT ESTLMATE:    /a  1976;    /b  1971;    /c  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;
/d  Including sbout a00 thousand migrant workero norking outside;    /e 1975, as ratio of
active resident labor fo.e.         /f  1970-74 average;    'g  1972;    7    Inside only.
ROMANIA                     1970    /a  Nut compsrable c- tho-e for other Centrally Planned Ecnomies.   Derived by using the Bank Atlas methodology,
by edj-utiog official Romaniao national accounts data and converting then into US dollars at the effeetive
ench-nge rate for foreign trade transactiono ohich approni.atee Lei 20 per US dollar;    /b  Ratio of. popoltion
under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /c  Hoapitale only, eocludes sanitaris and  sattemity hoese;
/d  1966;    /e  Inside only.
SPAIN                       1970    /a  Employment office eatitate;    /b  Regiaternd, nut a11 practicing in th  country.
GERMANY, FED. REP. OF    1970    /a  Include the relevant data relating to Berlin fur which separate data have not beon supplied;    /b  Total,  rban
rural, /c Inside only.
R16, March 2, 1978
DLFINITIONS oF SOCCLL LNDICATGOR
Land ares! (ho- k,2)                                                                         Poeplation per nur oine per-on- Popul-tion dividsd by number of prectiting
Total    otal eurface  area cooprising land ares end inland  -atsrs.                           male  and  sale gradute nur-e-, "trained" or "nertified' nurses, and
^gric  - Mest recent en tLate of agricultural are  used temaporarily or peena-                 aneiliary personnel with training or epenience
neetly fer crops, pastures, mtrket & kitchen gardens or to lie fallow.                     Pp.lation Per hoeeitn1 bed - Poplation divided by  tmbr of hospital bed
sva ilbls in publin and privae t.genral. and spscialieed hospital end
CNP oar c-ita (USS) - GNP pr capita e-timate- at curroet earket pricee,                        rehabilitation centere; encludes nursing homes and establisahnne  for
calculated by see  converioc method ae World Bank ntl.a  (1973-75 baste);                    custodial end preventive care.
1960; 1970 -nd 1975 data.                                                                 Per .apit. unr of nf cord          It of -reuiramente) - Compnted fra  enrgy
eqoivuls'nt of net fond supplies available im Country per .apie. par day;
Populetion aod vital stacistic,                                                                aailoble sopplies comprise doesetic production, importa less enporte, and
Poeplation (mid-yeur ollion)    s of July first:  if not av-ilable, aver-ge                     hangee in stock; net aupplis e.c. lde animal feed, seeds, quanettits  -ued
of two -nd-y-ar estimates; 1)60, 1970 and 1975 dat.                                          in fond processing and losses in distribution; requirements frle estimated
by  FAO b.asd on phyeiological needs for normal activity and health  -oel-
Population density - per square km - Mid-ye-r population per 5quar  kilometer           e       ring eoviromnesntal toperature, body teighu, age end see dietri.ln..e. of
(lOo hectarno) of total are.                                                                population, and allowing t10  for castes t househeld level.
Ponclation denaitv -rer enuare be of aric. land - Compuind as abowo for                      Per capita eusply of protein igrama ne  day) - Protein  nctent of par capita
agrictltursi lend only.                                                                      net *upply of food per day; net supply of feod is defined as sbone; require-
"ents for a1 tontries established by UfDA Economic Re.e.rch Seroin.c
Vital statistics                                                                               provido for a mtnimte  _llowanc   of 60 grana of total protein per day, and
Crudn birth race per thousand, aversue - Annual live births per thousand of                    20 grms of seimal snd pulse protein, of which 10 gra   should be animal
oid-year populution; ten-year *rith"etic averages ending in 1960 and 1970,                   proCein; these stundarde are  peer then those of 75 grs of total protein
and five-year overage ending in 1975 for moet recent entimte.                                and 23 grasa of onimal protein as an average for the world, proposed by FAo
Crude death rate per thoua.. d.  aversee - Annual deathe per thousand of mid-year              in thb  Third World Fond Srvey.
popul.tion; ten-year arithfetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970 end five-                 Per naRita Protein ecerly from animal and   Ilse - Protein supply of food
year average endiog in 1975 for east renent netimate.                                        derived from animals and pulses fa grame pet day
nfant  ortality rats (/thou) - Annual death- of infants under one year of age               Death rate (/thou) aces 1-4 - Ann-ol deaths per thousand it age greup 1-4
per chounand live births                                                                     years, to children in this *Sg  greup; soggested as an indintor of
Life ennctanop at birth fyr-) - Average nmbar of years  of life remaining at                   malnutrition.
birth; nsually five-year verages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ing cunntris.                                                                              Educ-tion
Gross recroduction rate - average cber of live d uhtere . ..n will bear                      Adjusted enrollment  ratio - prlearv school - Enrelleent of a11 ages  as Pr-
in he, nonnal reproductive period if she experientes prenent age-specific                    centage of primary school-agn population; includes children aged 6-11 yasre
fertility rates;  _uslly five-year averagea ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                   but adjusted for different lengths of primary educ-tion; for countries with
foe developing cowntrte.                                                                     universal education, enrolplomen  may exesed lIft since some pupils are below
Populstion orowtb rate (i) - total - Compound annual growth rtese of mid-year                  or above the offitial achol age.
population for 1950-6D, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                               Adiasted enrolinent ratio - secondary school - Computed as sbove; se.ondary
Poeulation groith rate (2) - urban - Computed like growth rate of total                        education requires at least four years of approved primary inetructien;
popolation; different definitiona of urban are-a  may affect comparability of                provides general, voostional or tea-hsr craining inseruction- for pupils
dats mong cuntrie.                                                                           of 12 to 17 yearn of age; Correspoedend e C.usreas sea g.enrally ecluded.
Urban poenlrion (7, of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different                Years of schooling erovided (first and second levele) - Total yearn of
definitions of erban  res may offect etnpea-bility of data enong countries.                   chooling; at aec"ndary level, vocetional instruction  ay be partially or
.c-PIletely enclodd.
ASe structure Iercont) - Children (0-14 yeors), working-age (15-64 years),                   Vocational enrollment (% of secondarY) - rotational in-titutions incIud
and  retired   (65 years and over) as wprceetape  of aid-year population                     technical, industrial or other progre   which operate independeotly or an
Age dependeocy ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to those                   departments of secondary inatitutionen
of  ges 15 through 64                                                                      ndnlt liter-c  rate (0)   Littrcdu1co  (able to read and write) an per-
tcononic deeodency retio - iaci  of population under 15 and 65 and over to                     centage of tot-l adult  populetion aged 15 ye arc .ad aver.
che  labor forco in age group of 15-64 years.
FPnily planning --cceetors (cesulativo  theo) - Cumulative n-nber of acceptors               Hu..ing
of birth-control de-ices cndor auspices of cational fonily pl-nniog program                Peronsp= er room (urban) - Average number of person  per room  in ocnnpied
ainre inreption                                                                              conventinnal dwellings  in urban are.s; deellinga e-clode non-permanent
family planning-usere  (% of mrtried women) - Percentages of married woman of                  structuree and unncpied parts.
thild-bearing age (15-44 years) who  e birth-control devices to all married                Oco.eind dwIlings without pined water (0) - Oconpied conventiona  dwellings
_onen in seae sge grnp.                                                                      in urban and reral areas withont inoide or oetcide piped water facilities
as percentage of a11 occepied dwellinge.
aplsovnt                                                                                     Access to electricity ft of a11 dwllimes) '. Conve ntional dwellings with
Total labor force (tho.eand) - Economically actite person-,     including armed                electricity in liviog qusrtere as prcenzt ef total dwellfnge in urban and
forces asd enemploynd but encluding houne.ice.   , studecnt, 5cc; definitions                rural  reas.
in  canons  councries are not conparble.                                                   Rural dwe lingR  connected to eletrielty         Computed as  bove for rural
Labor force in agricult.re (2) - Agricultural labor force (in farming, forestry,               duellioga only.
hunting and fishing) ae percentrge of cotal labor force
Unpnelo,yd (7 of labor force) - Unemployed are u-lly defined as persons who                  Conaunption
are able and villing to task  a job, ont of a job on a given day, remained out            Ridto receivera (per chon pop) - All types of receiver-  for radio broadcastc
of a )ob, end seeking eork for a specifted minimum period not exceeding One                  to general public per thousand of populatIon; secludes unliceneed receivera
-eek; maY not he comparable between co.ntries due to differono  definition-                  in countries and in yearn  hen ragistration of radio sets was in efenjt;
of unemployed end source of data, e.g., employent offic  tatatiotts, s.-p1.                  dAte for recent year. may net be comparable a-oke net countries abolished
surreys, oonpplsory unemploy)nt insurance.                                                   licenning.
P"eenger cars font then Poe) - P....nger car  comprse monor Cars amating
Income distribution-Percentage of private incone (both in cash and kind)                      lan then eight perstona; socludeP  bholances, hearne  and milit.ry
received by richeat 57, richest  207., poorest 20, and poorest 407 of  onse-                 vehicles.
holds.                                                                                      lectriciry (kwh/yr per cap) - Annual consumption of industrial, oercial,
poblic sod Private sl-ttricity in kilowatt hours per capita, gancrally
Distribution of land ownership - Percentagec of land owned by wesltbhi.s  102                  based On prodoction data, withenot nce fo  rlosses  in grids hot ci -
sod poorest 10% of land owners.                                                              ig for imperts asd aeport. of electricity.
H NNIespriut (kb/yr Pet cep) - Per c pita annual conetenption in kilogr_
Health and Nutritimn                                                                           estimated from doma-it prodottion plea met iperts of neaspriet.
Poeuation p r ehy-icisn - Population divided by soober of practicing
physicians qualified from a medical school c university level.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
ECONOMIC DIvELOPMENT DATA
(Amounts in Million US Dollars)
Actual               Prelaiminary    Estimated
1972     1973      1971         1975             1976                1965-72       1972-75       1973-76          1972      1974       1976
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                         Constant 1974 Prices and Exchange Rate of 91 = 17.0 Din.                   Averaae Anmual A Grewth Rates                As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product                       21,638  22,720   24,765         25,887          26,922                  5.6            6.2           5.8          97.8    100          99.3
Gains fron Tenos of Trade                       468      681       -           +142            +197                                                             2.2      -           0.7
Gross Domestic Income                        22,106  23,401   24,765         26,029          27,119                  5.5            5.6           5.0         100.0    100         100.0
Imports (incl. NFS)                           6,588   7,600    8,312         8,350            8,082                 12.6           8.2            2.1          29.7      33.6       29.8
Exports (incl. NFS)                           5.437   5,788    5.694          5.872           6.506                  8.3            2.6           4.0          24.5      23.0       24.0
Resource Gap                                  1,151   1,812    2,618          2,478           1,576
Cons-mption Expenditure                      16,139  17,716   19,953         19,795          19,670                  6.7            7.0           3.5          73.0      80.6       72.5
Investment Expenditure                        6,650   6,816    7,429          8,570           8,827                  6.0           8.8            9.0          30.1      30.0       32.5
National Savings                              6,904   6,806    6,241          7,330           8,717                  6.6           2.0            8.6          31.2      25.2       32.1
Domestic Savings                              5,499   5,006    4,812          6,092           7,252                  3.1           3.5           13.2          24.9      19.4       26.7
MERCHANDISE TRADE                                     Annual Data at Current Prices                                                                            As a Percentage of Total
Imports
Capital Goods                                 689   1,004    1,305          1,887           1,758                                                            21.3      17.4       23.9
Petrolene  sod Fuels                          177      359       952          943           1,080                                                             5.5      12.6       14.6
Inter-ediate Goods                          1,859   2,450    4,291         4,109            3,618                                                            57.7      57.1       49.1
Co-nsuption Goods                             502      698       972          758             911                                                            15.5      12.9       12.4
Total Merch. Ioports (c.i.f.)               3,227   4,511    7,570          7,697           7,367                                                          100.0    100.0        100.0
Exporto
Capital Goods                                 316      389       514          695             920                                                            14.1      13.5       18.8
Textile and Leather Goods                     362     409       477           600             761                                                            16.2      12.5       15.6
Ion-ferrous Metallurgy                        272     325       556           458             472                                                            12.2      14.6        9.7
Agricultural Products (incl. food)            400     475       439           488             640                                                            17.9      11.5       13.1
Other                                         887   1.255    1.819          1.831          2.085                                                             39.6     47.9        42.8
Total Merch. Exports (f.o.b.)               2,237   2,853    3,805         4,072            4,878                                                          100.0    100.0        100.0
MERCHANDISE TRADE INDICES                                        1974 = 100
Esport Price Iden                             63       76       130          109             114
Import Price Indes                             58       68       130          105             109
Tenon of Trade Index                          109      112       100          104             105
Export Volume  Ioden                           93       99       100           98             112
VALSE ADDED BY SECTOR                       Annual Data in Constant 1974 Prices and Exchange Rate
of $1 = 17.0 Din.                                                                            As a Percentage of Total
Agriculture                                 3,213   3,496    3,763          3,663           3,846                  2.7           4.5           3.2           15.6      16.0       15.0
Manufacturing and Mining                    6,374   6,712    7,471          7,888           8,125                  6.6           7.4           6.6          31.0      3t,8       31.8
Other                                      10,956  11,362   12.276        13,026           13.589                 5.4            5.9           6.2          53.3      52.2        53.2
Total                                      20,543  21,570   23,510        24,577           25,560                 5.3            6.2           6.2          100.0    100.0       100.0
PUBLIC PINANCE-Li                                               Current Prices                                                                               As Percent of GDP/Market Prices
Curreot Receipts                            2,772   3,489    4,E41 68 305                    . ..                               ..            ..            17.5     19.5
Current Exoenditures                        2,520   3,154    4,794          6,267            ..                   ..             . .           ..           16.0      19.4
Budgetary Savings                             252      335       47            38            ..                    *-            '                            1.6      0.2
Public Sector Investment                      224      281      328           352            . .                   ..            ..            ..             1.4      1.3
LABOR FORCE AND OUTPUT PER WORKERY                           TOTAL LABOR FORCE                                    VALUE ADDED PER WORKER (1974 PRICES AND EXCHANGE RATE  91  17 Din.
Million        7. cof Total         1972-75                       US Dollars             Percent of Average          1972-75
1972    1975    1972    1975   Av. Ann. Growth Rate                 1972      1975              1972      1975    Av. Ann- Growth Rate
Agriculture Al                               3.55    3.10   45.4>   39.0             -4.6                        905    1,182                 34        38             .9,3
Fknofacturiog and Mining                     1.65    1.87   21.:2    23.6            4.3                       3,863    4,218                147       136             3.0
Other 2/                                     2.60    2.95   33.     37.4             4.3                       4 214    4,416                160       142              1.6
Total -                                      7.80    7.92  100.02 100.0                                         ,64    3,103                To         T10     1      0 37
1/ lodgets of Federation, Republics and Autonomous Provinces, and Communes unconsolidated.
2/ Total resident Astive labor force, i.e. excluding workers abroad and unemployed.
3/ Estimated active labor force in the private and social agricultural sector.
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
January 27,41978



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
Annual
Actual                                   Estimated  Growth Rates
1972     1973    1974      1975       1976         1977        1972-76
SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (incl. NFS)                   3424     4363    5696    6307          7259        7985           20.0
Imports (incl. NFS)                   3828     5124    8337    8760          8664       10832           22.5
Resource Balance (X-M)                -404    -761   -2641   -2453          -1405      - 2847
Interest                              -165     -222    -285    -337          -350      -  428           20.2
Workers Remittances                    889      1301    1511      1575       1728         1750          18.1
Other factor services net                17       50       93       62         40           42          23.8
Current Transfers (net)                  82       96      138      121        137          150          13.6
Balance on Current Account              19      464   -8    -1032             150      - 1333
M&LT Loans L1
Disbursements                        943     1170    1426      1850        1700        2424           15.9
Repayments                          -570    -686    -814       -930        -800      - 1091            8.8
Net Disbursements                      373      484      612      920         900         1333          24.5
Capital Transactions n.e.i./2         -117    -255       139      -68        -133          -
Use of Reserves                       -675    -663       438       180       -917          -                    Actual
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS                                                 DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE/44    19 73    19 74    19 75         19 76
Official Grants & Grant-like            -        -         -        -    Public Debt Out. &            1871.8  2088.3  2325.3   2765.8
Disbursed
Public M&LT Loans
IBRD                                75.0   104.9   256.5   209.0   Interest on Public Debt             98.4   105.3   127.9    143.0
IDA                                   -        -        -        -    Repayments on Public Debt  208.7   288.1   316.9    159 .7
Other Multilateral                    -        -        -        -    Total Public Debt Service  307.1   393.4   444.8    302.7
Governments                        183.9   179.7   615.4   274.7   Other Debt Service                 746.4   822.7   989.7   1134.8
Suppliers                           82.3      3.0       .6       -    Total Debt Service             1053.5  1216.1  1434.5   1437.5
Financial Institutions             121.4       -      73.1    86.2
Bonds                                 -        -      51.5       -    Burden on Export Earnings (%)/5
Public Loans n.e.i.                  4.2       -        -        -
Total Public M&LT Loans              466.8   287.6   997.2   569.9   Public Debt Services Ratio   5.3              5.4       5.5       3.3
Total Debt Service Ratio        18.3    16.6    17.7        15.8
TDS - Direct Investment IncL  -            -        -         -
Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31t 1976
EXTERNAL DEBT                  Disbursements only            Percent       Average Terms of Public Debt
World Bank                           655.1                   23.7
IDA                                     -                      -            Int. as % Prior Year          6.1      5.6      6.1        6.1
Other Multilateral                     4.5                    0.2                          DO&D
Governments                         1516.2                   54.8          Amort. as % Prior Year    12.9    15.4    15.2              6.9
Suppliers                             50.8                    1.8                          DO&D
Financial Institutions               521.6                   18.9
Bonds                                 17.5                    0.6        IBRD Debt Outs. & Disbursed
Public Debt n.e.i.                      -                      -            "  as % Public Debt O&D   18.8    20.3    24.0            23.7
2765.7                  100.0              as % Public Debt
Services       12.5    11.3    12.6        22.5
Other M&LT Debts/3                  4379.8
Short-term  Debt (disb. only)           -
1/ Includes direct foreign investment.
2/  Includes errors and omissions,  short term loans, net export credits,  IMF account,
National Bank and Commercial Bank Credits.
3/  Estimate.
41 Figures on debt service do not correspond with balance of payments figures due to
differences in coverage.
5/  Includes workers remittances.
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
July 26, 19 78



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as at July 31, 1978)
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)             Purpose          Bank  Undisbursed
Twenty-two Loans fully disbursed                                   567.6
777     1971   SFRY                           Multipurpose Water  45.0    15.5
782     1971   "Babin Kuk" Hotelsko
Turisticki Centar,
Dubrovnik                    Tourism              20.0      0.5
836     1972   Twelve Electric Power
Enterprises in Yugoslavia  Power                  75.0      4.7
894     1973   Stopanska Banka, Skopje        Agricultural
Industries          31.0      3.4
916     1973   Naftagas                       Gas Pipeline          59.4    21.4
990     1974   Bosnia-Herzegovina
Road Funds                   Roads                30.0      0.4
1012    1974   Stopanska Banka, Skopje        Industrial Credit   28.0       2.8
1013    1974   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Industrial Credit   22.0          2.5
1026    1974   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                     Railways             93.0    28.2
1060    1974   Port of Bar                    Harbor Expansion    44.0    16.5
1066    1974   Vodovod Dubrovnik              Water Supply and
Wastewater           6.0      4.7
1129    1975   Vojvodjanska Banka             Agricultural
Credit              50.0    25.4
1143    1975   Republic Road Organizations
in Slovenia, Montenegro
and Serbia                   Roads                40.0    15.7
1173    1975   Jugoslavenski. Naftovod        Pipeline             48.5    28.8
1262    1976   Republicki Fond Voda           Water Supply,
Sewerage & Water
Resources           20.0    16.6
1263    1976   Sarajevo Water Supply &        Water Supply &
Sewerage Enterprise           Sewerage            45.0    40.5
1264    1976   Sarajevo Gas Enterprise        Air Pollution
& Naftagas Gas Unit           Control             38.0    36.7
1277    1976   Privredna Banka Sarajevo,
Stopanska Banka Skopje,
Investiciona Banka
Titograd, Kosovska Banka    Second Industrial
Pristina                      Credit              50.0    27.5
1360     1977   Management Organization   Multipurpose Water  54.0          53.5
"Metohija"



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9 pages
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year              Borrower(s)             Purpose          Bank  Undisbursed
1370     1977   Investiciona Banka,          Agriculture
Titograd                    Industries          26.0      24.7
1371     1977   Stopanska Banka, Skopje   Agriculture
Industries          24.0      23.4
1377     1977   Republic Road Organiza-
tions in Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Serbia,
Macedonia, and Kosovo    Roads                  56.0      44.0
1469     1977   JUGEL and six Electric
Power Organizations in   Second Power
each Republic               Transmission        80.0      80.0
1477     1977   Vojvodjanska Banka           Second Agricul-
tural Credit        75.0      75.0
1534/a   1978   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                   Railways            100.0    100.0
1535/a   1978   Republic Road Organiza-
tions of Slovenia,
Croatia and Serbia         Roads                80.0      80.0
1561/a   1978   Elektroprivreda
Bosne i Hercegovine        Hydro Power          73.0      73.0
1611/a   1978   Kosovska Banka Pristina   Third Industrial
Credit              40.0      40.0
1612/a   1978   Privredna Banka Sarajevo  Fourth Industrial
Credit              20.0      40.0
1613/a   1978   Stopanska Banka Skopje    Fourth Industrial
Credit              20.0      40.0
1614/a   1978   Investiciona Banka           Fourth Industrial
Titograd                    Credit              20.0      20.0
Total (less cancellation)                             1,980.5/b  592.4
of which has been repaid                              203.8
Total now outstanding                                 1,776.7
Amount sold                              8.0
of which:  Amount repaid               6.8              1.2
Total now held by Bank                                1,775.5
Total undisbursed                                                592.4
/a   Not yet effective.
/b   In addition a loan of US$82.0 million for the Macedonia Strezevo Irriga-
tion Project was approved on August 8, 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9 pages
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at July 31, 1978)
Type of       Amount in US$ million
Year              Obligor                      Business       Loan   Equity   Total
1970   International Investment              Investment
Corporation for Yugoslavia           Corporation      -       2.0      2.0
1970   Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat S.P.A.   Automotive
Industry         5.0    8.0      13.0
1971   Tovarna Automobilov in Motorjev       Automotive
Maribor (TAM)/Klockner-Humboldt    Industry           7.5    2.6      10.1
Deutz A.G. (KHD)
1972   FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler            Automotive
Benz A.G.                            Industry        13.4    3.4      16.8
1972/78 Sava/Semperit                        Tires             11.3    3.6     14.9
1973   Belisce/Bel                           Pulp and Paper  13.3       -      13.3
1974   Zelezarna Jesenice/ARMCO              Special Steel   10.0       -       10.0
1974   Salonit Anhovo                        Cement Plant    10.0       -      10.0
1975   Rudarsko Metalurski                   Steel            50.0      -      50.0
1977   Frikom ro Industrija Smrznute         Food and Food
Hrane                                Processing       4.0    2.2       6.2
1977   Tvornica Kartona i Akmbalaze Cazin   Pulp and Paper
Products        15.2    2.4      17.6
1978   Soko Mostar                           Hermetic
Compressors      7.0     -        7.0
Total Gross Commitmients                              146.7   24.2    170.9
less cancellations, terminations,
exchange adjustment, repayment
and sales                                             73.3    2.6      75.9
Total commitments held by IFC                          73.4   21.6      95.0
Total Undisbursed                                      25.0    6.5      31.5



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Loan 777 Ibar Multipurpose Water: US$45.0 million Loan of June 30, 1971;
Effective Date: May 31, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The start of project work was delayed for one year. Construction
is now underway, the main dam is completed and the reservoir is now being
filled. A small part of the irrigation network has been completed with the
remainder expected to be completed by 1979. Project costs have been above
appraisal estimates, but the overrun financing is being provided by the
Province of Kosovo and from Federal sources. Delays have been encountered
in the arrangements for boundary adjustment. Consultants have been engaged
to help find solutions, and the Kosovo Government has enacted appropriate
legislation. After a delay of about five years, a draft law has been prepared
by the Kosovo Government and is expected to be enacted in the near future,
which will assist in the provision of agricultural extension services to the
private sector.
Loan 782 Babin Kuk Tourism: US$20.0 million Loan of July 21, 1971; Effective
Date: June 12, 1972; Closing Date: December 29, 1978.
There were initial delays in the implementation of the project due
to lateness in making the loan effective and in mobilizing consultants. Bids
for civil works and estimates for other components indicated that the project
would cost at least twice as much as originally estimated (US$49.9 million),
largely due to rapid inflation in construction costs. The Bank and the proj-
ect sponsors agreed to finance a reduced complex containing some 2,034 beds
(Amendment to Loan 782-YU, December 16, 1974, R74-259) at a total cost of
US$51.5 million, requiring additional financing of about US$1.6 million and
a change in sponsorship which has been approved by the Bank (Amendment to
Loan 782-YU, October 4, 1976, R76-237). The hotels were inaugurated and
opened for occupancy in June 1976. Occupancy rate for 1977 was below expecta-
tions notwithstanding 100 percent occupancy during high season. This gave
rise to financial liquidity problems which were overcome with the assistance
of the sponsoring Yugoslav banks. Bookings for 1978 represent a considerable
improvement over the corresponding 1977 period.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9 pages
Loan 836 Power Transmission: US$75.0 million Loan of June 23, 1972; Effective
Date: December 29, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The Project construction has progressed slowly and is expected to
be completed by mid-1978, about one and one-half years late. Its cost has
increased to about $415 million (up 84 percent) chiefly due to escalation in
prices. The resulting cost: overrun is being financed from funds received
from the Federal Republic of Germany, local loans and from the Borrowers' own
internal sources. Appointment of management consultants was delayed until
mid-1976, but their recommendations have now been made and are being discussed
with JUGEL and the Borrowers and implementation of many of the recommendations
is underway. The promulgaition of the new Constitution in 1974 and the conse-
quent evolution of the legal and financial status of the Borrowers, partic-
ularly in regard to the requirement of their policy of pooling resources at
the Republican levels required changes in the legal arrangements including the
application of financial covenants. These changes were incorporated in the
Second Power Transmission Project.
Loan 894 Agricultural Industries (Macedonia): US$31.0 million Loan of May 25,
1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1978.
All loan funds provided under the project have been committed by
subloan agreements through Stopanska Banka. Out of 43 subprojects financed
under the project, 36 are completed, seven are under construction. Progress
on the latter is satisfactory.
Loan 916 Naftagas Pipeline: US$59.4 million Loan of June 25, 1973; Effective
Date: March 22,1 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The costs of equipment and civil works increased so that project
costs were about 71 percent above the appraisal estimate. As a result of
this and of a reallocation of priorities in the use of natural gas, the proj-
ect has been redefined (Amsendments to Loan 916-YU, May 13, 1976, R76-116).
Phase I is a reduced version of the original plan. Phase II provides for a
pipeline extension to link up with the pipeline to be constructed under the
Sarajevo Air Pollution Control Project, for which additional Bank financing
was obtained. Naftagas has obtained additional local currency financing
required for Phases I and II. A delay of more than two and one-half years in
project implementation has occurred as a result of the increased project costs
and revision of the project. Construction started in late June 1976, and the
project is scheduled for completion by end-1979.
Loan 990 Sixth Highway: US$30.0 million Loan of May 31, 1974; Effective Date:
December 10, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
All road sections are open to traffic. Two requests for changes
in road alignments have been agreed in order to provide better service to two
communities. Procurement of engineering and laboratory equipment has been
contracted and payments are now being finalized. An EDI type training course
is also being arranged in Yugoslavia in October 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9 pages
Loan 1012 Macedonia/Kosovo Industrial Credit: US$28.0 million Loan of June
21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Progress has been satisfactory. The loan is fully committed. Loan
disbursements accelerated after a slow start and are now very close to
appraisal estimates.
Loan 1013 Bosnia-Herzegovina/Montenegro Industrial Credit: US$22.0 million
Loan of June 21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The note under Loan 1012 above applies also to this loan.
Loan 1026 Fourth Railway: US$93.0 million Loan of July 10, 1974; Effective
Date: February 12, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project consists of the 1974-76 slice of the Railways' 1973-77
Investment Plan. Government efforts to combat inflation caused railway
tariffs to lag behind inflation and gave rise to financial and administrative
difficulties which, in turn caused substantial delays in project implementa-
tion. With tariff increases approved both in early 1977 and 1978 these
problems have largely been resolved. Meanwhile, institutional developments,
including improved investment planning and management, the formation of COIs
and the signing of Social Agreements on railway and transport policies have
been most encouraging. Rate of disbursement, initially behind schedule, is
now improving.
Loan 1060 Port of Bar: US$44.0 million Loan of December 11, 1974; Effective
Date: June 13, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
In general the Project is progressing well. Except for railway
facilities outside the port area and the grain silos, the project is expected
to be completed by mid-1978, about six months behind schedule. The railway
facilities and grain silos are scheduled for completion by end-1978 and
end-1979, respectively.
Loan 1066 Dubrovnik Water Supply and Wastewater: US$6.0 million Loan of
December 24, 1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Delays in preparation of final designs and tender documents have put
construction about a year behind schedule. Services to the Bank financed
Babin Kuk Hotel Complex (Loan 782-YU) were, however, completed in time for
its initial operation and the remaining water supply component is nearing com-
pletion. Construction is progressing satisfactorily on the sewerage component.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9 pages
Loan 1129 Agricultural Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 20, 1975; Effec-
tive Date: February 12, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The Project Operations Unit of Vojvodjanska Banka, established in
March 1976, is working satisfactorily. Project operations have shown encour-
aging progress with respect to appraisal methodology and related aspects of
institution building. Ninety percent of the loan has been committed. Dis-
bursements are behind appraisal projections, given initial organizational and
learning curve problems, delays in procurement, unfamiliarity of participa-
ting banks with withdrawal applications, timetaking translations and the time
lag between commitments and disbursements. However, disbursements have
accelerated during the year.
Loan 1143 Seventh Highway:  US$40.0 million Loan of July 18, 1975;
Effective Date: March 30, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
With the award of the last two contracts in Montenegro, work is now
in progress on all the project roads of Serbia, Slovenia and Montenegro. The
Serbian road sections have been substantially completed and are open to traf-
fic. Work in Slovenia is on schedule but progress in Montenegro is somewhat
slow owing to contract deLays. Nevertheless, all road works should be com-
pleted by the loan closing date.
Loan 1173 Naftovod Oil Pipeline: US$49.0 million Loan of November 19, 1975;
Effective Date: July 28, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Due to slower than anticipated progress of design and procurement
it is estimated that a seven-month slippage in the completion of Phase I will
occur, though it is expected that the balance of the Project will be completed
on schedule. The revised cost estimates of the project indicate that there
would be a cost overrun of about 27 percent because of required changes from
original project components and increases in local costs. The Borrower is
taking steps to obtain supplementary financing from various sources both
foreign and local. The economic viability of the project remains sound.
Upon review of the award of a site preparation contract in one case, and the
procurement procedures regarding a telemetry supervision control system in
another case, the Bank concluded that the procurement procedures were not in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement and the relevant portion
($470,000 and $112,000, respectively) that would have otherwise been eligible
for disbursement were cancelled from the Loan.
Loan 1262 Morava Regional Development Project - Water Supply, Sewerage and
Water Resources: US$20.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976; Effective
Date: November 3, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The regional development study is finished and the report is being
finalized. The flood control and water quality studies are underway after
initial delays in selecting consultants. Construction of the Vrutci Dam has



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9 pages
begun. Construction is completed on the principal parts of the Cacak com-
ponent, the remainder is well advanced. Construction is also underway in
Titovo Uzice. Final designs of sewage treatment plants in Cacak are underway,
and in Titovo Uzice, are dependent upon the recruitment of suitable foreign
assistance to local consultants. The pilot irrigation components which were
delayed pending the establishment of suitable monitoring arrangements, are
underway. The creation of the Morava Region Water Community of Interest was
delayed due to the longer than anticipated process of seeking agreement among
all the Yugoslav parties concerned on the structure of the organization.
Staffing has been strengthened in the water authorities in Cacak and Titovo
Uzice and in the Morava Region Water Community of Interest.
Loan 1263 Sarajevo Water Supply and Sewerage: US$45.0 million Loan of June 8,
1976; Effective Date: November 9, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
Major contracts for supply and installation of water pipes and
sewers have been awarded and construction is underway. Prequalification
of contractors for the sewage treatment plant was completed and design work
is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan 1264 Sarajevo Air Pollution Control: US$38.0 million Loan of June 8,
1976; Effective Date: May 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Consultants for final designs and tender documents have been
recruited and work on major tenders is underway. Contracts for supply and
installation of gas distribution network and high-pressure loop-line have
been awarded and mobilization is underway. Tendering for gas transmission
line, Sarajevo-Zvornik, is underway.
Loan 1277 Second Industrial Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976;
Effective Date: October 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The portions of the loans to the Bosnian, Macedonian and Montenegrin
banks have been progressing satisfactorily. The portion for the Kosovan bank,
while being committed more slowly, is now fully committed. Disbursements are
slightly behind appraisal estimates.
Loan 1360 Metohija Multipurpose Water: US$54.0 million Loan of February 3,
1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Local consultants have been retained as project consultants and are
proceeding with final designs on the project components and preparation of
bidding documents. Two local construction contracts have been awarded and
invitations for international tenders for the dam have been issued.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9 pages
Loan 1370 Montenegro Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$26.0 million Loan
of March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Institutional arrangements have been completed, and the implementa-
tion of the project is proceeding on schedule. Tendering for ICB procurement
for the winery and cold stores is in progress.
Loan 1371 Macedonia Agriculture and Second Agro-Industries: US$24.0 million
Loan of March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
Sub-loans for four out of eleven agro-industrial sub-projects have
been approved by the Borrower. Sub-projects in the individual sector are
being processed. The hiring of procurement consultants is expected soon.
Loan 1377 Eighth Highway: US$56.0 million Loan of April 13, 1977; Effective
Date: September 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
All road contracts have been awarded and work is satisfactorily in
progress. The contract for the Highway Master Plan for Kosovo has also been
awarded. The studies on Road User Charges and Rail Costs are in progress.
Disbursement rate is satisfactory.
Loan 1469 Second Power Transmission: US$80.0 million Loan of July 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 31, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Procurement has commenced on most of the components. The proposed
loan from the European Investment Bank was signed in November 1977 and local
loan agreements have been executed.
Loan 1477 Second Agricultural Credit:  US$75.0 million Loan of July 29, 1977;
Effective Date:  January 30, 1978; Closing Date:  June 30, 1981.
All participating banks have identified the main investors and
indicated that funds will be committed faster than under the first project.
Loan 1534 Fifth Railway: US$100 million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date: September 29, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Terminal date for declaring effectiveness has been extended to
September 29, 1978.
Loan 1535 Ninth Highway: US$80 million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date: August 10, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Terminal date for declaring effectiveness has been extended to
August 10, 1978.
Loan 1561 Middle Neretva Hydro Power: US$73 million of May 31, 1978;
Effective Date: September 29, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Terminal date for declaring effectiveness is September 29, 1978.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
YUGOSLAVIA
BOSANSKA-KRAJINA AGRICULTURE AND AGRO-INDUSTRIES PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare
project:                                  Nine months (February-October 1977)
(b)  Agency which identified project:          Government of Yugoslavia with UNDP
assistance
(c)  Agency which prepared project:            AIPK and FAO/Bank Cooperative
Program
(d)  Project first presented to Bank:          November 1976
(e) First Bank mission to review
project:                                  June 1977
(f)  Departure of appraisal mission:           November 1977
(g)  Completion of negotiations:               July 1978
(h)  Planned date of effectiveness:            January 1979
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) AIPK to create prior to effectiveness of loan a Project Unit and maintain
it until completion of project (para. 52);
(b) AIPK to appoint the Project Unit Director prior to effectiveness of the
loan and appoint other key staff to the Project Unit by February 1, 1979
(para. 52);
(c) AIPK to prepare and submit to PBS a detailed program for extension ser-
vice to individual farmers in Bosanska-Krajina Region prior to effective-
ness (para. 53);
(d) AIPK to employ specialized consultants for procurement and operation of
agroindustries facilities (para. 56);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) PBS to appoint a marketing specialist and procurement specialist by
December 31, 1978 (para. 49); and
(f) PBS to employ internationally experienced and qualified consultants
for technical appraisal of potato processing plant (para. 49).






-~IBRD 13952
i a   u    X  G   A   R   I  A                  MAY t7o
Ir~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
z 
v~~~~~~~ J                                     0    T ?
>                                                          <
<                                            If /  0 !
o g ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z
iC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ i-                                                   S- 
<                                                                C)~~~~~~~~~~~
0                
z    <1
<                                               LLI~ 2<Y,
Z                        t'y~~~~~~c






IBRD 13953
Aol ~~~~~2*,tWddB,A,*                        ~24            >    
houdw/e5shrmon b. m  Jch  1p/l.1hed The d,ol--,-a 'I'a2d Ind Ihe  N>>vt UNGAPtY<-
dfA'e2*2,e, f2~~    nf 9***ai*  nto ea               lr¢                              faste,,,tcr  o r   a n eosmmo  'RONANIA f°2Xt
205NIA        OANI
YUGOSLAVIA                                                                                                     HDRZEGA              E
BOSANSKA KRAJINA
AGRICULTURE AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
LOCATION OF PROJECT COMPONENTS                                                                                     "2 I                       , ACEWONlA5
ODERAINAGE PROJECTS                                                  - _ 
®I1RIGATfON PRUJECT                                                                                               4                                               s
OSEED PROCESSING                            BOSANKA. NOVI                               G. POE,J                                                                05ACA
@ EXTENSION CENTERS                                                                                           TOP  %A
DAETPRINARYCFNTER: CATTI ERFEDING                             .        PtSE';
AND PHERENY TESTING
SGRAINSILOS
OHEIFER FARM
®PIG FARM
xANUESERY                                                                                                            'A  1U.
@ MACHINERYSERVICE
@AGRUINDUSTKIES
--MILK PROCESSING PLANT
- MEAT PRUCESSING PLANTS                         \          s
FR LITS, VEF GFTAR LES AND
BARLEY PROCESSING PLANTS
!   SHEEP RESEARCH FARM
-     MAIN ROADS
-     SECONDARY ROADS
-   PROJECTAREABOULNOARY
REPULIC BOUNDARY
\Nj4   i    -  fJ                           e>                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PLAINS 
I ) \   ,                                     ?\J           _    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SOMETIMES FLOODED
9  //   \.   \   *                                        \         _    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(LIMITED DRAINAGE)
HILLY REGION SUITABLE FOR
- HILLS SLITABLE FORl FORAGE
\COPS ANS LIVESTOCK
' $ < ': \ J i M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OUNTAIN REGIONS FOR
\   - -    <              \       <           EN                               f               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FORESTS
0 S I N 7 i | O K I L O M E T E F S~~~~~~~~~                                                           10      20      0      4
s                _   .  _  _  _   _~~~



