Document of                  =
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
tv '       '
Report No. 2065a-YU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BOSANSKA KRAJINA AGRICULTURE AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
September 20, 1978
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
Agriculture III
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
US$1                                   =             Dinars (Din) 18.0
Din 1                                                US$ 0.0556
Din 1,000,000                         -              US$ 55,555.56
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)                       =              2.20 pounds
1 quintal                             =              100 kilograms
1 metric ton (m ton)                  =              1,000 kilograms
1 metric ton (m ton)                  =              0.98 long ton
1 millimeter (mm)                     =              0.04 inch
1 centimeter (cm)                     =              0.39 inch
1 meter (m)                           =              1.09 yards
1 kilometer (km)                      =              0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)                        =              2.47 acres
1 square meter (m2)                   =              10.76 square feet
1 square kilometer (km2)              =              0.384 square mile
1 liter (1)                           =              0.264 gallon
1 hectoliter (hl)                     =              100 liters
1 cubic meter (m3)                    =              1.31 cubic yards
ABBREVIATIONS
AI[PK       -     Agroindustrijski i Prometni Kombinat "Bosanska Krajina"
PBS         -     Privredna Banka, Sarajevo
BK Region   -     Bosanska Krajina Region (Project Area)
BO)AL       -     Basic Organization of Associated Labor
FNP         -     Federal Fund for the Accelerated Development of Less
Developed Regions
GMP         -     Gross Material Product
SAR         -     Staff Appraisal Report
SDK         -     Social Accounting Service
SERY        -     Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
BE'         -      Socialist Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
* The Yugoslav Dinar has been floating since July 13, 1973. The currency
equivalents given above are those effective in December, 1977.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF
BOSANSKA-KRAJINA AGRICULTURE AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ...................................                    1
A.    Project Background  ...............................                 1
B.   Agriculture Sector ...............................                   2
C.    Agricultural Development Issues in BH ....             ........     4
II.    PROJECT AREA AND ITS DEVELOPMENT POTENTIAL ............                   6
A.    Sectoral Importance ..............................                  6
B.    Description of Project Area ......................                  7
C.   Agricultural Situation in Project Area ....             .......      9
D.    Development Constraints and Strategy ....             .........    12
E.    Project Implementing Agency:   AIPK ....            ...........    13
III.    THE PROJECT ...........................................                  16
A.   Project Objectives ...............................                  16
B.    Project Concept  ..................................                17
C.    Project Description ..............................                 17
D.    Cost Estimates  ...................................                19
E.    Financing ........................................                 20
F.    Disbursements  ....................................                20
G.    Procurement  ......................................                22
H.    Environmental Impact  .............................                23
I.    Role of Women ....................................                 23
IV.    PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ...................                  23
A. The Borrower: PBS .23
B.  Implementing Agency: AIPK .26
C.  Project Monitoring and Evaluation .29
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION    ..31
A. Production .31
B. Markets and Prices .32
C. Financial Benefits .34
D. Economic Justification .34
E.    Risk and Uncertainty .............................                 36
VI.   SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS AND LOAN CONDITIONS .37
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEXES
Annex 1   Detailed Project Description and Project Costs
Annex 2   Project Implementation Schedule and Estimated Schedule of
Disbursements
Annex 3   Statement of Operations and Policies for the Project and the
Sub-project Appraisal Criteria
Annex 4   Detailed Market Aspects
Annex 5   Financial and Economic Analysis
Annex 6   Projected Cash Flow Statement (PBS)
Annex 7   Organizational Chart of AIPK
Annex 8   Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
MAPS
IBRD 13952 Yugoslavia: Project Location
IBR.D 13953 Yugoslavia: Location of Project Components



STAFF APPRAISAL PEPORT
BOSANSKA-KRAJINA AGRICULTURE AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
I. AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Project Background
1.01      The proposed project activities will be concentrated in the Bosanska-
Krajina Region (BK Region), which is located in the Western part of the
Socialist Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina (BH) - a less developed republic in
Yugoslavia. The BK Region is one of the least developed in Yugoslavia since
its income per capita ($957) 1/ is below the Republic's average and is only
57% of the Yugoslav average. The economy of this part of the Republic was
severely disrupted by an earthquake in 1969; soon thereafter government
took steps to rehabilitate its economy and to investigate the developmental
needs of this area. Government also requested UNDP's assistance in (i)
identifying such agricultural and livestock products that could be econo-
mically produced in the BK Region and could be processed by suitable agro-
industries; (ii) determining suitable technology and organizational structure
for the production, processing and marketing of agricultural produce; and
(iii) preparation of feasibility studies and establishment of priorities for
investment projects in agriculture, livestock production and processing.
1.02      The proposed project evolved from a number of studies carried out
under the UNDP/Yugoslav financed regional planning project, 1972-74 (UNDP
project). The UNDP project prepared a development strategy for the project
area focussed on promoting increases in farm production, mainly in individual
sector, in parallel with increases in processing capacities and an expansion
of marketing opportunities. To implement this development strategy, Gov-
ernment established an agroindustrial kombinat, AIPK 2/ on January 1, 1974,
as the enterprise responsible for integrated development of the BK Region.
In its Five-Year Development Plan (1976-80), AIPK adopted the development
strategy and many of the targets proposed in the UNDP project; the proposed
project is an integral part of this Plan.
1.03      AIPK prepared the proposed project with the assistance of FAO/IBRD
Corporative Programme staff, which included experts in milk processing, meat
processing, land development, fruit and vegetable processing and potato
processing. The project preparation report, issued in October 1977, formed
the basis for appraisal of the proposed project, which was carried out in
December 1977 by Messrs. V. Bhargava and P. Aklilu (Bank), C. Cronberg and
R. Matthews (Consultants), and Mr. C. Tsangarakis (FAO/CP). This report is
based on their findings, and has been written by Messrs. Bhargava and Aklilu.
Mr. Wright assisted in the economic and financial analyses of the project.
1/   World Bank estimate, using 1977 World Atlas figures for Yugoslavia.
2/   Agroindustrijeski i Prometni Kombinat (AIPK) was formed as an umbrella
organization for some 78 previously independent BOAL's. AIPK is described
in Section E of Chapter II.



- 2 -
B. Agriculture Sector
Government Policy
1.04      The agriculture sector in Yugoslavia grew at an average annual rate
of 3,' during 1970-75, employed one-third of the Yugoslav population and
accolnted for about 15% of the GMP (Gross Material Product). In view of
continuing rural poverty and emerging food deficits, increased emphasis is
being placed on accelerating agricultural development.  The 1976-80 Plan
projects an increase in the growth rate of 4 percent over the period. The
key objectives of the Plan are: (a) further development of the social sector
through development of agroindustries; and (b) increased efficiency in pro-
duction and development of individual sector, through cooperation with social
sector. The Plan aims to improve incomes, thereby reducing interregional
differences in incomes. The social sector is expected to grow at 8% over
the Plan period and the individual sector at 3%.
1.05      An important feature of Yugoslav agriculture is the co-existence
and inter-dependence of the social and individual sectors. The social sector,
which grew out of postwar collectivization, operates under principles of
social ownership of the means of production and self-management by the workers.
It includes kombinats (integrated farms and processing facilities), coopera-
tives and research institutions. This sector produces about one-third of the
total agricultural output, controls about 15 percent of the agricultural land,
and employs about 6 percent of agricultural manpower. In contrast, the
individual sector, which owns about 85 percent of the cultivated land and
employs over 90 percent of agricultural manpower, is handicapped by small,
fragmented and poor quality landholdings, and has been neglected in terms of
access to basic infrastructure, credit and technology.
1.06      Due to a significant amount of investment and technology directed
to the social sector it has been the main source of increased agricultural
production in Yugoslavia. Agricultural production in the social sector
during the period 1966-75 grew at a rate which was three times the rate of
growth in the individual sector. Under the 1976-80 Plan, the social sector
will continue to be the main instrument of development, but it is most
generally recognized that additional investments in this sector for moder-
nization and expansion of primary production would yield only marginal
increases in productivity and production; the emphasis, therefore, is on
the development of agroindustries, which would draw the individual sector
into the mainstream of development.  The individual sector is recognized as
having significant growth potential, and to realize this potential Government
has launched programs which would provide agricultural credit and extension
services to the farmers in the individual sector, and would also furnish
marketing outlets through cooperation with the social sector.
1.07      The republics and provinces have agreed to support cooperative
arrangements through provision of financing, and interest rate and tax



- 3 -
concessions. The key form of cooperation will be through Zadrugas 1/, which
are farmers associations, owned and operated by the individual farmers. The
Zadrugas are a part of the Kombinats. Through the Zadruga, the cooperating
individual farmers would have access to credit, extension services and health
and social insurance, and pension schemes of social sector organizations.
Individual farmers associate themselves in the Zadruga at two levels (a) long-
term cooperation, where farmers pool a part or all of their land, labor, and
capital and accept joint production planning and income sharing; and (b) short-
term cooperation based on an annual contract with the Zadruga which defines
their relationship over a one year period only. These forms of cooperation
provide considerable advantages to the individual farmers, who otherwise have
limited access to market opportunities, credit, technology and technical
advice and limited opportunities to increase income. The Zadruga system is of
recent origin (since 1974) and the experience so far is insufficient to
demonstrate its sustained workability. The initial results are encouraging;
cooperation among the social and individual sectors, which had a declining
trend over the period 1971-74, began to increase during the period 1974-76.
Bank Involvement in the Sector
1.08      Bank strategy in the agriculture sector is to support development
of less developed regions and promote agricultural development in both the
individual and social sectors through providing basic infrastructure and
credit. Development of the agriculture sector is considered essential to
address the problem of rural poverty which underlies regional disparity;
provide gainful employment to rural population; reduce imports and increase
exports. In general the Bank supports the policy of increasing primary
production through the individual sector and meeting the vital marketing
and processing requirements through the social sector.
1.09      The proposed Bosanska-Krajina Agriculture and Agroindustries project
would be the eighth Bank loan for agriculture and agroindustries in Yugoslavia.
The previous seven loans totalling to US$341.0 million consist of the First
Agroindustries Project in Macedonia (Loan 894-YU) in 1973 (primarily involved
with the social sector); the First Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1129-YU)
in 1975 (about 47 percent of which is directly involved with the individual
1/   The Zadruga is a Working Organization of Associated Labor (WO) and part
of a kombinat. It may comprise of two or more Basic Cooperative Organi-
zations established among individual farmers. Zadrugas are set up under
provisions of Law on Associated Labor.  In this report the term Zadruga
also refers to basic organization of contract farmers (BOC) which is
another form of association of individual farmers. The main difference
between a Zadruga and a social sector organization is that the resources
of the Zadruga are pooled by its members (individual farmers) who retain
the right of ownership over pooled resources, whereas the resources of a
social sector organization are property of society and its workers are
vested with a right to use and dispose of the product, and to manage
means of production.



sector); the Metohija Multipurpose Project (Loan No. 1360-YU) in 1977 (primar-
ily involved with the individual sector); the Agriculture and Agroindustries
projects for the Republics of Montenegro and Macedonia (Loans 1370-YU and
1371-YU respectively), the first primarily involving the social sector and the
second having a significant involvement in the individual sector; the Second
Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1477-YU) in 1977 (about 57 percent of which
is directly involved with the individual sector); and Macedonia Strezevo Irri-
gation Project (Loan 1616-YU) in 1978, primarily involving individual sector.
Other Bank loans for multipurpose projects have included agricultural compo-
nents; such as, irrigation works under the Ibar Multipurpose Project (Loan
777-YU) of 1971 and two pilot irrigation projects under the Morava Region
Development Project (Loan No. 1262-YU) of 1976, both involving primarily
individual farmers.
1.10      The proposed loan will be the first direct Bank loan in the Republic
of Bosnia-Herzegovina in the agricultural sector. Under the First Agricultural
Credit Project (Loan 1129-YU) BH has received US$5.4 million; of which four
subloans totalling about $1 million were made in the project area. BH will
also receive US$12.7 million under the Second Agriculture Credit Project
(Loan 1477-YU), however the project area will not receive any substantial
funds. The Privredna Banka Sarajevo, the proposed borrower under this project,
i=s a participant bank in the nationwide agricultural credit projects. PBS's
performance under the previous Bank projects has been good.
C. Agricultural Development Issues in BH
1.11      BH is one of the lesser developed republics of Yugoslavia; in 1975
estimated per capita income in BH was about one half of the average of the
developed regions of Yugoslavia and about two thirds of Yugoslav average. One
of the main reasons for income differentials between BH and Yugoslav averages
is the low levels of income in agriculture sector in BH, which employs 48% of
the active working population. However contribution of agriculture sector to
total GMP in BH in 1975 was only 14%. Total agricultural production has
expanded at an average annual rate of 1.4% between 1961 and 1975, compared to
an average growth rate of GMP of 5.7% reducing the share of the agricultural
sector in total GMP from 26% to 14%. Though agriculture's role, relative to
the rest of the economy, has been declining in BH as in rest of Yugoslavia,
with rapid progress of industrialization, it remains an important sector in
the overall development of the Republic in view of (a) poverty in rural
population living in subsistence agriculture; (b) emerging food deficits due
to growing urban population demanding higher quality and processed food
products; and (c) raw material requirements for growing industrial production.
The income of individual sector which owns about 94% of agricultural land and
livestock is only one-third of the average for BH. In 1976, about 30% of
rural population in BH is estimated to be in relative poverty target group
with incomes per family member of less than Din 6,300 (US$350). The high
incidence of poverty in the rural population depending on subsistence agricul-
ture is one of the most important factors underlying the relatively lower per
capita income of BH as compared to the Yugoslav average.



1.12      The productivity in BH agriculture is low as compared to the
Yugoslav averages. Although in terms of land and active agricultural popula-
tion agriculture sector in BH represents about one fifth of total Yugoslavia
yet it produces only 10% of total social product in agriculture and 6% of
total market production (agriculture) in Yugoslavia.
1.13      One of the reasons for low productivity in agriculture in BH is the
difficult natural terrain with the exception of the Pannonian pla2 s on the
south bank of the Sava river, the BH is predominantly mountainous. The other
main reason is the low efficiency of individual sector in BH and its higher
share in BH; the social sector in BH has only one third of the weight it has
in Yugoslavia as a whole. The individual sector in BH holds 85% of cultivated
land and 90% of livestock population. The efficiency of individual sector, in
terms of yields per hectare or per animal for major products, is about 25-30%
lower than the corresponding Yugoslav averages for individual sector. Within
BH the crop and livestock yields in individual sector are about half of the
yields in social sector. In view of individual sector's dominance, the
problems of the development of agriculture sector of BH are those of the
individual sector.
1.14      The following factors can be identified for low productivity of
individual sector in BH; the first three of these would be addressed through
the proposed project:
(a) prevalence of low yielding crop varieties and livestock
breeds and traditional farming techniques;
(b) low input of fertilizers and use of modern equipment;
(c) inadequate support services (extension, improved inputs,
marketing and credit) for most farmers in the individual
sector; and
(d) large number of fragmented land holdings of sub-marginal
size.
These problems are acknowledged in BH and the 1976-80 Agricultural Develop-
ment Plan for the Republic addresses these issues. The development of the
individual farms will be through cooperation with the social sector. The
social sector will have the main role in the development of agricuture in
BH. Through expansion of agroindustries and support services the social
sector would provide market outlet and comprehensive services to the largest
possible segment of the individual sector. The Plan aims at a 3.8% per
annum agricultural production growth for the period 1976-80 with the social
sector's expected growth rate of 9.5% and the individual sector's rate of 3%.



- 6 -
1.15      The planned annual growth rate of the individual and the social
sectors imply a growing income discrepancy between the sectors unless the
labor force in the individual sector decreases substantially. The migration
of such high magnitude as to allow individual sector incomes to catch up with
social sector is unlikely, although some migration out of agriculture would
continue to occur due to existence of a large number of marginal individual
holdings which cannot be made economically viable even through intensified
cooperation and provision of services. The higher growth rate of social sec-
tor reflects the policy orientation of the government as well as the emphasis
on rapid growth of agro-industries and support services for the individual
sector. The proposed project is one of the key efforts in BH to increase the
productivity of potentially viable individual farms so that they earn incomes
comparable to off-farm employment opportunities.
II.  PROJECT AREA AND ITS DEVELOPMENT POTENTIAL
A. Sectoral Importance
2.01      The proposed project area of the Bosanska-Krajina Region (BK Region)
covers about one third of the agriculture sector in BH, as suggested by the
folLowing data:
Share of Project Area
in Republic of BH
W%)
Total area                                           24
Agricultural land                                    31
Population, total                                    21
Population, agricultural                             50
Primary Production
Cereals (wheat, maize)                               36
Fruits and vegetables                                23
Meat                                                 28
Milk                                                 23
Processed Products
Pasteurized milk                                     30
Milk products                                        50
Fruit juice                                          41
Frozen fruit and vegetables                          46



- 7 -
The project area is particularly important in BH since it covers most of
the productive plains of the Republic, is relatively less constrained by
natural conditions and has the greatest potential for development. The area
also contains about one-half of the agricultural population of BH.
2.02      The Agricultural Development Plan of BH for 1976-80 assigns a high
priority to the development of the BK region. At the end of the Plan, in
1980, this Region's share in total output for BH is expected to be: 37%
of cereals (maize, wheat) output, 22% of fruits and vegetables, 25% of milk,
32% of meat. The agroindustries in the project area are targeted to grow at
rates ranging from 10-30% compared with average agroindustries growth rate of
9% over the Plan period 1976-80. The proposed project covers almost all
of the planned investments by AIPK in agriculture and agroindustry. AIPK is
one of the top twenty enterprises in Yugoslavia and the second largest of the
four new kombinats in BH.  In 1976, it ranked third among all agrokombinats
in Yugoslavia in terms of gross income.
B. Description of the Project Area
Location and Topography
2.03      The BK Region is located in the western part of BH, between 160 and
180 east and 440 and 450 north, with the Sava River flowing at its northern
boundary. The main town of the project area is Banja Luka (population 173,000),
which is located about 150 km northwest of Sarajevo. The project area con-
sists of 18 communes, out of 106 communes in BH, and covers a total area of
about 12,000 sq. km representing 24% of the total area of BE or 4.7% of
Yugoslavia. The project area can be divided into three ecological zones:
plains, hilly and mountainous. From the plains to the mountainous, the
following characteristics are noted: (a) the ploughland area diminishes;
(b) the average ground slope increases; (c) soil fertility decreases, and
yields of most crops decrease; (d) area under wheat and maize decreases,
while area under barley and oats increases; (e) crop growing season shortens,
while the winter period of cattle feeding becomes longer; and (f) sheep
farming gains in relative importance. Influenced by these characteristics,
the proposed project is conceived to optimally utilize the resources available
in each ecological zone.
Climate and Soils
2.04      The Region is situated in the moderate continental climate
belt. Mean temperatures in spring are higher than in autumn; the highest
temperatures (around 210C) occur in July. At higher altitudes, summers are
characterised by the so-called summer inversion, with lower temperatures
in river-valleys and higher on the plateau. The climate of the area, par-
ticularly the good spring rainfall (total rainfall 900 mm/yr in the north
to 1,300 mm/yr in the southern valleys), enables most crops to perform well



- 8 -
without irrigation. However, because of deficits of up to 400 mm in the summer
months double cropping is not possible without irrigation. In the northern
part of the BK Region, poor drainage conditions limit crop performance on
almost 50,000 ha, of which 75% is in the social sector. Most soil types are
moderately heavy in texture, moderately porous and display a reasonable water
holding capacity. The soils are mainly acid. Humus content is rather low and
soils are poor in phosphorous and potassium.
Population, Employment and Migration
2.05      The total population of the BK Region, in 1971, was about 792,000,
which was equivalent to 21.1% of the population of BH.  Since 1971 the popula-
tion in the project area has been growing at an annual average rate of 0.7%,
and is estimated to reach 853,000 by 1980. Currently about 50% of the popula-
tion of the BK Region, estimated to consist of about 60,340 households,
subsists exclusively on agriculture. The high percentage of population not
dependent exclusively on agriculture reflects a growing tendency in Yugoslavia
of home development by nonfarmers in the rural areas.
2.06      About 40,000 people from the project area are employed outside
Yugoslavia and an additional 12,000 in other Yugoslav republics (mainly Croatia
and Slovenia). Since the majority of these people come from rural areas they
represent an average of 20% of the active agricultural population of the BK
Region. The significant migration is due to lack of income opportunities in
the individual sector and lack of employment opportunities in the social
sector. Increased income opportunities created by the project both in the
individual and the social sectors would help to reduce the migration of
people out of the project area.
Organization of Agriculture
2.07      The individual sector dominates agriculture in the BK Region as
it owns 94% of land and livestock and employs 84% of total population.
The average individual farm holding in the project area is about 5 ha of
ploughland. In 1971, an estimated 48,000 farms consisted of less than 3
ha. 1/ These holdings are considered having only a limited potential to
survive as efficient and financially viable farming units. The structure of
private farm agriculture is likely to change in favor of smaller number of
ho:Ldings deriving their livelihood exclusively from agriculture. To realize
incomes in the range of targeted Din 50,000 for an average farm worker, the
average gross production per farmer would have to be about Din 80,000. These
income levels are possible only by a complete modernization of farm units
accompanied by heavy investments in the potentially viable farm units (above
3 ha).
1/   Many of these holdings of less than 3 ha probably belong to nonfarming
rural population.



- 9 -
2.08      Under the agrarian reforms only a few agricultural estates in the
project area were socialized. As a result the social sector holds only 5% of
the ploughland in the area, all of which is managed by AIPK. All agroindus-
tries in the project area are in the social sector and are also managed by
AIPK. The social sector provides support services to the individual farmers.
The development of both the individual and the social sectors in the BK Region
is the responsibility of AIPK (described in Section E).
2.09      The Zadrugas are the main form of cooperation between the individual
and the social sectors and this cooperation has been growing. The Zadrugas in
the project area are associated with AIPK. In 1977 about 20,000 individual
farmers (33% of total in the project area) cooperated with the social sector
through Zadrugas, however most of the cooperation was on short term basis,
usually for a year.
C. Agricultural Situation in the Project Area
Agricultural Production
2.10      The dominant crops on the northern plains in the BK Region are
rainfed maize and wheat, and a good potential exists for extending the area
of irrigated summer vegetables, particularly beans and peas for processing.
Pome and berry fruits are being grown on an increasing scale in the foot hills
adjacent to the plains. Towards the south, where the proportion of arable
land is less and elevations are generally higher, the main crops are barley
and potatoes. Much of the land in the smaller valleys, however, is used for
the production of hay to provide winter feeding for sheep and native (Busha)
cattle which graze the extensive mountain rangelands through the summer
months. More intensive forms of livestock production (dairy cattle, baby
beef, pigs) tend to be concentrated in the north where feed supplies are
plentiful.
2.11      Average yields (3 years, 1974-76) for representative crops and
livestock in the social and individual sectors in the project area are shown
below:
Yield in              Yield in
Social              Individual
Crop                 Sector                 Sector
Maize                 4.5                     2.1
Wheat                  3.7                    2.0
Barley                 2.6                    1.1
Livestock                    1- /cow/year --------
Milk                3,430                     880



- 10 -
The lower yields in the individual sector farms are a reflection of a variety
of causes. Until AIPK was established in 1974 there had been few attempts in
the Region to modernize production on small farms, and almost no financial
resources had been directed towards the individual sector. Traditional crop
varieties were in general use; fertilizer and pesticide utilization was at
low levels and much of the land was, and still is, cultivated by animal
drawrn implements. The individual farmers had no access to credit and tech-
nical advice. The market opportunities were severely restricted. Since 1974
AIPX: is making an attempt to promote individual sector farm development and
impcrtant changes are taking place on the individual farms cooperating with
AIPK. Presently only a small number of farmers are being helped by AIPK;
under the project their numbers will be greatly expanded.
2.12      The results on agricultural production realised within the social
sector indicate that there is a high potential for increased crop produc-
tion on individual farms in the BK Region. Land resources and agricultural
labor, which are presently underutilized, have the capability of producing
yields higher than those currently obtained by the individual farmers provided
the technology developed and already tested in the social sector is applied
on t:hese farms. Mechanization on individual sector farms is low with horses
being a major source of power. Increased mechanization will also contribute
to expand production. Migration of workers has created a shortage of hired
labor for seasonal jobs in the BK Region and availability of farm machinery
services is essential to improve incomes and productivity of farmers.
2.13      In the livestock production also, the social sector farms in AIPK
have utilized high levels of capital and modern technology in contrast to the
individual sector farms, which primarily produce for home consumption. In the
individual sector, feed production for livestock tends to be both deficient in
quantity and quality. There is also a lack of knowledge on nutrition and
other modern livestock husbandry practices by farmers in the individual sector.
The livestock breeds are generally hardy and adapted to the area but are low
producers. It is imperative that if livestock production is to increase
improved genetic material must be introduced into the livestock herds.
Agroindustries Development
2.14      One of the important stimuli for the development of agriculture
in the BK Region, particularly on individual farms, has come from the markets
offered by the existing agroindustries in the AIPK. Many of these agroindus-
tries were established or extended since the 1969 earthquake. For future
development of the BK Region, development of agroindustries is critical
since it is expected to provide the market stimuli for increased production
by individual farmers. The potential for development of agroindustries was
found to be substantial by the UNIDO study of 1972 and since then it has been
further intensified in recent years due to the changing consumption pattern in
favor of processed food products. In the BK Region, the per capita consump-
tion of processed food is much lower than the average consumption in BH and



- 11 -
Yugoslavia. It is anticipated that with the expansion of market outlets and
increasing urbanization, demand for processed food would increase in the BK
Region. In 1976, thirteen BOALS of AIPK were engaged in food processing and
produced: 13 million litres of pasteurized milk, 5,470 tons of milk products,
about 16,000 tons of processed fruits and vegetables, 11 million liters of
fruit drinks, 7,000 tons of fresh and processed meat, 60,000 tons of flour and
flour products and 56,000 tons of livestock feed. The capacities of the
existing agroindustries are not sufficient to meet either the present demand
for processed foods or the present production of raw materials. A major
expansion in agroindustries in the BK Region is justified by growing demand,
availability of raw materials, good location near major metropolitan and
tourist markets.
Support Services
2.15      Several agricultural support services have been in operation in the
BK Region for several years, but need substantial strengthening and expansion
to provide adequate technical advice and services to individual farmers in
the area. These services are provided by institutes (organized as BOAL's) in
AIPK, as follows: (a) Agricultural Development Institute which carries out
variety improvement trials, seed production and other agronomic trials; (b)
Institute for Cooperation with Individual Farmers, which provides technical
assistance to extension workers and farmers in the BK Region; (c) Artificial
Insemination and Livestock Improvement Service, which has gone through its
development stage and is in need of modernization and expansion; and (d) Pig
Breeding Farm, which has been developing improved breeds of pigs for distribu-
tion to farmers, but quantities of gilts available has been low in relation
to needs. Credit sources for private farmers are extremely limited and credit
is available through Zadrugas only. An expansion of all of these services
is necessary to realize the increased production by individual farmers. Of
particular importance are facilities to provide improved genetic stock
(improved livestock breeds and improved seeds) and extension service. In
addition there is a pressing need for the individual farmers to mechanize
their farm operations due to inavailability of hired labor. However, due to
the small size of holdings it is not economical for individual farmers to own
all farm machinery necessary. As a result informal custom hiring of tractors
and equipment by needy farmers from the relatively bigger individual farmers
has emerged in the area. The project would provide credit for farm machinery
to Zadrugas. With the increasing number of farm machinery in the project
area, a fully equipped machinery workshop is urgently needed as the existing
workshop would not be able to handle all the work. The proposed project would
include funds for strengthening the support services in the project area.
Markets
2.16      In the BK Region, like elsewhere in Yugoslavia, organized markets
with authorized purchases by social sector organizations at or above minimum
prices exist side by side with informal markets, where the individual farmers
sell directly to consumers. The organized market is important to individual



- 12 -
farmers since there is limited demand in informal markets. To increase their
production and incomes the individual farms depend on organized markets except
for the many individual farmers who produce mainly for subsistence purposes
and market only a small share of their limited output for supplementary cash
income on the informal markets.
2.17      The organized trading in the BK Region is done almost totally by
AIPK, which dominates the retail and wholesale trade in food and other consumer
goods in the BK Region through 1,500 retail shops. The trading activities of
AIPK are carried out by 32 BOALs and complement its production activities as
the agricultural and processed food products from other BOALs within AIPK are
sold by these shops. In addition it puts AIPK in favorable position to market
its production outside the BK Region through reciprocal marketing arrangements
with other sales organizations in Yugoslavia.
D. Development Constraints and Strategy
2.18      Major constraints to development of agricultural production in BH
are described in paras 1.11 to 1.15. These constraints equally apply to the
BK Region; in fact, these become relatively more prominent as land in the
in(lividual sector in the project area is 94% as compared to 85% in BH.
Sirnilarly the strategy for future development of the project area is the
same, in general, as for BH. Briefly, this strategy is described below.
2.19      Development Strategy.  The development strategy adopted in the
Development Plan of AIPK, 1976-80, and broadly endorsed by the Republic gov-
er-nment is to promote increases in farm production mainly in the individual
sector in parallel with increases in the processing capacities, which would
also expand the marketing opportunities for the produce of the individual
farmers. The strategy also calls for priority to be given to drainage and
irrigation, mainly required on social sector land so as to extend the
intensively cropped area to a maximum. The bulk of investments in the social
sector are to be directed at enhancing its capacity to provide technical
assistance and services to individual farmers in the region, and to process
and market raw materials grown by both the individual sector and the social
sector. The underlying feature of the strategy is that the social sector will
be the main source of increased primary production in the BK Region. The
development of individual farms will be accomplished by specialization of
individual farmers in one major area of activity for market while continuing
to produce their subsistence needs.
2.20      Assessment.  The strategy addresses itself to the principal develop-
ment bottlenecks of the individual sector viz: low productivity, lack of
markets and lack of support service including credit. The social sector role
is to expand processing capacity as the principal market outlet and expansion
and wider coverage of support services to provide the technical assistance.
The strategy is based on the UNDP project's findings and is consistent with
government policy and Bank's lending strategy in Yugoslavia. The specializa-
tion approach to individual farms is sound since with the limited resources



- 13 -
available to individual farmer, allocating these resources to one major
activity will allow maximum levels of production and income. With a larger
volume of production the farmer becomes a commercial producer rather than
a subsistence farmer. The increased market orientation of farmer would
increase his dependence on others for necessary inputs including knowledge
of the production systems and for availability of markets. In the strategy
for the BK Region the AIPK will make the inputs and services available to
individual farmers. It should be noted that the strategy for the BK Region,
and for the proposed project, makes no direct attempt to develop the sub-
marginal individual farm units (para 2.07) which are not potentially viable;
except through improved general availability of support services and market
opportunities in the project area. The recent experience in the region has
shown that given technical assistance, credit and market access the individual
farmers can achieve levels of performance as high as or higher than the social
sector. The development of agroindustries in BK Region is justified by
availability of raw material supply and market prospects appear good. The
AIPK already has in operation a basic network of support services to individual
farmers through Zadrugras and institutes in AIPK. The strategy calls for
strengthening of these services. In mission's view the development strategy
for the BK Region is sound.
E. Project Implementing Agency: Agroindustrijski i Prometni Kombinat
"'Bosanska-Krajina" - (AIPK)
General
2.21      To implement the recommendations of the UNDP Project, the AIPK
was established in 1974 by associating 78 Basic Organizations of Associated
Labor (BOALs) involved in the agricultural production and trade in the BK
Region. AIPK was given the task of developing the agricultural potential,
in both the social and the individual sectors in all of the 18 communes in the
BK Region. Its activities range from cooperation with the individual farmers
to agricultural production, food processing, and retailing food and other
products through its about 1,500 retail shops throughout the BK Region.
Organizational Structure
2.22      The AIPK is organized at three levels.  Its basic operating units
consist of 99 BOALs of which 23 BOALs are for cooperation with the individual
farmers and are known as Zadrugas. At the middle level are 41 working
organizations (WO); each WO is an association of several BOALs.  At the apex
level is a central organization which coordinates the activities of WOs and
represents the BOALs collectively in all matters. This organizational struc-
ture came into effect on January 1, 1977 and is not yet fully completed.
Prior to the reorganization AIPK operated as a working organization with
78 BOALs. The reorganization is aimed at strengthening the self-management
system and to achieve further division of labor and improve productivity.



- 1/. -
2.23      Basic Organizations of Associated Labor (BOAL).  The operations of
AIPK are carried out by 99 BOALs. Each BOAL is responsible for a specific
activity such as meat processing, cooperation with the individual farmers,
rcearch, farming, dairy, trade etc. Each BOAL is a legal entity with bor-
rowing powers and maintains annual accounts including balance sheets. The
workers of the BOAL through a Worker's Council, consisting of worker's
delegates govern their work process with considerable autonomy. Of the
99 BOALs, 13 are for agroindustries, 18 for primary agricultural produc-
tion in social sector, 32 for retail and wholesale trade in food and other
consumer goods, 23 for cooperation with individual farmers (Zadruga) and
13 for other activities such as information, common services, etc. Most of
these BOALs were established prior to AIPK's establishment in 1974 and are
well experienced in their line of business.
2.24      Working Organizations.  BOALs engaged in similar activities form
a working organization (WO). Functions common to the BOALs in the WO are
performed by the working organization (e.g., planning, development, invest-
ment, marketing and bookkeeping). AIPK has 41 WOs organized along main lines
of ac:tivity, which are collectively connected with 99 BOALs. The objective of
a WO is to perform those services those which can be provided more efficiently
and economically for the several BOALs together and thus allow the BOALs to
concentrate on production aspects only. The WO arrangement is crly about a
year old and is beginning to take hold. WOs are not expected to play a
direct role in the project implementation, as the BOALs manage their affairs
as independent entities.
2.25      Central Organization of AIPK comprises of (i) a Management Board,
which performs the functions of a general manager for AIPK; (ii) a WO for
common services to summarize the plans, accounts and business results of AIPK,
undertake financial and economic analysis of AIPK's business, and provide
expert advice to BOALs and WOs; (iii) a WO to disseminate information about
AIPK's activities; (iv) a WO for research and scientific activities; and (v)
an lnternal Bank to assist the BOALs in finding financial resources at the
capital market and to handle transfer of surplus resources wit- AIPK from one
BOAL to another. The expenses of the central organization are met by contri-
butions from BOALs.
Management and Staff
2.26      The highest management body of AIPK is the Workers' Council and
comprises of delegates of BOALs. Its main responsibilities include: estab-
lishing business policy and procedures; approving development plans; reviewing
accounts; electing, appointing and suspending the Executive and Management
Boards of AIPK; establishing staff policy; and approving AIPK's work programs.
The Workers' Council carries out its responsibilities through seven Executive
Boards (committees) covering main lines of activities 1/ of AIPK. The Execu-
tive Board members are elected by the Workers' Council.
1/   The lines of activities are:  fruit and vegetable, milk and meat, cereals
and industrial crops, cooperation with individual farmers and trade,
catering and tourism.



- 15 -
2.27      The responsibility for the day to day work of AIPK is in the hands
of the Management Board, 1/ comprising a president, a deputy president, six
vice presidents for main lines of production and trade, three directors
representing internal bank, WO for common services and WO for research and
scientific activities. The Management Board in effect carries out the func-
tions of the general manager. The Board reports to the Workers' Council and
its executive boards. The main function of the Management Board has been to
promote the rational development of the various enterprises within the AIPK,
ensuring a balance between primary production, processing capacity and con-
sumer demand. This has been achieved by the preparation of plans and projects,
by raising investment funds and by developing linkages with other enterprises
for marketing. Under the Yugoslav self-management system the Board cannot
intervene managerially in the operations of a BOAL except with the agreement
of the Workers' Council.
2.28      Each BOAL and WO is managed by a Director who reports to the Manage-
ment Board and the Workers' Council. A total of about 16,000 staff are
employed by AIPK, of which almost 20% are professionals, 63% skilled and semi-
skilled workers and 7% unskilled workers. AIPK puts emphasis on training of
staff and provides incentives to staff for increasing their qualifications.
It also recruits young graduates and provides them on the job training as
professional managers. Banja Luka town, where AIPK has its headquarters, has
a university and several vocational schools and finding staff with suitable
educational qualifications poses no problem to AIPK.
Financial Structure and Performance
2.29      The consolidated accounts of AIPK are prepared each year from the
computed totals of the accounts of BOALs. The BOALs have the status of legal
entities, thus all assets, equity and liabilities included in the consolidated
AIPK accounts remain under the authority of the individual BOAL. However,
BOALs are liable for the debts for the central organization of AIPK.
2.30      In the three years since AIPK's formation total assets have grown
from Din 4,074 million (US$226 million) in 1974 to Din 6,531 million
(US$363 million) in 1976. The increase was mainly due to new investments and
an increase in fixed assets. The current assets of AIPK exceeded current
liabilities with a ratio of 1.6 in 1976, up from 1.4 in 1975. Total equity
funds amounted to Din 3,289 million (US$183 million) in 1976 as against Din
1,389 million (US$77 million) in 1974.  The equity funds of AIPK exceeded the
medium- and long-term borrowings. The medium- and long-term debt/equity ratio
was 0.5:1.0 in 1976. Of the total long-term and medium-term liabilities of
Din 1,727 million (US$96 million) in 1975, Din 189 million (US$11 million)
was medium-term and Din 1,538 million (US$85 million) was long-term. Only Din
467 milion (US$26 million) was owed to organizations other than the Privredna
1/   Management Board is also referred to as Business Board.



- 16 -
Banka, as compared to AIPK's investment assets in other organizations of Din
685 million (US$38 million).
2.31      Total AIPK sales in 1975 were 28% higher than in 1974, but in 1976
the growth rate was only 2%. This was largely due to a change in the legally
specified trade credit term during the year from 90 days to 15 days which
affected sales of some basic organizations. The gross surplus for total AIPK
in 1976 was Din 903 million (US$50 million), the growth being 15% per annum
for each of the last two years.
2.32      Remuneration of workers--deducted from gross surplus to arrive at
net surplus--has increased by 24% and 25% in the last two years, so that the
average remuneration has reached Din 52,300 (US$2,905) per worker. This
perf-ormance has been satisfactory as the financial objective of the investor
in Yugoslavia is to maximize the average surplus per worker. However, as a
result, the net surplus has declined in these two years from 20.7% of gross
surplus to 7%. AIPK is concerned at this decline as it is AIPK's policy to
ensure that the net surplus is sufficient to allow a significant increase in
equity in order to maintain AIPK's base for direct investment and for bor-
rowing. AIPK is in a position to influence basic organizations' policies in
this regard, and will be active in bringing this need to their attention.
Overall AIPK's financinal situation is sound and its financial performance
has been satisfactory. No difficulty is anticipated in AIPK being able to
meet its share in project cost.
2.33      Audit.  The accounts of BOALs are subject to audit by a local
representative of the Yugoslav Audit Authority, SDK. SDK's representatives
do not issue a certificate that the accounts are correct but, as necessary,
inform BOALs of errors discovered and require that adjustments be made.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.01      The main objectives of the project are to:  (a) assist in the devel-
opment of the BK Region, which is one of the least developed rural areas of
Yugoslavia, by financing investments in agriculture and agroindustries in this
area; (b) increase the productivity and income of rural population in the BK
Region to levels approaching Yugoslav averages; and (c) increase production of
meat, milk, foodgrains, and processed food products primarily for domestic
market. The project would also help in institution building of AIPK and PBS
through provision of technical assistance and training of staff. The proj-
ect's objectives are in line with the Government's and Bank's development
strategy in Yugoslavia of promoting development of the least developed areas,
in general, and production growth and support for both individual farmers and
social sector farming, in particular.



- 17 -
B. Project Concept
3.02      The main focus of the project would be on development of individual
farms in the BK Region; improvement in primary production would also be made
in the social sector where productivity of good agricultural land is limited
by either water logging or lack of irrigation. Development of the individual
farms would be achieved by (a) offering credit to farmers through Zadrugas;
(b) provision of enlarged advisory and other common services; and (c) expand-
ing the production and distribution of basic inputs. Marketing possibilities
for the individual farms would be expanded by enlarging the capacity of
several existing agroindustries in the BK Region and creating new processing
facilities for some products for which presently there are no large scale
commercial outlets.
C. Project Description
3.03      The project would consist of three components:  (i) Primary Agri-
cultural Production; (ii) Support Services for Individual Farmers; and (iii)
Agroindustries Development. These components are briefly described below;
further details are provided in Annex 1. The proposed Bank loan would be
made to Privredna Bank, Sarajevo (PBS), who would on-lend to Zadrugas for the
individual sector and the social sector organizations associated with AIPK for
implementation of the project.
Primary Agricultural Production
3.04      This component would aim to achieve an increase in the production of
livestock and cereal and horticultural crops through provision of credit to
23 Zadrugas for 12,000 individual farmers and to the social sector for land
development of about 11,000 ha. It would consist of the following three
subcomponents:
3.05      Livestock Production.  The project would support livestock develop-
ment on about 2,800 individual farms through subloans for production of milk,
beef, pork, chicken and lamb. These subloans would be made through Zadrugas
and would provide credit for the construction of buildings, purchase of
machinery, equipment and basic herds. Most of the produce would be supplied
to the processing facilities, which would also be financed under the project.
3.06      Crop Production.  Subloans would be made to about 1,000 individual
farmers, through Zadrugas, to finance investments for fruit and vegetables
production. Included would be investments in planting material, machinery and
equipment, packing/storage sheds, small green houses, and small sprinkler
irrigation systems. The project would also support increase in the production
of maize, barley, other cereals and potato on about 40,000 ha belonging to
about 8,000 individual farmers in the BK Region, through the provision of



-18-
finance, also through Zadrugas for the development of extension services, farm
machinery services and grain drying and storage services. The incremental
production of fruit, vegetables, potato and barley would be supplied to the
prccessing sacilities being financed under the project. Any surplus would be
sold on the open market. The cereal production would be supplied partly to
the existing livestock feed and flour mills in the project area.
3.07      Land Development.  Subloans would be provided to the social sector
enterprises for development, including reclamation and drainage of about 8,300
ha in the social sector and 1,500 ha in the individual sector, and irrigation
of about 1,200 ha land in the social sector. Farm machinery and equipment
necessary for cultivating this area would also be provided. Investment for
irrigation works would be for a sprinkler irrigation system.  The incremental
production would be to meet the raw material needs of the existing livestock
feed mills, bakeries, corn syrup factory and vegetable processing facilities
in the project area. Investments in land development are consistent with the
development strategy for the BK Region and essential for realization of the
regiorns development plan for 1976-80.
Support Services for Tndividual Farmers
3.08      The project would finance investments in eight activities in the
social sector, which would assist the expansion of primary agricultural
production in the individual sector. These investments have been agreed,
at the Republic level, and would be undertaken by AIPK so as to avoid any
duplication of effort by other kombinats in the Republic. Subloans would
be provided to: (i) establish a Heifer Rearing Farm to produce 800 head of
quality breed heifers annually; (ii) expansion of a Pig Breeding Farm to
produce about 7,000 head of high quality bred gilts and 300 boars per year;
(iii) expansion and modernization of Cattle Breeding and Progeny Testing to
produce semen of reliable quality and select and maintain bulls of high
genetic potential; (iv) establish a Sheep Research Farm to identify and
demonstrate modern systems of sheep management applicable to mountainous areas
in the BK Region and other similar parts of the Republic; (v) establish Seed
Processing Facilities to cover the project area and at Republic's requirement
for certified seeds; (vi) establish a Technical Support Unit for providing
specialized technical assistance to the extension workers of the Zadrugas
mentioned in para 3.07. The subject matter specialists of this Unit would
identify the technologies, in their respective fielUs, suited for application
in the BK Region; establish a link between the field extension staff and the
research centers; participate in training of staff and farmers; prepare
Lraining materials and organize agricultural fairs and competitions. Included
in the project would be the housing and transport facilities required for the
outposted staff and purchase of training and laboratory equipment; (vii)
establish a Fruit Plant Nursery to produce 500,000 plants per year; and (viii)
expanc and modernize an existing Farm Machinery Workshop in the project area
to provide complete farm machinery repair services. These support services
and facilities would basically serve the individual farmers in the project
area, but would also be available to the individual farmers in other parts of
the Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina.



- 19 -
Agroindustries Development
3.09      The project would support development of agroindustries connected
with the processing of milk, meat, fruits, vegetables, potatoes and barley;
all of these facilities would be in the social sector and would be financed
by subloans under the project. The agroindustries would process mainly the
incremental primary production from the project, and would supply the pro-
cessed products mainly for domestic consumption. These agroindustries, apart
from providing market outlets for the agricultural production in the BK
Region, would also create employment opportunities and help meet food pro-
duction objectives of Yugoslavia. These agroindustries would consist of:
(i) expansion of an existing Milk Processing Plant to increase its processing
capacity from 90,000 1/day to 180,000 1/day of raw cow and sheep milk to
produce pasteurized milk, yoghurt and cheese; (ii) expansion and modernization
of two existing Meat Processing Plants to produce fresh and processed meat
products including ready to eat meals, canned meat products, sausages and
smoked meats; (iii) establish a Poultry Processing Plant to process annually,
2.5 million broilers and 0.5 million ducks; (iv) establish a Meat Rendering
Plant to process the bones, blood, skin and other wastes from the meat pro-
cessing plants in the BK Region and adjoining areas; (v) estabish a new Fruit
Processing Plant to produce both thick and clear fruit juices, fruit concen-
trates, and frozen pulp from fruits grown in the project area; (vi) establish
a Plum Processing Plant to process annually 7,000 tons plums into dried plums,
and brandy from rejected plums not suitable for drying. The plant would be
located around Prijedor town, where individual farmers produce high quality
plums; (vii) establish a Potato Processing Plant to process annually 17,000
tons of potatoes into washed and packed fresh potatoes, frozen fried potatoes,
potato salads and croquettes; (viii) establish a Maltery to process annually
about 19,000 tons of barley into malt; (ix) expansion of an existing Vegetable
Processing Plant by addition of processing lines for production of high
quality jams and baby food. The Potato Processing Plant and the Maltery would
be located in that part of the BK Region, where most land is held in very
small holdings by individual farmers and the main crops grown are potato and
barley. It is anticipated that the establishment of these facilities in this
poorer part of the BK Region would increase the income of these farmers by
providing them an outlet for their production as well as employment in these
plants.
D. Cost Estimates
3.10      The total project cost, including physical and price contingencies
but excluding interest during construction, is estimated at Din 3,668 million
(about US$204 million) of which Din 1,157 million (US$64.3 million) or 32% of
the total project cost, would be the foreign exchange component. The cost
estimates include import duties and taxes estimated at Din 108.5 million
(US$6 million). The unit costs are based on estimates obtained from local
and foreign suppliers of equipment and civil works, in October 1977, and have
been updated to reflect the costs that would prevail in early 1978. The
summary cost estimate is given below; details are in Annex 1. A physical



- 20 -
contingency of 10% on civil works and 5 to 7% on equipment, and an average
price contingency of 25.8% 1/ on base cost plus physical contingencies
have been included in the cost estimate.
E. Financing
3.11      The financing plan for the project is shown below.
3.12      The proposed Bank loan of US$55 million would finance 85% of foreign
exchange cost of the project (excluding interest during construction). The
proposed Bank loan would be made to PBS for 15 years including three years of
grace. The PBS would on-lend the loan proceeds to the subborrowers, namely
the Zadrugas and the social sector enterprises in the BK Region in accordance
with the terms described in paras 4.07 and 4.08. The balance of project cost,
US$108 million equivalent (including US$9.3 million foreign exchange cost and
US$98.7 million local cost but excluding interest during construction) would
be provided by PBS from its own sources, including possible funds from co-
financing, and funds from the Republic and the Federal sources. The sub-
borrowers repayments would be sufficient to enable the PBS to repay the Bank
loan within 15 years. Assurances on above financing arrangements were
obtained during negotiations.
F. Disbursements
3.13      The disbursements of proposed Bank loan of US$55 million would
extend over five years, and would be made in accordance with the following
percentages:
(a)  Subloans to Individual Farmers, through Zadrugas for Livestock
and Crop Production (US$23.5 million). 100% of foreign expendi-
tures and 50% of local expenditures subject to a maximum of
50% of each subloan.
(b)  Subloans to Zadrugas for Extension Service, Machinery Services,
and Grain Drying and Storage Service, and the Social Sector Sub-
borrowers for Support Services (US$13 million). 100% of foreign
expenditures, and 37% of local expenditures subject to a maximum
of 37% of each subloan.
(c)  Subloans to the Social Sector Subborrowers for Land Development
(US$3.5 million). 100% of foreign expenditures and 19% of local
expenditures subject to a maximum of 19% of each subloan.
1/   Price contingencies are based on an estimated annual inflation rate on
both domestic and foreign costs of 10% for civil works, and 7.5% on
equipment in 1978 and 1979 and 7% thereafter.



-22-
AFPPRAISAL OF
DOSANSKA NRAJINA AGRICULTURE AND, AGRO) NDUSTRCIES PROJECT
YUGO SLA VI A
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
D'IN-000                               us $-000
(01)         (02)          (03)         (04)          (05)         (06)         (07)
FOREIGN
EXCHANGF
TOTAL       FOREIGN        LOCAL        TOTAL        FOREIGN       LOCAL 
I FPRIMARY AGRICULTURAL P'RODUCTION
A. LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION              7575600      145,400      430,200        31,978         8,078       23.900       25
P. CROP, PROrDUCTION                545,940       147,005       398,935       30,330         8,167       22,163       2 7
C. LANG DEVELOPMENT                 316,682        49,601      267,081        17,593         2,756       14,838       16
SUB TOTAL                         1,438,222       342,006   1.096.216         79,901        19,000       60.901       24
Il. SUPPO'RT SERVICES               264,196        62,288      201,900        14,678         3,460       11,217       2 4
III. AGOIONDUiSTRIES DEVELOP.   1.053,741         469,415      584P326        58,541        26,079       32,463       45
TO'TAL PROJCCT COOT
WITHOUT CONTINGENCIES             2.756sp159      873,709   1.882P450        153,120        48,539      104,581       32
TOTAL PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES         159,167       48,069       111,097        8,843         2,671         6,172      30
TOTAL PRICE CONTINGENCIES           752,654       235,572      517,082        41,814        13,087       28,727       31
TOTAL PROJECT COST
ENCt UDTNO CfnNTINGE)NCIFF        3.667,9S0   1,157,350   2,510,629          203,777       64.297       139,479      32
PROJECT FINANcrNG PLAN
(DIN MILLION)                                  (US$ MILLION)
(01)         (02)        (03)         (04)         (05)         (06)    (07)       (08)
SUB-        LOCAL                                  SUB-        LOCAL
BORROWERS      BANKS         IBRD       TOTAL      BORROWERS    BANKS    IBRD    TOTAL
I PRIMARY AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION                                                                                  --        --
A. LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION                 150.0          300.1       300.0       750,1         8.3          16.7    16.7       41.7
B. CROP PRODUCTION                      144.7         323.0        256.0       723,7         8.1         17.9    14.2        40.2
C. LAND DEVELOPMENT                      89.9         295,5         64.0       449.4         5.0         16.4       3.6     25.0
SUB TOTAL                               384.6          918.6       620.0      1923.2        21.4         51.0    34.5    106.9
ir. SUPPORT SERVICES-  ~          --~    68.1         170.5        102.0       340.6         3.8          9.5      5.6       18.9.
III. AGROINDUSTRIES DEVELOP.            280.8         855.4        269,0      1404.2        15.6         47.5    14.91       78. 0
TOTAL PROJECT COST-                                                                                                          =.
INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                 733.5        1944.5        990.0      3668.0        40.8        108.0    55,0    203.8



- 22 -
(d) Subloans to Social Sector Subborrowers for Agroindustries Devel-
opment (US$15 million). 100% of foreign expenditures and 24% of
local expenditures subject to a maximum of 24% of each subloan.
An estimated schedule of disbursements for the proposed Bank loan is attached
to Annex 2. Disbursement requests would be supported by full documentation
e!xcept for subloans to individual farmers, through the Zadrugas, for which the
Bank would disburse against certificates of expenditure the documentation for
which would not be submitted for review, but would be retained by the Borrower
and available for inspection by the Bank during the course of project super-
vision missions. Assurances on these disbursement procedures were obtained
during negotiations.
G. Procurement
3.14      Agroindustrial plants and equipment estimated to cost about US$66.5
million would be procured following international competitive bidding in
accordance with the Bank Guidelines (March 1977). This would consist of:
(a) agroindustries with an estimated cost of US$56.3 million; these would
i.nclude: a poultry processing plant, a meat rendering plant, a fruit juice
processing plant, a potato processing plant, a plum processing plant and a
maaltery; (b) equipment, with an estimated cost of US$8.7 million for a milk
processing plant, two meat processing plants and a vegetable processing plant;
and (c) vegetable planting and harvesting machinery, with an estimated cost
of US$1.5 million. The above items will be bulked in lots of not less than
UJS$0.5 million. Domestic manufacturers would receive a 15% margin of prefer-
ence or the actual level of import duty, whichever is less, in bid compari-
sons. The processing plants would be procured on a turnkey contract basis or
on other procedures acceptable to the Bank. Contracts for the procurement of
equipment for the processing plants would include provisions under which the
equipment suppliers would furnish erection supervisors, would guarantee per-
formance and train local staff in operation and maintenance of the equipment.
It is estimated that, out of about US$66.5 million, foreign suppliers would
probably be awarded contracts totalling in value to about US$30 million (45%).
During negotiations assurances were obtained that procurement arrangements
outlined above would be followed.
3.15      International competitive bidding would not be suitable for works
and equipment connected with other project components totalling in value to
UJS$137.5 million namely (a) the primary agricultural production and the sup-
port services components of the project (except for vegetable planting and
harvesting machinery included under items suitable for international competi-
tive bidding); and (b) civil works for the milk and meat processing plants
and the vegetable processing plant. These works and equipment are not suit-
able for bulk procurement and are not likely to be attractive to foreign
contractors and suppliers due to the dispersion of investors, wide differences
in the type of construction and equipment required, phasing of contracts over
four years, and relatively small size of each contract. They would, therefore,
be procured following local procurement procedures satisfactory to the Bank.



- 23 -
The Yugoslav civil works contractors are skilled and have demonstrated their
competitiveness even in international contracting. Machinery and equipment
dealers for locally manufactured equipment maintain adequate supplies of
equipment and spare parts, provide satisfactory repair services and are
competitive.
H.  Environmental Impact
3.16      The project is not expected to have significant adverse environ-
mental impact on the project area. All processing facilities would have
adequate effluent treatment facilities.
I. Role of Women
3.17      Yugoslavia has made considerable progress with respect to ensuring
equal opportunity for women. In the institutions with which the Bank is
involved in agricultural projects, including PBS and AIPK, a number of profes-
sional staff at the level below senior management are women. The project has
no specific component designed according to differentiations based on the sex
of the intended beneficiaries. However, it is expected that women will be
more directly involved in the primary agricultural production component. It
is also expected that women will benefit as much as men from the increased
employment opportunities in the social sector components of the project.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Borrower: PBS
4.01      General.  Privredna Banka, Sarajevo (PBS) would be the Borrower of
the proposed loan. It would on-lend the Bank funds, together with its own
resources and funds from the Federal and the Republic sources, to finance
investments by the private and the social sector enterprises (subborrowers
under the project) in the BK Region. It would be responsible for appraisal
and supervision of the investments to be financed under the project.
4.02      PBS is one of the participating banks in the First and the Second
Agricultural Credit Projects (Loans 1129-YU and 1477-YU) and a borrower from
the Bank under Industrial Credit Projects (Loans 1013-YU and 1277-YU).
An in-depth institutional evaluation of PBS was carried out in October 1977
as a part of the appraisal of the Fourth Industrial Credit Project (Appraisal
Report No. 1865a-YU, dated June 23, 1978). The organization, management,
business policies and financial condition of PBS were found satisfactory and
PBS was accepted by the Bank as a borrower. Since no material changes have
taken place in the intervening period, up to the time of this appraisal, PBS
continues to be creditworthy.



- 24 -
4.03      Lending Policies and Procedures.  PBS is the major source of credit
to the agricultural sector in the Republic; agricultural and agroindustries
loans comprised 8.5% of its total loans in 1976. It is experienced in
lending for agroindustries and agriculture in both the social and the individual
sectors. The quality of subproject appraisals carried out by PBS under the
Bank-financed agricultural projects has been acceptable. The agroindustries
subprojects 1/ appraised by PBS included investments in slaughterhouses,
milling and vegetable drying plants, and a winery. Although similar in scope,
the agroindustries investments under the project are larger in size and more
coimplex. PBS would need expertise on short-term consultancy basis to carry
out a technical appraisal of the potato processing plant and if it considers
necessary, for some other investments.  The principal areas where PBS needs to
improve its appraisal are in reviewing the technical aspects of the loan
application, in estimating cost of agroindustries and in market analysis. The
procedures for supervising local procurement are satisfactory but PBS has no
experience with international procurement in accordance with the Bank guide-
lines and would need assistance in this area to be able to supervise procure-
ment under the project. PBS would limit its loans to a maximum of 80% of the
cost of each subproject.
4.04      Organization.  The Department of Agriculture and Food Industries
Loans, in the PBS, would be responsible for the appraisal of all subloans.
The staff in this Department have a satisfactory experience in appraising
agriculture and agroindustry subprojects, under the Bank-financed projects as
well as under its other operations. The staff includes an Agriculturist, an
Agroindustries Expert and a Senior Credit Officer dealing with agricultural
loans. During the years 1976-77, this staff handled the appraisal of about
70 subprojects of which 35 were appraised according to the Bank's appraisal
requirements; these appraisals covered the agroindustries as well as agricul-
tural subprojects in the social sector and agricultural production subprojects
in the individual sector. These staff members have undergone training in
appraisal techniques, which was organized under the First Agricultural Credit
Project. The appraisal capability of PBS staff should further improve as a
result of their participation in the seminar's on appraisal techniques to
be conducted under the Second Agricultural Credit Project and the Second and
the Third Industrial Credit Projects. With the help of consultants in highly
technical areas, the staff of PBS is capable of appraising the investments to
be financed under the project.
4.05      During negotiations assurances were obtained from PBS that (a) it
would, by December 31, 1978, employ or assign a marketing specialist and
a procurement specialist on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank to
assist respectively in the marketing analysis of investments and to supervise
1/   PBS financed agroindustries subprojects under the First Industrial Credit
Project only. It will finance agroindustries investments in BH (except
BK Region) under the Second Agricultural Credit Project; the First Agri-
cultural Credit Project did not include agroindustries investments.



- 25 -
international procurement; and (b) it would engage a consultant having inter-
national experience in the field of potato processing, who would be acceptable
to the Bank, for technical appraisal of the potato processing plant.
4.06      Appraisal Criteria.  PBS would appraise the subprojects and make
the subloans in accordance with its on-lending policies, procedures, terms
and conditions described in Annex 3. PBS would carry out full appraisal of
each subloan request, paying particular attention to its technical, financial
and economic viability; organization and management capabilities of the
subborrower; marketing aspects; adequacy of contingency allowances; and
the credit-worthiness of the subborrowers. In case of each social sector
subproject, PBS would prepare a technical report with the assistance of
consultants, as needed, containing an evaluation of: (i) proposed scale of
the subproject; (ii) suitability of the equipment to be used; and the methods
by which it would be procured; (iii) estimated investment and maintenance and
operation costs including requirement of working capital; (iv) suitability of
the proposed location; (v) its layout and design; (vi) staff available to the
subborrower both for carrying out the subproject and for its operation; and
(vii) the consideration given to the use of labor intensive methods in the
process as opposed to capital intensive automated technology. Prior to the
approval of each subloan for agroindustry, PBS would ensure that adequate
organizational and staffing arrangements would be made for efficient operation
of the project facilities. PBS would ensure that (a) prior to the first with-
drawal under each subloan, a new BOAL has either been established or exists
with adequate organizational and staffing arrangements for the implementation
of the subproject including the specialized consulting services described in
para 4.18; (b) at least 50% of the processing capacities of the agroindustries
would utilize primary production from the individual sector; and (c) the
seasonal credit requirement of each subborrower during the implementation of
subproject would be met. Assurances were obtained from PBS that it would
follow the above criteria in appraising sub-projects.
4.07      On-lending Interest Rate.  The interest rate for on-lending the
proposed Bank loan would be 11%. The interest rate on domestic resources
loaned under the project to the social sector subborrowers will be at least
6% and to individual farmers through Zadrugas at least 5%. The above on-
lending rates are in line with those established for recent Bank-financed
agricultural and industrial credit projects. These rates are expected to
result in the minimum blend rate of approximately 8.75% for the social, and 8%
for the individual sector sub-borrowers. This rate structure would provide
PBS with a spread of about 3.1% on the proceeds of the Bank loan and about
1.2% on the local funds portion of the subloans and would be sufficient to
cover PBS's administrative costs. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by
the subborrowers in the social sector and by the Republic for the Zadrugas.
PBS would take adequate steps to protect itself against the exchange risk on
subloan repayments accruing earlier than amortization payments of the Bank
loan. Assurances on these arrangements were obtained during negotiations.
4.08      Free Limit.  PBS would forward to the Bank its own appraisal
reports together with the technical reports prepared by its staff or its
consultants (paras 4.05 and 4.06) for the social sector subprojects whose



- 26 -
total cost exceeds US$1.5 million for review and approval. In addition, PBS
would forward to the Bank for approval: (a) the first subproject for lending
to a Zadruga for individual farmers; and (b) the first subproject for lending
to a Zadruga for farm machinery services or grain storage and drying service.
This would result in the Bank reviewing about 20 subproject appraisal reports
over a two-year period for a total amount of US$100 million (about 50% of the
total project cost). Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotia-
tions.
4.09      Supervision.  PBS would supervise the subloans to ensure adequate
technical and financial supervision of the subprojects during and after their
construction, and prepare a supervision report satisfactory to the Bank. PBS
would also require the subborrowers to submit their annual financial state-
ments, certified by AIPK, within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
B. Implementing Agency: AIPK
4.10      General.  AIPK is the regional development enterprise for the BK
Region and would be responsible for the project implementation and for overall
coordination between its various enterprises and units specifically responsible
for carrying out the individual subprojects. AIPK is considered to be a com-
petent entity and is suitable for discharging the above responsibility. Its
organizational structure, the basic organizations working within AIPK and the
management and staff has been described under Chapter II. A Project Agreement,
to be concluded with AIPK, would detail its responsibilities and obligations
under the project.
4.11      Responsibilities of AIPK.  As the implementation agency, AIPK would
have the direct responsibility to (a) implement the project as described
in Chapter III and coordinate the activities of the BOALs and the Zadrugas
participating in the project; (b) take all necessary steps for the estab-
lishment of Zadrugas to implement the primary agricultural production com-
ponent or make other arrangement satisfactory to Bank for its implementation;
(c) mobilize the resources from within the kombinat to raise the equity
participation of the Zadrugas and the BOALs; (d) take all steps necessary
for the establishment of BOALs needed for the implementation of the social
sector investments under the project; (e) provide funds to BOALs, if needed,
to cover any financial deficit in the early years of their operation until
full development when it would be financially self-sufficient; (f) assist the
enterprises in local and international procurement under the project, includ-
ing preparation of tender documents, translation of documents, evaluation of
bids and award of contracts; (g) adjust the targets and quotas (particularly
for primary agricultural production component of the project) between the
concerned enterprises according to the progress achieved on the subprojects;
and (h) consult the Bank concerning any reorganization of AIPK which may
affect the project implementation. Assurances were obtained during nego-
tiations that AIPK will carry out these responsibilities.



- 27 -
4.12      AIPK's central organization would perform the above functions through
the normal organization channels and enterprises within AIPK. However, to
handle the additional work relating to the project during its implementation,
a Project Unit would be established in the central organization of AIPK.
The Project Unit will supplement and strengthen the central organization of
AIPK during project implementation and would be dismantled on completion of
project. All loan requests by Zadrugas and other BOAL's for subloans under
the project would be submitted to PBS through the Project Unit. The PU would
be headed by an experienced Director, who would report directly to the Manage-
ment Board of AIPK. The PU would have adequate staff and would also employ
consultants to develop a management information system for the project, and to
design a monitoring and evaluation system. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained from AIPK that (a) the Project Unit would be created, and that
an experienced Project Director would be appointed prior to the effectiveness
of the proposed loan and (b) it would appoint the key staff in the PU by
February 1, 1979. In addition to the Project Unit, following measures will be
taken to strengthen the organization and management of enterprises directly
responsible for implementation of different project components.
4.13      The Zadrugas.  Within AIPK, the Zadrugas would be responsible for
implementation of the livestock and crop production components of the project
in the individual sector. The number of Zadrugas in AIPK would be increased
from 23 to 40 (by reorganization of the larger Zadrugas into smaller units) to
efficiently service the project needs of individual farmers in the BK Region.
The Zadrugas 1/ serve defined geographical areas, and their normal functions
are to (a) provide their members with technical assistance for farm planning;
(b) obtain short and long-term loans for their members; (c) provide extension
services with farm inputs on credit; and (d) market a part or all of the
production by their members. The funds owed by the members to the Zadrugas
are recovered from the sale proceeds of their produce. The cost of operating
the services in the Zadrugas is recovered mainly from its margins on trading
activities; the margins are regulated and set by the members themselves.
Under the project, the Zadrugas would receive subloans from PBS for on-lending,
in the normal manner, to the individual farmers for livestock, fruit and
vegetable production. In addition they would themselves receive subloans to
set up a farm machinery service, and grain drying and storage facilities.
These services would be provided to the individual farmers by the Zadrugas
against payment of such charges that would fully recover the costs incurred.
4.14      An important activity of the Zadrugas would be to provide extension
services to the individual farmers in the BK Region. For this purpose the
Zadrugas would expand their extension agents from 54 (in 1977) to 160 (by
1980). These extension agents would be assigned to extension centers, each
of which would cover a number of adjoining villages. The extension agents
would regularly visit and provide technical assistance primarily to the
12,000 individual farmers covered by the project. AIPK also plans, through
the central technical support unit being financed under the project, to
1/   For definition of Zadrugas, please see page 3 of this report.



- 28 -
prepare and broadcast radio and TV programs for the individual farmers,
establish uniform working methods, conduct field demonstrations for the
individual farmers, hold training seminars for the extension agents and
organize training for the individual farmers through lectures. The Zadrugas
would also receive subloans from PBS to construct housing for the extension
agents posted in the rural areas and to provide them with the required equip-
ment, During negotiations, assurances were obtained from AIPK that (a) prior
to the effectiveness of the loan, it would submit a detailed program of organ-
izing an effective extension service in the BK Region, including reorganization
of the Zadrugas and employing additional extension agents and detailed work
program through PBS for the Bank's review; and (b) it would cause the extension
services to be implemented in accordance with the reviewed program, and (c) it
would ensure that the necessary funds are made available to the Zadrugas for
this purpose.
4.15      The investments under the land reclamation and support services
components of the project would be undertaken by the social sector BOALs,
which already exist, and the project investments would be an expansion of their
existing operations; no special arrangements for the implementation of these
components would be needed. In each case the involved BOAL would have to
satisfy PBS, during appraisal of its loan request, that it has made adequate
organizational provision for management of the subproject and the subproject
is technically and financially viable.
4.16      Of the ten agroindustries investments to be financed under the
project, four would be undertaken by the existing BOALs experienced in same
or similar operations. For the remaining six investments, new BOALs would be
created for the implementation of these investments, and their subsequent
operation and maintenance. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
AIPK would establish appropriate institutions (enterprises) for implementing
each of the following agroindustrial investments: a Meat Rendering Plant, a
Poultry Processing Plant, a Fruit Juice Processing Plant, a Potato Processing
Plant, a Plum Processing Plant and a Maltery. These arrangements, together
with the technical assistance and performance guarantees to be provided by the
contractors for the construction of the agro-industrial facilities and the
suppliers of the required equipment under the project (para. 3.14), and the
appraisal criteria to be followed by AIPK (para 4.06); provide a satisfactory
basis for the efficient implementation of the agroindustrial component of the
pro-ject.
Training and Technical Assistance
4.17      The project includes funds for extension service which will provide
training and technical assistance to the individual farmers. Provision has
also been made to establish a Technical Support Unit for the training of
extension workers. Specialized training to the key staff of the agroindus-
tries to be established under the project will be necessary for efficient
operation of these facilities; this will be provided by the suppliers of
the equipment.



- 29 -
4.18      Specialized consultants, on a short-term basis, would be engaged by
the enterprises responsible for the following agroindustries: meat processing
plants - to improve the operation and hygienic standards of the plants and to
help in the preparation of the design, layout and the tender documents;
poultry processing and meat rendering plants - for production control in the
plants, training of staff, and implementation of hygienic standards; potato
processing plant - to prepare tender documents. Assurances were obtained
from AIPK that it would cause its enterprises to engage these consultants by
February 1, 1979.
C. Project Monitoring and Evaluation
Accounts and Audit
4.19      PBS would maintain separate accounts for the disbursements made for
all subloans under the project.
4.20      The accounts of PBS are audited annually by the Social Accounting
Service (SDK), as required by Yugoslav law. A full audit of PBS, according
to internationally accepted standards, was completed for the first time for
its accounts relating to the year 1976, under the Second Industrial Credit
Project (Loan 1277-YU). This audit arrangement would continue under the
Fourth Industrial Credit Project. Assurances were obtained from PBS, during
negotiations, that it would continue to submit its audited accounts to
the Bank within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
4.21      Assurances were obtained from AIPK, during negotiations, that
it would maintain separate accounts for the transactions related to the
project and submit annual audited reports acceptable to the Bank within six
months of the end of each fiscal year.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.22      The PU would be responsible for monitoring and evaluation of the
project, and for this purpose would establish a management information system
(MIS), which would cover collection, recording and analysis of information on
the implementation of the project, and the results obtained from the operation
of the large number of enterprises involved under the project. AIPK would
need specialized consultants services for designing the MIS and for the
monitoring and the evaulation of the project.
4.23      The monitoring system would focus on the realization of the project
as against the targets set during appraisal and in the implementation sched-
ule; and would identify issues and potential implementational problems
to be resolved. The monitoring system should cover the following key aspects
of project implementation: physical execution of the project; establishment
and operation of agroindustries with special reference to raw material supply,
training of staff and marketing arrangements; provision of extension and other
support services to individual farmers; extent of participation of individual
farmers in the expanded market opportunities by agroindustries.



- 30 -
4.24      The project would include on-going evaluation to provide to the
progress in realization of project implementation and benefits, to enable
remedial actions as necessary, so that overall project objectives are real-
ized. It would focus on assessing productivity and income increases at
individual farms and social sector enterprises. To provide a firm basis for
evaluating the project's economic impact and the PU with the help of consul-
tants referred above, undertake a benchmark survey of the individual farmers
and social sector enterprises in the project area.  The on-going evaluation
would particularly focus on checking the developmental impact of the project
and in light of experience gained, propose adjustments needed to achieve the
project objectives. The monitoring and evaluation system is estimated to cost
Din 4.5 million or US$250,000 (.01% of total project cost); this cost will be
borne by AIPK.
4.25      Assurances were obtained from AIPK that it would (i) by February 1,
1979 hire consultants under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank to
design a monitoring and evaluation system for the project including an appro-
priate management information system; and (ii) following the Bank's approval
of such a system to take all appropriate action to implement, by May 1, 1979,
such a monitoring and evaluation system.
Reporting Requirements
4.26      Assurances were obtained that AIPK would provide the Bank, with-
in three months after the end of each calendar quarter, a Quarterly Project
Monitoring Report on the physical execution of the project and monitoring
aspects referred to in para. 4.24. The reports would especially focus on
implementation problems and corrective actions. In addition AIPK would pro-
vide annual Project Evaluation Reports covering aspects listed in para. 4.25
above. The first such reports will be prepared for period ending December 31,
1979 and submitted within four months of the end of the period and last would
coincide with project completion date.
4.27      Assurances were also obtained during negotiations that the PBS
would provide the Bank with quarterly reports within three months after the
end oif each quarter covering the progress of sublending operations under the
project, financial data pertaining to the project, the financial statements
and general data on agriculture and economic policy affecting the implementa-
tion of the project.
Project Completion Report
4.28      It was agreed during negotiations that within six months of project
completion, PBS, in coordination with AIPK, would prepare and submit to the
Bank a report on the execution and initial operation of the project, its
costs, the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the
Bank, AIPK and PBS of their respective obligations under the proposed loan and
project agreements and accomplishment of the objectives of the proposed loan.
This -report would be based mainly on the quarterly progress reports of AIPK
and P:BS, and the monitoring reports and on-going evaluation reports for the
project.



- 31 -
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Production
5.01      The project would finance the production of primary products --
cereals, fruits, vegetables and livestock, mainly in the individual sector
as well as processed products by agroindustries in the social sector.
Detailed features of the individual production units for crops, livestock
and agro-industrial products are given in the Project Tmplementation File.
The following table shows the incremental annual production of primary
products expected from the project:
Annual Production of Project Farms
Without       With Project at
Unit      Project        Full Development        Incremental
Cereals
Wheat         tons       30,734            55,600                24,866
Maize         tons       65,561           129,000                63,439
Other
Cereals      tons       15,793            45,481                29,688
Fruits         tons          -              20,680                20,680
Vegetables
Potato        tons       12,550            32,350                19,800
Other
Vegetables  tons         1,550            40,300                38,750
Lucerne        tons       92,710           124,750                32,040
Fodder Crops  tons         6,500            16,500                10,000
Milk
Cow         '000 litres  8,000             26,000                18,000
Sheep       '000 litres    456              1,956                 1,500
Meat
Cattle        tons (LWT) 4,670             19,930                15,260
Sheep         tons (LWT)   190                549                   359
Pig           tons (LWT)   -               11,520                11,520
Poultry       tons (LWT)   -                4,625                 4,625
Wool           tons           16                 38                   22



- 32 -
5.02      The proposed agroindustrial component of the Project is directly
linkeZd to the primary production component. Supplies of raw material would
be forthcoming mainly from the private farms in the region. Incremental out-
put of the processing plants generated under the Project at full development
is presented below:
Annual Production of Agroindustries under the Project
Without      With Project at       Incremental
Products           Unit            Project      Full Development    Production
Milk /1        '000 litres         22,000           58,000              36,700
Meat /2            tons             8,138           20,968              12,830
Processed
Potato           tons              -               7,512               7,512
Fruit Juice        tons            11,362           24,700              13,338
Driecd Fruits      tons              -               1,000               1,000
Plum Brandy   '000 litres            -               1,000               1,000
Bone Meals         tons              -               3,000               3,000
Poultry            tons              -               5,760               5,760
Malt               tons              -              15,000              15,000
Baby Food,
Marmalade        tons              -               4,000               4,000
/1   Raw milk equivalent.
/2   Share of processed meat:  without project 830 tons; with project
6,821 tons.
B. Markets and Prices
5.03      The output of primary products from the project (para 5.01) will be
marketed in the BK Region; mainly to the agroindustries for further processing
as well as sold directly to consumers on open market. The markets of processed
products (para 5.02) will be as follows: (a) processed milk, meat, poultry,
malt and potato products will be marketed mainly in BK Region, and on the
Dalmatian Coast in the tourist season. The per capita consumption of pro-
cessed products in the region is much lower than the averages for BH and
Yugoslavia. On the basis of 1.3% projected annual growth of population, 4%
real wage increases for BH, a rise in tourism and increasing urbanization the
markiet potential for the incremental outputs is wide. For some products, the
BK Region would remain in deficit and purchases from outside the Region will
be warranted; (b) fruit juice, baby food, marmalade, some processed potatoes
and plum brandy will be marketed throughout Yugoslavia. The consumption of
thesie products has been steadily rising. Since the incremental volumes of
these products are marginal to the totals for Yugoslavia and in view of the
planned production and the marketing arrangements in AIPK (para 5.04) the



- 33 -
market prospects for projects output appear good domestically; (c) only two
processed products -- dried plums and fruit concentrates are expected to be
exported. The export sales of dried plums could be constrained in some
years by shortages in marketable surplus as evidenced by the annual export
volume fluctuations. However in view of economic importance of plums as the
source of income to a large number of small farms, the Food Reserve Board of
Yugoslavia purchases dried plums in years of surplus production and releases
them for export in years of deficits. In view of the higher quality of pro-
cessed plums under the project, increasing per capita consumption of dried
plums and incremental production from project (dried plums) being less than
4% of Yugoslavia's output, the market prospects for dried plums appear good.
Only a small part of incremental volume of fruit concentrates under the
project will be exported and a market constraint is not anticipated. To
summarize most of the incremental production of commodities under the project
would be marketed domestically and mainly in the BK Region. With Yugoslavia's
and BH's GNP expected to rise substantially, increasing urbanization, and
subsequent changes in consumption pattern and further increases in tourism,
the market prospects for the project's production of processed products are
good. In the planning process the Kombinats in BH reach a consensus on what
and how much to produce in line with demand projections and resource endown-
ments and the risk of over-production is thus minimized. A detailed discus-
sion of market aspects of the project commodities is given in Annex 4.
5.04      Market Channels.  AIPK owns and operates nearly all the retail
and wholesale market outlets in the BK Region and has retail shops in nearby
major metropolitan areas of Zagreb and Sarajevo. As of December 1977, AIPK
had 1,000 retail shops in the BK Region and 200 outside the Region. Trading
is an important activity of AIPK and it has considerable experience in it.
The project's output will be marketed in the BK Region by AIPK through its
network of shops. AIPK has entered into supply contracts with marketing
organization on the Dalmatian coast. The major market centers identified for
the project output are within the radius of 250 km from AIPK's headquarters
in Banja Luka, hence no serious transport problem is foreseen. The products
to be sold on nationwide markets will be produced by agroindustries associated
in WO "Fruktona" in AIPK. Fruktona is well established on the Yugoslav market
and possesses consumer loyalty through its good product quality. Part of
Fruktona's production is marketed by "Marijan Badel" a marketing agency
from Zagreb which operates sales points throughout Yugoslavia. In view of
above, the AIPK will be in a position to market projects output on nationwide
market. One of the BOALs in AIPK is responsible for import and export of
commodities and will be responsible for marketing the project's output to be
exported. The arrangements described above are adequate for marketing proj-
ects output.
5.05      Prices.  The financial analysis was based on December 1977 Yugoslav
prices for both inputs and outputs. For the economic analysis world market
prices for wheat, maize, beef and lamb as furnished by the Bank's Commodities
Division are applied. The portion of the milk consumed in fluid form is valued
at the opportunity cost of importing and reconstituting imported non-fat dry
milk and butter oil; the remaining milk is priced at Yugoslav price corrected
for Federal and Republic subsidies. The imported dry milk price is based on



- 34 -
New Zealand's production which has one of the lowest cost structures in the
world but accounts for only 1.5% of total world milk production. While it is
not entirely clear to what extent the current New Zealand milk price is cover-
ing total long-term production cost in New Zealand and thus could be considered
as a long-term price, it has been used as the economic price for fluid milk in
this case; it is considered to be a very rigorous test. All other products
are valued at Yugoslav prices corrected for Federal and Republic subsidies. A
list of financial and economic prices is presented in Table 1, Annex 4.
C. Financial Benefits
5.06      The proposed project is composed of 33 different subprojects which
are vertically or horizontally linked. Financial viability of each individual
component has been examined, (except sheep experimental farm which will
be a nonrevenue earning operation supported by common funds of AIPK). The
financial rates of return of the investments vary between 10% and 50%. The
investment models contained in the project preparation report were reviewed
for the prices, yields and other technical coefficients used and modified
where necessary. The financial performance of the subprojects is further
scrutinized by sensitivity analyses assuming probable changes in costs and
benefit estimates. Notwithstanding such increases in operating and investment
costs the proposed investments remain financially sound to guarantee the
project participants attractive remuneration. Under the project, the meat
processing plants would become financially self-supporting from their present
situation of incurring losses and depending on support from common funds of
AIPK. The financial rates of return including results of sensitivity tests
are given in Annex 5.
5.07      Recovery of project costs would be through repayment of subloans by
the Zadrugas for the individual sector and by the social sector enterprises
for their subloans. PBS would ensure such recoveries in accordance with the
terms of each subloan.
D. Economic Justification
5.08      The project would finance investments in one of the least developed
regions in Yugoslavia, with a per capita income of about 60% below the Yugoslav
average. It would focus on increased production by the individual sector
throug;h provision of increased support services (extension, credit and inputs)
and market opportunities. Apart from credit channelled directly to the
private farmers, the processing facilities and the support services to be
financed under the project would indirectly benefit individual farmers by
providing marketing outlets and technical assistance and thus alleviating two
main constraints to increased production in the individual sector. At an
annual average investment of $41 million in project area the project will also
generate substantial indirect benefits through linkage effects generating new
employment and income opportunities which were not quantified. The project's



- 35 -
objectives and its concept are consistent with the Republic's and Yugoslav's
objectives, and are in line with the Bank's lending strategy in Yugoslavia.
The project's benefits to the economy of BH and the BK Region would be sub-
stantial as reflected in the economic rate of return of more than 22%. The
project would complement the Bank's lending under the past and forthcoming
agricultural credit operations in BH, which provide credit for increased
production by private farmers and increasing the agricultural processing and
marketing capacity in the social sector. The project will also complement the
Government's own allocation of credit to the sector in 1976-80 Agricultural
Development Plan and Yugoslav and the Bank's efforts to accelerate development
of less developed areas in Yugoslavia. The project investments and output
targets are consistent with the Region's, the Republic's and the Yugoslav
medium-term development plans for 1976-80.
Beneficiaries
5.09      A significant share of the Project's financing would benefit the
individual farmers in BK Region. The average family income of individual
farms is expected to rise nearly 120% to Din 40,257 (US$2,236). Thirty-three
percent of the proposed Bank loan would directly benefit an estimated 12,000
individual farmers of which about 9,000 farmers would belong to the target
group with annual per capita incomes below US$225. An estimated 30% of
project benefits would accrue to target group. The investments under agro-
industries and support services components of project (61% of the loan amount)
would serve primarily individual farmers and result in indirect benefits to
an estimated additional 20,000 farmers by providing marketing outlets for
their incremental production and providing them technical assistance and
improved inputs. The balance 6% of the proposed loan would support land
reclamation in social sector. Thus, the project would benefit an estimated
32,000 farmers out of a total of about 60,000 farm families dependent on
agriculture.
Employment
5.10      The project would generate an estimated 2,521 man years permanent
jobs in the social sector enterprises. During project implementation about
6-7,000 man years of employment would also be generated. At full development,
the incremental hired labor requirement for crop and horticulture, livestock,
agroindustries, land reclamation and support services is estimated at 4,561
man years. In the individual sector an estimated 12,000 man years of family
labor employment would also be created. For a further 20,000 farmers (indirect
beneficiaries) the project would reduce underemployment and provide means to
use more fully the family labor resources to earn higher incomes.
Economic Rate of Return
5.11      The economic rate of return on the total project is about 22%.  For
the three components of the project, primary production, support services and



- 36 -
agroindustries, the estimated economic rates of return are 19, 10 and 33 per-
cents respectively. The relatively low rate of return for support services
is acceptable since it is not a directly productive activity and its impact
is actually reflected on the increasing productivity of the primary production
setctor. Sensitivity tests were conducted to assess the stability of the rate
of return to changes in cost and benefit streams by 10%. The assumption and
details of benefit and cost streams for the total project are given in Annex
5. Summary results are shown below:
Summary of Economic Rates of Return (%)
Total     Primary       Support     Agro-
Project   Production   Services  Industries
(a)  Base run                     22           19           10         33
(b)  Benefits decreasing
by 10%                     15           11            5         20
(c) Operating costs
increasing by 10%          17           13            7         23
(d) Investment costs
increasing by 10%          20           17            9         30
The rates of return are particularly sensitive to changes in benefits.
E. Risk and Uncertainty
5.12      One risk likely to be faced by the project is institutional.  The
success of the project will to a large extent depend on the success achieved
in strengthening the institutional links between the social and individual
sectors through the Zadrugas. The Zadrugas are relatively new (started in
1974) and may experience delays and shortcomings in their operations. However,
the experience so far in the project area and in Yugoslavia has been promising.
Both individual farmers, through their gaining of access to better quality
inputs and a secure market, and the social sector, through ensuring itself of
a steady supply of raw material for processing, have a strong vested interest
in the efficient functioning of the cooperative mechanism. The Zadrugas are
pairticularly attractive to individual farmers because they do not forego
rights to ownership of their land and face minimal restrictions. Given the
above, AIPK's experience, performance and in particular, the availability
of a pool of trainable manpower in the republic, the risk is considered to
be prudent and acceptable. However, in the event of difficulties in the
Zaidruga System, AIPK would be required to consult the Bank and make alternate
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank.
5.13      The project is likely to encounter risks or uncertainty in three
other areas: (a) technical skills to operate the complex agroindustries.
The provisions included in the project for technical assistance through con-
sultants and suppliers should reduce this uncertainty; (b) slow development
of internal arrangements in AIPK for coordination of different activities



- 37 -
under the project. The uncertainty arises since AIPK was established in
1974 underwent a reorganization in 1977 and the internal arrangements are
in process of development. However, during preparation and appraisal of
project the central organization of AIPK demonstrated excellent organiza-
tional capacity, which would be further strengthened with the establishment
of the Project Unit. (c) market constraint for processed output would arise
if expected growth in consumer demand for processed products does not fully
materialize. Some uncertainty in market prospects is normal for such invest-
ments. The analysis of market prospects at time of appraisal indicated that
the market prospects for projects output are good. In mission's view the
probability of a serious market constraint developing are low.
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from PBS that it
would:
(i) follow the financing and disbursement procedures outlined in
paras 3.12 and 3.13;
(ii) follow the procurement procedures outlined in paras 3.14
and 3.15;
(iii) appoint a marketing specialist and a procurement specialist
by December 31, 1978; and employ internationally experienced
and qualified consultants for technical appraisal of potato
processing plant (para 4.05);
(iv) follow project lending policies and procedures described in
paras 4.06 through 4.09;
(v) follow the auditing, accounting and progress reporting pro-
cedures set out in paras 4.20 and 4.27;
(vi) prepare and submit to Bank a project completion report within
six months of project completion (para 4.28); and
(vii) prior to effectiveness of Bank loan, obtain from AIPK and
forward to the Bank for approval a detailed program of extension
service in the project area (para. 4.14).
6.02      Assurances were obtained, during negotiations, from AIPK that it
would:
(i) implement the project as described in paras 3.04 through 3.10
and Annex 1 and carry out its responsibilities under the
project (4.11);
(ii) create prior to effectiveness of loan a Project Unit and main-
tain it till completion of the project (para 4.12);



- 38 -
(iii) appoint the Project Unit Director prior to effectiveness of
the loan and appoint other key staff to the Project Unit by
February 1, 1979 (para 4.12);
(iv)  prepare and submit to PBS a detailed program for extension
service to individual farmers in BK Region prior to effec-
tiveness of the loan and implement the program after Bank's
approval (para 4.14);
(v) establish BOAL's, adequately staffed and funded, for agro-
industries (para 4.16);
(vi)  employ specialized consultants by February 1, 1979 for
procurement and operation of agroindustries facilities
(para 4.18);
(vii) carry out monitoring and evaluation procedures (para 4.25);
and
(viii) submit to Bank audit and progress reports described in
paras 4.21 and 4.26.
6.03      The establishment of a Project Unit and appointment of Project
Unit Director would be conditions for making the proposed loan effective
(para 4.12). The preparation and submission of a detailed program for
extension service in BK Region for individual farmers, acceptable to the
Bank, would also be a condition of the loan's effectiveness (para 4.14).
6.04      Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the project would
be suitable for the Bank loan of US$55 million equivalent with a term of 15
years, including a 3-year grace period.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BOSANSKA-KRAJINA AGRICULTURE AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Detailed Project Description and Project Costs
A. Project Description
1.        The Project would consist of three components:  (i) Primary Agricul-
tural Production; (ii) Support Services for Individual Sector Farmers; and
(iii) Agroindustries Development.
Primary Agricultural Production
2.        This component would include investments in the individual farmer
sector for livestock and crop and horticultural production by about 12,000
individual farmers.  Part of the produce will be supplied to agroindustries
being financed under the project and to the existing agroindustries in BK
Region.  Investments will be made for drainage of about 9,800 ha (1,500 ha
in individual sector and balance in social sector) and irrigation of 1,200 ha
to produce cereals, vegetables and fodder needed to satisfy the raw materials
requirements of agroindustries in BK Region.
3.        Livestock Production.  The project would support livestock develop-
ment on about 2,800 individual farms through subloans for following investments:
(i)  Dairy Farms.  Subloans to about 1,270 farmers to modernize
and expand their dairy operation to about 8 cows each.
Investments would include construction of new or renovat-
ing existing buildings, purchase of heifers of improved
genetic capability, and the purchase of machinery and
equipment primarily for fodder production.
(ii)  Cattle Fattening.  Subloans to about 600 farmers to
construct a building to house 50 head of cattle to be
fattened to weights varying from 220 kg to 420 kg.
(iii)  Broiler Production.  Subloans to about 130 farmers to
construct new facilities that would handle 5,000 broilers
at one time. The funds would be used to construct the
building and provide the necessary equipment such as
heating, feeding, watering and ventilation equipment.
(iv) Pig Breeding and Fattening Farms. Subloans to about
600 farmers to produce fattened pigs from an average



ANNEX 1
Page 2
of 10 sows per farm. The funds would be used to construct
buildings and associated facilities and purchase of improved
breeding stock.
(v) Sheep Production. Subloans to about 200 farmers to increase
number of sheep on farm to an average of 110 sheep units to
produce mainly sheep milk. The funds would be used to con-
struct new or renovate existing buildings, and to purchase
machinery and equipment for fodder production including a
tractor mower, hay rakes, and a milking machine.
4.        Crop and Horticultural Development.  Subloans would be made to
about 1,000 individual farmers to finance investments for fruit and vegetables
production. The project would also support increase in production of maize,
barley, other cereals and potatoes on some 40,000 ha land belonging to about
8,000 individual farmers in BK Region, through the provision of finance to
Zadrugas for development of improved extension services, farm machinery ser-
vices and grain drying and storage services. The investments to be financed
are:
(i) Fruit Farms. Subloans to about 500 farmers to establish
orchards on about 750 hectare land to produce apples,
pears, sour cherries, strawberries and black currants.
Investments would include construction of small buildings,
purchase of planting material care in the years before
fruit bearing and purchase of farm machinery and equip-
ment.
(ii) Vegetable Farms. Subloans to 500 farmers to produce
spring and summer vegetables on about 1,000 ha land.
Investments would include construction of packing
and storage sheds/buildings, small greenhouses,
sprinkler irrigation systems and farm equipment.
(iii) Cereal Production. Subloans to about 40 Zadrugas for
development of (a) an extension service--funds will be
provided for purchase of vehicles, training and
demonstration equipment and construction of houses
to support the work of about 160 extension service
staff; (b) farm machinery service--funds would be
provided to purchase about 340 tractors averaging
60 HP each, 100 combines, 40 2-row corn pickers,
plows, disc harrows, planters, fertilizer spreaders,
sprayers, trailers and other equipment and workshop
equipment as well as 20 buildings to be used for the
storage and light servicing of equipment. This
equipment would be sufficient to meet the normal
needs for 20,000 ha land under cereals production.
The equipment would be owned by the Zadrugas and made



ANNEX 1
Page 3
available to farmers on a hire basis; (c) grain drying and
storage facilities, the project would provide funds to sup-
port construction of about 5 drier and silo storage units
(capacity 10 tons per hour for the drier and 5,000 tons
storage capacity) and 11 flat storage buildings that will
be used for storage of bagged cereals as well as other
materials such as fertilizer, seed, etc.
5.        Land Development.  Subloans would be provided to social sector
enterprises for drainage and reclamation of about 9,800 ha and irrigation
of about 1,200 ha land. Investments for drainage and reclamation under the
project would be for subsurface closed field drainage, subsurface and surface
field drainage, pumping equipment, outlet drains (main, secondary and tertiary),
access roads, land preparation by clearing of bush, trees and hedges, removal
of nonfunctional physical structures, subsoiling and fertilizer treatment.
Provisions would be included for farm machinery and equipment necessary for
cultivation of the drained areas. Investment for irrigation works would be
for a sprinkler irrigation system. Provisions would be included for purchasing
sprinkler lines, pumping facilities, main lines, pipe installation, and farm
machinery and equipment for cultivation. The detailed designs for the irriga-
tion and drainage works have been completed by Yugoslavs and were reviewed by
an engineer from FAO/CP during the project preparation.
Support Services for Individual Farmers
6.        The project would finance investments in eight activities by social
sector in the project area, designed to support the expansion of primary
agricultural production by the individual sector. Subloans would be provided
to establish the following.
7.        Heifer Rearing Farm would be established in project area to produce
800 head of bred heifers, to be provided to individual farmers in the project
area as well as other parts of the Republic. Funds would be used for the
construction of buildings, fencing, pasture improvement, farm machinery and
utilities.
8.        Pig Breeding Farm existing in the town of Nova Topolo would be
expanded to a capacity of approximately 7,000 head of high quality bred gilts
and 300 boars per year. These gilts as well as boars would be available to
farmers as breeding stock in the project area as well as the entire Republic
of Bosnia-Herzegovina. The funds would be used to renovate the present buil-
dings which include putting in farrowing stalls, improved ventilation and
feeding equipment and installation of a first stage sewage treatment plant.
9.        Cattle Breeding and Progeny Testing facilities located in Banja-
Luka, and serving the entire Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina will be increased
to be able to breed 170,000 cows by A.I. and about 60,000 by bulls with a high
genetic potential for increasing production of the offspring. Funds would be
used for the acquisition of land, construction of roads, utilities, building
fences and other facilities needed, purchase of additional laboratory equipment



ANNEX I
Page 4
for semen production and feed analysis, storage containers and vehicles for
delivery of frozen semen, construction of insemination points and bulls, rams,
stallions for breeding purposes.
10.       Sheep Research Farm will be established in the project area to
identify and demonstrate modern systems of sheep management applicable in
the region and initiate crossbreeding programs for development of specialized
breeds of sheep. The results of the research would be made available to sheep
farmers in the project area and other mountainous parts of the Republic.
Funds would be used for the construction of buildings, purchase of equipment
and breeding stock needed to establish the farm.
11.       Seed Production and Processing facilities will be established to
cover part of the project area's requirements for certified seed. Funds will
be provided to construct and equip a seed processing plant with capacity to
process about 7,000 tons of cereal and forage crops annually   Investment
would include seed processing and storage facilities, farm machinery, trans-
portation and seed testing equipment and workers' housing.
12.       Support for Extension Services.  The AIPK Institute's tJnit for co-
operation with the private sector--which provides the extension staff of the
Zadrugas with technical assistance and is responsible for the development
and introduction of new extension methods--would extend its services to all
18 communes of the AIPK. It would increase its regional offices to four.
The funds under the project would be used to build houses and purchase vehi-
cles for the outposted staff and purchase training and laboratory equipment.
13.       Fruit Plant Nursery with an output capacity of 500,000 fruit plants
per year would be established under the project to provide planting material
required in the project area. The funds would be used for land development,
buildings, farm machinery, parent stock material and start-up costs.
14.       Farm Machinery Workshop existing in Nova Topolo would be expanded to
provide complete farm machinery repair services for the project area and some
commLunes immediately adjacent to the project area. The funds would be used
for 5 satellite units, 7 mobile repair units, construction of new buildings,
and expansion or renovation of present buildings, purchase of additional
equipment needed, utilities, purchase of mobile workshops and transportation
equipment.
Agroindustries Development
15.       The project would support development of agroindustries focusing on
milk, meat, fruits, vegetables, potatoes and barley processing, all in social
sector. The agroindustries would process mainly the incremental agricultural
production being financed under the project and would supply produce mainly for
domestic consumption. Subloans will be made to social sector enterprises to
finance investments in the processing facilities described below.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
16.       Milk Processing Plant in the town of Banja-Luka will be expanded
to increase its fresh milk intake capacity from 90,000 liters/day to 180,000
liters/days, corresponding to an annual intake of about 60 million liters.
Investments under the project would be for equipping and construction of a
new milk processing plant (capacity 25,000 1/day) to produce ultra high
temperature (UHT) milk which has prolonged shelf life; expansion of existing
milk receiving and pasteurizing lines; installation of new cheese making
lines (capacity 40,000 1/day of raw cow's milk) and ten small cheese processing
plants to process sheep milk into cheese. To organize the milk collection
from a large number of individual farmers, provision will also be made for
financing of ten road tankers (6-8,000 liters each), two regional bulk collec-
tion centers and two bulk road tankers to transport the milk from the regional
centers to the dairy. The plant would produce pasteurized and UHT milk,
yoghurt, cream, fresh cheese, trapist cheese, fetta cheese and sheep cheese,
to be sold primarily on domestic markets.
17.       Meat Processing Plant.  The existing abattoir located in town of
Prijedor would be rehabilitated to process annually about 30,000 cattle and
about 6,000 sheep. The interior of the slaughterhouse would be completely
refurnished to achieve international sanitary standards and the meat process-
ing facilities would be expanded from a daily capacity at present of 1 ton
to 8 tons. The reconstructed Beef Processing Plant would also include chill
rooms and cold storage facilities. The facility would produce fresh meat,
smoked meat and processed meat products.
18.       Meat and Vegetable Processing Plant.  The existing slaughterhouse
located in town of Bosanska-Gradiska would be rehabilitated and expanded
to process about 110,000 pigs and 2,000 tons fresh vegetables per year to
produce fresh meat, processed meat, frozen vegetables, about 2.3 million ser-
vings of ready-to-eat meals and about 1,100 tons of canned products, sausages
and smoked meat. The investment would include reconstruction and equipping of
the existing buildings including canning equipment; heating, smoking and drying
equipment; complete ready-to-eat food processing line with cutters, mixers,
frying unit, tanks and transport lines; and technical assistance for design
and operation of the plant. All equipment and buildings to meet international
sanitary standards.
19.       Poultry Processing Plant with an annual capacity to process 2.5
million broilers and 500,000 ducks would be built close to town of Srbac. The
project investments would include site preparation, buildings construction and
the installation of a processing line with a capacity of 2,000 birds per hour.
Freezing and storage space would be provided for frozen and chilled production.
20.       Meat Rendering Plant with a capacity to handle 7,000 tons of solid
offals, meat and tannery waste, and 1,000 tons of blood per year, would be
constructed in the project area. There is no rendering plant at present
in project area to process the raw materials from slaughterhouses and other
sources in the AIPK region. The location for the plant would be chosen so as
to achieve efficiency in collection of raw materials. The investment would be



ANNEX I
Page 6
for site development, buildings and utilities; a rendering system with a
capacity of about 2 tons per hour and provision for heat recovery; a blood
treatment plant; and four trucks and 100 covered aluminium con-ainers for
collection of raw material. The plant would produce meat and bone meal,
and dried blood.
21..      Fruit Processing Plant would be constructed to process fruits (mainly
apples, blueberries, plums). The capacity of the plant would be about 12,000
tons of fresh fruits annually into thick and clear fruit juices, fruit con-
centrates and frozen fruit pulp. Financing would be provided, under the
project, for construction and equipping of buildings, cold storage space,
a fruit processing line, two bottling lines and 20 distribution trucks.
22.       Plum Processing.  A new processing plant with an annual capacity
for processing about 7,000 tons plums and 1,400 tons of other fruits would
be built in Prijedor, the central plum producing area in the Republic. The
plant would have five drying tunnels, each with a capacity of 12 tons fresh
frujits per 24 hours, fermentation tanks for about 4,900 tons of plums, and
a  distillation plant to process rejected grade plums into distilled alcohol
and about 1,000 tons of plum brandy to be purchased from individual farmers.
The annual output from the plant would be 600 tons dried plums, 400 tons other
dried fruits and about 1,000 tons of plum brandy.
23.       Potato Processing Plant.  A new plant would be built close to the
town of Glamoc, to process and store potatoes grown in that region. The
capacity of the plant would be about 17,000 tons of potatoes annually. The
plant would have a storage building with temperature and humidity control and
a capacity of 12,000 tons of potatoes (including 2,000 tons of seed potatoes).
It would also include processing equipment needed to produce (i) 1,200 kg/hr
washed, graded and packed fresh potatoes; (ii) 1,000 kg/hr french fries; (iii)
1,000 kg/hr potato salad and (iv) 300 kg/hr croquettes. The plant would also
have a quick freezer with a capacity of 1 ton/hr and a cold storage for
1,500 tons finished products. For distribution the factory would have avail-
able 17 trucks of which 11 would be insulated and refrigerated.
24.       Maltery would be financed under the project to process annually
about 19,000 tons barley into 15,000 tons malt. The maltery would be located
in Livno area, where barley production is the main production activity. The
project would include site development and provision of utilities, construc-
tion of a malt house of 15,000 tons per year output capacity, construction of
a 15,000 ton set of vertical grain silos, installation of a 10-ton per hour
continuous flow drier and construction of service buildings.
25.       Vegetable Processing.  The project would finance expansion of the
existing fruit and vegetable processing plant in Banja-Luka. The present
operations would be expanded by addition of processing lines for high quality
jams and baby food. The investment would consist of expansion of existing
buildings, installation of processing equipment and transportation equipment.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
B. Detailed Project Cost Estimates
26.        The total project cost, including physical and price contingencies
but excluding interest during construction, is estimated at Din 3,668 million
(US$203.7 million) of which Din 1,157 million (US$64.3 million) or 32% of
total project cost, would be the foreign exchange component. The detailed
project cost estimates are given in Table 2 and the year-wise phasing of
investment costs is shown in Table 3.
March 1, 1978



ANNEX 1
Table 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BOSANSKA-KRAJINA AGRICULTURE AND AGRO-INDUSTRIES PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Phasing of Individual Farms
under Primary Agricultural Production Component
Year
1       2        3       4        Total
Livestock Farms
Dairy                                   25     600      425     200       1250
Cattle Fattening                        15     285      200     100        600
Pig Breeding and Fattening              15     285      200     100        600
Broilers                                -      125       -       -         125
Sheep                                   10      70       90      30        200
Sub-Total                             65    1365      915     430       2775
(Crop Production Farms /a
Fruit Farms                             25     210      140      65        440
Vegetable Farms                         30     240      160      70        500
Cereal Farms                           450    2800    2560    1190        8000
Sub-Total                            505    4250    2860    1325        8940
Grand Total                          570    5615    3775    1755       11715
/a An additional 300 farms are included in the land
reclamation component of the project which brings
the total individual beneficiaries to over 12000.



APF'RAISAL OF
BOSANSKA KRAJINA AGRICULTURE AND AGROINDUSTRIES FROJECT                ANNEX 1
YUGOSLAVIA                                     Table 2
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
DIN-O00                                US $000
(06)        (07)         (0)          (40)         (41)         (42)        (09)
FOREIGN
EXCHANGE
TOTAL      FOREIGN       LOCAL         TOTAL      FOREIGN        LOCAL         %
1 FR1MARY AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
A. LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION
hAIRY FARMS                        270,000       89,100      100,900       15P000         4r950       10,050     33
CATTLE F-ATENING FARMS              60,000        9,000       51OOO        3,333           500        2Y,33     15
FIG BREEDING/FATTENING FARMS       172Y500       31,052      141,440        9,583         1,725        7,858      10
BROILER FARMS                       52,500        9r450       43,050        2Y917           525        2,392      10
SHEEP FARMS                         20,600        6,796       13,802        1,144           378          767     33
SUB TOTAL A.                       575,600      145,400      430Y200       31,978        8,078       23,900      25
B3. CROP ANDi HORTICULTURAL PROD.
FRUIT FARMS                        121,001       18,152      102,049        6,722         1,000        5,714      15
UEGETABLE FARMS                     95,250       24,765       70,485        5,292         1,376        3,916     26
FARM MACHINERY SERVICE             149,609       53,880       95,001        0,316        2,994         5,322     36
GRAIN STORAGE/DRYING SERVICE       155,000       44,950      110,050        8,611  .   2,497.          6,114     29
EXTENSION SERVICE                   25,000        5,250       19,750      . l,389--         292        1,097     21
SUB TOTAL B.                       545,940      147,005      398,935       30,330        8,167       22,163      27
C. LAND RECLAMATION
BOSANSKA DUBICA                    123,127       10,469      104,658        6,840         1,026       5,814      15
NOJA TOFOLA                         79,900       11,186       68,714        4,439           621       3,817      14
SRBAC                               35,566        5Y690       29,B76        1Y976           316        1,660     16
FRNJAVOR                            34,038        5,446       280592        1,891           303        1,500     16
IRRIGATION                          44,051       80810        35,241        2,447           489       1,958      20
SUB TOTAL C.                       316,682       49,601      267,081       17,593        2,756       14,838      16
TOTAL I                          1,438,222      342,006   1,096,216        79,901       19,000       60,901      24
II SUPFORT SERVICES
HEIFER REARING                      23P900        4,7B0       19,120        1,328           266        1,062     20
FIG BREEDING                        78,930       17s365       61,565        4,385           965       3,420      22
CATTLE BREEDING                     30,300       11,073       26,427        2,128  ;        660       1,46B      31
SHEEP RESEARCH                      21,615        4,755       16,860        1,201           264          937     22
SEED PROCESSING FLANT               22,300        4,906       17,394        1,239           273          966     22
TECHNICAL SUPP'ORT. UNIT             7,000        1,400        5,600          3895 .          8- 3_1-'    20
FRUIT NURSERY                       17,224        2,928       14,296           957          163        - 7f      17
MACHINERY WORKSHOP                  54,927       14,281       40,646        3,052           793       2,258      26
TOTAL. II                          264,196       62,288      201,908       14,678        3,460        11,217     24
III AGRO-INDUSTRIES DEVELOFPMENT
MILK F'ROCESSING                   147,540       78,196       69,344        8,197        4,344         3,852     53
MEAT PROCESSING--IMPRO              43,970       19,347       24,623        2,443         1,075        1,360     44
MEAT PROCESSING--KIH                67,206       34,275       32,931        3,734         1,904        1,030     51
MEAT RENDERING                      60,360       30,180       30,180        3,353         1,677        1,677     50
FOULTRY FROCESSING                  47,700       19,080       28,620        2,650         1,060        1P590     40
F'RUIT JUICE F'ROC.                176,910       79,609       97,301        9,828        4,423         5,406     45
FOTATO PROCESSING                  239,800       98,318      141,482       13,322        5S,462        7,860     41
PLUM PROCESSING                     65,785       25,656       40,129        3,655         1,425        2,229     39
MALTERY                            158,420       64,952       93,468        8,001        3,608         5,193     41
VITAMINKA EXF'ANSION                46,050       19,802       26,248        2,558          ,t10O       1,458     43
TOTAL III                        1,O53,741      469,415      584,326       58,541       26,079       32,463      45
TOTAL PROJECT COST
WITHOUT CONTINGENCIES            2,756,159      873,709   1,882,450       153r120       48,539      104,581      32
TOTAL PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES       159,167       48,069      111,097        8,843        2,671        6,172      30
TOTAL PRICE CONTINGENCIES          752,654      235,572      517,082       41,814       13,087        28,727      31
TOFAL PROJECT COST
INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES          3,667,980   1,157,350   2S510,629        203,777       64,297       139,479     32
I ZS$ = 18 Dinars.
Marcb 8, 1978.



APFPRAISAL OF
IFOSANSLA RRAJINA AGRICULTURE AND, AGROINDjUSTRIES PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA                                                        ANNEX 1
Table 3
PROJECT COST EGTIMATES
BASE COST IN DiIN-000                                          D1IN 000
(01)         102)         (03)         (04)         (05)          (06)          (07)           (00)         (09)
P7ORE ION
EXCHANGE
YEAR 1       YEAR 2       YEAR 3       YEAR 4       YEAR 5         TOTAL        FOREIGN         LOCAL          3
~F IPARY AOL CULTLU(RAL PRODUICTION
LIVELITDCK PRODULCTION
*  iIFY 'ERR)                          4,950      119,250       94,950       47,250         1,600       270,000        89,100        180,900       33
-~LE P ATENI NO FARMS)                1,ROG      28,500        20.000       10,000             0        60,000         9.000         51,000       15
1,11 ILDIN) AFTTENING FARMS          4,312       81,938       57,500       28,750              0      172,500         31,052       141,448        18
UL ELIx (ART,S                             0      52,500             0            0            0        52,500          9,450        43,050       18
* 1)1  FAPRMS                          1,030        7,210        9,270        3,090             0        20,600         6,798         13,802       33
TITlE  A                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~11,792  289,398  181,720   89,090        3,600       575,600        145,400       430,200        2
* VOP AR) IJOII'TIUL..rRAL FP1)01',
I I  F VARMS >                         1,877      37,023       47,075       27 ,063       72,963       121,001        18,152        102,849       15
GE TAD)E FI AIRMS                     3,615       47,820       30,480        13,335             0       95,250         24, 765       70,485        26
'F F REV ERY  ISERVICE                   0      50,000        50,000       49,689             0       149,689        53,8868        95,801       36
IN  (ChAGF  DRYING SERVICE             0       65,000       60,000       30,000             0       155,000        44,950        110,050       29
I) Ni 'IL FCJE 'V ICE                     0      17,000         8,000             0            0        25,000         5,250         19,750       2
TClT,,)L B.               ~~5,492    216,843      195,522~    120,087          7,963       545,940        147,002I      398,935        27
LARD FECF LAMAT'DN
E,,NsLA OuABLE(                           0      35,100        44,327       39,996        1,704       123,127         18,469       104,658        12I
'F (OAF A                     0     ~~~~~~~      ~~~~~~~      ~~~~~~22,975,  25,373  20,009  11,543  79,900  11.,186    60,714       14
0       6,131       10,670       11,652         7,113        35,566          5, 690       29,076       16
'1N FlIVT                                  0       6,807       13,615        10,212        3,404        34.038          2,,446A      28,592        1 6
SP L(N                       ~~~~~~0 33,037       11,013              0            0       44,051          8,810        35,241        2
IFl TOTAL C.                               0      104,050      104,998       81,869       25,764        316,682        49,601        267.081       16
f Al I                    ~~~~~17,284  610,291      482,273      291,046        37,32-7    1,438,222        342,006    1,096,216         2 4
FSUPPOR SERVICES
TVlFE  LEAFING                              0      14,400         9,500             0            0       23,900          4,780        19,120        20
BRLTEDIRG                                 0      51,505       27,425             0            0        7G,930        17,365         61,565       22
vAT!)  DEEET ING                          0       11,200       12, 800      11,300         3,000        38,300        11,873         56,417       31
* Et F  C:.SEAFTClF                        0        3,600       11,190        6,417           408        21,615         4,755         16,860       22"
FL'E F'FOCESSING P:LAN T                    0      22,300             0             0            0       22,300          4,906        17,394        22
FC1NICE)  SIF F'ORT UNIT                    0       7,000             0            0            0         7,000          1,400         5,600       2
((II RURDOFY                   ~~     ~~~~~~       ~     ~      ~     ~      ~      ~ ~~0 17,224  0  0  0  17,224  2,928  14,296        17
(TI 1(1NRLY WLORKSHOP                       0      40,861        14,066             0            0        54,927        14,281         40,646      216
A FAL IFr                                  0     168,090        74,981       17,717         3,408       264,196        62, 288      201,908        24
TI AFIFL INDUSTRTPF DrUEELOPRMENT
F I OCI S :I'N G                  67,740       32,920        46,030          850             0       147,540        78,196         69,344       53
~A I FROCESSTNRO-INFRO0                           30,480        12,590          900             0        43,970        19,347         24,623       44
V AT FF001E"'ANO Kill                       0      56,481           900        9,825             0        67,206        34,275         32,931       51
~AT L'ENDELINFG                            0       21,210       39,150             0            0        60,360        30,180         30,180       50
DUF TIFFY PROCESSING                        0      20,570       27,130             0             0       47,700         1.9,080       28,620       40
'LJIIA JFUICE FROE,                        0      34 ,780       53,120       89,010             0       176,910        79,609         97,301       45
IAFTO FR0CCVE SIN~G                         0      32,000       76,250      131,550              0      239,800         98,318       141,482       41
JIM PROCLSSIING                            0      20,300       31,770        13,715             0       65,785         25,656        40,129        39
FLTFERY                                      0      48,400      110,020             0             0      158,420         64,952        93,468        41
IIAFINKA E>7EARIION                         0       7,500       14,900       23,650              0       46,050         19,802        26,248       43
- lIII                             67,740      304,641      411,860      269,500              0   1,053,741        469,415        584,326       45
V'FPROJECT COST
:ITHOUT CONTINGENCIES                  85.024  1,083,022        969,114      578,263        40,735    2,756,159        873,709    1,882,450          32 
r~AL PHFYSICAL CONTINGENCIES           4,253       60,466       55,613       35,503         3,332       159,167         48,069       111,097        30
-VDAL PRICE CONTINGENCIES               7,590      202,397      283,850      236,915        21,902       752,654       235,572        517,082        31
O TEL PROJECT COST
4IALUDINC CONTINGENCIES               96,867  1,345,885  1,308,577          850,681        65,969    3,667,980    1,157,350    2,510,629            32
US$  18 Di-es.
v'c~ 1978.



ANNEX 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BOSANSKA-KRAJINA AGRICULTURE AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursements /1
IBRD Fiscal Year and Quarter                         in the Quarter
FY79
June 30, 1979                                             1.0
FY80
September 30, 1979                                       4.0
December 31, 1979                                        9.0
March 31, 1980                                           14.5
June 30, 1980                                           20.5
FY81
September 30, 1980                                      26.0
December 31, 1980                                       30.0
March 31, 1981                                          35.0
June 30, 1981                                           40.0
FY82
September 30, 1981                                      43.0
December 31, 1981                                       47.0
March 31, 1982                                          50.0
June 30, 1982                                           52.0
FY83
September 30, 1982                                      53.0
December 31, 1982                                       54.0
March 31, 1983                                          54.5
June 30, 1983                                           55.0
The estimate schedule is given for proposed loan of US$55 million
only.
/1 Disbursement projections are based on year-wise phasing of invest-
ments. A lag of six months has been allowed in incurring of
expenditures and claiming of reimbursement from Bank.



STAFF APriJ3A .                           D R                 O
BOSANSKA-KRAJINA AGRICULTURE AND AGRO%-F'NDUSTRHS PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Implementation Schedule
1978          1979           1980          1981           1982           1983
PRIMAR'Y AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
-  Livestock Production (Private Farms)
Year 1 -    65 Farms                         [ S                    m  __
Year 2  -  1365 Farms            s t       _ 
Year 3  -   915 Farms                        I                             u* _
Year 4  -   430 Farms                        i                                  i  u       m      m      m  _
- Crop Production (Private Farms)
Fruit and Vegetables
Year 1 -   190 Farms                                         m s_
Year 2  -   280 Farms                           S          s               i T
Year 3  -   235 Farms                                              li      i       m        _ 
Year 4  -   235 Farms                                                           1 * u  i          mm _.
Cereal Farms
Year 1 -  1000 Farms                         I s  _    _m
Year 2  -  2000 Farms
Year 3  -  3000 Farms
Year 4  -  2000 Farms
-  Grain Drying & Storage
Phase I                                       mmmli
Phase II
Fhase III
-  Farmi Machinery Services
P'hase I
Phase II                                                       I I am A l+ WW       ,      
Phase IlIlI                                                              I |   3 i I I 1 Z
-  Extension Services
Phase I
Phase II                                     |               mm
Phase III
-  Land Reclamation
Bosanska Dubica                                 u    m * * * S  _                              _
Nova Topoia                                     1        3        CS                 S         S      I      _
Srbac                                         gmi         i     m m        Im                m m=           m
Prnjavor                                      D       m
Irigation (Novatopola)                [                                          r l m                  l  
KEY
miSii SmSiS  Approval of Subloans, Preparation of Documents, Final
Design, Advertising of Bids, Collection of Bids and Re-
view of Awards
Construction
* s _  s U   Delivery
t,rArA ,  Performance Guarantee
VVorld Bank -18922



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BOSANSKA-KRAJINA AGRICUL'-J -E AND AGRO-INDUSTR IES PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Implementation Schedule
1978           1979           1980           1981            1982           1983
AGRO-INDUSTRIES
Milk Processing Plant                            1          _       _                              _
Meat Processing Plant (IMPRO)              *hiiiiiil         __i
Meat Processing Plant (KIH)                31111 Illilt                     m                           F 9wr   I
Meat Rendering Plant                                      lIIl 111111    _
Poultry Slaughterhouse                            olives s
Fruit-Juice Processing Plant              31:11  1si1                __|w
Potato Processing Plant                    11112111h11m                                                        I 
Plum Processing Plant                      s 1   ts t t_
Maltery                                     1      1     __
Vitaminka Expansion                                       st4tss *1III    _        _                                   _
SUPPORT SERVICES
Heifer Rearing                                         1i           -              -
Pig Breeding                              a11a  aih         _ .III
Cattle Breeding-Progeny Testing            a  sa  a         ___ 
Sheep Research Farm                        lIllIllIlt                   __
Farm Machinery VWorkshop                  gIIIillhU
Seed Processing Plant                      lElllIl_
Technical Support Unit                    I       maiIllI
Fruit Nursery                              *II oIsII3I
KEY
imlluiulml Approval of Subloans, Preparation of Documents, Final
Design, Advertising of Bids, Collection of Bids and Re-
view of Award
Construction
AVed ,r   Performance Guarantee
VVorld Bank -1 8923



ANNEX 3
Page 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BOSANSKA-KRAJINA AGRICULTURE AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Statement of Operations and Policies for the Project
and the Subproject Appraisal Criteria
1.        The PBS would follow the following policies, procedures, terms and
conditions in appraising and granting the subloans.
Subloans to Social Sector subborrowers for land reclamation, support services
and Agroindustries Components of the Project
2.        For long-term loans to social sector enterprises, PBS would appraise
each subproject and prepare an appraisal report, to ensure that: (a) subproj-
ects provide satisfactory financial and economic rates of return on the basis
of cletailed and realistic estimates of costs and benefits, and would generate
sufi-icient cash flow to cover debt service, legal claims, compulsory alloca-
tions to the enterprise's funds and reinvestment needs. Special justification
will be required if the financial and economic rate of return is below 12% in
constant Dinars; (b) subprojects are technically feasible based on a critical
reviLew of technical data and specifications provided by the subborrowers. PBS
woul.d prepare a Technical Report containing an evaluation of (i) proposed scale
of the subproject, (ii) the need and adequacy of the equipment to be used,
(iii) estimated investment costs, (iv) location of the project, (v) its layout
and design, and (vi) the technical staff available to the subborrower for
impLementing the subproject and its operation; (c) the market facilities for
the incremental production are available, and the supply of raw materials is
assured; (d) the subborrowers are credit-worthy, have the necessary managerial
competence to implement the subproject and maintain a satisfactory financial
structure. As a guideline, the long-term financial structure, debt/equity
ratio should not exceed 3:1. Exceptions may be allowed (based on the financial
and economic merit of the subproject) provided that the enterprise enters into
an agreement with a bank to increase its equity over a suitable period of time
to not less than 25% of its total capitalization; (e) adequate physical and
price "contingency" allowances are made. The "contingency" allowance should
take into account, inter alia, escalation clauses which may be included in
contracts. The appraisal report for each subproject should indicate the date
to which base cost estimates refer and should discuss the "contingency" allow-
ances made; (f) appropriate consideration is given and explicitly recorded
in the appraisal report to the need for introduction of capital intensive
automated technology as opposed to more labor intensive methods and to the
consequences of such a choice on the investment and operating costs of the sub-
projects; (g) adequate organizational and staffing arrangements for efficient
operation of project facilities have bee made; and (h) for agroindustries
subprojects, at least 50% of the processing capacities would be used for
produce from individual farmers.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Subloans to Zadrugas and Individual Farmers
3.        Request for subloans to individual farmers would normally be submitted
to the PBS by Zadrugas which, having aggregated investment proposals of several
private farmers, would borrow on their behalf. However, private farmers may
also submit directly investment proposals to PBS. In appraising subprojects in
the individual sector, the PBS would satisfy itself that:
(a) subprojects are technically feasible, financially viable,
commercially sound and economically justified, and markets
and processing facilities for their incremental production
are available;
(b) subprojects would generate sufficient cash flow to cover
debt service, legal claims and needs for reinvestment;
(c) the subborrower (Zadruga) has made adequate and continuing
arrangements for technical assistance including extension
service to the individual farmers and will make available
suitable marketing services to individual farmers;
(d) the cooperation agreements between the member farmers and
Zadrugas are adequate.
Financing Plan for Subprojects
5.        The subborrowers would provide a minimum of 20% of investment costs.
The PBS would provide loans up to 80% of the subprojects' costs. The Bank
would finance 100% of the estimated foreign exchange part of the project cost.
Prior to disbursing the Bank loan to PBS would assure the availability of its
own funds and subborrowers' contribution for each specific subproject.
Repayment Period of Subloans
6.        The term of subloans would be determined in accordance with the
cash flow projections of the investments, after careful estimates of the
repayment capacity of the subborrower have been made. However, the grace
period on IBRD funds will not exceed 5 years and the maximum total term,
including grace period will be 15 years.



AhVNEX 4
Page 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BOSANSKA-KRAJINA AGRICULTURE AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Detailed Market Aspects
1.        The produce from the project would be marketed primarily in the
Bosanska Krajina region (project area). Only two products, dried plum and
fruit concentrates would be exported. AIPK has ove:r 1,000 shops in BK
Region and about 200 outside the region; the project output will be sold
through this network. AIPK also has supply contracts with marketing organi-
zations on nearby market on Dalmatia coast and with nationwide distribution
agency. The marketing arrangements appear adequate. The detailed market
prospects for project commodities are described below.
Cerea15
2.        Currently the Bosanska Krajina region has a deficit for all types
of cereals. A major expansion in maize production is justified to supply
the recently established corn syrup factory in AIPK. With a capacity of
50,000 tons, the mill would rely heavily on maize supplies from the region.
Owing to the expansion of livestock development in BH in general and Bosanska
Krajina in particular, the demand for feed concentrates would also rise
markedly.  AIPK presently has feed mills; raw materials for which it has to
purchase from outside the BK region. The corn syrup factory and the feed
mills in AIPK will be able to utilize the incremental maize production under
the project. Yugoslavia is importing about 13,000 tons of feed concentrates
annually and the project would partially reduce future imports.
3.        The market for the incremental wheat production would be the newly
established flour mill, in project area, with an intake capacity of 55,000
tons. Currently it is operating at less than half of its capacity. Despite
Yugoslavia's increasing imports of wheat and modest growth of domestic produc-
tion, the market lacks additional supplies. The project would help meet part
of the deficit.
4.        Among other cereals, barley production would be the most significant
since it is tied with the proposed maltery in Livno. With the project, the
maltery would require 21,000 tons of barley annually from the neighboring
commu-nes. The 4 largest malteries in Yugoslavia produce a total of 95,000 tons
and :2 more malteries are under construction in the Republics of Vojvodina and
Macedonia with a cormbined capacity of 39,000 tons. Production and marketing
of malt in Yugoslavia is regulated by the National Malters Association. The
Association allocates the total supply of malt among the breweries at a set
price. Demand for malt is a derived demand based on the quantity and quality



ANNEX 4
Page 2
of beer consumed. With respect to the quality the ratio of malt to crude
grains in BH is currently 40:60 and the planned target is 70:30. Hence, with
increasing consumption of beer and quality improvements the existing and
proposed capacities would fall short of total requirements. The production
from the project would be directed to breweries in Banjaluka, Sarajevo and
Split none of which has its own maltery. By 1980 assuming a 70% malt to
grain ratio, the demand for malt would be about 19,000 tons. At full develop-
ment the maltery would produce 15,000 tons of malt for which market constraint
is not foreseen.
4.        Wheat and maize are governed by the guaranteed minimum price law.
Often farmgate prices exceed the floor price which reflect critical shortages
in the market and production fluctuation due to unfavorable climatic condi-
tions. In view of the apparent price distortions in the cereal market, farm
gate economic prices for cereals in constant 1977 terms have been derived
based on international prices provided by the Bank's Commodities and Export
Projection Division and given in Table 1.
Fruits
5.        Pears, cherries and strawberries would be the principal fresh
fruits to be produced by participating farmers under the project. Demand for
fruits in the project area is limited by the size of the processing capacity
and fresh consumption. The proposed fruits farms under the crop and horticul-
tural component would constitute the major suppliers to the planned processing
factories. These farmers would enter long-term delivery contracts with
processing facilities through Zadrugas. The 3 existing fruit juice factories
in BH produce a total of about 19,000 tons equivalent to 28% of Yugoslavia's.
The medium term plan based on expected demand authorized only the AIPK to
undertake major capacity expansion. Under the project, fruit juice and plum
processing, plants would be financed. The proposed processed fruit product
assortment is a combination of (a) pasteurised thick juice and clear, juice
each having 9 varieties, (b) fruit concentrates and (c) frozen fruit pulp, the
major components being the juice lines.
6.        The fruit juice production in AIPK is done by BOAL Vitaminka and
BOAL Bosanka which produces carbonated fruit drinks. Production has
been growing at an annual rate of about 11% from 1972-1976. Vitaminka has
established consumer loyalty in Yugoslavia through its good product quality
and has penetrated nationwide markets. Per capita consumption of fruit juice
in Yugoslavia has increased from 0.1 litre in 1960 to 3 litres in 1977.
In the project area, consumption of fruit juice is slightly higher due to
Vitaminka's aggressive sales drive. At this rate, it is projected that by 1980
per capita consumption would reach 3.7 litres and 4.8 litres by 1985. On the
basis of these growth rates, total consumption would be 83,000 tons and
110,000 tons in 1980 and 1985 respectively. In order to meet the growing
demand and for Vitaminka to enlarge its market share, the proposed capacity
expansion of 25,000 tons is justified.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
7.        Vitaminka's distribution network is jointly coordinated with Bosanka,
a sister basic organization producing carbonated fruit drinks. About 60% of
the joint production in Vitaminka and Bosanka is sold in the AIPK region
using returnable bottles. Part of the production is marketed by "Marijan
Badel", a distribution agency from Zagreb. The agency operates sales points
throughout Yugoslavia and non-returnable packs are used for markets outside a
200 km radius from the plant. A rapidly emerging market is the tourist resort
in the Dalmatia coast. Vitaminka's experience in sales promotion and product
differentiation would ensure for it the major share of the tourist market as
well as other consumers in BH.
8.        Frozen pulp and fruit concentrate components are largely for the
export market and would be channelled through the existing export agencies.
Part of the produce would constitute the factory's own demand for further
processing during off season. Since the incremental volumes are marginal,
market constraint is not anticipated.
9.        Proposed expansion of the existing processing lines in Vitaminka
would also absorb additional fresh fruit produce and other primary products
for preparation of baby food and high quality jams. Production of 1,500
tons of baby food is exclusively for the domestic market reducing the cur-
rent: deficit to 3,000 tons. The Droject would also improve quality of jam
by increasing dry matter of fruit and lowering the sugar content. Both
these products would be distributed in the local market and other parts of
Yugoslavia.
10.       Among other fruits, the project area has surplus production of plum.
A major on-farm consumption of plum is for distilling into plum brandy.  Cur-
rent: offtake of plum for processing is limited to the two fruit juice factories
in the region. Thus there is ample supply of fresh plum estimated at about
48,000 tons wasted annually due to market limitations. The proposed plum and
other fruit processing plant would introduce drying facilities and expansion of
the existing distillery. The incremental production of dried plum would consti-
tute 13% of total Yugoslavia's dried plum export in 1976. Major export market
is the USSR absorbing over 87% in 1976. Future export sales would only be
constrained by availability of marketable surplus as evidenced by the annual
export volume fluctuations. Some dried plum would also be used for further
processing domestically. Domestic per capita consumption of dried plum has
jumped from 1.6 kg to 2.9 kg from 1971 to 1974. The incremental output of
brandy representing less than 3% of Yugoslavia's total output is marginal and
could not create imbalances in the market. About 45% of the produce would be
sold in the AIPK region. Since the factory would purchase brandy with 25%
alcohol from the farm households, this diversion from the local market would
be substituted by the factory's produce with 40% alcohol content.
11.       With the exception of plum, all other fruits fall under the free
market price system where prices are determined by supply and demand. As of
January 1978, fruit juice prices would not be controlled by local communes
which enables producers to improve their profit margin. Assumptions made for



ANNEX 4
Page 4
financial and economic prices are identical since domestic prices largely re-
flect f.o.b. prices allowing for transportation and handling costs.
Vegetables
12.       About 39,000 tons of mixed vegetables including cucumber, beetroot,
pepper and winter vegetables and 20,000 tons of potatoes would be produced
in the project area. The vegetable processing plant in the region and fresh
vegetable consumers in the urban centers constitute the principal markets.
Consumption of vegetables has gradually increased from 55 kg per capita in
1962 to 82 kg per capita in 1974 and projected to reach 87 kg by 1980. The
slow rate of growth of consumption is a result of faster rates of increase
in prices than other agricultural prices and the limited transport and dis-
tribution facilities at the disposal of individual farmers. The potato pro-
duction under the project will be supplied mainly to the potato processing
plant. At full capacity, the proposed processing plant would require about
17,000 tons for french fries and other potato products.
13.       At present about 30% of total potato production in Yugoslavia is
marketed and the remainder is consumed on the farm. Throughout Yugoslavia
there are four processing plants with a nominal output capacity of 19,000
tons. FAO projection of per capita potato consumption for Yugoslavia indi-
cates a constant level of 56.3 kg for 1975-1985. The Green Plan, however,
forecasts 80 kg per capita for 1985. In view of the reasonable annual rate
of growth (2.2%) of production in the last 4 years, the Green Plan's target
appears attainable. FAO's estimates has already been surpassed (71.1 kg for
1974) with consumption of processed potato at about 0.75 kg. The low ratio
of processed potato consumption is attributed to import restrictions and
inadequacy of domestic prodution. Principal markets for processed potato
are (a) basic organizations serving meals for workers, (b) schools and hospi-
tals, and (c) the bustling tourist industry. The factory's proximity to the
urban and tourist centers alleviates distribution and storage problems by
directly delivering frequently.
14.       Farmgate prices of potato are determined under the guaranteed mini-
mum price law. Often the realized prices have been higher than the guaranteed
minimum signifying apparent shortage. In the project area the specialized
farm units for potatoes would receive Din 1.7 per kg, which is adequate to
stimulate the private farmers to enter long-term contract with the processing
plant. The economic price for processed potato is comparable to prices in
West European markets. For all the other vegetables the financial and economic
prices are equivalent.
Livestock Products
15.       The project will result in substantial milk output which will be
supplied to the dairy plant to be financed under the project. The Banjaluka
dairy plant would expand its nominal daily capacity from 90,000 to 180,00
liters. Raw milk would be purchased on contract basis from the proposed 1,250
dairy farms and other producers in the region. The specialized dairy units



ANNEX 4
Page 5
would eliminate the deficit currently occuring in the winter season and the
plant's capacity expansion would substantially reduce the need to transfer
milk to other processors in the summer. Per capita consumption of milk in BH
is estimated at 150 litres compared to 128 litres for Yugoslavia. However,
the ratio of processed milk is about 13 litres for BH and 38 litres for
Yugoslavia. In the project area, processed milk - pasteurised, UHT, cheese
and yogurts would enter new market frontiers to cover the entire AIPK region
and the coastal towns.
16.       The incremental output of fattened cattle, sheep, pigs and poultry
will be supplied to 2 slaughterhouses and processing plants and a poultry
processing plant to be financed under the project. Estimates of per capita
meat consumption in the project area is about 28 kg compared to 30 kg for BH
and 51.3 kg for Yugoslavia. In the entire Republic the share of processed meat
consumption is less than 10%. In the project area about 87% of the processed
meat requirement is supplied by enterprises from Croatia. With the project,
the slaughter houses would alter their product mix by installing new processing
lines. At full development processed meat supply would increase by about
6,000 tons equivalent to 30% of total incremental meat production. Projection
for meat consumption in the medium term plan for BH assumes annual rates of
growth of 5.3% based on population growth rate of 1.3% and real wage increases
of 4%. For the project area, however, where the incremental production would
be absorbed, the Republic wide projected growth rate assumption appears con-
servative compared to the annual growth rate of 8% from 1971 to 1976. Even
under the medium term plan's assumption a total deficit of about 20,000 tons
is forecasted by 1980. Its implication is that the market would not be
saturated and the incremental output from the project would only tap the
semi-durable processed meat market.
17.       Other meat products are broiler, pork and mutton destined largely
for the regional market. In 1975 broiler production in the BH was 1,400
tons augmented by 5,000 tons of imports from other Republics. Consumption
of broilers has been increasing dramatically at an annual rate of 23% from
1966 to 1975. The incremental output from the project would make the
regional market self-sufficient being the first broiler plant in Bosanska
Krajina. With respect to pork, the project would produce about 6,400 tons
which represents an incremental per capita consumption of about 1.5 kg by
1980 in Bosanska Krajina. From 1971 to 1976 fresh pork consumption channeled
through slaughterhouses increased at an annual rate of 19% in Bosanska Krajina.
AIPK's comparative advantage in pig breeding as well as proximity to potential
markets outside the region form a sound basis for sizeable expansion of the
processing plant.
18.       Using by-products from slaughterhouses in the region, the proposed
rendering plant would produce meat and bone meal, tallow and dried blood which
are in great demand in BH. At present inedible offals, bones and meat scraps
are sold for rendering to Slojere plant in Zagreb. The Nova Topola feed mill
would absorb the entire produce from the rendering plant for animal feed
concentrates. At full development of the proposed livestock sub-project, the
demand for feed concentrates is estimated at about 20,700 tons.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
19.       Farmgate prices for milk and cattle are set a Federal level which
include Federal and Republic subsidies. As of January 1977, Dairy plants
pay base price of Din 1.06 per percentage point of fat to which is added
Federal and Republic subsidies of Din 0.12 and 0.06 respectively. For the
economic analysis portion of the raw milk requirement for processing to be
consumed in fluid form is valued at Din 2.25 per litre, the opportunity cost
*       of importing and reconstituting New Zealand non-fat dry milk and butter oil.
For other high quality processed milk products, however, the economic price of
raw milk is Din 3.81 per litre which is the domestic price net of Federal and
Republic subsidies.  The weighted average economic price of raw milk is Din
3.11 per litre. Yugoslav prices for processed milk products are used in the
financial analysis. In the economic analysis the domestic prices are adjusted
to reflect the economic price of raw milk.
20.       Similar to the milk price policy, the Federal government pays pro-
ducer's subsidies amounting to Din 3 per kg for beef and pork and Din 2 per
kg for lamb. These subsidies are revised annually to reflect changes in
feed prices particularly maize. Recent trends in the level of subsidies show
that the Federal government is gradually phasing out such payments authorizing
the Republic governments to establish the need and finance the program out of
their budgets. However, unless retail prices for fresh meat controlled by
local communes is liberalized, elimination of subsidies could further aggre-
vate the financial performance of slaughterhouses with limited processing
capacities. Due to the limitations of the value of the present commodity
price forecast for beef as a basis for estimating equivalent border parity
prices, the mission, using the forecasted growth trend for beef prices, has
derived a farmgate price of Din 13,500 per ton LWT. For lamb, the mission has
estimated an economic price of Din. 16,120 per ton LWT based on London's
Smithfield market.
32.       Output prices used in financial and economic analyses are given in
Table 1.



ANNEX 4
Table 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BOSANSKA-KRAJINA AGRICULTURE AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Economic and Financial Prices
Primary Products                     Economic Price            Financial Price
------------- Din per ton 
Wheat                                 3,490 -  4,546 /1               3,000
Maize                                 1,718 -  2,132 /1               2,500
Other cereals                                   2,850                 2,850
Potato                                          1,700                 1,700
Pepper                                          2,500                 2,500
Cucumber                                        2,000                 2,000
Beetroot                                        1,000                 1,000
Other vegetables                                6,000                 6,000
Pears                                           5,000                 5,000
Cherries                                        7,000                 7,000
Strawberries                                   10,000               10,000
Cow milk                                        3,108 /2             4,460
Sheep milk                                      8,000                 8,000
Beef (LWT)                                     13,500                26,000
Pig    "                                       22,500                22,500
Sheep                                          16,120               26,000
Poultry "                                      18,000                18,000
Wool                                           22,000                22,000
Lucerne                                         1,500                 1,500
Processed Products
Processed milk                        4,220 - 26,800           5,600 - 26,800
Fresh beef (carcass)                           20,925               40,300
Mutton                                         31,000                50,000
Pork                                           32,000               32,000
Processed meat                       25,000 - 40,000          25,000 - 40,000
Broiler                                        28,480                28,480
Fruit juice                             900 - 18,000             900 - 18,000
French fries                                   20,000                20,000
Other processed potato               20,000 - 30,000          20,000 - 30,000
Dried fruit                          22,000 - 64,000          22,000 - 64,000
Plum brandy (40%)                               3,500                 3,500
Meat and bone meal                              8,100                 8,100
Malt                                            7,000                 7,000
Baby food                                      25,000                25,000
Marmalade                                      25,000                25,000
/1   The prices shown are for 1978 and 1985.
/2   See para. 19.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BOSANSKA-KRAJINA AGRICULTURE AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Financial and Economic Analysis
A. Financial Analysis
1.        The financial rate of returns including those from sensitivity tests
are summarized in Table 1. The projected investment, income and cash flow
statements for 7 representative individual farm models and 25 social sector
investment models for support services, agroindustries and land development
are shown in detail in Project Implementation Volume in the Project File. All
calculations are based on December 1977 Yugoslav prices for both inputs and
outputs. The financial and economic analyses of projects are based mostly on
the investment models contained in project preparation report which were
reviewed for the prices, yields and other technical coefficients used.
However, all agroindustries investment models and some other individual and
social sector investment models were revised from those contained in project
preparation report in light of mission's findings. All cash-flow projections
have been made on the basis of interest rates of 11% on IBRD funds and 6% on
local funds to social sector and 5% on local funds to individual sector. The
loans are amortized by annuities and the subborrowers will pay the interest
during construction period but would have grace periods equivalent to con-
struction periods.
B. Economic Analysis
2.        The economic rate of return was calculated on the basis of quanti-
fiable costs and benefits generated. Cost and benefits are based on the
representative investment models described above and were evaluated at shadow
prices as discussed below and shown in Table 2 of this Annex. The financial
and economic prices of major outputs are shown in Table 1 to Annex 4. The
economic evaluation of the project is based on the following assumptions and
adjustments to reflect the real resource cost to the economy.
(i) All tradeable output and inputs are valued at their border
equivalent prices. These adjustments were made by applying
general and project specific conversion factors, shown
in Table 2, to financial prices.
(ii) In view of open unemployment and underemployment in Yugoslavia,
family labor is added to operating costs valued at shadow wage
rate for unskilled labor.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
(iii)  Benefit and cost estimates are in constant 1977 prices and it
is assumed that relative prices would not change over the life
of the project. Hence price contingencies are excluded from
the cost streams.
(iv)  Although the services from the research and experimental farms
would reach far more beneficiaries than in the region no allow-
ance has been made to reflect the full benefits.
(v)  The life span of all subprojects is set at 20 years, however, no
residual value of investments has been assessed.
5.13       On the basis of the above assumptions and adjustments made, the
projected stream of benefits and costs are presented in Table 3.  The economic
rate of return on the total project is 22%. Sensitivity tests were conducted
to assess the stability of the rate of return to changes in cost and benefit
streams by 10%. Summary of the results are shown below:
Summary of Economic Rates of Return (%)
(a)  Base run                                  22
(b)  Benefits decreasing by 10%                15
(c)  Operating costs increasing by 10%         17
(d)  Investment costs increasing by 10%    20
The rate of return is particularly sensitive to changes in benefits.



ANNEX 5
Table 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BOSANSKA-KRAJINA AGRICULTURE AND AGRO-INDUSTRIES PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Financial Rates of Return /
Benefits      Operating Costs       Investment Costs
Base Run       (-10%)            (+10%)                 (+10%)
I. Livestock Production
Dairy Farms               22            20                22                     23
Cattle Fattening          55             5                12                     50
Pig Breeding              22             8                11                     20
Broilers                  15            -6                -1                     13
Sheep                     28            25                27                     27
II. Crop & Horticultural
Production
Fruit Farm                24            21                23                     22
Vegetable Farm            26            19                22                     23
Grain Storage             12             8                10                     10
Farm Machinery            12                              -7                      7
III. Land Reclamation
Bosanska-Dubica           18            13                17                     16
Nova Topola               12             8                10                     10
Srbac                     15            12                14                     13
Prnjavor                  16            12                14                     13
Nova Topola - Irrigation 15             11                13                     13
IV. Support Services
Heifer
Rearing                 14             9..              10                     13
Seed Processing Plant    19              4                 7                     17
Fruit Nursery             27            22                24                     25
Machine Workshop          29            11                1S                     26
Cattle Breeding           18            15                17                     16
Pig Breeding              17            1C                12                     14
V. Agro-Industries
Development
Milk Processing           36            17                21                     32
Meat Processing IMPRO    35             12                17                     32
Meat Processing - KIH    24             -6                 1                     22
Meat Rendering            21            18                20                     20
Poultry Processing        24            -4                                       22
Fruit Juice               24            17                19                     22
Potato Processing         19            15                17                     18
Plum Processing           li             6                 8                     14
Maltery                   14             7                  9                    12
Vitaminka Expansion       20             7                10                     18
1/ Based on investment models and income and cost projections and representative
farm models for each of the above investments. Details are given in Project File.
April 1978



ANNEX 5
Table 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BOSANSKA-KRAJINA AGRICULTURE AND AGRO-INDUSTRIES PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Shadow Pricing Parameters
General Conversion Factors                                  Coefficients-
Standard conversion factor                                     0.93
Conversion factor for investment goods                         0.91
Project Specific Conversion Factors
Inputs
Agro-industrial equipment (imported)                           0.79
Machinery services                                             0.70
Fertilizers                                                    1.25
Seed                                                           1.00
Insecticide & herbicide                                        1.00
Animal Power                                                     .90
Shadow Wage Rate
Unskilled labor                                                0.80
Skilled labor                                                  0.93
Output
Milk                                                           0.50
Wheat                                                          1.51
Maize                                                          0.85
Beef                                                           0.52 _
Mutton & Lamb                                                  0.62
All others                                                     1.00
1/ Factors used to convert financial Drices to economic prices.



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BOSANSKA-KRAJINA AGRICULTURE AND AGRO-II.DUSTRIES PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Economic Rate of Return-
(Din Million)
1978        1979        1980        1981        1982        1983        1984         1985        1986       1987        1988         1989-1997
I.  INCREMENTAL BENEFITS
Livestock&/                  -             4.8       211.3       202.9       263.1       211.0       212.7       214.8       218.9       222:6       222.7          223.1
Crops lorticultu u  3/       -           14.4        129.6       199.6       300.3       317.2       341.7       363.3       388.6      424.3        424.3          424.3
Land Reclamation.1           -           (10.4)       18.0        60.6        92.6       121.9       137.2       145.6       148.4       148.4       148.4          148.4
Support Service              -              -          3.2        21.8       123.5       167.8       173.3       173.9       173.9       174.0       174.2          174.3
Agro-industries              4 41.1     139.6       260.9        676.2       987.9    1420.9    1461.0          1463.8    1463.8    1463.8    1463.8               1463.8
Sub-total                  41.1       148.4       623.0    1161.1        1767,4    2238,8    2325.9    2361.4            2393.6    2433.2    2433.4              2433.9
II. INCREMENTAL COSTS
A.  Operatin  Costs
Livestoclc.              -           55.6       282.6       500.5        569.2       592.7       595.0       597.0       597.8       598.3       598.3          598.3
Crop & Horticulture3/  -              8.3        86.1       136.3       171.3        178.0       184.2       185.1       187.8       186.6       186.6          186.6
Land Reclamation/        -          ( 2.5)        6.2        32.2         44.4        54.2        55.2        55.2        55.2        55.2        55.2            55.2
Support Services-        -             .8        20.0        88.4       113.4       113.6        113.6       113.6       113.6       113.6       113.6          113.6
Agro-industries.6/       21.6        43.1       106.6       264.7       417.8       556.4       586.5       602.6       602.6       602.6        602.6          602.6
Sub-total             21.6       105.3       501.5    1022.1    1316.1           1494.9    1534.5    1553.5    1557.0    1556.3              1556.3          1556.3
B. Investmen /Re lacement
Livestock-           3/  11.5       282.6       180.2        91.6          5.6         -           -           1.7        33.4        25.5        11.4             -
Crop i Horticulture-    5.4         211.7       191.0        88.1         12.0        22.6        38.0        47.3        54.9        23.0        29.5            28.9
Land Reclamatio 4/       -           72.6       130.0         95.0        26.4         -           6.5         6.0         9.5          9.5         9.5            9.5
Support Services-/       -          162.9        71.4        16.3          3.2         _          ( .8)       (3.3)        6.6         6.6          6.6            6.6
Agro-industries6/        61.7       259.1       379.7       317.0          8.2         -           -           _             -           -           -             -
Sub-total              78.6       988.9       952.3       608.0        55.4         22.6        43.3        51.7       104.4        64.5         57.0           45.0
III. NET INCREMENTAL BENEFITS  (59.1)    (945.8)   (830.8)   (469.0)               395.9        721.3       748.1       756.2       732.2        812.4       820.1          832.6
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
a)  Base Run                                22, %
b)  Operating cost increased by 10         17  %
c)  Benefits reduced by 10%                 15  %
d)  Investment Cost increased by 10%    20  Y
Footnotes 1/ - 6/ listed on  tfollowing page.
April 1978



ANNEX 5
Table 3
FOOTNOTES TO TABLE 3 - Economic Rate of Return
/1   Project life is assumed 20 years.
/2   Includes incremental benefits from cattle fattening, pig breeding,
poultry, sheep and dairy farms. Since the proposed slaughterhouses and
dairy plant would enter long term supply contract with these farms, only
surplus produce sold in other markets is shown. Details on technical
parameter and cost estimates are given in Working Paper No. 4, Project
Implementation Volume.
/3   Barley and potato would be sold to the proposed maltery and potato pro-
cessing plant respectively at zero cost. Benefits shown are for wheat,
maize and fruits and vegetables. Details on outputs and inputs are shown
in Working Paper No. 3.
/4   Maize and wheat are the predominant crops.  Assumptions on yield, inputs
and investment are presented in Working Paper No. 5.
/5   Support Services financed under the project would be available to farmers
in the region and the Republic. Income from such services are shown in
the benefit stream. Details of income and cost estimates are given in
Working Paper No. 6.
/6   Incremental benefits from the proposed processing plants are aggregated.
The operating costs shown are net of cost of raw material supplied by the
project at zero cost. Investment cost specifications, income and operat-
ing costs for the processing plants are presented in Working Paper No. 7.



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BOSANSKA-KRAJINA AGRICULTURE AND AGRO-INDUSTRIES PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Employment, Benefit and Cost Coefficients
Farmers                Total No.  Capital Cost  Capital Cost   Annual Net                Capital Cost
Employ.   Receiv.   Indirect         of       Per Benefi-         Per         Income Per                 Per
Invest.Cost-   Created   Credit    Benefici.  Benefici.  ciary Family   Reneficiarv    Beneficiary Family    Hectare
--Din '000--  (Man-yrs)                                       ------------------------Din '00------------------------------
I. Primary Agricultural Production
A. Livestock Production
Dairy                              283,502        469       1,250         -          1,719        165                37         -       98            -
Cattle fattening                    63,000        225         600         -            825         76                17                 59            -
Pig Breeding/fattening             181,126        209         600         -809                    224                50                 75            -
Broilers                            55,125         94          125        -            219        252                56                 78            -
Sheep                               21,632         59         200        -             259         84                19                117            -
B. Crop S Horticultural Production
Fruit Farms                        127,051        605         440         -          1,045        122                27                131
Vegetable Farms                    100,013        379          500        -            879        114                25                 81
Farm Machinery                     157,173        500       8,000      22,000       30,500          5                 1                  -
Grain Storage/Drying               162,750          25      8,000      22,000       30,025          5                 1
Extension Service                   26,250        106       8,000      32,000       40,000          0.7               0.1
C. Land Reclamation
Bosanska Dubica                    135,440        160          300-       -            460          -                                    -           33
Nova Topola                         67,890          96         -          _             96          --                                                32
Srbac                     ~~~~~~~39,123   59         -           -             59          -                 --3
Prnjavor                            37,442          50         -          -             50          -                 -                  -           30
Nova Topola (Irrigation)            48,456          60         -          -             60          -                 -                  -           40
II.  0Dlpport Services 3/
Heifer rearing                          25,573          18         -           800          818        31                 7                  -
Pig Breeding                            82,876           3         -           600           603      137                30                  -
Cattle Breeding                         40,215          20         -           600           620        65               14
Sheep farms                             23,128          11         -           200           211      110                24
Seed Processing                         23,415          20         -        10,200       10,200          2                0.4
Etprnsinn ITnit                          7,350          15         -        40,000       40,015          6.2
Fruit Nursery                            18,085         15                     440           455        40                 9
Machinery Workihop                       57,674        157         -         8,000        8,157         71                16
III. Agro-Industries Development
Milk processing                        154,917          70         -        16,250       16,320         10                 2
Meat proc. - IMPRO                       46,168         431/       -         1,300         1,343        34                 8
Meat Proc. - KIH                         70,566         30         -         1,100         1,130        63                14
Meat Rendering                           63,378         20         -          -               20         4                 1
Poultry Processing                       50,085         23         -           125           148       338                75
Fruit juice processing                 185,756         380         -         1,710         2,090        89                20
Potato processing                       251,790        276         -         1,lOO         1,376       183                41
Plum processing                         69,074         100         _         6,500        6,600         10                 2                  -
Maltery                                166,341          70         -         1,100         1,170       142                32
Vitaminka expans.                        48,352        194         -         3,000         3,194        15                 3                  -            -    m .
1/ Excludes Price Contingency.
2/ About 300 individual farmers would receive credit.
51 The proposed Support Services would cater to farmers in the project area and the Republic at large. Based on the
planned output of these components, improved livestock breed and seed would be available annually to the indirect
beneficiaries shown in the table.
4/ Without the project it is likely that the slaughterhouse would be closed and an estimated 240 employees currently
working In IrTRO coulI l-'e. their jobs.
April 1978



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BOSANSKA-KRAJINA AGRICULTtJRE AND AGRO-TNDUSTRIES PROJECT
YtJGOSLAVIA
Project Receipts and Disbursements
During Life of the Proposed IBRD Loan
(Din. '000)
1978     1979      1980      1981     1982      1983      1q84    1985      1986      1987      1988      1989      1990     1991       1992        1993
Source of Funds
1.  Local Funds 1/                 4843       745.1    668.2    448.1       42.2      -         -        -        -         -        -          -         -          -        _           _
2.  INFOD Loan -                    22.5      388.3    388.3    211.8       15.2                    -              -        -                   _         _          _        _           _
3.  Loan and Interest Collection j
(a)  Principal                   C          0       30.5    164.1    212.7    264.5    302.7   290.3    285.8    332.5    223.3    197.0    195.9    195.2               121.9      112.5
(b)  Interest                    4.8       45.o    108.5    164.5    175.2    159.2    139.6   118.6          96.8      76.5     60.2      44.3      29.4      14.0        3.7         0
Sob-total                       71.6    1178.4   1151.5    988.5    445.3    423.7    442.3   408.9    382.6    409.0    283.5    241.3    225.3    209.2                125.6       112.5
Application of Fiinds
4.  Loans to Sub-borrowers          66.8    1133.4   1012.5    659.9        57.4      -         -
5.  Financial EIxpenses
(a)  Commitment Fee              7.2        4.3       1.7      0.1       -        -         -
(b)  Tnterest to IR,D i          0.8       16.1     43.7      61.4      63.9      58.3      52.1    46.o      40.1      33-9     27.8      21.7      15.5       9.8        3.3        0
6.  Repayment to IBRD 2'              -           -       -        40.9      81.8     81.8      81.8    81.8       8i.8     81.8      81.8      81.8      81.8      81.8      81.8        80.9
Sob-total                       74.8    1153.8   1057.9    762.3    203.1    140.1    133,9   127.8    121.9    115.7    109.6    103.5              97.3      91.2       85.1        40.9
Surplus for Local
Debt Servicing                (3.2)      24,6      93.6    226.2    242.2    283.6    308.4   281.1    260.7    293.3    173.9    137.8    128.0    118.0               40-5        71.6
7.  Cost of Local Funds               1 1,4    26.3      68.8      96.2    103.4      93.3      79.4    66.2       53.4     37.6      28.7      21.4      13.5       6.4        3.3         0.8
8.  Return to Local Funds Z           C         0        30.5    123.2    130.9    182.7    220.9   208.5    204.0    250.7    141.5    115.2    ii4.1    113.4                40.1       71.9
Sub-total                        1.4       26,3      99.3    219.4    234.3    276.o    300.3   274.7    257.4    288.3    170.2    136.6    127.6    119.8               43.9        72.7
Annual Cash Inflow                   (1.8)      (1-7)    (5-7)      6.8       7.9       7.6       8.1     6.4       3,3       5.3       3.7      1.2       o.4      (1.8)      (3.4)       (1.1)
Cummulative Cash Inflow              (1.8)      (3.5)    (9.2)    (2.4)       5.5      13.1     21.2    27.6       30.9      35.9     39.6      40.8      41.2      39.4       36.o        34.9
1/  Local bank and 1BRD loans represent 80% of investment costs.
The principal and interest collections are on both local bank and IBRD loans.  Interest
rates on local funds are 5% and 6%o for individual and social secbors respectively;
ll  on IBRD loans.
3/ 3/4 of 1% on undisbursed ITRD loans.
Annual interest rate of 7.5%.
5/ IBRD loans are repayable in 15 years including 3 1/2 years grace period.
The local funds are provided from different sources:  Share in Local Funds (%)   Interest Rate (%)
FNP through PBS                           33                        4.o
PBS Associated Funds                      15                        7.5
Green Plan Funds                          16                        7.5
PBS Branch Banks                          36                        7.5
Weighted Average                                                  6.3
7/ Principal collection less repayment to IBRD.
August 1978



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BOSANSKA KRAJINA AGRICULTURE AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Organization Chart of AIPK (Iniucling Proposed Changes for the Projeit)
|   i  RA1 AbSiMBLY OF .-Al .... E.     1
EXECUTIVEE BOARDS 7                         CeTAL NRIZN1ATION                             PRJC UNI
For -1nvitsmenT nnd PI-ms      MANAGEMENTOBOARD Io IMR                                 ? Rmb    sa SR U:I I4
-F  IMet                               lrnd Mis L  .6Pr1h                      L                     J
F., Frv 1r VeSr bI. L-e                     D-,vt PrBvden                                ___  
F.f C-ri,lt L-e                             ViFv Ph_dmnL
FF Tnde  Fpf M_ eNd Mgk Lne              I SEED PROCE#ING PLANT                    I
F., S lfmunm-nt   L    -jMrd FoT COP Llne                                                              _ SOAL    {or AirL-ltunl  R.. h S_l           P0oddo   .n
P-1B7nFel                                   FoT RuS RIlolF1UO
For Trd
A  ET                                    CATTLE AOMEIDING AND PRLOGENY TESTING
IPEMBEDU   O                             ShN p         RA                                                     *h F-rA *
D_r ol Work. ICom-  WO)                  BOAL Ir Liwn.    R ~ hnd AnZfi..l II
Dlre    _k. rIu  WO)
D;ielor InFrmnion   _  TECHNICAL SUWLRT UNIT
_OU                   EOjOkU,0  ROAL InAL hrAi.l  I.O-AL  lIdR F.-on)
r                                                                            SBOALSGIUUOOAII010~~~~~~~~ -  OAloltroEnln"n 
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W f
|  MEATRCENDERINGPLANT           I VEGRTAB LE PROCESSING PLANT                                       TPRIMARYAGICUBTURAL             MnebE 2h                                     r                                    0015000 
BOAL Do,,',  BOALLKR  |RUCESSINA PLANOALVTnkF                      |                                   _1AL
|  l K PI'MCE;SI:G ILANr|       MEAT PRO ESSiNG PLAIT      l     ]PUM PROCESSING PLANT                 r        -___                   _ .SFI                                        |FAL.IT PLANIT NURERY
SO BAL .llek_                    BOAL Cmr                   |      lBAL Paocnk                                 MATR           ||    I BOAL Pbn |I                                                                          BOAl S         {    -      seAr fT
r                                   r- - - _-  _     -  -  -     - - -                               1713C BALS lo.  :urr
-|MEAT RENDERING ILAN'    !        1  RUlT -UICE PROCESSING PLANT                                   7                                                                                       R dndF_  OALPmu, l  -    ZOLS_wm 
L   BOAL D-sre  l    _    POLLT-PFFDCES-lNGPLANT |    -1 POTATO PROCESSING PLANT                                               -  - -  - -OULE                                                                                I -j-
----          ----                  ---         --       --
RollS, RO,0F-
BOA L G-,000
KEY                                                                                                                                       Z
- -pva -Oppls   l    -1   BOA L Spank   |  _ _ _ _ To Go nmObli hIldUndS T 111    P,0Is-t                                               | -  #
-|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R BOLKH1 m   9132



ANNEX 8
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BOSANSKA-KRAJINA AGRICULTURE AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.        General Reports and Studies on the Agriculture Sector
A.:L      World Bank "The Economy of the Socialist Republic of Bosnia-
Herzegovina." August 1974. (3 Volumes).
B.        General Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B.L       Project Preparation Report "Bosanska Krajina Agriculture and
Agroindustries Project" by AIPK Banja Luka. October 1977 (3 Volumes).
B. 2      "Development of an Agricultural Food Complex in the Bosanska
Krajina Region" Technical Report 1 (AGO:DP/YUG/71/514) by UNDP/FAO, Rome
1975.
B.:3       "Food Processing Industry Development Plan for Bosanska Krajina
Region" report to UNIDO by Industries Development Corporation Limited
(International Services), Israel. June 1973. (2 Volumes).
B.4        "Development of an Agricultural Food Complex in the Bosanska
Kriajina Region, Yugoslavia," Project, Findings and Recommendations. Terminal
Report (AGO: DP/YU971/514) by UNDP/FAO, Rome 1975.
C.        Project Implementation Volume (Working Papers)
C.1       The Crop and Horticultural Subsectors in Project Area.
C.2       Livestock Subsector in Project Area.
C.3       The Project:  Crop Production Component.
C.4       The Project:  Livestock Production Component.
C.5       The Project:  Land Development Component.
C.6       The Project:  Support Services for Individual Sector Component.
C.7       The Project:  Agroindustries Component.
C.8       Detailed Project Cost Etimates.



\USTRIA                                               
. tD. v >---.r                 1.  ~H          U    N            G   r)A            R    uy             
t\ ) S L OE           N   I    A    ...................... Vazd n ,9,,
LJUBLJANA o                                                                                      O-~   \      // Subo1ica     S
TRIESTt) fs S ~ '-\ZAGRFB                                                                                               Q<>>) 
Koper/----.              .      ,   Karlovac Osjh , 
a; ; '~~ R                    0      ' A    T           OD I  A 
9 i                         8anloo    t                             W /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nv (Sad           Xt
1y <\ -\        +, " or 
YUGOSLAVIAB (D'  .. I A              H  E RN  E /G RO VI N A 
PROJECT                                                        J    >             >    ,---~~SARJEV
-  Republics Boundories < ., xD |-blanic    
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~- --Atnmu  rvncsBudre      
-  -  Irlternollonol Boundories   1   WoddBaWAsslaKseerlasiwlylof   >     >!       A   C   E   D  O  N  i  A          i 0~~~~:Ni
L ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~m                                                              \. TE N- E G R                 C 



I



IBRD 13953
rh,a p has O..a reosd Syrho WoOd de- I eff oCs,O  a , aan,c    V1,
Oh. -d- of rhow - on   -hO C1 do    .apahed Th- d o.....n. Psedeodeo , W   ,aa7V-' 'HUNGARY
haOVAp,6 nOyudf m.o- on thP 1lopregel ol "API  ItOmo or my eOdOsSsh er   o' >           '7  ROMAN IA
acoapreose 0f5'~~~~hhO5sodeaes ~CROATIA
YUGOSLAVIA                                                                                                                BOS NIOBCEOA;  - SERA 2
BOSANSKA KRAJINA                                                                                              _4so  c'   
AGRICULTURE AND AGROINDUSTRIES PROJECT                                                                                                                                      ov q, >A  &
LOCATION OF PROJECT COMPONENTS                                                                                             42 ITALY                       MAcEDONIA
VETRAINAGPROJECETSR  ATEBEDN                                                 RJD                 ,            t,           ()D,:X>
ANIRRIGATION PROJECI T                                                                                                                                               *'
- MIELKPROCESSING  PLANT                              KA N                               :2       4s          ,r                 .        , 
-MEXTENSONCESSNGPLANS                                                                                             TOP AOAx    ',.~;, < ,><I    .)'
BANPROGENY PROESTING PAT                                                                      .     8     ,      :     :. 
(  SHEIEPRESAC FARM 0  ............... <[IG
NURSECONDARYRROAOSY7                         j    t                      t   Din /                  ; 8                1AdAJC  KA
MACHINAER PROJECT E,
, A-   Gfi    ROISNDUSTIVESTC
MILKO PROCESSINGPLN
MEX EATSRONCESSNTE   LATSBSA
VETERINARY CENTE, CATTLE BREERIN
U PRONY TESTING EGIN S 
BAERLER PARMCSIGPAT
QSHEEP FARM           FARM
t AGRUINOUSTRIESISN                                                        J     -                                                KILOMA E
-MAIK PROCESSNPLT
BARLEYA PROCESSIGPAT
PROJECT AR EA BO UNODARY
----REPULIC BOUNDARY
HILLY REGION SUITABLE FOR
HILLS SUITABLE FOR FORAGE
~~~BENIK                                                              ,        '<  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FORESTS    ~ A



