Report No. PID9459
Project Name                     Sri Lanka-Sri Lanka Central Bank...
Strengthening
Region                           South Asia Regional Office
Sector                           Financial Sector Development
Project                          LKPE71131
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF SRI LANKA
Implementing Agency
Address                          CENTRAL BANK OF SRI LANKA (CBSL)
Amarananda S. Jayawardena, Governor
Central Bank of Sri Lanka, 30
Janadhipathi Mawatha, Colombo 1,
SRI LANKA
Contact Person: A.S. Jayawardena
Tel: 94 1 477 176
Fax: 94 1 477 712
Email: gov cb@slt.lk
Environment Category             C (Not Required)
Date PID Prepared                August 15, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         September 15, 2000
Projected Board Date             March 30, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Background - The Sri Lanka's financial sector comprises diverse institutions,
including public and private banks, specialized banks, finance companies,
leasing companies, merchant banks, and many provident and unit trust funds.
The Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) operates with a considerable degree of
independence in most areas and has a significant role in influencing
government policy and managing the financial system. CBSL performs a broad
range of traditional central bank activities and carries out financial
activities not traditionally associated with central banks -- including
managing the GOSL sponsored provident plans and providing financing to
selected sectors (agriculture, exports, and troubled finance companies). Sri
Lanka's financial system is shallow, with assets concentrated in government
securities and liabilities in bank deposits. The banking sector is dominated
by the two state commercial banks (SCBs), Bank of Ceylon (BOC) and People's
Bank (PB), which account for 55 percent of banking sector assets. There are
large inefficiencies in the banking sector as evidenced by high
intermediation costs and a high level of non-performing assets. Despite
substantial improvement in the bank regulatory and supervisory environment in
Sri Lanka since 1988, bank supervision still remains weak. Examiner training
is still inadequate and the growth in staff size and experience has lagged
behind the growth in the number, size, and complexity of institutions to be
supervised. Securities markets have grown rapidly in recent years, but
equity markets are still shallow.
Primary debt markets are nascent and are dominated by short-term government
securities. There is less activity in secondary debt markets due to the
captive nature of the main holders of government securities. While CBSL



accepts the use of open market operations as the principal tool for financial
market intervention and management, it has yet to fully integrate the use of
this tool in its financial market activities. Information Technology (IT)
systems in the CBSL is still fragmented with stand alone non-standard and
multiple platform systems. There is a need to move to an integrated policy
environment, with modern information management practices to ensure accuracy
and consistency of information. In general, there are systemic weaknesses in
the areas of: (i) Communication Network; (ii) IT Policy and Procedures; and
(iii) Major Applications (such as the payment system).
2. Objectives
The project will aim at: (a) upgrading the payments system by introducing a
real time gross settlement system; (b) improving monetary policy, exchange
rate and foreign reserve management; and (c) strengthening the regulatory
framework to cover a wider range of financial sector activities such as
developing the debt market, particularly by introducing a scripless
government securities trading system and an electronic screen-based trading
system for primary dealers, and developing E-Business.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The GOSL requested assistance from the World Bank because of its experience
in countries around the World and recently in crisis management in the
countries of East Asia. The Bank also has extensive experience in private
sector development, an important element of which is a sound financial sector
4. Description
The proposed project has two main over-arching components:
1.      Central Bank Reorganization and Restructuring - which includes
three sub-components:
1. a.   Monetary Policy management
1. b.   Financial Sector Regulation
1. c.   Training and Research
2.      Making the Payments System More Efficient.
1.      Central Bank Restructuring and Reorganization. There is a need to take
a fresh look and revisit the role and functions of the central bank to ensure
that they are in line with what is required in a modern economic environment.
The Monetary Policy Management sub-component will seek to strengthen the
Central Bank's monetary management capabilities. It will help to strengthen
the systems and procedures relating to more market oriented open market
operations. The Financial Sector Regulation sub-component would cover two
main areas: (a) the development of a legal framework for the regulation and
supervision of money and foreign exchange brokers; and (b) issues related to
money laundering. Currently there are no regulations governing foreign
exchange brokers and the CBSL is keen to develop this capacity. The proposed
project will also support training and the development of research capacities
within the Central Bank.
2.      Automating the Payments System and E-Business.    The main elements of
this component, which is likely to comprise the largest part of the potential
credit would be the purchase of the hardware and software to assist in the
automation of the payments system with a Real Time Gross Settlements (RTGS)
capability. The project will also support the CBSL to develop E-Commerce and
E-Banking.
-2-



5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT               3.0
IBRD
IDA                      12.0
Total Project Cost       15.0
6. Implementation
The Central Bank will take the lead to implement this project. Under the
project, IDA will assist the government to set up a task force (overseen by
Financial Sector Reform Committee) to develop and further refine the reform
areas and to closely monitor the implementation of the project. The Task
Force should have strong representation from the IT, public debt, and banking
Departments of the Central Bank and the banking sector for effective
implementation of Payments System. The Task force should also include a
Human Resources/Training specialist as well as an accountant to handle the
financial management of the project.
Reporting Requirements. A system for monitoring, evaluation, and proper
recording should be established by the project administrator and the
accountant. This system should include Quarterly Reports on implementation
progress of the project for the Chairman of the Steering Committee and for
IDA.
7. Sustainability
There could be risk from supporting a highly sophisticated payments system
which proves to either be "overkill" for the requirements of the country --
or alternatively not utilized to its full potential due to the lack of
sophistication of the sector. This should, however, be dealt with in the
design stage of the project to ensure proper balance. It is also a risk
that, while developing and modernizing the central bank, the Government
remains unprepared to deal with the more fundamental problems in the
commercial banking sector. It is anticipated that the current project will
provide a useful vehicle for dialogue with the central banking authorities in
Sri Lanka and it is hoped that this will ultimately lead to some agreement on
tackling the more fundamental commercial banking reforms, ensuring
sustainability of the benefits.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Lessons from other IDA-financed TA projects in Sri Lanka indicate that these
TA projects are usually slow to implement and disburse, and are difficult to
administer, in particular in large projects. The following are some of the
lessons learned in managing above mentioned IDA financed operations. (i)
Setting up an efficient administrative unit made a very significant
contribution to the success of the project, in particular if it is headed by
a senior official, with coordination among various stakeholders; (ii) Lead
taken by the CBSL and MOFP in the Policy Dialogue to keep the reform program
on track; (iii) IDA's close and continuous coordination with the senior
staff of the CBSL and MOFP provide an opportunity for IDA to bring to the
notice of the senior policy makers the issues relating to the slow progress
in the financial sector; and (iv) Proper monitoring and reporting with
regular reviews of the issues.
IDA will attempt to keep this project small and focused and will take notes
of above mentioned lessons learned in order to effectively achieve the
- 3 -



project objectives. In addition the government prepared a well thought out
program with specific and focused objectives and expected outputs. IDA will
coordinate with other donors and activities in CBSL to avoid duplication of
work and maximize the efficiency and transparency of the project. A
participatory approach in project development and implementation is important
in building ownership and successful outcomes. For this project, the CBSL's
commitment is evident as discussed below.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        Not applicable.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Simon C. Bell, Financial Economist, SASFP
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-4931
Fax: 202-522-1145
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
- 4 -



