                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 34091

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                   (PPFI-Q2500 IDA-35250 TF-29895)

                                                  ON A

                                        LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 23.9 MILLION (USD 30.3 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                       DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

                                                FOR THE

                     SRI LANKA: CENTRAL BANK STRENGTHENING PROJECT




                                              MAY 15, 2006




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2005)

                           Currency Unit = Sri Lanka Rupee
                                SLR 100 = US$ 1
                                  US$ 1 = SLR 100

                                 FISCAL YEAR


                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BCP                  :               Business Continuity Plans
BSD                  :               Bank Supervision Department
CAS                  :               Country Assistance Strategy
CBSP                 :               Central Bank Strengthening Project
CIT                  :               Cheque Imaging and Truncation
DO                   :               Development Objective
DvP                  :               Delivery versus Payment
EFT                  :               Electronic Fund Transfers
EPF                  :               Employees' Provident Fund
ETF                  :               Employees' Trust Fund
FSSSG                :               Financial System Stability Study Group
GLS                  :               General Ledger System
IMF                  :               International Monetary Fund
LCB                  :               Licensed Commercial Banks
LSB                  :               Licensed Speculated Banks
LTBO                 :               Local Treasury Bills Ordinance
MLA                  :               Monetary Law Act
NBSD                 :               Non-Bank Supervision Department
OMO                  :               Open Market Ooperations
PDMO                 :               Public Denbt Management Office
PMU                  :               Project Management Unit
RSSO                 :               Registered Stock and Securities Ordinance
RTGS                 :               Real Time Gross Settlement
SRR                  :               Statutory Reserve Requirements
SSSS                 :               Scripless Securities Settlement System
VRS                  :               Voluntary Retirement Scheme




                          Vice President:     Praful C. Patel
                       Country Director       Peter C. Harrold
                        Sector Manager        Simon C. Bell
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Sriyani Hulugalle

                                         SRI LANKA
                        Sri Lanka Central Bank Strengthening Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            20
6. Sustainability                                                                21
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 22
8. Lessons Learned                                                               24
9. Partner Comments                                                              25
10. Additional Information                                                       25
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             27
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             30
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             33
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             34
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             36
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                37
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            38
Annex 8. Borrower's Report                                                       39
Annex 9. Cofinancier's Report                                                    53

Project ID: P071131                                                  Project Name: Sri Lanka Central Bank Strengthening
Team Leader: Sriyani Hulugalle                                       TL Unit: SASFP
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: May 16, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Sri Lanka Central Bank Strengthening                     L/C/TF Number: PPFI-Q2500; IDA-35250;
                                                                                                     TF-29895
   Country/Department: SRI LANKA                                                          Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Banking (68%); Payment systems, securities clearance and settlement (30%); Law and justice
                            (2%)
                  Theme: State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Legal institutions for a market
                            economy (P); Standards and financial reporting (P); Decentralization (S); Other economic
                            management (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 08/31/2000                                     Effective: 08/24/2001                08/24/2001
     Appraisal: 01/16/2001                                         MTR: 10/29/2003                  10/29/2003
      Approval: 06/19/2001                                      Closing: 07/31/2005                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF SRI LANKA/CENTRAL BANK OF SRI LANKA (CBSL)
                      Other Partners:      Swedish International Development Agency

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:               Peter C. Harrold                               Mariana Todorowa
Sector Manager:                 Simon C. Bell                                  Joseph Del Mar Pernia
Team Leader at ICR:             Sriyani Hulugalle
ICR Primary Author:             Sriyani Hulugalle


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        HS
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          HS


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

         The development objective (DO) of the Central Bank Strengthening Project (CBSP) was to support
the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) in its efforts to effect a fundamental restructuring and
reorganization program to create a lean, well functioning, modernized, and efficient central bank capable of
supporting strong economic growth over the medium to long term. The project was also expected to pave
the way for further financial sector reforms with the ultimate objective of establishing a fully private,
competitive, and prudently managed banking system.

Assessment

         When the Central Bank initiated its modernization program in 2000, the financial sector reforms
were not considered a priority for the Government of Sri Lanka. The state banking sector was saddled with
high intermediation costs due to high level of non performing assets and poor recovery programs.The
government borrowings from the state banks were at a high level and the state interventions in the banking
sector was relatively high. The bank supervision capacity was weak and the role of the CBSL in the
financial sector reforms was not significant. In such a scenario, the expectations of institutional reforms
and financial sector reforms were considered too ambitious. However, the Central Bank modernization
process from the outset had a strong commitment from the Government and the Central Bank and was seen
as a platform for future reforms in the public sector.

         The CBSL has been able to achieve the development objective of creating a lean, well functioning,
modernized, and efficient central bank capable of supporting strong economic growth over the medium to
long term within the agreed four year period. At the implementation stage, given the flexible design of the
project, the CBSL could expand some of the components to achieve greater benefits exceeding the original
targets. The CBSL modernization gathered momentum as the reforms continued, mainly because the
management demonstrated strong commitment to reforms and developed credibility in the minds of the staff
and the financial sector community. The initial resistance gradually withered away with demonstrated
benefits accrued to the staff due to the reforms undertaken.

         It is evident that careful planning created a stage for successful implementation without any major
set backs during the project implementation despite a volatile political environment. Another positive
measure that was evident from the beginning, was the integrated approach to human resource development
by identifying core objectives of the organization, designing an organizational structure to cater to the
emerging needs, identifying the skill requirements and gaps and designing a staff development program to
cater to the enhancement of the needed skills. Despite having strong employee unions, the CBSL also was
able to design a successful voluntary retirement scheme (VRS) after studying various other VRSs offered
in the sector. Simultaneously, the CBSL initiated the process of acquiring hardware, software and
enhancement of skills to set up an integrated, automated payment, clearing and settlement system for high
value and other time critical payments, a scripless securities settlement system and an automated real time
accounting system. The CBSL became the first in South Asia to have an integrated payment and
government securities system that eliminated financial risks through a near real time delivery versus
payment (DvP) mechanism. At a later stage, realizing the importance of an efficient payment and
settlement system for all segments of an evolving economy, CBSL and the Banking Industry initiated a
cheque imaging and truncation project to reduce cheque clearing time throughout the country from 2-7
days to one day. This initiative will provide improved retail system benefits for all segments of the




                                                      - 2 -

population especially those living in provinces outside the Western Province.

        The modernization program has enhanced the credibility of the CBSL with the government,
financial sector community and the public and the CBSL leadership role in financial sector reforms has
been reinforced. The Governor of the CBSL was appointed as the co-chair when the financial sector
reforms committee was set up in 2002. With the change of administration in 2004, under the National
Council for Economic Development, several sectoral clusters were established and the financial cluster is
headed by a Deputy Governor of the CBSL. The leadership of the CBSL has been critical in maintaining
continuity in the financial sector reforms agenda. The Bankers' Association and other representatives of
the financial sector community regard the CBSL with greater professional respect. The CBSL project has
been a model for reforms in other South Asian central banks and can be a model for public sector reforms
in Sri Lanka.


3.2 Revised Objective:
        No change.

3.3 Original Components:
The project components as stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) were:

1. Central Bank Reorganization and Restructuring (US $ 20.2 million - 66.2% of the total cost): to
    assist the CBSL to commence a program of fundamental restructuring and reorganization of its
    activities to realign the bank with the rapid changes and the globalization of financial markets by
    supporting, (a) Human Resource Development Program, (b) Voluntary Retirement Scheme, and (c)
    Capacity Building of various departments.

2. Payments and Securities Clearing & Settlement Improvement (US $ 8.94 million 29.3% of the total
    cost): to establish a fully automated, integrated payment and settlement system through, (a) the
    introduction of a Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) system, (b) upgrading the Scripless Securities
    Settlement System (SSSS) and; (c) automation of the General Ledger in the CBSL.

3. Financial Market Regulation and Development including the Project Preparation Facility (US $
    1.34 million - 4.4% of the total cost): to finance studies and consultancies focusing on financial
    system development by supporting, (a) legal reforms, and (b) other financial sector studies in priority
    areas.

4. Implementation Support (US $ 0.02 million - 0.1% of total cost): to provide any additional office
    equipment required for the project implementation unit.

Assessment

        The components were well defined and focused to achieve the development objective of the
modernization and financial sector reforms. Modernization process was financed mainly by the CBSL
resources while IDA funds were used for major expenditure items such as the Voluntary Retirement
Scheme, acquisition of an integrated payment and settlement system and the comprehensive staff
development program. Therefore, CBSL could achieve the reforms which were within its purview. The
CBSL also could proactively initiate discussions and drafted a legal framework for non core functions to be
eventually phased out of the CBSL when the other public or independent institutions are created or
technically enhanced.




                                                     - 3 -

3.4 Revised Components:

Component; Cost; Rating

1. Central Bank Reorganization and Restructuring
    A. Human Resource Development.;          $580,000.00;     S
    B. Support for a Voluntary Retirement Scheme (VRS).;          $10,570,000.00;       HS
    C. General Support for various departments.;        $1,500,000.00;     S

2. Payment System;
    A. Introduction of a Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) system and support for upgrading the
        Scripless Government Securities System (SGSS).;        $6,780,000.00; HS
    B. Automation of the General Ledger in the Central Bank;         $1,540,000.00;      HS
    C. Upgrade of Systems related to Payments; $830,000; HS
    D. Cheque Imaging and Truncation System; $3,040,000; HS

3. Financial Markets Regulation and Development;
    A. Legal Reforms and Other financial sector studies in priority areas;        $1,430,000.00;    S

4. Project Preparation Facility (PPF);    $430,000.00;      HS

5. Part Z - North East Reconstruction;     $5,480,000.00;     S

        With the introduction of the Cease Fire Agreement between the government and the LTTE, US$
5.0 million was reallocated for North and East Reconstruction Program in December 2002 at the request of
the government to assist the internally displaced persons (IDPs). Initially funds were reallocated for
livelihood grants to the IDPs and in July 2005 US$ 892,810 was further reallocated for physical
infrastructure to improve service delivery for the IDPs.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

        The quality at entry of CBSL project is considered satisfactory considering that the project
objectives are worthwhile, the risks commensurate with potential rewards, the project is likely to achieve its
objectives, and the underlying logic is clearly articulated. The project is strategically relevant as it meets the
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) objective of achieving a sound and strong financial sector to support
private sector development and more rapid growth.

        The project is technically, financially and economically sound given the short payback periods of
most of the investment components especially the VRS. There is also a strong evidence of stakeholder
commitment and the implementation arrangements commensurate with country conditions. Moreover, the
operation conforms to the Bank's Safeguard Policies. The quality and cost-effectiveness of Bank-related
inputs and processes of this operation are also considered to be satisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
        The project has at the end of the implementation period realized its objective of transforming the
Central Bank into a modern, strong and efficient institution. Achievement of the development objective was



                                                      - 4 -

assessed on the basis of 7 outcomes: (i) a central bank that is more focused on its core functions; (ii)
effective reorganization to meet the demands of a modern and globalized economy; (iii)an efficient and
modern HR department; (iv) effective staff training; (v) efficient automated payment, clearing and
settlement systems; (vi) effective monetary policy management; and, (vii) improved government securities
market with a scripless system. The implementing agency exceeded the targets in all these and actual
achievement of the outcomes will be provided in Annex I. The total project cost was US$ 42.0 million of
which IDA provided US$ 30.3 million. With the currency fluctuations the total increased to approximately
US$ 35.0 million and the disbursement rate at the close of the project was 99.89% with an undisbursed
balance of US$ 0.39 million.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Component 1: The Central Bank Reorganization and Restructuring

        The CBSL reorganization and restructuring envisaged assisting the CBSL to strengthen and
modernize itself through, (a) Human Resource Development Program, (b) Voluntary Retirement Scheme,
and, (c) ) General Support for capacity building of various departments.

a. The Human Resource Development sought to assist the modernization and reorganization process by
     funding the establishment of a fully professional HR Department which can play a key role in effecting
     the re-engineering of CSBL by developing a holistic human resource management policy including
     recruitment, placement, evaluation, compensation, promotion, incentives, mobility and training.

b. Support for a Voluntary Retirement Scheme(VRS) aimed at providing partial funding to address
     redundancy in the re-focused organizational structure before embarking on human resource
     development in a systematic manner. The VRS's target was to reduce staff levels in the non staff and
     minor staff grades by 45% and 100% respectively and achieve a total staff reduction of approximately
     50% in three rounds.

c. General Support for Capacity Building of various departments consist of provision of appropriate
     technical assistance to enhance the skills and capacity of the staff in various departments of CBSL,
     especially those engaged in core functions such as banking regulation and supervision, monetary policy
     and payment system oversight. It also envisaged recruitment of appropriate and qualified staff for
     important departments, including management audit department and funding to procure systems and
     enable automation of the secretariat department and the library.


Assessment

         Reorganization of the CBSL was "home grown" and initiated within the CBSL and did not require
a significant level of funding. The CBSL set up a modernization steering committee which was facilitated
by the incumbent IMF Resident Representative at the initial stage. Subsequently, five focus groups were set
up to review objectives, organizational structure, management processes, human resources and consensus
building. The recommendations were reviewed by the management and consolidated into a modernization
strategy. The strategy outlined the core functions as price and financial sector stability and proposed an
organization structure appropriate for achieving the objectives, proposed rationalization of the management
processes to improve efficiency and designing a human resource development plan to enhance staff skills
that could be professionally and technically competent to perform duties in a modern institution. These
studies highlighted the need for a VRS prior to embarking on a major restructuring plan. The project
supported the initial efforts of financing technical assistance to refine the proposed VRS and prepare the
technical specifications for an automated payment system with a Project Preparation Facility of US $



                                                     - 5 -

600,000 which contributed immensely to follow-up success of both these components at the implementation
stage.

         The CBSL re-defined the core functions as, (i) economic and price stability and (ii) financial
system stability and made amendments to the Monetary Law Act (MLA) to provide legal backing for the
reforms while defining agency functions such as exchange control, public debt, provident fund
management, regional development and ancillary services as non core functions. The strategy was to phase
out or outsource the non core functions eventually.

Core Functions

(i) Price Stability

              In order to achieve price stability over the past four years, significant strides have been made
     in the monetary policy framework making it more transparent and market-oriented, while enhancing its
     effectiveness. Major changes include amendments to the Monetary Law Act (MLA), the adoption of a
     floating exchange rate regime, establishment of a Monetary Policy Committee, moving to a more active
     Open Market Operations (OMO) system, and improving dissemination of information to the public.
     The amendment to the MLA passed in December 2002, provided greater flexibility to the CBSL in
     conducting monetary policy. Flexibility was given to the Monetary Board in defining money supply and
     the limits on statutory reserve requirements (SRR) were removed providing greater flexibility to the
     Monetary Board to define liable financial institutions and instruments for the purposes of SRR. Since
     the introduction of a floating exchange rate regime in January 2001, the CBSL is in a better position to
     focus monetary policy on achieving price stability and its intervention in the foreign exchange market is
     limited to minimizing excessive fluctuations and building up official external reserves.

               CBSL has moved from a restrictive policy regime to a more market based monetary policy
     regime. The monetary policy committee (MPC) assisted in expanding the scope of discussions on
     monetary policy issues within the CBSL, as is the practice in many other modern central banks. The
     MPC meets monthly to evaluate monetary developments and make recommendations to the Monetary
     Board on the stance of the monetary policy. The CBSL has improved the transparency of monetary
     policy by posting the overall monetary policy framework and projections on the CBSL website and
     updating them regularly. The changes are notified to market players simultaneously, with explanatory
     notes. Action has also been taken to provide more information to the market on new developments to
     enable market participants and the public to have a better understanding of monetary policy objectives.
     The objective of the exercise is to improve the effectiveness of monetary policy by enhancing the
     credibility of policies which is a crucial factor affecting the formation of expectations.

             The effectiveness of implementing the monetary policy was further enhanced with the launch of
     the automated payments and settlements systems. A system of active OMO was adopted in March
     2003 which enabled the CBSL to manage market liquidity more effectively to ensure the realization of
     monetary targets. Key features of the new system were a daily auction to inject or absorb liquidity and
     providing an interest rate corridor. Repurchase and Reverse Repurchase rates, which form the interest
     rate corridor, have become the CBSL's main policy rates used to indicate the direction of monetary
     policy. The CBSL now places greater reliance on open market operations in the conduct of monetary
     policy and issue monetary policy statements on a monthly basis.

(ii) Financial Sector Stability




                                                       - 6 -

         Over the four-year period of project implementation, CBSL has taken steps to tighten
prudential norms in the areas of capital standards, loan classifications and provisioning norms,
exposure limits, public disclosure and market discipline consistent with international standards, off-site
surveillance, consolidated supervision, development of a safety net and crisis resolution framework,
and development of a framework for assessment of financial sector stability. The bank supervision was
conducted with qualified staff and implemented through an appropriate mixture of on-site examination
and off-site analytical activities. The CBSL has also been able to improve the turnaround time for bank
examination and met the legal requirement of carrying out on-site examination of a bank every other
year. The financial indicators compiled by the CBSL highlighted that the banking sector has capital
adequacy ratio above the required minimum, and continued to show improvements in asset quality,
profitability, and liquidity.

         (a) Capital Requirements: The risk-weighted capital requirement was introduced for finance
companies in 2003 which are now required to meet the minimum capital adequacy ratio (CAR) of 10
percent along with licensed commercial banks (LCBs) and licensed specialized banks (LSBs).
Recently, CBSL has taken steps to prepare the banks for Basel II. Several awareness programs were
held for CEOs and senior officers of banks. All banks have been requested to undertake a
self-assessment of the Capital Adequacy Ratio under Basel II using the Standardized Approach for
credit risk and basic indicator approach for operational risk. The CBSL expects to implement Basel II
on the standardized approach in 2007. Moreover, effective from April 2005, the minimum capital
requirement has been increased to Rs. 2.5 billion in the case of Licensed Commercial Banks (LCBs)
and to Rs 1.5 billion in the case of LSBs. Existing banks are required to have Tier I capital equal to
this amount, while new entrants will be required to bring in the increased capital as assigned/paid up
capital. Existing banks that need to increase their capital are given time till end of December 2007 to
meet this requirement, with at least 50% to be met by end-December 2006.

         (b) Loan Classification and Provisioning Norms: The CBSL has amended the provision
requirement with effect from January 2004 by introducing a hair-cut of 25-40% over the value of
property depending on the length of time the Non Performing Loans (NPLs) remain in the loss
category.

         (c) Exposure Limits: Effective from March 2005, the Single Borrower Limit applicable to all
banks has been made uniform at 30% of capital funds for domestic and foreign banks alike. Foreign
banks that will need to augment their capital to meet existing facilities have been given time till 31
December 2005 to bring in the capital, with at least 50% of the shortfall being required to be remitted
by 30 June 2005.

         (d) Public Disclosure and Market Discipline: All banks are required to disclose prudential
ratios such as the CAR, SLAR and the NPA ratio in their published financial statements effective from
February 2005. Under the public awareness program, five brochures were published. They were "A
Guide to Financial Services In Sri Lanka", "Central Bank of Sri Lanka Objectives, Functions and
Organization", "Financial System Stability", "A Guide to Foreign Exchange Transactions," "Price
Stability" and "Pyramid Schemes".

         (e) Consolidated Supervision: To pave the way for the introduction of consolidated
supervision, a system for exchanging information among the various departments of CBSL engaged in
supervision was established for the exchange of supervisory information relating to the subsidiaries and
associate companies of the licensed banks, engaged in finance, primary dealer activities and leasing,
which come under CBSL's supervision in order to facilitate consolidated supervision. The government



                                                - 7 -

has taken measures to foster coordination and cooperation among the regulatory agencies. The
Insurance Board and the CBSL has signed a memorandum to formalize the exchange of regulatory
information between IBSL and CBSL. In addition, a steering committee consisting of all regulators has
been setup and they meet on a regular basis to ensure consolidated supervision.

          (f) Off-site Surveillance: The CBSL has commenced an on-line database to facilitate the
transmission of periodical data by banks and finance companies to various departments of the CBSL.
As the first phase of the implementation of the database, 17 returns for the off-site surveillance of the
Bank Supervision Department (BDS) and it is being done on a parallel basis. The CBSL has
commenced on the second phase with the Non Bank Supervision Department (NBSB) off-site returns in
line with Bank Supervision off-site returns to be incorporated in the database.

          (g) Development of a Framework for Assessment of Financial Sector Stability: Given the
importance of financial system stability, the Monetary Law Act was amended in December 2002 to
include financial stability as a major objective along with economic and price stability. A Financial
System Stability Study Group (FSSSG) was set up in November 2003 to prepare the first ever
financial stability report which provides updates on financial system developments, and assess the risks
to, and resilience of, the financial system under different scenarios. Monitoring and surveillance of
risks to the financial system through micro-prudential and macro-prudential indicators is one of the
strategies recommended by the FSSC to achieve a stable financial system. It was released to the public
at the end of May 2005.

          (h) Development of a Safety Net and Crisis Resolution Framework: The proposal for
mandatory deposit insurance has been approved by the Monetary Board which is planned for
implementation. The Payments Reforms Steering Committee has implemented a program to monitor
and assess the business continuity plans (BCP) of banks and primary dealers with regard to the
payments system. The CBSL has already collected BCPs of banks and primary dealers. The Financial
Stability Committee will explore the policies and measures necessary for the development of a safety
net and crisis management framework and for coordination and corporation among the regulatory
agencies.

          (i) Other Prudential Norms: The CBSL has also taken steps to improve the quality and
independence of statutory audits by amending the Guidelines to External Auditors with effect from
April 2004 and requiring all banks to obtain credit rating from January 2004. In terms of the
amendments to the Banking Act passed in February 2005, all directors of banks, the Chief Executive
Officer of a bank and other officers performing executive functions have to meet the `fit and proper'
criteria. One indicator of the improved supervision capability of Bank Supervision Department is the
improved turnaround time for bank examination. The period taken for detailed on-site examination of
banks from the date of examination to the date banks receive the inspection reports has been shortened
significantly from 18 months to less than 8 months in the most recent cases. Moreover, the CBSL is
now able to comply with the statutory requirement of conducting on-site examination of a bank at least
once every two years and there are currently no backlog of banks waiting for on-site inspection.

          (j) Financial Soundness Indicators: There has been a continued improvement in the overall
performance of the banking sector with few exceptions. The CAR of the two state banks improved
slightly from 5.2% at end-2003 to 5.8% at end-2004 but the CAR of private banks dropped from
12.5% to 11.5% over the same period. Similarly, the gross NPL to total loans of state banks dropped
sharply from 15.6% at end-2003 to 10.1% as of September 2005, and of the private banks from 11.6%
to 7.6% over the same period. Profitability of the banking sector continues to show improvements. The
ROA of state-owned banks rose from 0.8% in 2003 to 1.0% as of September 2005 while the ROE


                                                - 8 -

    dropped from 29.3% to 24.5% over the same period. However, the ROA of private banks rose slightly
    from 1.2% to 1.4% and the ROE dropped from 14.3% to 12.8% over the same period. The ratio of
    staff costs to operating costs of state banks has increased from 66.2% at end-2003 to 70.4% at
    September 2005, and of private banks from 43.6% to 47.0% over the same period.


Non Core Functions

         The CBSL had been providing agency functions for the government by controlling foreign
exchange, managing public debt, handling development finance and managing provident funds which were
identified as non core functions for the CBSL. The CBSL set up committees, participated proactively in
drafting a legal framework, initiated discussions with other stake holders to phase out of these agency
functions. A substantial part of ancillary and administrative functions also have been subcontracted
providing a model for other public institutions. The central bank has moved away from development
finance, reducing its participation in rural development banks to a minority. However, due to lack of
capacity outside the central bank and absence of a clear direction from the Ministry Finance, it could not
completely devolve some of the functions. The achievement is outlined below:

             (a) Exchange Control: A new Foreign Exchange Management Act was drafted to manage
    and regulate outflows and inflows of foreign exchange in a more liberal environment, rather than
    controlling and restricting foreign exchange transactions. In the draft, all current account transactions
    were to be freely permitted through Authorized Dealers while capital account transactions were to be
    liberalized on a sequential basis through Orders issued by the Minister of Finance at a pace warranted
    by economic fundamentals and the strength of the financial sector. With the change of administration
    and a Supreme Court ruling against it, this has been differed without a timeline.

             (b) Public Debt : The separation of monetary policy and public debt management is not yet
    complete due to insufficient capacity within the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and need to allocate scarce
    technical staff at the MOF to other priority activities. The Public Debt Department of the CBSL
    continues to perform the same functions in the area of domestic debt management as in 2002, and the
    task of establishing a Public Debt Management Office(PDMO) has been transferred back from the
    MOF to the CBSL. Currently a National Debt Policy is being drafted.

         (c) Development Finance: In 2003, the CBSL divested its shareholding in Regional Development
    Banks despite the government's policy to retain its ownership and the Monetary Board. The CBSL
    plans to reduce its participation in the Credit Information Bureau (CRIB) from 49% to 15% to allow
    greater participation by the private sector. The CBSL has also taken the leadership in drafting a law
    that will set the framework for modernizing the CRIB and expanding its services to the benefit of
    financial sector stability and access to finance.

         (e) Employees' Provident Fund (EPF): Senior representatives of the CBSL have actively
    participated in various reform committees to identify a pension reform strategy, including a new
    governance structure for the EPF outside the Central Bank. Given the complexity of this task and the
    view of multiple stakeholders (including the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Labor and trade unions),
    the government has not yet agreed on a pension reform agenda. In the context of the Economic Reforms
    Technical Assistance Project, a study of the policy and administrative framework of the EPF and
    Employees' Trust Fund (ETF) was conducted in 2003. The government is now considering the
    implementation of key administrative reforms proposed in the study, including the introduction of a
    unique identifier number and reengineering and automation of key business processes. Merging the



                                                     - 9 -

     collection of the EPF and ETF is also under consideration. These endeavors would be assisted by the
     E-Sri Lanka project and Institutional Development Fund (IDF) Grant to create capacity for pension
     reform.

         (f) Administration and ancillary functions: Other ancillary functions have now been outsourced
     such as security services, transport, janitorial services, cheque clearing, electrical maintenance, and
     maintenance of equipment including computers, data collection, handling of historical documents, mail
     management, and management of holiday bungalows. Other ancillary functions such as printing,
     distribution of publications, advertising and canteen have been partially outsourced. With the proposed
     VRS, the medical center and canteen will also be outsourced.

a. Human Resource Development (HRD)

         In re-organization and modernization of any institution, the most important element is the human
capital. This was recognized at the very outset by the CBSL modernization team and it was given high
priority in the modernization process. With the amendments to the MLA in December 2002 the following
changes have been effected: (i) expansion of the Monetary Board increasing private sector participation,
(ii) permitting delegation of routine administrative functions to executives and\or committees facilitating
downward delegation of administrative and financial authority and decision making, (iii) constitution of an
audit committee which reports directly to the Monetary Board; and (iv) creating new departments for
greater specialization.

         The HRD has graduated from mere personnel management to performance oriented HR
management. The Establishment Department has been re-named and re-organized as the HRD, with a
greater emphasis on developing policies and procedures, to enhance performance management system and
staff relations. A holistic vision for the HRD and a HR mission have been finalized. The Management
Development Center will be amalgamated with the Training Center and initial work has already
commenced. With completion of the automation of the HRD, some of the welfare activities and Training
Department will be merged with the HRD. In the meantime all related functions have been brought under
the supervision of one Assistant Governor.

         Human resource management policies have been transformed in line with the modernization
process. The job descriptions covering all employees have been completed. The skills gap analysis provided
feed back for revising the annual training plans. The preferred career path for each officer in the CBSL has
been identified and documented. The officers are encouraged to acquire and develop their skills through
training in the same career path. When transfers and post training placements are made, the preferred
career paths are considered, subject to the exigencies of the CBSL service. An initial survey of career
preferences of the staff in 2003 revealed that 67% were in their preferred specialization. The CBSL now
follows a competency based recruitment process, where they initially identify the competency requirements
and subsequently look for prospective candidates with the specific competency profile, and offer
remuneration and benefit package which is market-based. This is a departure from the past practice of
recruiting staff with a common set of academic qualifications.

         The CBSL has commenced competency based placement and post-training deployment where the
career preference of the employees and the training received are matched as far as possible. The transfers
are made in order to optimize the competency of the employees by providing suitable placements. The
mobility is facilitated by internal advertising of vacancies. Inward mobility at mid career points, will be
facilitated by activating the Advisory Service Recruitment Scheme, where experienced and talented
candidates will be able to make lateral entry at mid career entry points to strengthen identified departments


                                                     - 10 -

on contract basis and to fill urgent competency gaps. This is a departure from single entry recruitment at a
fixed grade with a fixed remuneration package which did not provide flexibility to the CBSL, to obtain the
appropriate competency profile by offering competitive compensation at different career points. A study
has been carried out to provide outward mobility and portability in pensions. A study was carried out to
ascertain the career path and placement compatibility, and the level of compatibility is found to be
satisfactory. Various artificial barriers for promotions have been reduced substantially. Staff manual
including significant modifications in the areas of promotion policy, code of conduct, training policy
medical and benefit charts will be published shortly following the final review.

         CBSL has moved from a time-in-grade to a performance based system. Despite resistance, the
management has been able to introduce a new Performance Management Scheme (PMS). The staff has
been encouraged to initially make a self assessment and subsequently be evaluated by the supervisor and
the Head of the Department. The supervisors have been trained to handle the performance evaluation
process more effectively. The performance management was finally accepted by the trade unions and was
incorporated in the Collective Agreement signed between the CBSL management and the trade unions in
March 2004.

         CSBL has involved functional managers in human resource management. Another positive scheme
adopted was a more modern conflict resolution mechanism. Individual employees and trade unions are
given adequate opportunities to discuss their problems, and grievances initially with the Heads of
Department. The functional directors are encouraged and trained to handle personnel matters which
improve the relationship between the staff and the management.

          CBSL is exploring the possibility of decompression of salaries. The decompression of salaries will
be achieved through the performance based remuneration policy under the new PMS. Given that the CBSL
staff is better paid in the public sector as at present, this needs to be done carefully without instigating a
political backlash which will undermine the whole reform process.

         Human Resource Reform is one of the most difficult components to implement successfully in any
project especially in a volatile political environment and in an institution with entrenched practices and
expectations. In most cases, HR reforms has not resulted in change of culture in the institution. However,
in CBSL, the comprehensiveness of the reform and the process\methodology used have favorably impacted
the way people work, the attitude towards work and institutional culture. Improved communication within
the institution and transparency of HR rules, inter alia, are encouraging delegation and staff feel
significantly empowered now. Appropriate redeployment of skilled staff in departments has enhanced the
quality of work and productivity generally.

b. Support for a Voluntary Retirement Scheme (VRS)

         CBSL has taken measures to create and maintain a lean organization and enhanced productivity
and efficiency with a VRS. Almost after 3 and a half years of the introduction of the VRS in which over
697 staff left the services of the CBSL, there had been an increase in productivity and efficiency levels in
the CBSL despite having around 40% reduction in staff compared to 2001. The number of professional
grades has increased from 28% at the appraisal to 41% by April 2005 while the number of non staff and
minor staff has declined to 49% and 10% respectively. The change in skill mix has also forced staff to
adopt new technologies, particularly computer skills and e-communication, at a faster pace. This has
brought about a cultural change which will be further strengthened with the second VRS as well as the new
recruitment policy limited mainly to skilled staff. The chart below indicates that the CBSL's total staff



                                                     - 11 -

strength has continued to decline over the course of 2002 and 2005 with natural attrition reducing staffing
levels further beyond those who took up the VRS on January 2002.

        Perceptions within Sri Lanka have, unfortunately, focused on the cost of the scheme rather than
potential benefits which have accrued in terms of reduced costs of operation and higher efficiency in service
provision. VRS costs are comparable to those of other central banks in South Asia, including India, Nepal
and Pakistan. Perhaps the most striking cases are with respect to the drivers where the current outsourcing
costs are roughly half those of retaining in-house drivers; a second case relates to LankaClear where
operational losses have been turned around to a significant profit with considerably enhanced efficiency
gains. Overall, the CBSL payback period of the VRS was only 38 months ­ indicating a fairly high rate of
return on the VRS investment.

Therefore, CBSL should share this information more widely to support the public sector reforms in the
country. It was also noted that several state organizations including the Peoples Bank, Board of Investment
and Bankers Institution have sought advice from the CBSL for their HR development.


                                                     Staff Strength in the Central Bank
                                                           January 2002 - April 2005
                                      1400

                                      1200

                                      1000

                                        800
                       Strength
                                        600
                               Staff
                                        400

                                        200

                                           0


                                         2002 May Sept         May   Sept         May Septr
                                      Jan             Jan-2003           Jan-2004          Jan-2005
                                                 Staff            Non-Staff            Minor



c. General Support for Capacity Building Various Departments

        The CBSL utilized fully the US$ 1.5 million financing for training in addition to the Swedish
Kroner 10.0 million was provided by SIDA. It is note worthy that CBSL has a staff exchange program
with Riksbank of Sweden since 2001 which has allowed the CBSL staff to enhance their skills at the
operational level. See the table shown below.




                                                                   - 12 -

    Officers Trained during of August 2001 - July 2005

            Category              No. of officers trained as of
                                          31 July. 2005
 Postgraduate Training                          39
 Local Training (Private                     1326
 Institutions)
 Local (CBS)                                 2397
 Foreign Short-term                           626
 CFA Program                                    29
 Total                                       4417




         CBSL has moved from training to learning, a modern concept adopted in more advanced countries.
In order to perform CBSL's new role in terms of the redefined core-objectives, the training policy of the
bank has been reoriented towards upgrading the knowledge and skills of all its employees so that they could
perform their duties more efficiently and effectively. Accordingly, the training policy has been designed to
address the present inadequacies in human capital skills and map out a plan for the development of human
resources to meet such gaps. In this context, the Bank's training policy was developed as a `learning and
development' exercise that satisfies the needs of both the employee and the organization. The learning
programs have been converted from supply driven to demand driven programs. The CBSL published the
"Learning to Succeed: The Training and Learning Policy Statement" and was approved by the
management.

         The project funded foreign and local, short and long term training. This was based on annual
training plans prepared by the Central Bank. This component contributed mainly to enhance the skills in
the following core functions: (i) central banking, monetary policy, inflation targeting; (ii) survey
methodology, price indices and population statistics; (iii) supervision and regulation of financial
institutions; (iv) money and capital markets; (v) payment systems; (vi) currency and cash management;
(vii) regional development, (viii) finance and auditing; (ix) human resource development; (x) public
relations; (xi) library services and printing; (xii) corporate services; and, (xiii) legal services and reforms.
In addition, training has also been provided on communication, language skills and inter-personal skills.

         Support for improving supervision capacity of CBSL was not specifically mentioned under this
component as a number of development partners were active in providing technical support to CBSL at the
time of project appraisal. In the course of the project, CBSL requested for technical assistance and a
consultant was hired in June 2003 for a period of 18 months to assist on-site examination. This consultant
worked along with the IMF consultant to strengthen bank supervision by participating in the discussions for
drafting the new Banking Act, rationalizing the periodical returns submitted by banks and finance
companies for implementation of a centralized database, and providing a regulatory response policy on
troubled banks. The IMF also provided the services of another consultant to identify gaps in bank
supervision techniques including consolidated supervision, market risk in the capital adequacy ratio, and
liquidity risk management. Finally, SIDA assisted CBSL in developing a new off-site surveillance system.

         The staff development program under the project followed best practices. For instance it was based
on skill gap analysis and needs of the departments. Also all officers who participated in the training
programs are required to submit a detailed report on training received within a period of 7 working days
after participating in such training programs making recommendations to be implemented in the CBSL. As
a means of sharing the experience/knowledge gained through these training programs, the reports submitted



                                                      - 13 -

by such officers are published in the intranet (i.e. Training Bulletin) which is a quarterly publication. In
addition, officers conducted departmental/Bank seminars to share the experience/knowledge they received
in participating in training programs.

         The human resource management policies coupled with training policies have contributed
immensely to creating a more professional, competent and motivated staff in the CBSL. Enhanced
training and increased delegation within the CBSL has drawn out leadership qualities in a larger segment of
the staff and not only limited to the senior management.

Component 2: Payments and Securities Clearing & Settlement Improvement

         This component was envisaged at the outset to be an integral component of the overall
re-structuring of CBSL as it supported a substantial upgrade in the core financial system infrastructure to
satisfy the needs of an evolving economy in a manner that balances operational cost, processing efficiency
and credit, liquidity, and systemic risk. The scope of the reform initiative supported by this project included
the acquisition, testing, and implementation of, (a) a Real-Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) capability to
process large value and other time critical funds transfers; (b) a scripless central depository, registry and
settlement system for government debt securities and its integration with the RTGS system to provide
model 1 (DvP) Delivery versus Payment in which securities are transferred to the buyer if and only if funds
are available to complete the purchase; and an automated general ledger and accounting system to support
CBSL's current and future financial operations. The system reform objectives were to (a) establish the
infrastructure required to support the development of Sri Lanka's financial markets and banking sector; (b)
reduce settlement risks in the payments system and securities settlement system in line with emerging best
international practice; (c) enhance the integrity and tradability of Sri Lanka's public debt; (d) improve the
efficiency and quality of CBSL's financial and business operations; and to (e) establish an appropriate legal
and regulatory framework to underpin the new operational mechanisms. Also, as mentioned earlier, a
decision was taken to reduce cheque clearing and settlement times throughout the country by introducing
new cheque imaging and truncation (CIT) technology.

Assessment

         In summary, objectives a) through e) above have been successfully accomplished through the
implementation of the RTGS, Scripless Securities Settlement System (SSSS) and the new automated
General Ledger System (GLS). The Cheque Imaging and Truncation (CIT) initiative ­ a later addition to
the component - is well advanced in that the necessary hardware and application software have been
acquired, eleven Regional Imaging Center sites have been identified and refurbishment of these sites will be
completed by end the first quarter of 2006. The CIT system would go live around mid-May,2006. RTGS
and SSSS systems have been subjected to substantial examination on a global basis and international best
practices have been encapsulated in formal statements both from the BIS in regard to RTGS systems (Core
Principles for Systemically Important Payment Systems) and jointly from the BIS and IOSCO in regard to
SSSS systems (Recommendations for Securities Systems). The requirement specifications used to underpin
the system acquisition process were based on these principles and recommendations to assure compliance
with best practice. The RTGS and SSSS systems were acquired from an experienced international vendor,
LogicaCMG, who have installed versions of their core product offerings in many countries.

         The three systems have operated successfully without any major problems and a system audit has
confirmed compliance and adherence to the core principles and recommendations. The RTGS and the GL
systems were implemented in September 2003 and the SSSS system in February 2004. The slight delay in
implementing the SSSS system resulted from the need to put in place essential legislative changes. An


                                                    - 14 -

independent Post Implementation Review of the two systems was undertaken by Sveriges Riksbank in late
2004 and early 2005 to confirm the utility of the systems, their market acceptance, operational
performance, security, management and governance vis- a- vis the stated business and technical objectives,
and the systems' compliance and adherence to the core principles and recommendations. The "Reviewers"
confirmed that the systems did satisfy the stated business and technical objectives as well as the core
principles and recommendations with a few minor exceptions. The IDA team concurred with these
conclusions and is pleased to note that CBSL management has initiated appropriate actions to address the
minor exceptions identified by the "Reviewers" and thus full compliance will be realized. The ICR team
had an opportunity to discuss all aspects of the project design, development, testing, implementation and
operational stages of the project with the impacted CBSL Departments and with a representative sample of
Commercial Bank and Primary Dealer users. These discussions confirmed that --- from their perspective ---
the business and technical objectives were satisfied and that the overall project process was suitable. The
CBSL stakeholders and Commercial Bank and Primary Dealer representatives stressed that the success of
the project stemmed from the rigorous project management practices that were adopted from the outset and
especially the opportunity that was provided by CBSL for active participation in all system decision
making. This assured that user needs were readily identified and reflected in the system design to the extent
that user expectations were satisfied without exception when the system went into production mode. The
mission is pleased to note that these sound cooperative practices continue with regular meetings of core
business and technical personnel both from CBSL and the user community.

        The General Ledger system is also based on well proven accounting software technology;
ORACLE Financials; thus project risk was minimized. The mission had discussions with a broad cross s
ection of CBSL employees from the accounting and audit departments. Substantial satisfaction with the
new system was expressed by all participants. The mission is pleased to note that business and technical
expectations were satisfied without any major exceptions. A particular noteworthy characteristic of the new
arrangements is the real time interaction between the three systems. This is especially important as CBSL
now provide commercial bank and primary dealer users with a timely and accurate picture of the account
balances contained in their current accounts and thus provide the tool that allows treasurers to proactively
manage liquidity on an intra-day basis. This, in turn, allows treasurers to make optimum use of their
available liquidity.

Component 3: Financial Markets Regulation and Development

        Financial Markets Regulation and Development envisaged supporting studies and consultancies
focusing on financial system development and specifically, to support:

(a) Legal Reform/Review of following three areas:

         i. Overview of the Financial and Banking legislation relating to banking and financial sector to
             identify areas, which require rationalization and/or modernization -- and making proposals for
             legislative reform.

        ii. Development of a legislative framework for Payment and Settlement Systems and preparation
             of legal documentation required for the implementation of RTGS and Scripless Securities
             Trading System.

        iii. Development of Legislative Framework for Electronic Transactions by way of technical
             assistance to support development of legislation in the area of E-Commerce, E-Business, and
             Electronic Funds Transfers (EFT) carried out by Central Bank, the Legal and Judicial Reforms




                                                    - 15 -

              Project of the Ministry of Justice, and CINTEC.


(b) Other Financial Sector Studies in Priority Areas as follows:

          i.  Development of E-Business by studying the adequacy of existing facilities, institutional
              mechanisms and legal and regulatory framework to support E-Business; and to study and make
              recommendation on the role of the central bank and banking institutions, in facilitating
              E-Business and identify steps for implementation.

         ii. Development of the Forward Market in foreign exchange and to develop interest rate risk
              management instruments. by doing a study to propose measures to develop the forward and
              futures market in the local foreign exchange market; and make recommendations for the
              development and regulation of financial derivatives for hedging foreign exchange and interest
              rate risk.

         iii. Debt and Foreign Exchange Management ­ by engaging a consultant to advise the CBSL in
              designing an effective supervisory system for the Debt and Foreign exchange management and
              to train CBSL staff on appropriate surveillance techniques.


Assessment


         (i) Review of the Financial and Banking legislation relating to banking and financial sector: A
comprehensive review of the financial and banking legislation, including core legislation such as the
Monetary Law Act, Banking Act, Finance Companies Act, Leasing Act, Insurance Act, and the Securities
and Exchange Commission Act as well other legislation which had an indirect impact on financial
institutions was done under the FSAP mission in February 2002. In 2003, CBSL through the technical
assistance of the World Bank and IMF, used a structured process to review and revamp the central
banking, banking and non bank financial institution laws. It included a planned and comprehensive
consultation within CBSL. The reform also utilized expert opinion and views of the Financial System
Stability Committee and then the Financial Sector Reform Cluster. A new monetary law was drafted but
has not been submitted to the Monetary Board. The draft of a new Banking Law and Finance Companies
Laws will be presented to the Monetary Board with the industry comment. While the above reviews were
taking place, amendments to the Monetary Law Act were introduced in 2002 with regard to the objectives
of the Bank, reserve requirements, the RTGS and SSSS and liquidation procedures for specialized banks.
Amendments to the Banking Act were also made and they came into effect in January 2005 to introduce
procedural aspects of licensing, fit and proper criteria, off shore banking by specialized banks, additional
disclosure requirements and to address provisions relating to offenses.

         While the project envisaged only a review of the financial and banking legislation, CBSL has
moved beyond the narrow scope and has carried out legal reform and review of the Foreign Exchange Law
and the Credit Information Bureau of Sri Lanka Law have taken place. A new Anti-money Laundering
Law, Financial Transactions Reporting Law and Suspension of Terrorist Financing Law have been passed
while Deposit Insurance Law is also in the pipeline. Further, an amendment to the Finance Leasing Act to
enable the securitization of finance leasing, been passed in Parliament. As a result of appropriate process
and adequate consultation, the aforementioned draft laws, not only meet the legal needs and requirements
but also incorporate international best practices.

         (ii) Development of a legislative framework for Payment and Settlement Systems and preparation



                                                      - 16 -

of legal documentation required for RTGS and SSSS: When the RTGS and SSSS systems were initially
proposed under the project, the Registered Stock & Securities Ordinance(RSSO) and the Local Treasury
Bills Ordinance (LTBO) had to be amended along with the Monetary Law Act to enable the legal
implementation of the systems and also to provide for a title registry for scripless securities and issues
relating to the RTGS. These amendments were introduced to the Monetary Law Act in 2002. With the
procurement of the systems and at the implementation stage, further amendments were made to the RSSO
and the LTBO in January 2004. Several regulations necessary to give effect to these amendments have also
been issued in all three languages. Given the fact that the systems were highly technical and legal issues ­
highly complex, CBSL was able to utilize international resources and appropriate technical assistance to
have a comprehensive legal framework, in an environment of political uncertainty and legislative quagmire.


        (iii) Development of Legislative Framework for Electronic Transactions: Apart from the
amendments to various laws to enable the introduction of the SSSS and RTGS, CBSL has also moved
ahead in putting in place the necessary legal framework for electronic transactions. CBSL is in the process
of introducing a Cheque Imaging and Truncation System through Lanka Clear by mid May,2006 and to
enable this, a Cheque Imaging System and Regulation of Money Service Providers law was drafted.
Amendments are also being introduced to the Evidence Ordinance to recognize electronic records as
banker's books. All work in respect of these laws has been completed and the bill is now with the
government printer. These laws have not only been drafted with appropriate consultation but also
incorporate international best practices. The CBSL has reached out to participate, pioneer and contribute to
the development of the law in this area during the duration of the project.

        Partnership & Donor Coordination: The CBSL also had access to funds from SIDA and IMF
for some of the components that the IDA project envisaged at the design stage. Different donor interests
were managed well by the CBSL to enhance reforms in the modernization process. The project design
permitted averting duplication of work by closely coordinating with other donors. (E.g. SIDA support for
staff exchange program especially inflation targeting, IMF assistance for open market operations, legal
reforms and bank supervision). The IDA project team engaged all donors and kept them informed of the
project developments.

        Project Implementation Support. The CBSL did not create a traditional project management unit
since they had the capacity to manage the project with their own staff. Given the high professional capacity
of the staff of the project unit and in the implementing units, project management expertise was not
required. This approach contributed to the successful completion of all activities on time.

        Project Implementation and Project Management Unit (PMU): Since the CBSL internalized
the project activities, the implementation of project activities were carried out by respective units of the
CBSL. The project at the initial stage had a change agent but at the time of implementation major
components were led by senior staff, for example the human resource management and VRS were
championed by one of the Deputy Governors and the automation of the payment system was championed
by a senior Assistant Governor who eventually was promoted to be one of the Deputy Governors. In
addition the project activities were also monitored by the Governor himself and the progress was regularly
reported to the Monetary Board. This is one of the most successful case studies of excellent project
management; however, the replication would be difficult given the low capacity and commitment of most of
the public sector organizations in the country.

        Procurement. The procurement under the project involved acquisition of complex information



                                                   - 17 -

technology systems and few major consultancies to support the reform agenda of CBSL. It is commendable
to note that CBSL made every effort to complete the complex procurement activities and consultancy
assignments in accordance with the agreed schedules. It is also note worthy that CBSL did obtain the
services of competent consultants to assist in the process especially in the case of procurement of
RTGS/SSSS system and also nominated professional and committed staff within the institution to ensure
compliance with end user requirements. Overall performance of the borrower can be rated as highly
satisfactory.

      Financial Management: The project has continuously maintained satisfactory financial management
arrangements. This is reflected by the professionally qualified accounting staff, their sound knowledge and
contribution to technical and project management aspects, and acceptable accounting procedures and
systems for accurately recording and reporting financial transactions. Cumulative disbursements as of the
closing date was US $ 34.2 million, representing a disbursement rate of 98.91% and about US $ 0.37
million will be cancelled. All financial covenants were complied with and there are no overdue audit
reports. The project generates quarterly Project Management Reports according to the agreed guidelines
and is found satisfactory.

           Project Technical and Financial Management Audit: A systems audit was carried out by the
Riksbank to assess the risks to the payment system and they have given a satisfactory assessment and
recommended several measures which would be implemented by the CBSL. CBSL was one of the first
Central Banks to adopt the international accounting and auditing standards and 2004 CBSL accounts were
unqualified under this system.

        North East Emergency Reconstruction Program (NEERP): Livelihood Support Cash Grant
Component (US$5.0 million) - Due to the emergency nature of support needed for the North and East for
resettlement of internally displaced persons (IDPs), US$ 5.0 million was reallocated for NEERP. This
component has been rated satisfactory. The impact of the livelihood cash grants for the Internally Displaced
Persons' (IDPs) families has been significant and 17,844 internally displaced families received livelihood
cash grants. In July 2005, US$ 892,810 was reallocated for construction work. Construction work
consisted of reconstruction of divisional secretariat buildings, hospitals, health centers, drugs stores,
quarters for nurses and medical officer, libraries, water supply systems, local government office buildings
in Jaffna, Mullativu and Kilinochchi districts. The construction work was focused on renovating and
constructing physical infrastructure especially in administration, health and utility sectors to facilitate
service delivery for the IDPs.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:
The Central Bank Strengthening Project was a capacity building and technical assistance project. In the
Staff Appraisal document, the pay back period for the Voluntary Retirement Scheme (VRS) was
estimated to be 3.27 years. The actual pay back at the end of 2004 was 3 years and 2 months as
reflected in the table appended below.




                                                    - 18 -

                                                              Table 1
EVALUATION OF TOTAL SAVINGS ON VRS - 2004

(A) Total VRS Payments (Cash outflows)
                                                                  (Rs)    (Rs)              (Rs)
VRS compensation payment - year 2001                                    793,261,772
Grativity Payment                                                            873,635
Arreas of payment due to court order                                         105,913
Transfer to Pension Funds (to meet pension liability)     647,475,374
Less Over Provision                                        -6,616,537   640,858,837
Total Outflow                                                                            1,435,100,156

(B) Annual explicit Savings

1. Savings of Salary Cost                                 194,609,850

2.Savings of Salary Related Payments
   Special payment                                         32,434,975
   Leave Encashment                                        16,217,488
   Surrender (pre 1981)                                    16,866,821
   Transport Allowance                                     8,364,000

3. Savings of Other Direct Costs
   PF & ETF contributions                                  52,544,660
  Pension contribution                                     77,843,940

4. Other Cost Savings
  Overtime Payments                                        11,650,299
  Expenditure on Bank vehicles                               725,329

( C ) Annual Implicit Savings

  Tea supply service                                       1,895,995
  Canteen subsidy                                            566,881
  Floor Space                                              36,934,947
  Telephone                                                2,806,553    453,461,737

Less
(D) Cost of Outsource
   Transport Service                                       4,059,500
   Payment to Casual Employees                             3,820,297      7,879,797

Total Savings                                                                              445,581,940


Payback period                                                        Approximately 3 years & 2 months




                                                                                                 38.65




                                                  - 19 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:
         The project's main focus was on capacity building and the impact was very significant. CBSL
under the project hired various international advisors and the transfer of technology was substantial. The
international human resource advisor and the human resource director ensured that there was a succession
plan for the reforms to be sustainable. The project managers and vendors of systems also trained staff and
eventually the CBSL could install the upgraded version of the RTGS without external support. The CBSL
staff closely worked with international experts and every component had extensive training built-in to
ensure sustainability beyond the project. The CBSL payment team has already been invited to Israel, Iran,
and Bangladesh to share their experiences with their counterparts. Some of the committees such as
Payments Reform Committee, Monetary Policy Committee and Financial Sector Stability Committee
would ensure that the reforms commenced with the modernization program are irrevocable.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
         The influence of external factors was mixed. Since the CBSP was, mostly a capacity building
exercise within the Central Bank, the project was well within the control of the implementing agency. The
changes in the political climate during the implementation stage did have an impact especially for the
Voluntary Retirement Scheme and the external recruitment of persons with specialized skills such as HR
and Finance. However, the CBSL and the Ministry of Finance followed proper legal and administrative
procedures and an intense consultative process within the CBSL which minimized setbacks at the
implementation stage. Given the access of the CBSL management to the highest level of policy makers in
the country, they could garner support for all reforms.

         Since capacity building of the other agencies such as Ministry of Finance, Labor Ministry etc, was
not part of the CBSL project, phasing out of non core agency functions such as management of provident
funds and public debt management could not be fully completed. The Project Management was handled by
a competent and professional team of the CBSL which ensured high level of output from most of the
consultants engaged under the project.

         NEERP - The influence of outside factors has been mostly positive. Bank provided funding for the
livelihood assistance cash grant scheme has had a band-wagoning effect on other financiers. The
Netherlands (US$ 5.8 million) and the European Union (US$ 8.0 million) joined the Bank in supporting the
livelihood cash grant program. Civil disturbances during the implementation of the component have had
only a minor impact on the implementation effectiveness. Disbursement delays on the Bank side at a certain
point did result in delays in the cash grant allocations to the beneficiaries.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
         Central Bank is generally insulated from political interference.         In addition, the project
management was handled by the Central Bank staff and was not funded by IDA. IDA wanted to deviate
from the project management unit concept and experiment a model of institutionalizing the reforms which
was successful. However, the replication of this model is still questionable since most of the other
institutions do not have the same strong professional and technical capacity and the financial autonomy of
the Central Bank.

         The Ministry of Finance did not share the same vision for the Central Bank at times despite being
represented on the Monetary Board. However, given the high level of technical capacity within the CBSL,
despite changes in the political climate, CBSL could implement key reforms such as human resource
development, transfer of shares of the regional development banks, proceed with a VRS and move into



                                                      - 20 -

performance based promotions and skill based recruitment thus creating a more lean and professional
institution at the close of the project.

         NEERP - The enabling environment created by the conclusion of the ceasefire agreement (CFA)
between the Government and the Liberation Tigers of the Tamil Eelam (LTTE) in 2002 is perceived as an
indispensable factor contributing to the success of the livelihood cash grant scheme. Only after signing the
CFA were donors prepared to invest in the process in a big way and to contribute to the 'peace dividend' for
the people and economic revival of the North and East of the country. The government machinery
managing the cash grant program is found to be conceptually reliable and transparent. Various
responsibilities between different actors in the selection and disbursement system are clearly demarcated.
The Ministry of Nation Building as well as the Home Affairs staff creates sufficient checks and balances
for a corruption resistant or nearly full-proof system.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
         As indicated earlier, the major partners of the reforms; the staff of the Central Bank as well as
banking sector community were consulted from the outset, even at the design stage. For the HR reforms, a
focus group was set up for consensus building and through series of discussions, the staff as well as the
employee union leaders were kept abreast of the reforms. In the case of introducing the new performance
evaluation scheme, the senior staff was trained and rest of the staff was regularly informed of the process.
From the inception of designing the automated payment and settlement system, the bankers from the CEOs
to the treasury management staff were involved in the process. This consultation process not only did
ensure successful implementation of this component but brought the financial sector community and the
regulator together in the reform efforts.

         NEERP - Strong commitment and action within the implementing agency enabled efficient project
coordination.

5.4 Costs and financing:
         In 2000, due to the emergency needs of the Government for re-construction purposes after the
cease-fire agreement between the LTTE and the government, US$ 5 million was reallocated to the North
and East Emergency Assistance Project. However, the funds were not used on an urgent basis and required
an extension of that component for another 18 more months after the original closing date. Since the fund
flow was satisfactory, the project was closed by the end of 2005. The core activities identified under the
project could be completed during the project period. Study of the provident funds had to be funded under
the Economic Reforms Assistance project. There was no problem of fund flow.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
         The sustainability of the project is rated highly likely since the reforms were institutionalized under
the Monetary Law Act through amendments. The human resource development program was also
institutionalized as all the reforms from performance based placement and promotions, recruitment based
on skill requirements, training based on skill gaps to introduction of a new performance evaluation scheme
were approved by the Monetary Board.

         In addition, the Monetary Policy Committee, Financial Sector Stability Group and Payments
Committee have been set up and are meeting regularly. The Monetary Policy Announcements are issued to
the public on a monthly basis and are posted on the website of the CBSL. The CBSL also has initiated the



                                                      - 21 -

publication of the financial sector stability report.

         In addition, the Central Bank is co-chairing the financial sector cluster with the Ministry of Finance
under the National Council for Economic Development under the President. This committee has been
assigned to propose reforms for the financial sector and it continues to have a strong presence of the private
sector.

         However, some of the other donors still exert pressure on the Central Bank to undertake agency
functions. There are two schools of thought among donors on some of the non-core functions. Given that
the Central Bank is the premier organization in the financial sector, some of the donors feel that the Central
Bank should continue to handle public debt management, provident fund management and regulate and
supervise rural finance delivery including regulation of micro finance institutions. These contradictions tend
to weaken the CBSL resolve to focus only on core functions; price and financial sector stability. If the
pressure of the other donors continue making such policies conditional for release of funds, it might require
the Central Bank again to expand its size and lose its focus on the core functions.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
         The Central Bank project unlike other Bank projects was managed by the CBSL staff and
therefore, the issue of transitional arrangements does not arise. In addition, since the core activities have
been institutionalized such as monetary policy, financial sector stability, human resource management and
development and improvement of the payment and settlement system, no transitional arrangements are
required. Only in the case of non core functions, till the other agencies and the Ministry of Finance are
capable of undertaking such functions, the CBSL will improve the efficiency and also develop mechanisms
to minimize conflict of interest. In order to ensure legal reforms in the financial sector, a Legal Cluster also
has been set up with both financial and legal sector communities represented.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
         The IDA team was working closely with the project unit to ensure smooth fund flow.

7.2 Supervision:
         The IDA team had a good skill mix especially in payment systems, human resource development,
legal, procurement, project management and banking. In addition, the missions were held in consultation
with the client and the day to day routine issues were handled by the Colombo office. Subsequently, the
project management was transferred to Colombo to further expedite the decision making process.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
         The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory. In lending activities, comprehensive teams were
fielded with most of the members continuing throughout the supervision. The supervision missions included
the required expertise and local staff who continuously monitored project activities. The project
management was transferred to the local office since it assisted in quickly responding to the immediate
needs of the project. The Bank had regular progress review meetings and also alerted the top management
of any delay to expedite action from the Borrower's side. The Bank also was flexible in allowing the
CBSL to identify some of the emerging needs such as introducing a Cheque Imaging and Truncation sub
project to improve the payment system at the retail level.

                 In the late 1990s, the IDA felt the need for engagement in the financial sector to assist the
government to avoid any back tracking. Since the reform agenda in the banking sector was weak at the



                                                     - 22 -

time and the Bank was moving away from the intermediation loan instruments, the Bank team identified
strong ownership and commitment of the Central Bank management for institutional reforms and also their
urgent need for technical assistance and agreed to fund the financing gap of the CBSL modernization
process.

         The Bank provided funding at the preparatory stage with a Project Preparation Facility to obtain
international consultants to design the Voluntary Retirement Scheme as well as the preparation of the
Technical Specifications of the integrated automated Payment and Settlement System. Since the Central
Bank had internal capacity on procurement and financial management, external assistance was not
required. However, IDA also required the CBSL to assign dedicated staff for project coordination. The
modernization process was endorsed by the senior management of the Central Bank as well as the
Monetary Board where the Ministry of Finance was also represented

                This project coordinated closely with the IMF from the design stage to ensure smooth
implementation of the project. Some of the activities proposed by the IMF such as adopting international
accounting standards were funded by project. The IMF has been providing technical advice to the CBSL in
a number of reform areas, including assistance in drafting/implementing key new legislation and in
conducting active open market operations. In addition, since the Swedish International Development
Agency (SIDA) was providing technical assistance in capacity building, IDA team agreed to a proposal for
co-financing of the Central Bank Project. SIDA provided Swedish Kroner 10 Million for staff training
which was fully utilized during the four year period.

         The investment credit was a suitable lending instrument since the implementing agency had full
control over the project implementation. It also provided leverage for the Central Bank to garner support
from the financial community since they had the financial backing to introduce the reforms especially the
payments and settlement system which required support of all banks.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
         The Borrower set up focus groups and also a project management team to work with the IDA team
at the preparation stage. The components were clearly identified by the Borrower to fit into the overall
modernization process of the Central Bank.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
         The Government commitment was at times not strong and the changes in the political regimes
varied the commitment to various components; especially the non core functions. Therefore, the
Government did not take action to build adequate capacity either within the Ministry of Finance or set up
any independent entities to take over the non core functions. The Government also succumbed to the
pressure of various donors to continue existing agency functions as well as to introduce new functions to
the Central Bank.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
         A strong commitment and ownership was demonstrated by the Central Bank at all levels and the
modernization process was institutionalized. In addition, the CBSL management followed a consultative
process which ensured the susstainability of the project outcomes. In addition, the implementing agency
allocated adequate resources; financial as well as human capital wherever needed.




                                                    - 23 -

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
         The Borrower demonstrated a high level of ownership and commitment from the very outset. The
project preparation was fully owned by the Central Bank staff and they also identified the key staff for
implementation as well. The Central Bank also contributed in terms of human and financial capital and
assigned the most competent staff and the lead was taken by very senior officers who could obtain the
support of various departments to implement the project. Throughout the project implementation, relevant
staff training was provided; in-house as well as external training. In addition, the reforms were
institutionalized which ensured smooth implementation. Wherever, the in-house capacity was not available,
external expertise --- mostly international expertise --- was obtained to upgrade the skills of the relevant
staff.

         The project was designed by the staff of the Central Bank drawn from different levels and a
continuous communication channel was initiated from the outset to avoid major resistance at mid stream.
The competent technical staff was assigned for key project components such as payments, human resource
development and legal. In addition, all the new reforms were announced by the Governor of the Central
Bank himself to the staff at appropriate time to signal that the reform measures had the backing of the top
management and are irrevocable. The project design was simple and not too complex and since it was
"home grown," the objectives were very clearly understood by the staff of the implementing agency. The
project period was relatively short; four years but due to the professional and technical competency of the
staff of the Central Bank, they could meet all the targets. However, it put too much pressure on the staff of
the Central Bank and severely affected their work-life balance.

         In addition, the close relationship with the Ministry of Finance ensured that the necessary legal and
financial approvals were provided on time. The liaison between these two institutions continuously took
place at the technical as well as the management levels thus ensuring timely implementation. Even though
there were delays at the policy level at the Ministry of Finance, the CBSL staff managed to provide
technical explanations to convince the political leaders at various stages such as enactment of the payments
law, divestment of the shares in Lanka Clear and the Regional Development Banks.

8. Lessons Learned

l The project from the design to the implementation stage had highest commitment from the Ministry of
    Finance, Monetary Board, Governor and the staff of the CBSL. Strong commitment and ownership at
    all levels was key to successful implementation.

l Utilization of external staff in project management units usually results in delays in implementation due
    to their steep learning curve. Project management by the CBSL staff ensured expeditious
    implementation and close involvement of all staff of the institution. This contributes to long term
    sustainability of the reforms introduced.

l The modernization process was considered one of the primary activities of the CBSL rather than
    treating it an adjunct to their core functions. The project was closely monitored by the management and
    progress was reported regularly to the Governor and the Monetary Board. Reforms championed by the
    top management and internalization of institutional reforms are important for sustainability.

l Each component was led by a senior, technically qualified professional and they could muster support
    from the rest of the staff in the bank as well as the other stakeholders in the financial sector. A high
    internal technical capacity is required to implement a complex and politically sensitive reform program
    such as this.




                                                      - 24 -

l The CBSL always aspired to obtain the best international expertise wherever necessary. Since the
     project implementation was handled by technically qualified staff, their absorption capacity was very
     high and they also could contribute proactively to the technical improvements. The recognition of the
     limitation in skills and willingness to accept international expertise resulted in high achievement levels.


l The IDA project team responded proactively and was flexible in the project components and funding.
     This enabled the project to achieve more outcomes than originally envisaged in the project.

l The modernization process was homegrown and spearheaded by the central bank and therefore they
     were able to manage effectively the donor interests and contributions to enhance the modernization
     process.

l The core functions, the payment system, monetary policy changes, bank supervision etc. were given a
     legal basis in the relevant laws to ensure long term sustainability.


 9. Partner Comments

 (a) Borrower/implementing agency:
 The borrower submitted its report on March 21, 2006 and is attached in Annex 8.

 (b) Cofinanciers:
 The cofinancier, Swedish International Development Co-operation Agency (SIDA) submitted its report on
 March 13, 2006 and is attached in Annex 9.

 (c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
 Not Applicable.

 10. Additional Information

 Follow-Up

 Major actions agreed between GOSL and the mission is set out below.

Number                                        Actions                                               Date to be

                                                                                                    completed

  1          Create a core group of champions to continue the reengineering process                 Continuous
             of CBSL.
  2          There is a need to design a framework for liquidity assistance, an exit                December,
             and liquidation mechanism is yet to be developed through necessary                       2006
             legal reforms.
  3          Continue with phasing out of non-core functions                                        Continuous

  4          Submit Borrower's Report for the ICR to IDA                                            March 30,
                                                                                                      2006



 Next steps:

         Complementing technical assistance provided in the context of the CBSL modernization project,
 the Bank has carried out a study on Access to Finance issues in Sri Lanka. The results of this work has



                                                      - 25 -

been shared with the Central Bank and the Government in March 2006. The Bank team will discuss with
the government of Sri Lanka the possibility of implementing some of its recommendations through an
operation that could support both the expansion of access to finance and private sector development at the
proposed workshop in July 2006.




                                                  - 26 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                  1
                Indicator/Matrix              Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
1. A central bank more focused on core                                 - Introduced an amendment to the Monetary
central banking business; improved and                                 Law Act to identify two core objectives for the
better functioning organization structure,                             Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) viz.
trained, qualified and motivated staff.                                economic and price stability and financial
                                                                       system stability.
                                                                       - Established a new organization structure
                                                                       aligning it to the dedefined objectives.
                                                                       Comprehensive training was provided
                                                                       continuously to the staff which has promoted
                                                                       a learning culture in the CBSL.
                                                                       - Over 4000 participants have benefited
                                                                       through the training budget funded by this
                                                                       project.
                                                                       - Ensured availability of a stock of competent
                                                                       employees

2. Effective reorganization of the CBSL to                             The modernization process created a lean,
meet the needs of modern and global                                    modern and efficient CBSL by upgrading its
economy                                                                systems and procedures, governance system
                                                                       and by establishing a core financial system
                                                                       infrastructure to satisfy the needs of an
                                                                       evolving economy.

3. An efficient and modern HR department                               With the services of an HR consultant and an
that can efficiently address policies on                               HR Manager, assisted to completely revamp
recruitment, placement, compensation,                                  the HR management policies:
mobility, etc.                                                         (a) A need-based recruitment was
                                                                       introduced;
                                                                       (b) New policies regarding entry and exit and
                                                                       portability of pension; and,
                                                                       (c) Implemented a performance-based
                                                                       evaluation system which emphasizes merit
                                                                       rather than `time-in-grade'.

4. Improved government securities market,                              Improved government securities market, with
introduction of scripless and electronic                               the introduction of scripless, electronic
trading systems and e-business                                         trading systems and e-business.
                                                                       (a) The Scripless Securities Settlement
                                                                       System (SSSS) was implemented to
                                                                       automate the trading in government debt
                                                                       securities and it was integrated to the RTGS
                                                                       to facilitate delivery versus payment (DvP);
                                                                       (b) Limited provisions were added to the MLA
                                                                       to provide for the introduction of
                                                                       RTGS/SSSS;
                                                                       (c) CBSL subsequently introduced a
                                                                       comprehensive legislation to govern the
                                                                       payment, clearing and settlement systems,
                                                                       through the Payment and Settlements Act.
                                                                       (d) Bloomburg trading system was introduced
                                                                       for primary dealers to trade in government
                                                                       securities; and,
                                                                       (e) The task of preparing appropriate legal
                                                                       backing for transactions that involve
                                                                       electronic fund transfers in support of
                                                                       E-commerce and E-Business activities was
                                                                       assigned to the Ministry of Justice and the
                                                                       Ministry of Science and Technology by the
                                                                       Financial Sector Cluster of the National
                                                                       Council for Economic Development. In this
                                                                       regard the following Acts relating to
                                                                       Electronic Transactions, Computer Crimes




                                                    - 27 -

                                                                           and Data Protection are under consideration

5. Expansion of open market operations and                                 The CBSL utilises open market operations as
improved foreign exchange and rate                                         a main instrument of attaining the monetary
regulations for more effective monetary                                    policy objective of the CBSL.
management                                                                 Disclosure and transparency have been
                                                                           achieved by the release of the monetary
                                                                           policy stance of the Monetary Board on a
                                                                           pre-announced monthly calendar.
                                                                           CBSL has been able to attain its reserve
                                                                           money targets through daily open market
                                                                           operations based on the liquidity position in
                                                                           the market and conducts daily auction. To
                                                                           absorb long-term liquidity it permits outright
                                                                           sale of treasury bills.

                                                                           RTGS system was successfully implemented
 6. Automation of the payment system by                                    and over 600 transactions per day is
introducing a real time gross settlement                                   processed. Settlement risk is mitigated.
system (RTGS).                                                             Increased the efficiency of the payment
                                                                           system. Established a safe payment and
                                                                           settlement system.

7. A right-sized CBSL that efficiently focuses                             A Voluntary Retirement Scehme was offered
on the core functions                                                      and 700 employees opted to retire under the
                                                                           scheme. A second round of voluntary early
                                                                           retirement scheme (VERS) was offered in
                                                                           2005 and 100 employees opted under that
                                                                           scheme. Divested and outsourced
                                                                           non-core/agency functions thereby facilitating
                                                                           to perform the core functions better with less
                                                                           number of staff.

8. Effective CBSL staff training to meet the                               Management Development Center was
needs of new organizational structure                                      set-up to assist in developing modern
                                                                           managers to suit the modern bank.
                                                                           The CBSL was converted into a `learning
                                                                           organization'. Upgrading of skills done by the
                                                                           employees themselves in a sustainable
                                                                           manner.


Output Indicators:
                                                                      1
               Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Proposed organization structure and a                                      In keeping with the revised functions of the
program for efficient development program to                               CBSL, a new organization structure was
meet the needs of the new structure and                                    established by categorizing departments
functions                                                                  under the primary objectives or by functional
                                                                           groups i.e. price stability, financial system
                                                                           stability, agency and business functions and
                                                                           corporate services. Devolution of the
                                                                           non-core functions facilitated to perform the
                                                                           core functions better with less number of
                                                                           staff. Skills-gap analysis was conducted
                                                                           amongst the staff with the aim of identifying
                                                                           the knowledge gap and facilitating to upgrade
                                                                           their skills in these areas. A training plan has
                                                                           been prepared and is updated annually with
                                                                           the aim of building the skills and
                                                                           competencies of the staff. A sum of Rs. 100
                                                                           ­ 150 million is allocated annually towards
                                                                           the training budget.


Expert analysis and design for the HR policy                               Introduced progressive HR management and
and functions as well as VRS                                               development policies. Facilitated in the
                                                                           development of human capital that could




                                                        - 28 -

                                                           harness its maximum potential for the
                                                           realization of the CBSL goals. Job
                                                           descriptions were drafted for all CBSL
                                                           employees. HR manual was updated.
                                                           Makes CBSL a model and progressive
                                                           employer. Reassessment of HR needs,
                                                           redesigning jobs and assigning some of the
                                                           functions to outside agencies. Retention of
                                                           committed staff.


In-depth study of the payments systems to                  Introduction of RTGS for high value time
identify the weaknesses and requirements,                  critical payments. Implemented SSSS for
identify the best possible solution for the                government debt securities trading.
CBSL's payment system                                      Provided Bloomburg trading system for the
                                                           Primary Dealers to trade on-line. To cater the
                                                           retail market, the cheque imaging and
                                                           truncation system will be introduced in 2006
                                                           facilitating island wide clearance of cheques
                                                           within 1 ­ 2 days. Upgraded the Disaster
                                                           Recovery Site of CBSL's payment system.


Proposing regulations related to the proposed              Legislative amendments have been drafted
changes; approval from Monetary Board,                     for the liberalization of exchange control and
Cabinet approvals                                          awaiting a policy decision by the government
                                                           on this matter. The CBSL utilizes open
                                                           market operations as a main instrument of
                                                           attaining the monetary policy objective of the
                                                           CBSL. CBSL has been able to attain its
                                                           reserve money targets through daily open
                                                           market operations.


Preparing regulations related to primary and               Limited provisions were added to the MLA to
secondary government securities market.                    provide for the introduction of the RTGS/SSS
                                                           systems. Payments and Settlements Act is a
Review and propose scripless trading system                comprehensive legislation that governs the
                                                           payments systems in general and provides
                                                           the CBSL with oversight and regulatory
                                                           powers over payment systems and money
                                                           and payment service providers and would
                                                           also enable the electronic presentment of
                                                           cheques.
                                                           To facilitate e-business, Acts for Electronic
                                                           Transactions, Computer Crimes and Data
                                                           Protection are under consideration by the
                                                           relevant Ministries.


1End of project




                                                 - 29 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                            Appraisal    Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                            Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
                        Component                           US$ million   US$ million
1.Central Bank Reorganization and Restructuring                0.00            0.00             0
1(a) Human Resource Development                                0.48            0.58           1.2
1(b) Voluntary Retirement Scheme                              17.50          10.57            0.6
1(c) Support for capacity building in various departments      2.03            1.50          0.74
2.Improving Payments and Settlement Systems                    0.00            0.00             0
2(a) Real Time Gross Settlement System                         4.74            6.78          0.86
2(b) Scripless Securities System                               3.11
2(c) General Ledger System                                     1.08            1.54          1.42
2(d) Upgrade of Systems related to Payments                    0.00            0.83             0
2(e) Cheque Imaging and Truncation System                      0.00            3.04             0
3.Financial Markets Regulation and Development                 0.00            0.00             0
3(a) Legal Reform                                              0.41            0.00             0
3(b) Other Financial Sector Studies in Priority Areas          0.33            1.43          4.35
Others including Part Z                                        0.62            5.93          9.56

Total Baseline Cost                                           30.30          32.20
                          Total Project Costs                 30.30          32.20
                  Total Financing Required                    30.30          32.20


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      1
                                                  Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                 Other
1. Works                             0.00            0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
2. Goods                             8.65            0.00          0.14         0.00        8.79
                                    (8.65)           (0.00)      (0.12)         (0.00)     (8.77)
3. Services                          0.00            0.00          6.10         1.00        7.10
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (3.07)         (0.00)     (3.07)
4. Miscellaneous - VRS               0.00            0.00         25.00         0.00       25.00
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (17.50)        (0.00)    (17.50)
5. Operations &                      0.00            0.00          0.56         0.00        0.56
Maintenance                         (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.28)         (0.00)     (0.28)
6. PPF                               0.00            0.00          0.60         0.00        0.60
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.60)         (0.00)     (0.60)
   Total                             8.65            0.00         32.40         1.00       42.05
                                    (8.65)           (0.00)      (21.57)        (0.00)    (30.22)




                                                  - 30 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
    1. Works                                0.00               0.00              1.10             0.00              1.10
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.99)            (0.00)           (0.99)
    2. Goods                                11.09              0.81              0.20             0.00             12.10
                                           (10.12)            (0.69)            (0.19)            (0.00)           (11.00)
    3. Services                             0.00               0.00              4.43             1.28              5.71
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (4.42)            (1.28)           (5.70)
    4. Miscellaneous - VRS                  0.00               0.00             14.88             0.00             14.88
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)           (10.57)            (0.00)           (10.57)
    5. Operations &                         0.59               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.59
    Maintenance                            (0.29)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.29)
    6. PPF                                  0.00               0.00              0.43             0.00              0.43
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.43)            (0.00)           (0.43)
       Total                                11.68              0.81             21.04             1.28             34.81
                                           (10.41)            (0.69)           (16.60)            (1.28)           (28.98)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1.Central Bank
Reorganization and
Restructuring
1a. Human Resource              0.48         0.06         1.00        0.58                    1.28       120.8     0.0     128.0
Development
1b. Voluntary Retirement       17.50         7.50                    10.57         4.31                  60.4      57.5
Scheme (VRS)
1c. Support for capacity        2.03         3.77                     1.50                               73.9      0.0
building in various
departments
2. Improving Payments and
Settlement Systems
2a RTGSS / SSS                  7.85         0.28                     6.78         0.38                  86.4     135.7
2b General Ledger system        1.08         0.00                     1.54         0.32                  142.6     0.0
2c Upgrade of Systems           0.00         0.00                     0.83         0.12                   0.0      0.0
related to payments
2d Cheque Imaging and           0.00         0.00                     3.04         0.57                   0.0      0.0
Truncation System
3. Financial Markets



                                                           - 31 -

Regulation and
Development
3a Legal Reforms           0.41   0.05           0.00           0.0   0.0
3b Other Financial Sector  0.33   0.06           1.43           433.3 0.0
Studies in Priority Areas
Others (Incremental        0.62   0.00           5.93   0.02    956.5 0.0
Operating Expenses /
PPF / Implementation
Support (local
expenses)/Part Z)




                                         - 32 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not Applicable




                                      - 33 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              4/2000                         Principal Economist
                                             Financial Economist
                                             Economist
              09/10/2000                     Financial Economist
                                             Economist
                                             Financial management Specialist
                                             Procurement specialist

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              04/06/2001                     Financial Economist (2)               S
                                             Economist (1)
                                             Operations Officer (1)
                                             Payment Specialist (1)
                                             HR Specialist (1)
                                             Procurement Specialist(1)
                                             Financial Management
                                             Specialist (1)

              05/15/2001                     Financial Economist (2)               S
                                             Economist (1)
                                             Operations Officer (1)
                                             Procurement Specialist (1)
                                             Financial Management
                                             Specialists(2)
                                             Legal Officer (1)

 Supervision

              11/20/2001                4    Financial Economist (1);              S               S
                                             Economist (1) Procurement (1);
                                             Financial Management (1)

              05/29/2002                6    Task Leader (1); Enomist (1);         S               S
                                             Payment Specialist(1); Senior
                                             Legal Counsel (1);
                                             Implementation Specialist (1);
                                             Fin. Mgt. Specialist (1)

              11/15/2002                7    Task Team Leader (1);                 HS              S
                                             Economist (2); Legal Counsel
                                             (1); Financial Management
                                             Specialist (1); Implementation
                                             Specialist (1); Consultant (1)

              05/21/2004               12    Sector Manager (1); Legal             S               S
                                             Counsel (1); Sr. Financial Sector



                                              - 34 -

                                           Specialist (2); Sr. Economist (1);
                                           Fin. Mgt. Consultant (1);
                                           Procurement Specialist (1); Fin.
                                           Mgt. Specialist (1); Team
                                           Assistant (1); Financial
                                           Specialist (1); Fincl. Sector Spec.
                                           (1); Task Manager (1)

               11/30/2004              8   Task Team Leader (1); Lead            S     S
                                           Legal Counsel (1); Sr. Fin.
                                           Specialist (1); Sr. Payments
                                           Advisor (1); Sr. Fin.. Economist
                                           (1); Fin Mgt. Specialist (1); JPA
                                           (1); Team Assistant (1)

 ICR
               05/03/2005             3     Task Team Leader (1);Sr.             HS    HS
                                            Payments Advisor (1); JPA
                                            (1)

               05/29/2005             8     Task Team Leader (1); Lead           HS    HS
                                            Legal Counsel (1); Sr. Fin.
                                            Specialist (1); Sr. Fin..
                                            Economist (1); Fin Mgt.
                                            Specialist (1); Procurement
                                            Specialist (1); JPA (1); Team
                                            Assistant (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           74.45                        221,622.85
  Appraisal/Negotiation                --do--                            --do--
  Supervision                        112.72                         419,260.16
  ICR
  Total                              187.17                         640,883.01




                                            - 35 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU
List of Performance indicators
Staff levels
Time frame for Enactment of draft laws
Time frame for phasing out of the non core functions




                                                    - 37 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Central Bank Annual Reports - 2002-2005

2. All the brochures listed

3. Training Manual

4. Staff Manual

5. Governor's Circular on Modernization

6. Governor's Circular on VRS

7. Monetary Policy Announcements in the Central Bank website

8. Financial System Stability Report

9. Legal Enactments




                                              - 38 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Report




                                      - 39 -

- 40 -

- 41 -

- 42 -

- 43 -

- 44 -

- 45 -

- 46 -

- 47 -

- 48 -

- 49 -

- 50 -

- 51 -

- 52 -

Additional Annex 9. Cofinancier's Report




                                        - 53 -

- 54 -

- 55 -

