Docurnent of
The World Bank
Report No: 22178 CE
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 23.9 MILLION
(US$30.3 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR THE
SRI LANKA CENTRAL BANK STRENGTHENING
May 23, 2001
South Asia Regional Office
Finance and Private Sector Development Unit
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Sri Lanka Rupee (LKR)
LKR 90.0 = US$1.0
US$0.0111 = LKR 1.0
FISCAL YEAR
January I -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AU         Administrative Unit
BPIP       Borrower Project Implementation Plan
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CBSL       Central Bank of Sri Lanka
DvP        Delivery Vs. Payment
EPF        Employees' Provident Fund
GL         General Ledger
GOSL       Government of Sri Lanka
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
IDA        International Development Agency
IRR        Internal Rate of Return
LKR        Sri Lankan Rupees
MDC        Management Development Center
MOFP       Ministry of Finance and Planning
NCB        National Competitive Bidding
OMO        Open Market Operation
PMR        Project Management Reports
PPF        Project Preparation Facility
QCBS       Quality & Cost Based Selection
RFP        Request for Proposal
RTGS       Real Time Gross Settlement
SGSS       Scripless Government Security System
SIDA       Swedish International Development Agency
SLASH      Sri Lanka Automated Clearing House
SOE        Statement of Expenses
TA         Technical Assistance
TOR        Terms of Reference
Vice President:   Mieko Nishin-iizu
Country Manager/Director:    Mariana Todorova
Sector Manager/Director:    Marilou Jane D. Uy
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Simon C. Bell



SRI LANKA
SRI LANKA CENTRAL BANK STRENGTHENING
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                          Page
1. Project development objective                                                          2
2. Key performance indicators                                                             2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project         2
2. Main sector issues and Govemment strategy                                              3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                     7
C. Project Description Sumnimary
1. Project components                                                                     8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                          9
3. Benefits and target population                                                        10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                         11
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                              13
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies            15
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                              16
4. Indications of borrower commitnent and ownership                                      18
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                           19
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                              19
2. Financial                                                                             20
3. Technical                                                                             20
4. Institutional                                                                         20
5. Environmental                                                                         21
6. Social                                                                                21
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                    22
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                        23
2. Critical risks                                                                        23
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                        24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             25
2. Other                                                                               25
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           25
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          26
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           27
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     31
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          49
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary            50
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Sumunary    57
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        58
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      67
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    68
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   69
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             71
Annex 11: Letter of Development Policies for the Central Bank of Sri Lanka                73
MAP(S)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
| authorization.



SRI LANKA
Sri Lanka Central Bank Strengthening
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Regional Office
SASFP
Date: May 21, 2001                                Team Leader: Simon C. Bell
Country Manager/Director: Mariana Todorova        Sector Manager/Director: Marilou Jane D. Uy
Project ID: P071131                               Sector(s): FS - Financial Sector Development
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Financial Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [X] Credit    [ ]Grant     [ IGuarantee     [ ]Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 30.3
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                         Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: Standard, between 0 to 0.5 percent.    Service charge: 0.75%                       l
Financing Plan (US$m): Source                               Local         Foreign        Total
BORROWER                                                       8.00           2.70         10.70
IDA                                                           17.70          12.60         30.30
SWEDISH INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT                              0.00           1.00          1.00
COOPERATION AGENCY (SIDA)
Total:                                                        25.70          16.30         42.00
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF SRI LANKA
Responsible agency: CENTRAL BANK OF SRI LANKA (CBSL)
Address: Central Bank of Sri Lanka, 30 Janadhipathi Mawatha, Colombo 1, SRI LANKA
Contact Person: A.S. Jayawardena, Governor
Tel: 94 1 477 176               Fax: 94 1 477 712               Email: gov_.cb(slt.lk
Other Agency(ies):
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND PLANNING
Address: The Secretariat, Colombo 1, SRI LANKA
Contact Person: P. B. Jayasundera, Secretary
Tel: 94 1 431 761             Fax: 94 1 449 823               Email: rosedgfpa@hotmail.com
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2002       2003   1  2004       2005
Annual    6.80       10.80      11.50       1.20
Cumulative    6.80       17.60     29.10      30.30
Project implementation period: 4
Expected effectiveness date: 07/31/2001  Expected closing date:  07/31/2005
CS PAD F-or: R.V M.rh 2DW



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of the proposed central bank strengthening project is to support the Central Bank of
Sri Lanka (CBSL) in its efforts to affect a fundamental restructuring and reorganization program.
The reform effort, which is being spear-headed by the central banking authorities aims to create a
lean, well functioning, modernized, and efficient central bank capable of supporting strong
economic growth over the medium to long term. The proposed project is expected to pave the
way for further financial sector reform with the ultimate objective of establishing a fully private,
competitive, and prudently managed banking system. The project will support: (a) the Central
Bank's Reorganization and Restructuring efforts which include completely revamping the human
resource management function within the CBSL and rewarding staff based upon merit rather than
time-in-service; devolving non-core central banking functions to other agencies; strengthening the
core CBSL functions (economic management and financial system stability); and implementing a
Voluntary Retirement Scheme (VRS) in line with the above objectives; (b) Upgrading the
Payments System and other key Central Banking Functions including the introduction of a real
time gross settlement system (RTGS); developing and integrating a scripless Government
securities system with the RTGS; and computerizing the general ledger of the central bank; and
(c) other studies and technical consultancies within the central bank.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Effectiveness of the CBSL in managing its core functions as well as progress towards
implementation of the proposed reorganization: (i) devolution of non-core functions of the
central bank; (ii) strengthening of remaining core functions (price stability and financial sector
stability); (iii) implementation of organizational changes within the CBSL; (iv) adoption of new
human resource policies -- which reward merit over time-in-grade; (v) implementation of the
Voluntary Retirement Scheme (VRS); (vi) time taken to settle interbank transactions; and (vii)
integration of the General Ledger of the CBSL into a useful Management Information tool for the
governing board of the central bank. A system of monitoring and evaluation will be established
and a baseline evaluated, against which each step of project implementation be measured. The
system will also evaluate the impact of the project components on the efficiency of financial
markets -- and the economy as a whole. The implementing agency will also seek feedback from
stakeholders (particularly the private sector and the banking sector) through interviews and
organized stakeholder workshops/meetings.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) -- Document number: 15633-LK (May 21,
1996) which was discussed by the Board on June 13, 1996.  Date of latest CAS discussion:
December 23, 1998 Progress Report discussed by the Board on January 19, 1999.
The 1996 CAS focused on Sri Lanka's need to complete the transition from socialism to a market
economy while reinforcing the country's commitment to equity and social development and
suggested, among other things, improvement in the policy environment for private sector
investment (both domestic and foreign). The government recognizes the need for a sound and
- 2 -



strong financial sector to support private sector development and more rapid growth. The CAS
placed great importance on financial sector development and stability and also on IDA's continued
dialogue and assistance to further promote and deepen the sector. A comprehensive Financial
Sector Study (Report No. 17236-CE) was prepared in July 1998 and since then, the World Bank,
in close collaboration with the IMF and IFC, has also been working with the Sri Lanka authorities
to deepen the financial sector reforms. In January 1999, the Board approved the Year 2000
Emergency Assistance Credit (Report No. 18729-CE) which has since been satisfactorily
implemented. Encouraged by recent modest liberalization of investment rules for state-owned
insurance and provident funds and government efforts at establishing a regulatory framework for
private pension/provident funds, IDA is also prepared to support a broad program of pension
refonm. A PHRD Grant is already in place to assist the government to further improve the
regulatory framework in the insurance sector and to support the preparation of a possible project
in this sector. In addition, the World Bank has responded positively to the Government's request
to prepare this credit to strengthen the Central Bank. The proposed operation directly supports
the CAS goal of assisting the government in its efforts to prepare the country for the next phase
of financial sector reforms. An up-dated CAS, currently under preparation, will continue this
emphasis on private and financial sector reform.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Background - Sri Lanka's financial sector comprises diverse institutions. The banking system
consists of 2 large state-owned commercial banks (accounting for about 55 percent of banking
system assets), 9 domestic private banks and 16 foreign commercial bank branches; a National
Savings Bank (NSB); 6 Regional Development Banks; and a State Mortgage and Investment
Bank (SMIB). There are four Development Finance Institutions (DFI) that specialize in term
lending. Twenty five finance companies (FC) provide lease financing and installment credit.
There are also 5 leasing companies, 10 merchant banks, and 7 venture capital companies.
Contractual savings are accounted for mainly by the two government sponsored provident funds
for private sector employees, the Employees' Provident Fund (EPF) and the Employees' Trust
Fund (ETF). There are also 204 approved private provident funds, 12 unit trusts and 9 insurance
companies. The government employee pension fund is unfunded, and benefits are financed from
the general budget. These contractual savings institutions mobilize large pools of long-term
resources but invest these funds principally in short-term government securities.
Main Sector Issues and Problems -- Sri Lanka's financial system is relatively shallow, with
assets concentrated in government securities (38 percent) and liabilities in bank deposits (33
percent). The banking sector is dominated by the two state commercial banks (SCBs), Bank of
Ceylon (BOC) and People's Bank (PB), which between them account for 55 percent of banking
sector assets. There are considerable inefficiencies in the banking sector as evidenced by high
intermediation costs and a high level of non-perforning assets (NPA). The state-owned banks'
NPA as of end of 2000 was about 15.4 percent compared to NPA of 14.9 percent for private
banks and 12.7 percent for foreign bank. This indicates that the state banks have brought down
their NPA more in line with the other banks in the country. The state also dominates the market
in life insurance (45 percent), general insurance (60 percent) and pension funds (over 90 percent).
These inefficiencies have been at the expense of both depositors and borrowers.
- 3 -



Since 1991/92, significant reforms have commenced in the financial sector. These include:
(a) improved financial disclosure through the adoption of international accounting and auditing
standards in banking and corporate sectors;
(b) the ability of banks to recover loans has been strengthened;
(c) Central Bank refinancing of directed credits has been virtually stopped;
(e) measures to improve the regulatory, supervisory and institutional infrastructure have helped
to establish a world-class stock market in Colombo;
(f) government recapitalization of the two state-owned commercial banks in 1993 and 1996,
respectively. This, however, was undertaken without adequate governance reforms -- thereby
missing an opportunity for meaningful structural change;
(g) the finance company crisis that started in the late 1 980s has been stemmed, although the
resolution of five failed FCs remains pending.
MONETARY POLICY MANAGEMENT. Banks are required to hold liquid assets (Treasury
bills, cash and deposits) equivalent to 20 percent of their deposit liabilities. A greater burden for
the commercial banks, however, is the cash reserve requirement of 11 percent of liabilities.
CBSL's measures to control prices in past 3 years has been relatively successful. The CBSL has
managed to keep average wholesale prices and consumer prices at 3 percent and 6.6 percent
respectively, over the past three years. However, during the 4th quarter of 2000, an increase in
fuel prices and the depreciation of the rupee had an inflationary impact. This resulted in the
average CPI reaching 6.2 percent and the point-to-point CPI reaching 10.2 percent by December
2000. The increasing inflationary trends had already impacted interest rates with a deteriorating
impact on the investment climate. With the introduction of the open economic policies in 1977,
the Central Bank moved from a dual exchange rate policy to a managed floating exchange rate
with a crawling band. The band was increased from 2 to 5 percent in June 2000 to allow the rate
to be determined by market forces within the band better reflecting forces of demand and supply.
In January 2001, the Central Bank floated the rupee and the flotation was introduced without
major disruption to the economy. In principle, interest rate policy is market oriented, and the
CBSL's main monetary instrument has been setting of the repo and reverse repo interest rates.
However, through open market operations, the Central Bank still influences the determination of
interest rates. In addition, with state banks dominating the banking sector, the Government as the
market leader can also indirectly influence interest rates within the system.
BANK SUPERVISION AND REGULATION. Compared to bank regulation in most developing
countries the scope of CBSL authority is substaniial -- and the bank regulatory and supervisory
environment in Sri Lanka has improved substantially over the past decade. The Banking Act of
1988 empowered the Monetary Board to require more extensive bank disclosure and higher
reporting standards (including submission of annual audited statements), increased capital
requirements, and more rigorous central banking supervision. In the ensuing years, additional
regulatory requirements have been introduced including suspension of interest on non-performing
loans and more stringent provisioning requirements against bad and doubtful debts. Many of
these changes followed the recommendations of the Presidential Commission on Finance and
Banking. Amendments to the Banking Act in 1995 fiurther strengthened commercial bank
supervision and regulation, established minimum capital standards for Specialized Banks, and
extended CBSL supervision to these institutions. Despite these developments bank supervision
- 4 -



requires further strengthening. Examiner training is still inadequate and growth in staff size and
experience has lagged behind the growth in the number, size, and complexity of institutions to be
supervised. Under the IDA financed Private Finance Development Project, the CBSL was
provided with technical assistance to prepare on-site and off-site supervision manuals. These
efforts are being further strengthened under Swedish bilateral assistance.
MONEY MARKETS. Primary debt markets are nascent and are dominated by short-term
government securities. There is less activity in secondary debt markets. The main financial
market instrument is the Treasury bill, with maturities of 3, 6, and 12 months, auctioned weekly
through a primary dealer system. Almost two-thirds of the Government debt is sold directly to
the National Savings Bank, the provident funds, and other government-owned banks. These are
mostly fixed rate, non-marketable, intermediate-term instruments. In 1997, the government
introduced treasury bonds with longer maturities ranging from 2-6 years. These instruments are
market based and auctioned through the primary dealer system. This initiative has assisted the
development of a medium term yield curve and, as a result, the volume of corporate debentures
has increased significantly.
The CBSL and GOSL need to gradually increase their reliance on market-priced government
securities and less on govermment-owned investors and non-marketable instruments in order to
deepen the government securities market and to provide a better benchmark for pricing private
bond issues. There is a growing secondary market for long term debt instruments. Nonetheless,
developing private bond markets will requlre other significant changes, including greater price and
exchange rate stability, more confidence in stable government policy, and more consistent
economic growth. Call money markets in Sri Lanka are thin and overnight money interest rates
have exhibited substantial volatility. On some occasions, rates have been as high as 100 percent
per annum. While CBSL accepts the use of open market operations as the principal tool for
financial market intervention and management, it has yet to fully integrate the use of this tool in its
financial market activities. IDA, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and USAID have been
working with CBSL to help improve open market operations.
INFORMATION (INCLUDING PAYMENTS) TECHNOLOGY. Although there has been
initiatives to modernize Information Technology (IT) systems in the CBSL, the IT function is still
fragmented with stand alone non-standard and multiple platform systems. There is a need to
move to an integrated policy environment, with modern information management practices to
ensure accuracy and consistency of information. In general, there are systemic weaknesses in the
areas of: (i) Communication Network; (ii) IT Policy and Procedures; and (iii) Major Applications
(such as the payment system). The payment systems in Sri Lanka is run by an Automated Check
Clearing System (SLACH) and the Sri Lanka Interbank Payments System (SLIPS). The current
infrastructure is basically an off-line electronic funds transfer system which does not need banks to
be linked to the Automated Clearing House (ACH). The system involves exchange of magnetic
tapes or diskettes through the ACH, on a daily basis. In addition to magnetic tapes, printed
reports of accounts are also provided for non-automated banks. An on-line funds transfer systems
with integrated communication network is not currently available in Sri Lanka. An on-line funds
transfer system requires each bank to have a front end computer linked to the SLACH via a
communication line. This technology will facilitate the immediate real time settlement and funds
- 5-



transfer between banks and with Central Bank. Currently, the CBSL is working on developing a
communication network including a local area network (LAN) and wide area network (WAN) to
improve financial transactions within the Central Bank and with other financial institutions. Under
the IDA financed Year 2000 Emergency Assistance Project, support was provided to CBSL to
establish an integrated IT security system.
CENTRAL BANK'S ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE, ITS FUNCTIONS, AND HUMAN
RESOURCES. The Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) is governed by a three-person Monetary
Board consisting of the Governor of CBSL, the Secretary of the Ministry of Finance and Planning
(MOFP) and a non-government appointee. The CBSL operates with a considerable degree of
independence in most areas and has a significant role in influencing government policy and
managing the financial system. The CBSL performs a broad range of traditional central bank
activities including conducting monetary policy, controlling inflation, advising the Treasury on
public debt management issues, supervising and regulating commercial banks and other financial
institutions to assure stability within financial markets, and managing the nation's international
reserves. CBSL also carries out financial activities not traditionally associated with central banks
-- including managing the GOSL sponsored provident plans and providing financing to selected
sectors (agriculture, exports, and troubled finance companies) -- a function that has been reduced
in recent years. The CBSL now recognizes, however, that a strong and well focused central bank
that oversees monetary policy and appropriately regulates banks is an essential ingredient for the
development of a sound and competitive banking system. The twin deficits -- fiscal and trade --
have made CBSL's task extremely challenging, although it has been assisted by forced savings
mobilized by the above mentioned govermnent-owned banks and provident funds, and by financial
assistance from external donors and creditors.
CBSL's involvement in many functions not associated with central banking business has weakened
its focus on its core central banking competencies. In early 2000, the CBSL decided to review its
core role and identify gaps in its present organizational structure which hinder the achievement of
its objectives and the delivery of its core functions. This review identified that the CBSL lacks a
proper Human Resource planning and strategy capacity which has resulted in serious deficiencies
in many areas of human resource management. This is a problem of some years standing --
beginning with unfocused recruitment which did not address proper institutional skill requirements
-- resulting in serious over-staffing and demoralization. Non-adherence to standards for
employees and proper placement of employees, coupled with inadequate training, has resulted in a
serious skills gap. These problems have been exacerbated by an absence of incentive schemes to
reward strong performers within the institution and penalty schemes for poor performance.
CAPITAL MARKETS. Over the last few years, the government has taken several steps to
invigorate the capital market by modernizing the stock exchange facilities, promoting foreign
participation, developing the investment fund industry, enforcing higher disclosure standards,
providing tax incentives and promoting investor awareness. During second half of the 1 990s
primary issues of corporate debentures increased, especially by commercial banks, supplying the
market with new instruments for capital mobilization. Despite these actions, the size of Sri
Lanka's capital market in relation to GDP remains small. With assistance from the ADB and IFC
- 6 -



the Central Bank established a rating agency in 1999 to help develop the debt market.
THE TWO STATE OWNED COMMERCIAL BANKS. Perhaps the single biggest problem in
the financial sector relates to the performance and operation of the two state owned commercial
banks -- People's Bank and Bank of Ceylon. Accounting for over half of all commercial banking
assets, they create an environment of inefficiency and weak commercial orientation, behind which
the other banks shelter. Efforts to improve these banks within the existing governance
arrangements have not, to date, proved successful. The Government is at present not prepared to
consider privatization of these two institutions and has alternatively elected to bring in a new
Board and recruit new chief executives to run the banks. However, the Government will have to
adopt a "hands-off' approach to the state banks, and permnit them to be established on a truly
conmmercial footing, for real structural changes to take place in the financial sector.
Government Strategy and Priority Areas - The GOSL continues to place importance on
developing the financial sector and it has approached the World Bank for technical and financial
assistance to re-engineer the CBSL to help it transforn into a premier central bank within Asia.
Support has been particularly requested in the following areas:
* Reorganization and Institutional Strengthening (including human resources development and
institution right-sizing) of the CBSL;
* Devolution of non-core functions from the CBSL;
* Strengthening of the remaining Core Functions;
* Implementation of a Voluntary Retirement Scheme to right-size the bank;
* Automation of the Payment and Settlement Systems (RTGS);
* Linkage of the Scripless Government Securities system with the RTGS;
* Computerization of the General Ledger of the CBSL; and
* Fina;cial Markets Development and Regulation.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
In light of the above issues and the Government priority areas of the first phase of the financial
sector reform, the project will aim at modernization and improvement of the CBSL as this is
expected to facilitate the implementation of the next phase of financial sector reform. The three
broad elements of this proposed project are:
1.    Central Bank Reorganization and Restructuring.
2.    Payments System Development.
3.    Financial Market Regulation and Development.
The project will provide only limited assistance in the area of pension reforms if necessary. The
reasons for this are two fold. Firstly, pension reforn appeared to be out of line with the main
focus of the other elements of this particular project -- which were all very much related to central
banking. Second, support for pension and provident fund reform will likely be provided through a
different intervention when these reforms are more fully developed. As the Employees Provident
Fund (EPF) is the largest pension fund in the country and comes under the purview of the Central
Bank, the limited assistance provided under this project is intended to help the Ministry of Finance
-7 -



and the CBSL to plan, strategize and ultimately implement the transfer of the management of the
EPF from the central bank to some other independent institution.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Ainex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The proposed project has three main over-arching components and several sub-components:
1.    Central Bank Reorganization and Restructuring
(a)   Human Resource Development (including new HR policies).
(b)   Support for a Voluntary Retirement Scheme (VRS).
(c)   General Support for Capacity Building of various departments.
2.    Payments and Securities Clearing & Settlement Improvement
(a)   Introduction of a Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) system
(b)   Upgrading the Scripless Government Securities System (SGSS)
(c)   Automation of the General Ledger in the central bank
3.    Financial Market Regulation and Development
(a)   Legal Reforms
(b)   Other Financial Sector Studies in Priority Areas.
The proposed project will also support implementation and administration arrangements in the
form of technical and financial assistance for procurement and financial management of the project
to ensure that implementation is in line with World Bank guidelines. To permit preparatory work
on the project, the CBSL requested a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) in an amount of US$
600,000 to support (a) a technical assessment of the payment systems and (b) the design of new
HR policies and the development/design of a VRS. The PPF was approved and the PPF
Agreement was signed on October 19, 2000.
The Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA) has agreed to co-finance the
proposed project in an amount of one million US dollars equivalent. As the Swedish Central
Bank (Riksbank) already has a twinning program with the Central Bank of Sri Lanka, this
agreement to jointly finance the project is seen as a useful way of better coordinating our joint
donor efforts in support of the Government of Sri Lanka. This proposal has been discussed and
agreed with the Ministry of Finance representatives. The SIDA financing will be in the form of a
grant.
With financing contributions from IDA (US$ 30.3 million) and SIDA (US$ 1.0 million), the
Government of Sri Lanka will be required to provide counterpart funding of US$ 10.7 million
over the next four years.
-8 -



Indicative-    i       Bank-      % of
Component                   Sector        Costs     % of    financing    Bank-
____ __ (US$M)    Total  (USSM    financing
1. Central Bank Reorganization and  Financial Sector
Restructuring.                     Development
(a) Human Resource Development.                         0.54       1.3      0.48        1.6
(b) Support for a Voluntary Retirement                25.00       59.5      17.50      57.8
Scheme (VRS).
(c) General Support for Various                         5.80      13.8       2.03       6.7
Departments.
2. Payment System                  Financial Sector
Development
(a) Introduction of a Real Time Gross                   5.02      12.0      4.74       15.6
Settlement (RTGS) system.
(b) Support for upgrading the Scripless                 3.11       7.4       3.11      10.3
Government Securities System (SGSS).
(c) Automation of the General                           1.08       2.6       1.08       3.6
Ledger in the central bank.
3. Financial Markets Regulation and  Financial Sector
Development                        Development
(a) Legal Reform.                                      0.46        1.1      0.41        1.4
(b) Other Financial Sector Studies in                   0.37       0.9       0.33       1.1
Priority Areas.
Implementation Support.                                 0.02       0.0       0.02       0.1
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)  Financial Sector    0.60       1.4      0.60        2.0
_  Development
Total Project Costs                  42.00     100.0      30.30      100.0
Front-end fee                    0.00        0.0      0.00        0.0
Total Financing Required                    42.00     100.0      30.30     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The -aim of the proposed project is to help the GOSL to modernize the country's Central Bank to
support economic and financial system stability in support of faster private sector led growth in
Sri Lanka and to meet the challenges of an increasingly globalized world. The project also seeks
to improve and strengthen the financial sector through a program of policy reform and institution
building at the Central Bank. While this project will not address all the weaknesses in the financial
sector, it will support a selected set of priority activities identified by the CBSL as a first phase of
a broader financial sector reform. The project is designed to provide the central bank with the
tools required to, at a later date, implement a follow up round of even deeper financial sector
reforms within the commercial banking sector.
At the Annual Meetings in September 1999 and again in May, 2000, the GOSL made a formal
-9-



request to IDA for a project to assist the CBSL. The Government proposed program consisted of
5 main areas of policy reform as follows:
I.    Reorganization and Institution Building of the CBSL - Revisit the role and functions
of the CBSL in the context of financial market developments and reorganize and restructure the
institution with the objective of improving its core functions and responsibilities.
H.   Training, Research, and Library Upgrading - In light of its plan to reorganize the
institution's structure and functions the CBSL envisaged a need for further building staff capacity
in the form of training -- both foreign and local.
III.   Automation of the Payments System, the Government Securities Market and the
General Ledger of the central bank - establishment of a Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS)
system for large value and time sensitive payments within the economy and the development of an
automated Government securities and depository system in the CBSL.
IV.   Financial Market Regulation and Development - The Government seeks to: review the
legal fmancial framework within which the financial system currently operates with a view to its
modernization to permit Sri Lanka to compete better in an increasingly globalized world. To also
prepare the appropriate legal backing for transactions which involve electronic fund transfers in
support of E-Commerce and E-Business activities.
V.   Reform of the Social Security System and Capital Market Development - Reform and
regulate the contractual savings institutions (pension and provident funds) in the country; and to
take necessary measures to increase the liquidity and size of the stock market.
The proposed project will support the programs I to IV. As for the pension reform program, the
World Bank has completed a study in this area and helped the Government to organize a Pensions
Workshop in Colombo in 2000. Pension reform is likely to be supported under a separate IDA
funded project.
3. Benefits and target population:
A sound and efficient central bank, with limited focus, is likely to be more successful in ensuring
both price stability and financial system stability. This is increasingly the way that modem central
banks are evolving in the developed world. Such action by the CBSL will help to better serve the
needs of a modem economy to the benefit of the private sector, increased investment, and overall
economic growth. The project will have a positive impact on the overall macro-economy through
more effective and more professional macro-monetary management. It will directly benefit the
staff and management of the CBSL. Automation of the payments system, along with improving
the environment within which the payment system operates will increase the efficiency and
accountability of the payment and settlement infrastructure in the country and will better met the
needs of the enterprise sector. Staff training will improve the CBSL's institutional capacity.
- 10 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The Central Bank of Sri Lanka will take the lead in implementing this project. A Steering
Committee was appointed by the Monetary Board in mid-2000 to lead the transformation
process of the Central Bank to meet the challenges of the global environment in the new
millennium. A Deputy Governor of the Central Bank chairs the Steering Committee. The process
of change is considered continuous, and the steering committee publishes quarterly reports for the
Monetary Board and regular newsletters for the rest of the staff of the Central Bank to keep them
informed of the restructuring/re-engineering process.
The re-engineering process has been supported by the work of five Focus Groups selected from
various departments from within the Central Bank (see Annex 2 for details). These Focus Groups
completed their review work in December, 2000 and reported their recommendations to the
Steering Committee. The implementation of the Focus Group recommendations will be
undertaken by a Task Force to ensure participation and coordination by all key departments. The
Task Force is expected to make the preparatory arrangements for:
*  Co-ordination of the reorganization of departments under the proposed new organizational
structure approved by the Monetary Board
* Monitoring financial sector developments, making policy recommendations for regulating and
supervising financial institutions, and maintaining financial stability.
* Development of a plan for the phasing out the agency functions of the CB SL
* Carrying out necessary improvements in the function and management of ancillary and
administrative functions that remain in the CBSL after the restructuring exercise.
* Carrying out any other necessary tasks for the implementation of the transformation process.
Continuous dialogue at all levels within the CBSL has been an important part of the
re-engineering process. One of the five focus groups is dedicated to "Consensus Building" and
has been designed to convey, to all staff, the implications of the transformation process -- so as to
ensure that there would be no adverse publicity and resistance at a later stage of the
reorganization process. This is particularly important with respect to the implementation of the
VRS. As indicated, unions have been consulted about the VRS from the outset and endorse the
central bank's initiative in this regard. Due to a concern about Fundamental Legal Rights in Sri
Lanka, the VRS will only be offered on a voluntary basis to the staff. This requires that the
package must be designed in a sufficiently attractive manner to ensure that the desired number of
staff will leave on a voluntary basis.
Members of the Consensus Building Focus Group (as well as the other four) have been drawn
from different levels of staff grades throughout the CBSL to ensure that the views of the staff
below the senior management level will be incorporated into the focus group recommendations.
The Focus Group on Consensus Building has also introduced an internal newsletter "Kavuluwa"
(meaning "Window") to provide a forum for employees to express their views on the
transformation process and the VRS.
The VRS has been designed on a similar basis for all employees to avoid allegations of
discrimination between different classes of workers. In general, the VRS will be offered to the
- 11 -



employees (more than 45 years old) and to staff in minor grades of all ages. For these employees,
the staff will receive 0.75 months salary for every year of service and 2 months of salary for every
year of service foregone. Pensions will be paid on a graduated scale between age 45 and the
normal retirement age of 55 (when full pension is received). For staff in minor grades who are
under 45 and have less than 10 years of service, the payment will be on the basis of 2 months
salary for every year of completed service and 2 months salary for every year of service foregone.
Re-hiring of workers who accept VRS will also be avoided by the signing of an agreement that
they will not work for the central bank again, after the separation package has been paid.
Safeguards will also be put in place to ensure that IDA is only reimbursing the actual payments
made to staff who accept the VRS. More detail on the proposed VRS scheme is included in
Annex 4.
Administrative Arrangements - The Central Bank has appointed specialized financial and
procurement specialists to facilitate procurement and disbursement under the project. The CBSL
has already allocated office space for these staff and other facilities to support the administrative
and implementation process. Training in procurement and financial management guidelines of the
World Bank will be provided to the staff, as needed. The administrative arrangement will be
under the direction of the CBSL's Steering Committee.
Most importantly, the CBSL has appointed a full time Transformation (Change) Manager who
has been vested with full delegated responsibility to oversee the overall implementation of the
transformation process. The Transformation Manager will ensure that the re-engineering takes
place in a holistic, well-integrated and timely manner.
Due to the importance and complexity of the Payment System, a permanent "Payment Council"
has been established. This body will be responsible for the development of the Payment and
Settlement System. The three CBSL departments (Information Technology Department, Public
Debt Department, and Banking Department) that will be principally engaged in the development
of the Payment Settlement System, are expected to utilize existing staff in most of the Project
activities, while personnel for specialized areas of work may need to be recruited.
As reform of the Human Resources function is a very important part of the CBSL's
transformation, the CBSL also intends to recruit a dynamic HR Director to lead the HR
Department. This individual is expected to direct and manage the human capital of the bank to
the highest professional standards. This will enable the CBSL to efficiently face the challenges of
the local and international financial markets with human capital that has reached international
standards through excellence in their operations. As such expertise is not available within the
bank, CBSL intends to recruit a local HR Advisor on a contract basis, initially, for a period of two
years.
Reporting Requirements. A system for monitoring, evaluation, and proper recording will be
established by the project administrator and the accountant. This system will include Quarterly
Reports on implementation progress of the project for the Chairman of the Steering Committee
and for IDA.
- 12 -



FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
Summary - Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) has adequate financial management capacity as
per the requirements of OP/BP 10.02 for implementing the proposed project. CBSL is currently
the implementing agency for the Year 2000 Emergency Assistance Project (Cr.3 162-CE),
scheduled to close on June 30, 2001, and has a record of satisfactory performnance in financial
management for that project.
The overall objective of the proposed project is to restructure and reorganize the CBSL to meet
the challenges of the new millennium, which also includes modernization of its accounting
functions. However, the accounting function of CBSL is broader than merely accounting for
administrative matters. It encompasses accounting for a wide range of central bank activities,
such as, payments settlements of all commercial banks in Sri Lanka, being the banker to the
government, and so on. The project will fund the deployment of payment systems and a General
Ledger which will interface with the payment system and will be used for processing limited
administrative financial transactions of CBSL.
The project will disburse on the traditional method but will produce simplified Project
Management Report (PMR) from the start of the project. The PMR formats will be reviewed
after the first year of implementation, and a joint decision will be taken by GOSL, CBSL, and the
Bank on whether the project should switch over to PMR disbursements. CBSL will maintain the
project accounts on an excel spreadsheet and periodically reconcile this with the General Ledger
system. Financial statements of the project will be audited by the Auditor General of Sri Lanka
and will be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal year. CBSL will also
submit to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal year the audited annual financial
statements of CBSL. CBSL has assigned a qualified and experienced project accountant to
oversee the financial management of the project.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
In general, there are several issues in the financial sector that need to be addressed by the
Government. As a first step, however, both the World Bank and the Government believe that a
program for strengthening and modernizing the CBSL is a necessary component for a more
comprehensive financial sector reform program in the future -- particularly in the area of
commercial banking. Financial sector reform is a long term process and needs to be implemented
in a phased manner. The following alternatives in design and scope of the project were
considered but rejected.
One alternative considered was to include reforms in the social security and pension system in this
project (indeed, this was a request of the CBSL). However, as the main focus of the project is to
restructure the central bank and to pare down its activities to only those which are considered
core -- including devolution of management responsibilities for the Employees Provident Fund --
the inclusion of social security reform was considered to be out of line with the general objectives
of the support program. In addition, the World Bank is involved in parallel work in the area of
- 13 -



pension and provident funds which is expected to provide support at some future date through a
different instrument. Hence, it was decided to keep the focus of this project strictly on the CBSL
-- institution, functions, and economic management.
Another alternative considered was to address the issues and problems in the state owned
commercial banks -- with a support program to bring in external management teams and
ultimately privatize these banks. However, since the government is not yet prepared (mainly due
to existing political and economic problems) to tackle the more fundamental banking sector
reforms at this stage, it was decided that IDA's continuing support for strengthening the CBSL
will benefit the country while preparing the CBSL for longer term commercial banking reform, at
a later date.
Another alternative was to finance the technical assistance and payments system components of
the credit and not fund the VRS. Indeed, the CBSL's decision to include the VRS came at a much
later stage of project preparation. The project team favorably considered the inclusion of support
for the VRS package in the overall project for several reasons. Downsizing the CBSL in terms of
staff numbers is in line with the overall objectives of the re-engineering of the central bank.
Shedding functions and focusing on core areas of operation necessarily had direct staffing
implications. In addition, moving towards a more streamlined mode of operation meant that
administrative and other support functions could be provided at lower cost, and possibly with
better service, from outsourced, private sector providers. Lastly, given the synergies between the
re-engineering exercise and the down-sizing of the bank, IDA financing was considered
appropriate, particularly for a government which is facing an increasing fiscal deficit (and the
potential loss of central bank profits to pay for the VRS which would otherwise accrue to the
Ministry of Finance).
Another alternative was to provide no support. A dysfunctional financial system in which no key
policy changes are made may result in central banking reformns having less than the optimally
desired result. However, as reform of the financial system is an essential ingredient in supporting
private sector development this was not considered a serious alternative. In addition, IDA wishes
to maintain a dialogue and continue with its key objectives on financial and private sector reforn
as enunciated in the country assistance strategy. Therefore, even a smaller project including the
government priority areas will help the government and will assist in maintaining a closer working
relationship between IDA and GOSL.
- 14 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
I                           1 t .  Latest Supervision
Sector Issue           I          Project                   (PSR) Ratings
_____    I__________        ____________         (Bank-financed  projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                     Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
To assist the MOFP and the CBSL to  Year 2000 Emergency               S             S
prevent possible business disruption    Assistance Project
due to Y2K problem.                (Cr.2361-CE) - ongoing
Improving efficiency of financial  Private Finance Development        S             S
intermediation and domestic resource   Project (Cr. 2484-CE) - closed.
mobilization for long term investment;
deepening the financial system and
institution building of major players in
the financial sector.
Support the development and growth of Four SMI and three IDP          S             S
Large, Medium, and Small Scale     financial intermediation
Industries through seven lines of  operation projects - closed. All
credits, as well as technical assistance  of these projects were
for institution building and policy  co-financed by the Asian
reforms in the areas of trade, industry  Development Bank (ADB)
and financial sector.              which were also completed
satisfactorily.
Improve the efficiency of legal and  Legal and Judicial Reform        S             S
judicial systems and build the capacity  project (Cr. 3384-CE). This
of decision makers in this sector.  project was approved by the
Board on June 20, 2000 and
became effective on August 11,
2000.
Other development agencies
-15-



JBIC, ADB KFW -- Support to further JBIC: Small and Micro
develop the SMI and Microenterprise   Industries Leader and
sectors in the country and strengthen    Entrepreneur Promotion Project
and support the Sri Lankan financial   (SMILE) - US$ 46 million.
institutions to develop capacity for  Closing date: July 2003.
credit lending to SMIs.
ADB - SMAP - Small and
Medium Enterprises Assistance
Project - $ 55 million; of which
US$ 50 is from a consortium of
international financiers
guaranteed by the ADB and the
Government and US$ 5 million
from the ADB. Closing Date
October 31, 2002
KfW - DM 2 million - NDB
Micro Credit program. Closing
date December 31, 2001
KfNW - DM 60 million direct
loan to government in 1999 for
onlending to NDB.
KfW - DM 65 million direct
loan to governnent in 2000 for
onlending to DFCC.
JBIC- E Friends -
Environmentally Friendly
Solutions fund - US$ 22
million. Closing date is
December 31, 2001.
Strengthening the CBSL's banking   SIDA (Swedish Foreign
supervision capacity.              Assistance) - Swedish kroner 8
million for upgrading bank
supervision for Central Bank
1P/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons from other IDA-financed TA projects in Sri Lanka indicate that these projects are usually
slow to implement and disburse, and are difficult to administer. This is more of a problem for
large projects with many components, over-ambitious objectives, and several implementing
agencies. The following are some of the lessons learned in managing IDA financed operations,
listed in the above table.
- 16 -



(i) Managing the Internal Change Process: Adequately internalizing and main-streaming the
management arrangements for the change process can make a significant contribution to the
success of projects -- particularly if this process is led by senior personnel within the concerned
institution. It is also important that these management arrangements are well coordinated with all
concerned stakeholders;
(ii) Lead taken by the CBSL and MOFP in the Policy Dialogue: in the areas where political
resistance was less, these two institutions took progressive steps and also managed to keep the
reform program on track;
(iii) IDA's close and continuous coordination with senior staff of the CBSL and MOFP provide
an opportunity for IDA to bring to the notice of the senior policy makers issues relating to slow
progress in the financial sector;
(iv) Proper monitoring and reporting -- regular reviews enabled the credit funds to be disbursed
effectively. This is a practice IDA needs to replicate in all projects. This not only helped in better
supervision but also the institution became identified with the project;
(v) Need for greater coordination between departments within the same organization: this is a
general weakness in Sri Lanka; and
(vi) Designing projects with achievable objectives tend to be more successful: lessons learned
from the above mentioned PFDP project with over-ambitious objectives and several components
confirms the difficulties in project implementation. A lack of coordination also created resistance
from different departments within the same organization. It would have been more effective if the
staff of the these implementing institutions were well briefed on the overall financial sector
development strategy and their specific roles.
Another fundamental problem identified in other projects was the absence of a consistent and
comprehensive Framework for Financial Sector Development. Due to the absence of a reform
framework, the Government had the tendency to approach reforms in an ad-hoc manner,
whichever they believed was politically feasible, and with the assistance from other donors.
Hence, some activities which had no strong ownership from the implementing agencies were not
pursued even though they played a major role in the overall financial system (such as insurance).
For the proposed project, it is the CBSL itself which has prepared a well thought out program
with specific objectives and expected outputs. These comprehensive commitments have also been
laid out in a Letter of Development Policies sent by the Governor of the CBSL to the Vice
President of the South Asia Region.
Nonetheless, in light of the above issues, the project took measures at the design stage to
minimize the risk of these problems. Keeping the project small and focused should help remedy
some of these problems.
IDA will also need to coordinate with other donors working within the CBSL to avoid duplication
of work and maximize the efficiency and transparency of the project. In this regard, the proposed
project will benefit from technical assistance by competent Bank staff who have Global experience
in payments system development and reform; staff within the IMF with good experience in
Central Bank reorganization and financial market development; and similarly skilled staff from the
Central Bank of Sweden.
- 17 -



Government ownership is key to the success of any project. In addition, a participatory approach
in project development and implementation is important in building ownership and successful
outcomes. For this project, the CBSL's commitment is evident as discussed below.
The project also sought to learn from the implementation of other VRS schemes in Sri Lanka.
Experience from a 1990 Public Sector Restructuring (ERC) and a recent Mahaweli (electricity
company) VRS were NOT considered particularly successful. These less than optimal results
appear to be a consequence of the fact that a consultative process was not followed in
implementing the VRS package; there was political interference in the process; and some staff
were re-hired after obtaining a golden handshake. These issues are being addressed by following
a significantly more consultative process -- with full discussion with the Labor Unions as well as
public outreach through a specific CBSL Focus Group committee committed to this purpose. In
addition, the central bank is more autonomous and political interference is minimal. Lastly, in
comparison to the other two government VRS schemes, the total staff strength is much less and
will therefore be much more monitorable. Separated staff, as well as the CBSL, will be expected
to sign an agreement not to not work for the central bank again. These two schemes, as well as
experience with other private sector schemes in Sri Lanka, were reviewed when designing the
current program to ensure that lessons learned were taken into account. The lessons learned from
previous experiences are documented in greater detail in Annex 2.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government and in particular the MOFP and the CBSL are fully committed to this project --
they have approached the Bank on several occasions requesting technical and financial support for
the central bank. The project implementation capacity and commitment of the CBSL was
demonstrated under the Y2K project which was prepared and implemented in record time. In
early 2000, the CBSL and MOFP requested the Bank to reallocate un-utilized balances from the
Y2K project to the further enhancement of the Information Technology systems (payments and
resettlement systems) within the CBSL. Simultaneously the Government requested a support
program for a broader strengthening of the CBSL, including institution
reorganization/restructuring, staff capacity building, and improving financial market regulation
and development.
In May 2000, the government prepared a well designed proposal and made a formal request for
IDA's assistance in the priority areas mentioned above. The Government invited a mission to
discuss its proposal and reached agreement on the main elements of the proposed project. The
CBSL had taken a management decision to reorganize and restructure the institution to improve
its efficiency and effectiveness so that it would be better able to face the challenges encountered
by the ongoing global transformation in the financial sector. A Central Bank retreat attended by
key senior officers of the Bank on the 8th and 9th July 2000, identified several areas within the
CBSL where reform and transformation were necessary. A Steering Committee was appointed to
act as a catalyst for this transformation process and five Focus Groups were established by the
Steering Committee to study the following areas:
1 .    The Objectives of the CBSL
- 18 -



2.    The Organizational Structure of the CBSL
3.    The Management Processes of the CBSL
4.    Human Resource Management of CBSL ; and
5.    Consensus Building within the CBSL
The focus groups completed their review and proposals in the above areas and have shared their
reports with IDA. Project preparation activities have already started in the areas of payment
systems and human resources development (including the development/design of the VRS) and
are being funded by a Project Preparation Facility (Q-250-CE) for a total of US$ 600,000. The
PPF Agreement was signed on October 19, 2000.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The GOSL requested assistance from the World Bank because of its experience in countries
around the World and recently in crisis management in the countries of East Asia. The World
Bank has experience in public sector restructuring and management around the world and also has
extensive experience in private sector development, an important element of which is a sound
financial sector. IDA can complement the efforts by the government and other donors and
provide required technical and financial assistance. As indicated above, IDA's involvement in
selected areas of reform and development resulted in satisfactory outcomes in other projects
which have benefited the private sector, the government and the public at large. Financial
assistance from the IDA credit will facilitate the project implementation and is an added value for
the CBSL's home grown transformation program.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Anmex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The streamlining and reduction of staff in the central bank should ideally be recognized as a cost
of the re-engineering processes within the CBSL. The VRS costs should be expensed by the
CBSL as they occur. However, neither the central bank nor the Ministry of Finance can afford
this cost from their current budgets. As a second best alternative, the IDA support for the VRS is
being justified as an investment operation. The cost of staff rationalization within the Central
Bank of Sri Lanka will be expensed over a three year period, as the expectation is that the VRS
package will need to be offered more than once. The implementation of the VRS component is
expected to yield a significant stream of cost savings to the CBSL over time. As such the
economic justification of the VRS component of the investtnent operation is sensitive to: (a) the
economic life of the investment (how many years of cost savings are counted towards the initial
"investment" of the VRS); and (b) the non-quantifiable macro economic benefits of creating a
more efficient and stream lined central bank. See Annex 4.
It is important to fully account for the less quantifiable, but nonetheless important,
macro-economic effects of a stronger and more focused CBSL. An enhanced focus on macro
economic stability and financial system stability should yield benefits in terms of enhanced
- 19-



investment and economic growth -- as well as the avoidance of possible banking crises and the
negative impacts that can result. A strengthen central bank and a streamlined payments system
will also support greater economic activity in Sri Lanka.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
The payback period for the VRS component of this investment is just under four years -- and
provides a positive net inflow during the fourth year after the VRS has been fully implemented.
This appears to be an overly long pay-back period when compared to the ideal situation of
expensing the costs of the VRS during the year in which they take place (and not treating them as
an investment). See Annex 4.
Fiscal Impact:
To the extent that the Central Bank of Sri Lanka contributes 30 percent of the cost of the VRS
scheme ($7.5 million over a three year period) this represents funding (from central bank profits)
which would otherwise have accrued to the Ministry of Finance. Hence, this ultimately represents
foregone fiscal revenues for the Ministry.
3. Technical:
Improvement of the Payment System is one of the two major components of the project.
Technical studies will be undertaken by experts to ensure that the payment system is properly
designed for the country's overall institutional, legal, and regulatory environment as well as its
financial systems development policies in years to come.
To maximize the benefits of the VRS, the program should be mandatory and should target
separating the less productive staff. The CBSL has decided, however, that a mandatory program
is not desirable in view of possible legal challenges in defense of "Fundamental Rights".
However, some targeting can be achieved even in a voluntary program. This will be done by
out-sourcing most non-core staff (guards, drivers, canteen workers, and so on) and by other
targeted design approaches.
4. Institutional:
This project mainly focuses on institution building within the Central Bank of Sri Lanka. It will
focus on administrative, organizational and legal reform as well as a strengthening of the human
resource base of the central bank. Its ability to monitor the financial system and ensure macro
monetary stability will also be enhanced.
There is strong management and institutional capacity to implement the VRS component within
the CBSL. However, given the relative lack of experience with such schemes in Sri Lanka, the
program will be implemented slowly and carefully over a two to three year period to enhance the
likelihood of successful implementation. It will also be managed by an expert HR Manager to be
recruited from the local Sri Lankan market with support from an expert HR Advisor to be
recruited from the international market.
- 20 -



4.1 Executing agencies:
Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL)
4.2 Project management:
Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL)
4.3 Procurement issues:
There will be a need to procure expensive software and hardware for the payments system
component of this credit. Ensuring proper pre-design and technical specifications will be vital and
this is being provided by an in-house payments system specialist (from FSD) who will also be able
to advise on the optimal sources of procurement for these types of systems. Support is also being
provided by a specialized payments system consulting company to draft up the technical
specifications and request for proposal.
4.4 Financial management issues:
During the project appraisal, a review of CBSL financial management systems and procedures
was carried out during project appraisal and it was determined that CBSL has the capacity to
meet the requirement of OP/BP 10.02.
5. Environmental:                   Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Not applicable.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Not applicable.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: Not Applicable
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed enviromnent management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Not applicable.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Not applicable.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
There are no major social issues expected from this project. There will be some staff
retrenchment in the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) as part of the overall restructuring and
reorganization process. However, this is unlikely to have any negative social impact as reasonable
arrangements will be made by the CBSL for these staff -- in terms of financial support and
- 21 -



alternative career counselling. The CBSL has already started consultation and discussions on the
VRS with the labor unions. The design of the VRS package will consider all aspects of possible
present and future financial and social impact on the employees. As such, it is expected that some
of the rules and policies regarding staff pensions will be revised in favor of the employees to
minimize any potential future negative impact.
The impact of a prudently managed financial sector and the conduct of sound macro monetary
policy should directly benefit investors and depositors. Efficiency in the financial systems and the
banking sector will reduce the cost of funds available to investors -- the benefit of which will be
passed on to the public at large.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The Financial Sector Reform Committee and the Task Force working on this project includes
representation from the Central Bank of Sri Lanka, the Ministry of Finance, the financial sector
community, and the private sector. The banking community, who are the main stakeholders in
this project, will be closely consulted. IDA will encourage participation of all stakeholders
through workshops and regular meetings.
Labor Unions have already been consulted on the VRS program and a continuous out-reach
program is on-going with staff likely to be impacted by retirement. Labor Unions will continue to
be consulted to ensure the smooth implementation of the program.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Not applicable.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The CBSL's focus group on consensus building has taken appropriate actions and adequate
precautions to ensure that the views of the employees are taken into consideration in the
transformnation process and that any adverse social implications due to the VRS will be minimized.
Labor unions have been consulted and staff at all levels have been drawn into the focus groups. A
large number of staff have been involved in the reorganization process to ensure that the process
is not seen as a "top down exercise".
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Not applicable
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                   Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           C Yes * No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    I Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      C Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  0 Yes 0 No
- 22 -



Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Not applicable.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The main risk is that the re-engineering of the central bank may not be successful because either:
(a) the central bank has not been able to implement merit based systems of reward for staff -- and
move away from their current system of "time-in-grade" rewards and promotions; (b) the central
bank is not able to devolve itself of the non-core central banking functions which it has identified;
(c) the Voluntary Retirement Scheme is reversed by a subsequent re-employment of large
numbers of staff; and (d) the CBSL is not able to implement its own ambitious agenda of
"transformation".
Another potential risk may come from supporting a highly sophisticated payments system which
proves to either be over designed for the requirements of the country at its current stage of
development -- or alternatively not utilized to its full potential due to a lack of sophistication in
the sector. This will, however, be dealt with in the design stage of this component of the project
-- when these considerations will be taken into account.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Payments System is over-designed for the    M         Expert analysis and design of the Payments
stage of financial system development in              System component.
Sri Lanka.
CBSL is not able to implement merit         H         CBSL has already commenced discussions with
based systems of reward for staff --                  the unions on the restructuring of CBSL and
moving away from the current system of                moving towards a more merit based system of
time-in-grade rewards and promotions                  rewards. The VRS will also assist in the
redeployment of staff at lower levels (out of the
bank) who tend to be more heavily unionized.
CBSL is not able to devolve itself of the   M         Discussions have already commenced with the
non-core central banking functions which              MOFP on the devolution of core responsibilities.
it has identified.                                    More additional work, supported by the project,
will nonetheless need to be undertaken.
- 23 -



The VRS is reversed by a subsequent         M         Governor's commitment in the Letter of
re-employment of large numbers of staff.              Development Policies to retain the staffing
complement that is required for the restructured
institution; agreement that any staffing increases
will require Monetary Board approval; and
complete removal of certain functions will
reduce the total need for staff.
The CBSL is not able to implement its       M         There has been a managemnent decision within
own ambitious agenda of                               CBSL to change. To support this, the Governor
"transformation".                                     intends to appoint a Transformation (or Change)
Agent to oversee the complete re-engineering
process -- answerable to the Steering Committee
and the Monetary Board.
From Components to Outputs
Enacting financial sector regulations may    S        To ensure the Government commitment and
take longer than the project life.                    plans for an effective participatory approach for
proposed regulatory and policy changes that
may result in a more consensus building at early
stage of the refonn process.
The Voluntary Retirement Scheme may          S        The Central Bank will carefully design the VRS
not yield the most desirable result; core             package which is sufficiently attractive but not
and qualified staff may decide to take the            overly generous. At the same time, the
package and leave.                                     sequencing of re-organizing, transfer of
functions, decompression of salaries, and
provision of the VRS package will also need to
be carefully designed.
Overall Risk Rating                          S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The only aspect of the project that may become controversial is the component related to the
Voluntary Retirement Scheme -- as there could be some resistance from the Labor Unions.
Careful design and proper implementation of the scheme is very critical to the success of this
component. Keeping the scheme as purely "voluntary" should also assist in this regard.
- 24 -



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
There is only one condition for Effectiveness and that is finalization of a Subsidiary Administrative
Agreement.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.)
The following conditions were for Negotiations and Board which have already been met by the
borrower and CBSL.
(a)    appointment of a Transformation (or Change) Agent to oversee the entire re-engineering
process;
(b)    appointment of a Procurement Proficient staff member to conduct all procurements under
the project;
(c)    finalization of the Borrower Project Implementation Plan (BPIP);
(d)    completion of the first draft of the new Human Resource policies;
(e)    finalization of the preliminary design of the Voluntary Retirement Scheme.
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 25 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
E 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recormnended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
_ I    W L          A    . ii                        / C   1   v
Simon C. Bell                       anlou   e D. Uy                  Mariana Todorova
Team Leader                       Sector?anager/Director             Country Manager/Director
- 26 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
SRI LANKA: Sri Lanka Central Bank Strengthening
l     ~                         Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:          Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
To improve the policy and  Strengthen the efficiency and  Economic and Financial  Government initiation and
regulatory environment to    competitiveness of the Central Sector Reports.       commitments to continue the
promote private sector     Bank, through: (a) upgrading                           financial sector reforms
investment, through financial the payments system; (b)  Continued dialogue on     agenda started earlier.
sector reforms.            improving organization      financial sector reforms and
structure and functions; and   private sector development    Formal government request to
financial sector           through various projects and  IDA for support in their
policy/regulations         studies.                   efforts to strengthen the CBSL
in order to better performs its
regulatory and supervisory
functions.
Improve the efficiency and                                                        Substantial preparatory work
depth of the financial system.                                                    already undertaken by the
CBSL
Project Development        Outcome / Impact            Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Fundamental restructuring of A central bank more focused  Quarterly reporting by the  Firm commitment from the
the Central bank to transform  on core central banking  CBSL on the progress of the   Government and in particular
the institution to a modern,   business; improved and better project.             the CBSL to embark on these
strong, and efficient central   functioning organization                          reforms.
bank.                      structure; trained, qualified,  IDA's effective supervision
and motivated staff.       missions.                  Central Bank has made a
1. the process involves:                                                        business decision to change
Important and         Effective reorganization of the Feedback from the banking    and strengthen its institution,
fundamental changes of CBSL to meet the need of    community during the project its function, and regulatory
its human resources and modern and global economy.  supervision.             framework.
right-sizing the
institution through   An efficient and modem HR                              Central Bank has taken the
implementation of the   department that can                                  lead through several working
voluntary Retirement   efficiently address policies on                       focus groups and management
Scheme (VRS).         recruitment, placement,                                steering committee to forward
2. Upgrading the payments compensation, mobility, etc.                          its objective.
and settlement system.
Effective CBSL staff training
to meet the needs of new
organizational structure.
A right-sized CBSL that
efficiently focuses on the core
functions.
Automation of the payments
system by introducing a real
time gross settlement system.
- 27 -



Improving the monetary     Expansion of open markets                              Demand from the banking
policy, exchange and foreign  operations and improved                             sector for these reforms.
reserve management and to   foreign exchange and interest
promote govemment          rate regulations for more
securities market.         effective monetary
management.
Strengthening the regulatory  Improved govemment                                  Competent key senior officials
framework to pave the way for securities market, introduction                     and effective leadership of
broader range of financial    of scripless and electronic                         MOFP and CBSL.
activities in debt and     trading systems, and
securities market.         e-business.
Govemment request to IDA
for technical and financial
assistance.
Establishment of a project
unit in the CBSL and forming
a Steering Committee to
review the regulation, propose
changes and oversee the
progress. Appointment of a
"Transformation Agent" to
oversee the implementation
progress and report to the
Steering Committee (Or
Transformation Committee)
and the Monetary Board.
- 28 -



.irach  o Oeties    Key Performance
Hrwchy of Obictives               Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:            (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
A stronger, more effective,    Proposed organization   CBSL and consultants studies. CBSL's management decision
and right-sized organization   structure and a program for                        to change, involving all staff
structure with well trained    efficient staff development                        at various departments,
staff at all levels.       program to meet the needs of  Periodic progress reports from  initiation of discussions with
new structure and functions.  the implementing agency.    the labor union, commencing
More capable and efficient                                                        substantial preparatory work.
staff with professional    Expert analysis and design for Procurements documents
expertise to handle the CBSL  the HR policy and functions,  and contracts.        Design and proposal of a
functions.                 as well as VRS.                                        more effective and efficient
institution structure that is
Establishment of an efficient  In-depth study of the                              capable of competing in a
and modem payment system   payments system to identify                            global and modem economies.
to allow for real time gross   the weaknesses and
settlement system.         requirements, identify the best                        Identifications of non-core
possible solution for the                             functions to be devolve over a
CBSL's payments system.                               short to medium term.
Detailed expert studies and
evaluation to put in place a
more efficient and reliable
payments and resettlement
system in the CBSL.
Close collaboration between
the CBSL working groups and
task force and the consultants.
More stable foreign and    Proposing regulations related  Draft laws and/or       CBSL's studies and proposal
exchange rate regime and use to the proposed changes;  amendments to existing laws  as well as technical assistance
of open market operations for approval from monetary   allowing necessary changes.  by experts in the selected
intervention in financial  Board; Cabinet approvals.                              areas identified as priority.
markets and monetary policy.
A more developed debt      Preparing regulations related  Bi- annual reports on the new
markets to allow           to primary and secondary    regulations.
market-priced government    government securities market.
securities, and establishment  Review and propose scripless
of scripless and electronic    trading system.
screen-based securities
trading and increased use of
e-business.
Increased participation of the
private sector in economic
activities.
29 -



K e Y Performance                             :
Hierarchy:of Obiectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
1. Central Bank           US$ 31.34 million          An accounting and          Study of the payments system
Reorganization and        of which IDA: $ 20.01      monitoring system established by an expert. Timely hiring
Restructuring.             million                   at the CBSL provide periodic  of consultant to identify
reports on implementation    specifications of the CBSL's
progress, procurement, and   requirements.
disbursements.
l.a. Human Resource       US$ 0.54 million           Annual audit of the project   Timely proposal for an
Development               of which IDA: $ 0.48 million  accounts.               organization structure and
functions by the CBSL.
Lb. Voluntary Retirement    US$ 25.0 million         IDA's supervision missions   A well thought of staff
Scheme (VRS)              of which IDA: $ 17.5 million  with details on project  training program that fits with
implementation.           the new organization set up,
functions and long term
needs of the institution.
I.c. Support for Capacity  US$ 5.8 million                                      Regular meetings by the
Building in CBSL's Various   of which IDA: $ 2.03 million                       Steering Committee to review
Departments.                                                                    the areas of change.
2. Improving Payments and  US$ 9.22 million                                     Hiring consultant, if needed to
Settlement Systems.       of which IDA: $ 8.94 million                          provide advise on the best
practices and state-of the-arts
automation techniques
suitable for Sri Lanka
financial and economic
environment.
3. Financial Markets       US$ 0.83 million
Regulation and            of which IDA: $ 0.74 million
Development.
3.a. Legal Reform         US$ 0.46 million
of which IDA: $ 0.41 million
3.b. Other Financial Sector   US$ 0.37 million
Studies in Priority Areas.  of which IDA: $ 0.33 million
Project Preparation Facility   US$ 0.6 million
Implementation Support    US$ 0.023 million
TOTAL COST                US$ 42.0 million
IDA FINANCING             US$ 30.3 million
SIDA                      US$ 1.0 million
GOVERNMENT                US$ 10.7 million
FINANCING
- 30 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
SRI LANKA: Sri Lanka Central Bank Strengthening
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$31.34 million
1.    General Support for Central Bank Restructuring and Reorganization. The Central
Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) has made a management decision to commence a program of
fundamental restructuring and reorganization of its activities in order to be able to realign the
bank with the rapid changes and the globalization of financial markets which have taken place
over the past two decades. The Central Bank has already started reviewing its role, functions
and operations with the objective of redesigning its objectives, functions, organizational structure
of the institution, work processes, and its human resources needs and policies.
The CBSL has put a lot of effort into the preparation of background work and conceptualization
of the issues and action plans which such a re-engineering will imply. Three retreats, culminating
in a Central Bank Retreat over the period July 8 to 9, 2000 identified several areas within the
Bank where reform and transformation are necessary. In order to effect the required
transformation process, a Transformation Management Committee was appointed to act as a
catalyst for this re-engineering process. Five Focus Groups were established to further study and
analyze the following key areas: (i) objectives of the CBSL; (ii) organizational structure; (iii)
management processes; (iv) human resource management; and (v) consensus building and
decision making within the CBSL.
The five Focus Groups have studied their respective areas in detail and identified weaknesses
which need to be addressed by management. Tne Focus Groups' final reports were completed in
December 2000 (a copy of these reports are available in the Project Files). The Monetary Board
of the CBSL has also approved the proposed actions for transfornation of the CBSL. Both IDA
and CBSL are cognizant of the importance of this project -- as its successful implementation is
expected to provide an important blue print for wider civil service reform and restructuring.
"Getting it right" therefore has significantly wider ramifications beyond the central bank.
An important recommendation of the focus group was that the CBSL should narrow its role down
to two core responsibilities -- Price Stability and Financial System Stability. Focusing on these
core central banking functions, the members of the focus group have identified non-core activities
which will need to eventually be devolved out of the CBSL (including management of the
Employees Provident Fund, Public Debt Management, Development Finance, Exchange
Management, and so on). These changes have important ramifications for the organizational
structure, training requirements, as well as the implementation of a Voluntary Retirement Scheme
(VRS) to reduce staffing levels, within the CBSL.
In addition, to ensure that the CBSL continues to develop as an institution of excellence within
Sri Lanka, there is an important need to change existing personnel policies which focus on "time
in grade" requirements rather than individual merit and performance. This will necessitate
changes in recruitment policies, evaluation policies, compensation policies, promotion policies,
incentive policies, policies related to mobility, and training policies. The CBSL will need to
- 31 -



develop a comprehensive Human Resources Master Plan, which addresses all of these
fundamental issues.
This project has been designed to assist the CBSL to implement the re-engineering process which
will support the changed, and narrower focus, of the central bank -- as well as bringing in relevant
experience from countries which have undertaken similar restructuring exercises. The proposed
project will support the re-engineering by supporting the redrafting of central banking legislation,
developing new organizational structures, re-writing job descriptions for staff, developing new
Human Resource policies, study visits to review similar experiences elsewhere, and so on. This
activity will be undertaken in close cooperation and coordination with the International Monetary
Fund and the central bank of Sweden (Riksbank) which both have considerable experience in
central bank restructuring.
IDA's assistance for this component will include consultancies and training for the establishment
of a fully professional HR department, the preparation and implementation of the new HR policies
and functions, strengthening support for various departments within the CBSL, and support for a
VRS to right-size the bank in line with its realigned core priorities -- in an amount of US$ 14.93
million. This component will include support in the following three (3) areas.
(1.1) Human Resource Development
Establishing a Fully Professional Human Resource Department - The CBSL wishes to group
all matters pertaining to Human Resource (HR) functions into one department. This will require
the merger of the Establishments Department, Training Department, Center for Banking Studies
and some of the functions of the Welfare Department -- into a single Human Resources
Department. This new HR Department will play a key role in effecting the re-engineering of the
central bank. Functions of the new department will include, inter alia, the following:
I. Development of a holistic vision for human resource management within the CBSL;
2. Assessment of human resource needs, key competency's and skills required by Departments.
Conduct skills competency gap analysis;
3. Preparation of job descriptions relating to employee functions;
4. Development of policies relating to recruitment, placement and mobility, training and staff
development, performance evaluation, rewards management, terminal benefits, etc.;
5. Development of training modules, organizing training programs to meet the emerging needs
for staff at all levels, and making funding arrangements;
6. Conducting post-training evaluation of performance;
7. Offering advice and guidance on career development;
8. Preparation of a succession plan;
9. Preparation of a staff manual;
10. Development of suitable cost-effective welfare packages;
11. Advising management on appropriate terminal benefits; and
12. Development of conflict resolution system.
- 32 -



Reform of HR policies- CBSL is in the process of developing a comprehensive HR Master Plan
which will address HR policies of recruitment, placement, evaluation, compensation, promotion
incentives, mobility, and training. The Central Bank also needs to develop a comprehensive
training plan which will address the future training needs of the Bank. A new Staff Manual also
needs to be prepared. To assist the Central Bank in the development of these activities, a short
term Human Resource consultancy was secured to support the establishment of the new HR
Department. This HR consultancy commenced on March 26, 2001 and is being financed under
the PPF (Q 250-0 CE).
In order to carry out the above functions of the newly formed HR Department, the CBSL intends
to recruit an HR Director to lead the HR Department supported by an internationally recruited
HR Advisor. As such expertise is not available within the central bank, the CBSL intends to
recruit the HR Director on a contract basis, from the local market -- initially, for a period of two
years. To ensure the smooth functioning of the HR related issues and processes within the
context of the modernization process, a resident international HR Advisor will also be recruited
for a period of two years. The HR Advisor will assist the Change Management Team of the
CBSL and the HR Department in all matters relating to the Organization and Human Resources
Reforms. To better address and manage HR issues it will be important to develop the skills of the
HR personnel who will be working in the newly formed HR Departmnent. These practitioners will
be trained in areas such as project management, consultancy, entrepreneurship, leadership,
communication, presentations, diagnostic and problem solving, financial management, mediation
and arbitration, mentoring and counseling, need assessment surveys, succession planning, strategic
staffing, man power planning, and computer training. As most of the HR work is currently
undertaken on an manual basis, it is envisaged that HR functions to be computerized as part of the
overall CBSL modernization process.
(1.2) Voluntary Retirement Sdceme (VRS)
The restructuring process of the CBSL will also include the transfer of non-core activities outside
the CBSL and the development of a new organization structure based on the two core objectives
of the bank. It will further involve the streamlining of existing functions and the outsourcing of
some of the necessary, but non-core, support functions to the private sector. This process will
require a re-assessment of the overall human resource needs of the central bank. In the process,
some categories of workers, and some functions, will become redundant. Redundancy is likely to
be greater in the minor employee grades (where the bulk of the work is menial) and also in the
non-staff grades (where the work is of a routine nature and is mainly undertaken on a manual
basis). In the Staff Class grades (professional staff) redundancy is likely in departments where
more administrative matters and support services are handled; it will also occur in areas where
functions have been devolved to other institutions; and it will also be aimed at older workers in an
effort to reduce the age structure of the CBSL which is currently a relatively "old institution".
However, to avoid union problems, it is premised that the VRS scheme will be designed in a
sufficiently attractive manner as to encourage employees who wish to leave the Bank early, to do
so on a purely voluntary basis.
- 33 -



The Focus Group on the Human Resources issues has undertaken an assessment of the staffing
problems with the objectives of: (i) identifying redundant categonres of employees; (ii) evaluating
various schemes to be offered to the staff who would voluntarily leave the CBSL; (iii) facilitating
re-deployment of staff, (iii) reducing the operational cost in the coming years; (iv) improve
workers productivity; and (v) reduce the future commitment of the pension fund. The Focus
Group has examined various Voluntary Retirement Schemes, their estimated cost, as well as their
implications for staff and on the functioning of the central bank to ensure that the institution's
objectives continue to be met and that the institution does not loose its essential staff, when
offering the VRS. The CBSL is currently reviewing schemes to assess their impact upon cost (to
avoid paying too much for redundancies), adverse selection, and the development of safeguards to
avoid re-hiring separated staff. The above mentioned short-tenn consultancy assignment is also
assisting in the design of the VRS. It is expected that the VRS process takes about two to three
years.
Based on the preliminary result of the ongoing work on VRS, the total cost is estimated at about
US$ 25.0 million. The target group would be about 200 Staff Level, and 500 of non-staff, and
309 minor employees. This program will be voluntary on both sides: Employees and employers.
Complete details of the VRS are provided in Annex 4. The following table provides description
of various schemes in Sri Lanka.
LESSONS LEARNED
Voluntary Retirement Schemes Offered by Other Agencies in Sri Lanka
1.   Hatton National Bank
In the 1990's Hatton National Bank (HNB) developed a scheme for early retirement for its employees. Under this
scheme, those who opted to retire enjoyed a monthly pension at retirement. The formula adopted by HNB to
determine the monthly pension was as follows -- the last drawn monthly salary/55 years x the number of years of
service + 5 years. The maximum number of years of service in this formula was limited to 40 years. The highest
pension one was able to draw was limited to 72.6% of the last drawn monthly salary. According to the Deputy
General Manager/Administration, this scheme was not a success because the package offered to the employees was
not sufficiently attractive. He was of the view that in addition to the pension it would be advisable to offer a
gratuity payment of half a month's or one month's salary per year of service.
A second scheme, in the late 1 990s by HNB was offered to staff with more than ten years of service and who were
between the ages of 40 to 53. This scheme targeted 125 people but only 75 took it up. Compensation was paid on
the basis of 2.5 months salary for every completed year of service plus 0.5 months of salary for every year of service
foregone. No pension was paid and outstanding staff loans had to be repaid. This scheme was considered to have
worked reasonably successfully. It was felt that the requirement that all staff loans be repaid to HNB was one
reason limiting the number of staff who were prepared to take up this package.
2.   Grindlays Bank
When Grindlays Bank and Standard Chartered Bank were merged in 2000, the merged institution set out to reduce
levels of surplus staffing within the combined bank. The package was only offered to staff who were over 40 years
of age. The package included: (a) 3 months salary for every year of service; (b) 0.5 months of salary for every year
of service foregone; and (c) reimbursement of compulsory contributions to the Employers Provident Fund and the
Employees Trust Fund. Staff who took up the scheme were not offered a pension and had to repay staff loans
outstanding within one year of retirement. This scheme is still being implemented and, as such, no conclusive
assessment can be made as to its potential success or shortcomings.
- 34 -



3.    Standard Chartered Bank
In 1999 Standard Chartered Bank offered a scheme which included 2.5 months salary for every year of service plus
0.5 months salary for every year of foregone service. No pension was paid out but mandatory contributions to the
Employers Provident Fund and the Employees Trust Fund were reimbursed to the retirees. Staff loans had to be
repaid. This scheme targeted 60 individuals but only 40 took it up. However, one drawback of this scheme was
that the bank lost good staff,
4.    Steel Corporation
At the time of privatization the Steel Corporation offered 100 months' salary up to a maximum of Rs.500,000.
This had been adopted with the approval of the Ministry of Finance. According to the Human Resource Manager,
those who enjoyed the maximum benefit were those who had over 19 years of service.
5.    The Bulumulla Report
The Bulumulla report on compensation for redundant staff in government corporations and statutory bodies
suggested the following:
Half a month's salary for every 12 months service plus
one month's salary for every 12 months service denied up to the optional retirement age.
6.    B C Perera Report
B C Perera report on payment of compensation to those in the public enterprises suggested compensation as
follows:
One month's salary for every 12 months of past service
For service foregone, one and half months' salary for every 12 months service x age at retirement and period of
past service/55 and 30 respectively.
7.     Government Scheme
The Government scheme introduced for employees in the government and local government services in 1990
offered public servants to retire on the following terms:
A public officer who had completed 10 years of pensionable service, but has less than 20 years of service, was
eligible on retirement to receive a pension calculated on the basis of 90% of his salary at retirement as follows:
the commuted pension on retirement; and the reduced monthly pension (ie. 80% of the salary at retirement) when
he completes 20 years from the date of his first appointment or on completion of 55 years of age, whichever occurs
earlier.
He was also entitled to the restoration of the unreduced monthly pension (90% of salary) after completion of 120
months from the date of commencement of the reduced monthly pension.
A public officer who had completed 20 years of pensionable service, but has less than 30 years service, will be
eligible on retirement, to receive a pension calculated at 90% of his salary at retirement, as follows:
the commuted pension and the reduced monthly pension (ie 80% of the last drawn salary) on retirement.
He was entitled to the restoration of the unreduced monthly pension (90% of salary) on completion of 120 months
from the date of commencement of the reduced monthly pension.
A public officer who has completed 30 years of service and over, will be eligible on retirement, to receive a pension
calculated on the basis of 90% of his salary at retirement as follows:
the commuted pension and the unreduced monthly pension of (90% of salary at retirement) notwithstanding the
fact that he has drawn a commuted pension on retirement.
- 35 -



8.         Mahaweli Restructuring and Rehabilitation Program (IDA Funded project)
Voluntary Early Separation Package (VESP).
The project addressed the staffing problems by offering a voluntary early separation package for selected
categories of staff, and by retraining of remaining staff to perform productive work in the organization.
Several early retirement incentive plans previously used in downsizing state-owned businesses in Sri Lanka were
analyzed to design a sufficiently, but not overly generous voluntary early retirement program for Mahaweli
Authority of Sri Lanka (MASL). Main Assumptions Used to Calculate VESP:
The projected cost of the VESP was about Rs. 1,500 million (approximately US$24.0 million) for about a 57%
staff reduction. The average cost per staff was approximately about Rs.240,845 (equivalent to US$3,853).
The VESP was graduated by number of years of service, as indicated in the following Table. The Table also shows
the overall percentage of work force having different years of service. The same work force percentage distribution
was assumed for each staff category for computing the cost of the VESP.
Years of Service               Compensation Proposed            Percentage of Workforce
Less than 5                        18 months salary*                 16%
More than 5 and Less than 10     36 months salary*                 47%
More than 10 and less than 15    42 months salary*                 25%
More than 15                       50 months salary*                 12%
* The maximum payment to any individual within executive grades is Rs 450,000 (US$7,940 ) and within nioni-executive grades is Rs.350,000
(US$6170).
About 57% staff were selected to receive VESP. However, due to staff salary increases just before the exercise and
changes in the incentive structure, about 7607 staff, i.e.,70 % of the total MASL workforce applied for VESP, with
the number increased to over 10,000 staff later. While the VESP implemented within the desired time frame, the
implementation experience indicates that the staff reduction was not sustainable, as the MASL rehired staff back and
increased the workforce.
(1.3) Support for Various Departments
The new organizational structure of the CBSL will require the merging of departments,
establishment of new departments, and the transfer of some functions currently undertaken by the
CBSL. To facilitate the process, IDA has allocated funds to support departmental requirements
for automation, development of systems, consultancies and training. This component includes
support for the following departments.
(1.3.a) Banking Department (Foreign Exchange Reserves Management)
The Banking Department of the CBSL is responsible for the management of the country's official
Foreign Reserve portfolio. Considering the importance of foreign reserve management it has been
determined that this function needs to be upgraded with more technical skills and more efficient
systems. The current operational systems involve duplication of manual entry of data at different
stages as there are gaps in the automation process. There is a need for a fully automated system
with adequate controls. The automation requirements for this department also need to be
- 36 -



inter-linked with the work on the automation of the General Ledger (see below), thereby enabling
real time updating of accounts and the generation of management reports.
(1.3.b) Banking Department (Market Oriented Open Market Operations)
Open Market Operations (OMO) are an important tool used by the CBSL to influence the money
supply, interest rate levels, and hence the rate of inflation. Currently, the Open Market
Operations Committee (OMOC) relying on liquidity estimates produced by the OMO division and
various other parameters, decide the rate for OMO (rate targeting) and allow the market to decide
the quantum of high-powered money required. However, other than this passive strategy, no
direct market intervention is undertaken to achieve the objectives of the CBSL. The idea of
market oriented OMO is to target the quantity of money in the system and thereafter allow the
market to decide rates accordingly. The need for a more market-oriented approach to OMO
using Repurchase (repo) and Reverse Repurchase (rev-repo) agreements has been identified.
Currently OMO are implemented by the OMO Division of the Banking Department. Under the
proposed organization structure for the CBSL, OMOs will be placed under a new department
named Domestic Market Operations Department. In order to carry out the proposed market
oriented operations more effectively the division will require qualified and trained staff, and
improved infrastructure. The IT requirements foreseen under a market-oriented OMO system
include personal computers connected to the Local Area Network and printers; software and
hardware required for a Wide Area Network system between the CBSL and the Primary Dealers
(a WAN system with commercial banks is already in place). There is also a need for: (i)
installation of Reuters terminals to permit the monitoring of market developments; (ii)
development of software to conduct the auctions on a network system; (iii) development or
purchasing of software for liquidity estimation, forecast and management; and (iv) development of
an automated system for data collection from commercial banks for the purpose of making
liquidity estimates.
(1.3.c) Management Audit Department
Strengthening the Management Audit Departmnent has also been identified by the CBSL as one of
the priority areas for reform. CBSL intends to develop this department as a Value Adding Unit
and to upgrade it on a priority basis with skills and systems required for auditing with special
emphasis in areas such as financial and information systems auditing. It has been recognized that
the Management Audit Department should move away from its traditional role and reposition
itself with a process driven or value-added approach instead of a compliance base approach; as a
quasi-consultanting function helping with control instead of the owner of control; as being
objective oriented instead of being purely finance oriented; and as a training ground for senior
management. The Management Audit Department will be expanded and strengthened in order to
undertake these new specialized audit functions. Separate audit units will also be established to
conduct performance audits and information systems audits. This will necessitate the upgrading
of skills in these specialized areas and the recruitment of qualified and experienced personnel from
outside the CBSL. The Steering Committee has appointed a Committee, to look into the
restructuring of this department and it has also decided to engage the services of a consultant to
conduct a study and submit a proposal to achieve this objective.
- 37 -



(1.3.d) Secretariat Department
The CBSL needs an efficient Records Management System in order to increase productivity and
efficiency of operations and processes. A consultancy will be contracted: (i) to study the existing
records management system and plan the establishment of a centralized records management unit;
(ii) to prepare documentation and a manual of operations to be maintained electronically; and (iii)
to prepare specifications for the hardware and software requirements for the records management
unit.
(1.3.e) Information Department - Support For Library
The CBSL library, which was completely destroyed in a bomb explosion in 1996, was the best
research library in Sri Lanka in the fields of economics, statistics, Central Banking, international
affairs and related subjects. The library also had an invaluable collection of periodicals, journals
and other literature. The CBSL obtained assistance from the World Bank (an IDF Grant) to
rebuild the library after the bomb blast. Consultants were engaged to prepare a strategic program
and make recommendations for its implementation and to assist in collection building and creation
of a web presence for the Library and Information Center (LIC). In the rebuilding process,
printed books, journals, publications, CD ROMS and CD ROM Data bases have been purchased
to meet the information needs of CBSL staff. In addition, the IDF grant supported foreign
training for library staff -- mainly through familiarization programs. The CBSL library is now
semi automated, however, to bring it to the status of a fuilly fledged automated library, the
establishment of a electronic data base of socio-economic information is necessary. This data
base will assist in resource collection by: surveying and acquiring literature available from the Net
Work; selecting and acquiring CD ROMs, Micro Films, databases outside the country; and
establishing a Wide Area Network for resource sharing. The services of an expert in automated
information systems will be secured to enable the library staff to develop skills in operational
issues involved in the establishment of a fully fledged economic information base. The expert will
be expected to provide on the job training for library staff. Assistance will also be sought to meet
the costs associated with the establishment of an electronic data base.
(1.3.f) Training of Personnel
The current policy of the CBSL is to recruit to the staff class at the most junior level and provide
them with on the job, as well as postgraduate, training. As a result skills have been developed in
areas such as general banking, commerce, business administration, general economics, and so on.
Nonetheless, skills development has not been strictly in line with the evolving needs of the Central
Bank. For example, over the years, 40 percent of postgraduate training has been in the field of
development economics, as against six persons trained in monetary economics, and two persons
trained in econometrics and quantitative economics. At the middle level, serious skill deficiencies
exist in both core and support departments. In addition, at the present time, most departments
operate with a serious skills gap despite elaborate short term training both locally and overseas.
An important component of the CBSL reorganization plan will be an assessment of existing staff
skills, a review of institutional skill requirements to meet the re-focused objectives of the
reorganized institution, and an evaluation of the gap between the two. Bridging this gap can be
achieved in various ways, one of the most important of which will be training. The proposed
organizational structure of the Central Bank entrusts the Central Bank's primary objective of
- 38 -



maintaining price stability to the Economic Research Department, Economic Analysis
Department, Domestic Market Operations Department and the International Market Operations
Department. The task of maintaining financial sector stability has been entrusted to the Bank
Supervision Department, Supervision of Non Bank Financial Institutions Department and
Financial Markets Department. Within the reorganized structure the IT Department and Legal
Department too will play a significant role. Thus, these departments will need extensive training
in order to achieve the newly sharpened Central Bank objectives. The CBSL's objective is to
acquire a strong group of macro-economists, statisticians, fund managers, dealers, accountants,
supervisors, IT personnel and human resource managers.
The CBSL has prepared a draft Training Plan; however, as the overall reorganization activities get
underway and work on the change management process within the bank and skill requirements
become clearer, more work will need to be undertaken on this Plan (a copy is available in the
project files). Supporting this plan will be an important component of the proposed operation. In
view of SIDA's financial support of US$ 1.0 million as co-financing for this project, most of which
is expected to be allocated for staff training, IDA will limit its support for the training program to
about 26 percent of the total training costs.
(1.3.g) Management Development - At the CBSL's Retreat, held in July 2000. many
participants voiced the need for an improvement in management practices within CBSL. This was
also reiterated in the deliberations of the Focus Group on Management Processes. The Steering
Committee agreed with the need to establish a Management Development Center (MDC) within
the CBSL to support the improvement of managerial skills and work practices in a modernized
CBSL. The MDC is expected to serve as a resource center for management related materials.
The objective is to create management awareness through seminars. courses, newsletters and
various events on a continuous basis. Courses will be offered in areas such as Modem Office
Procedures, Delegation, Conduct of Meetings, Public Relations, Team Building, Records
Management, Change Management, Conducting Perfonnance Appraisals, Conflict Management,
Time Management, Committee Management, Strategic Planning. Leadership Skills for Managers,
Effective Presentation Skills, Successful Business Writing, Comnmunication Skills for Managers,
Project Management, Stress Management, Effective Mentoring and Motivating Staff.
The MDC will be headed by a competent and dynamic person with extensive international
business and management experience. Due to the lack of skills within CBSL, the Head will need
to be hired externally. Training courses will be directed at high, mid, and low level management.
The MDC will offer one high level and two mid/low level training courses per month. They will
be conducted by both local and international management experts who will be hired on a
course-by-course basis. The newly re-organized CBSL will operate with around 240 managerial
and supervisory level staff compared to about 400 tnder the current structure.
Project Component 2 - US$9.22 million
2.    Payments and Securities Clearing and Settlement System Improvements - As an
integral component of its overall re-structuring; the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) has
recognized the need to upgrade the core financial system infrastructure to satisfy the needs of an
- 39 -



evolving economy in a manner that balances operational cost, processing efficiency and credit,
liquidity, and systemic risk. The scope of the reform initiative supported by this project includes
the acquisition, testing, and implementation of:
*  A Real-Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) capability to process large value and other time
critical funds transfers;
*  A scripless central depository, registry and settlement system for government debt securities
and its integration with the RTGS system to provide model 1 DvP Delivery versus Payment in
which securities are transferred to the buyer if and only if funds are available to complete the
purchase.; and
*  An automated general ledger and accounting system to support CBSL's current and future
financial operations.
System reform objectives - CBSL's system reform objectives are to:
*  Establish the infrastructure required to support the development of Sri Lanka's financial
markets and banking sector;
*  Reduce settlement risks in the payments system and securities settlement system in line with
emerging best international practice;
*  Enhance the integrity and tradability of Sri Lanka's public debt;
Improve the efficiency and quality of CBSL's financial and business operations; and
*  Establish an appropriate legal & regulatory framework to underpin the new operational
mechanisms.
Background and guiding principles - CBSL has already initiated a consensus building program
with the key impacted financial sector institutions through meetings with Commercial Bank Chief
Executives, the Sri Lankan Bankers' Association, the Primary Dealers, the Colombo Stock
Exchange and the SEC. These discussions are paving the way for the essential cooperation that is
required to understand and satisfy the needs of all users of the envisaged systems.
CBSL has recently introduced a Wide Area Network (WAN) connecting the head offices of all
commercial banks and primary dealers to the CBSL computing facilities making use of the Sri
Lanka Telecom Ltd. (SLT) data communications network. The CBSL is currently upgrading the
AS 400 computing facilities from Model 9402-400 to Model 9406-720 machines and is
introducing a disaster recovery capability. CBSL has also implemented a robust LAN connecting
some 200 PCs to the main processor. The Sri Lanka Automated Clearing House (SLACH) is
owned and operated by CB SL and uses Unisys A series equipment at the primary site and a
ClearPath HMP NX Host system with dual Pentium processors at the back-up site.
Consideration is being given by CBSL to divest SLACH, in the future, to a new company jointly
owned by the commercial banks and CBSL.
- 40 -



A significant system design and requirement specification initiative was undertaken in 1998. The
resulting business and technical specifications reflected the identified needs that existed at that
time. CBSL recognize that subsequent developments have taken place both within the Sri Lankan
financial sector and in regard to the availability of relevant RTGS application software packages.
A consultant supported initiative is now underway to review and update the work undertaken in
1998. This review is also taking account of the work that has been undertaken recently relating to
the design of initial versions both of a scripless system for processing the sale and purchase of
Government securities and the semi-automated transfer of funds between participant current
accounts maintained at the CBSL. The resulting system specifications will satisfy the needs of
current and future users, be based on best international practice as reflected in the recently
promulgated BIS Core Principles for Systemically Important Payment Systems, BIS - IOSCO
recommendations relating to Securities Clearance and Settlement, and reflect local realities. The
following guiding principles will also be satisfied. The systems will;
*  be convenient and easy to use;
*  be flexible and modularly expandable and thus accommodate future changes in volumes and
financial sector services;
o  allow for universality of access and thus make it possible for all potential direct participants,
when accepted, to connect to the systems;
*  have high levels of reliability with particular emphasis on data integrity and security thus
preventing unauthorized disclosure or change of information;
o  have high levels of service availability utilizing appropriate back-up facilities and failure
recovery mechanisms;
*  allow for auditing and tracing of all transactions;
*  have appropriate levels of operational performance ensuring reasonable response times; and
*  be affordable to use.
Conceptual System Architecture - Integrated RTGS/Securities system - As described above,
the systems infrastructure component of the proposed project consists of the following:
1. A Real-Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) capability to process large value and other time
critical funds transfers;
2. A scripless central depository, registry and settlement system for government debt securities
and its integration with the RTGS system to provide model 1 DvP; and
3. An automated general ledger and accounting system to support CBSL's current and future
financial operations.
Because of the essential close interrelationship between the RTGS and Scripless Securities
systems; these two sub-components will be acquired from the same suitably experienced and
qualified vendor. A separate procurement process will be used to acquire the envisaged
Automated General Ledger system.
The RTGS system will become the core system supporting the settlement of all transactions
across the books of CB SL including settlement of the net positions resulting from the SLACH
- 41 -



system. The SLACH system will continue to operate as now. However, the Settlement
architecture will also accommodate possible future bulk electronic net settlement systems. The
resulting overall future payments system architecture is depicted in the following simplistic
diagram:
Participant Installations
RTGS                      Slc h                          Securities
Participant                 Slach                         Participant
Workstations                (Interface)                    Workstations
Central Installations
Securities             RG| Ftr 
Secu            ~~RTGS                     Future
Sefflement                                     Bulk Netting
StDelWery    System    Periodio    System
System _ _  payment 
Real Time Gross Settlement System - Core Features - The specific user requirements will be
available by end July 2001 and will be prepared to a level of detail to convey CBSL needs to
qualified vendors in a non-ambiguous manner. Core features of the RTGS system will be as
follows:
*  compliance with international standards;
*  final settlement across the books of the CBSL;
*  a single tier system in which all licensed banks and other authorized institutions maintain
settlement accounts with the CBSL;
*  while no daylight overdraft is allowed, banks can obtain intraday liquidity through intraday
repurchase (repo) with the CBSL, using mainly government paper; and
*  allowance for domestic and international linkages to facilitate real time delivery versus
payment (DvP) and real time payment versus payment (PvP).
The RTGS system will likely use a Y-shaped topology with all authorized participants having
direct access to the system. The Y-shaped topology of information and payment flow means that
the system will be simple and direct. While a participant will input the full details of its payment
instructions, including customer information, to a central transaction processor (Interbank Fund
- 42 -



Transfer Processor), the instruction will be 'stripped' so that only the settlement instruction, i.e.
information on the amount, the paying institution and the receiving institution, will be passed onto
the Settlement Account Processor and be known by the CBSL.
When a payment has been settled across the books of the CBSL, it will be final and irrevocable.
The Settlement Accounts maintained by the participants with the CBSL will not be allowed by the
CBSL to go into overdraft except in very exceptional circumstances. Hence, participants without
sufficient credit balance or securities for intraday repo to effect outgoing payment instructions will
have their instructions queued in the system. The queuing mechanism will allow participants to
manage their own queues of payment instructions through cancellation, re-sequencing and
amendments.
Under an RTGS system, it is necessary to address how intraday liquidity can be provided to the
participants in order to reduce the chance of gridlock being developed since every payment has to
be settled on an individual and gross basis. A related issue is whether the liquidity should be
unsecured or collateralized. In the Sri Lankan RTGS system, there will be a seamless interface
between the funds transfer system (IFTP) and the Government Scripless Securities system (SSS)
which will also be operated by the CBSL. Participants will be able to obtain interest-free intraday
liquidity through intraday repo using prescribed eligible securities. The intraday repo transactions
will be fully automated. If a participant does not have sufficient balance in its settlement account
to effect an outgoing payment but has sufficient eligible securities in its intraday repo account, the
system will automatically trigger an intraday repo transaction to generate the required amount of
credit balance to cover the shortfall. A participant with excess liquidity in its Settlement Account
may reverse the repo transaction any time. In any case, the intraday repo will be reversed before
the close of the business day. A number of additional gridlock busting facilities will also be
available including both bi-lateral and multi-lateral off-set arrangements to ensure optimum use of
the available liquidity.
Scripless Securities Settlement (SSS) system -- Core Features - SSS is the central system for
the settlement of securities. SSS will maintain the electronic record of participants' holdings. It is
being designed to support intemational standards and best practice in securities settlement. It will
support 'Model 1' delivery versus payment as defined by the Bank for International Settlements
i.e. gross settlement of both securities and payments (in central bank money) with immediate
finality.
The specific user requirements will be available by end July 2001 and will be prepared to a level of
detail to convey CBSL needs to qualified vendors in a non-ambiguous manner. The SSS will
support the entire life-cycle of government securities from initial introduction to the market,
through subsequent trading or movements, including interest payment, through to maturity. SSS
will provide the following critical features:
* maintenance of holdings of dematerialized government debt securities (bills, bonds, etc.);
*   settlement of both the primary market and secondary market transactions, including
intra-participant movements, security sales and purchases, and repos;
*   delivery versus payment via a link to RTGS;
*  settlement on a T+n and / or a T+ zero basis;
- 43 -



*  matching of sales and purchases on day of trade;
*  queuing of securities transactions for settlement until sufficient funds are available in the
purchasers account;
*  support for different types of participants, including those without accounts in RTGS;
Hardware and Telecommunications related security equipment - As noted above, CBSL has
recently introduced a Wide Area Network (WAN) connecting the head offices of all commercial
banks and primary dealers to the CBSL computing facilities making use of the Sri Lanka Telecom
Ltd. (SLT) data communications network. CBSL are currently upgrading the AS 400 computing
facilities from Model 9402-400 to Model 9406-720 machines and is introducing a disaster
recovery capability. CBSL has also implemented a robust LAN connecting some 200 PCs to the
main processor.
It is anticipated that the existing processing and data communications infrastructure will be
capable of supporting the two envisaged new systems. This assumption will be confirmed or
modified during the on-going consulting engagement. However, as both the RTGS and SSS
systems require the highest possible data protection and other security measures; it is clear that a
communications line security strategy and appropriate additional equipment will be required.
The only method of securing data integrity whilst in transmission over physical communication
circuits is through appropriate strength encryption. The traditional means of implementing data
encryption was through the use of line encryptors. However, the preferred method today is to
incorporate encryption mechanisms into routers. This is possible due to the growing
sophistication of routers, in which exchange of keys is performed automatically by the routers
themselves at regular parameter driven intervals.
As an integral component of the on-going consulting engagement, CBSL will discuss the technical
status of telecommunications technology in Sri Lanka with Sri Lanka Telecom Ltd. (SLT) to
determine what data integrity support is offered as well as the associated costs that will be
incurred at both participant and central locations. In most countries, the telecommunications
service provider, recognizes the need to provide such services as an integral part of a secure
closed user group arrangement. It is likely that an appropriate sole source procurement of such
equipment will be required. This will be catered for in the project procurement arrangements.
Automated General Ledger System - Specific user requirements for the automated general
ledger system will be available by end July 2001 and will be prepared to a level of detail to convey
CBSL needs to qualified vendors in a non-ambiguous manner. Preliminary views of CBSL
accounting personnel are that the system to be acquired should support the following critical
features:
*  Financial books for multiple entities;
*  Multiple years' history;
*  Multiple periods within the year;
*  Value dated posting of transactions by specified calendar date;
*  Automatic accrual reversals by value date;
-44 -



* Account reconciliation;
* Control parameters for controlling postings to account centers;
* On-line real-time and off-line batch postings;
* Standing journals;
* Foreign currency denominated accounts with periodic revaluation;
* Prior period adjustments within current year and immediate past year;
* User controlled period and year end opening and closing functions;
* Aggregate account balances;
* Forward dated transaction handling;
* Statistical accounting activities;
* User-controlled archiving;
* Specified account coding structures and balance fields;
* Cost centers; and
* A Report Writer facility
The above features are standard and are supported in a range of commercially available general
ledger software packages; thus acquisition of an appropriate solution to satisfy CBSL detailed
requirements will not present problems. A potential Accounting Structure to satisfy both the
current and future needs of CBSL was prepared by an International Accounting firm in 1998 and
is being used as a core starting point for the user requirement specification process. Care is being
taken to ensure that implementation of the targeted new arrangements can be accomplished on a
step-by-step basis.
Training and Dissemination - Clearly training on the use of these systems will be critical to their
successful implementation and installation. In all cases, training and technical support will need to
be provided by the supplier of the acquired software products. This will also need to be
incorporated into the requirement specifications to be drafted by the consultant. Further
dissemination and discussion on the RTGS and SGSS will also be required with the Banker's
Association and other market players to ensure an enhanced understanding of the workings and
the benefits of implementing such a system in Sri Lanka. The CBSL's "Payments Council" will be
used to secure the active involvement of all impacted stakeholders.
IDA will finance US$ 8.94 million of cost of the development of Payment Systems.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.83 million
3. Financial Markets Regulation and Development. Finally, the CBSL has asked for funding
to support studies and consultancies focusing on financial system development. This
sub-component will seek to strengthen the Central Bank's monetary management capabilities as
well as the overall legal financial infrastructure -- bringing the latter more in line with the new role
envisaged for the central bank after its restructuring.
3.1 - Support for Legal Reform/Review. The CBSL recognized that there is a need to
undertake a review of the overall legal financial infrastructure. Current laws are fragmented and,
at times, contradictory. For example, banks and financial institutions are covered by a multiplicity
of laws include the Banking Act, institution specific acts for the People's Bank and the Bank of
Ceylon, specific legislation for development finance corporations (some of which also take
- 45 -



deposits), and finance company legislation. Achieving a better consistency and possibly even
repealing some of the institution specific legislation requires an overall review of the legislative
framework and identifications of the shortcomings in the existing specific laws. The CBSL Legal
Department has suggested that the Legal Review should focus on the following three areas:
(3.1.a) Overview of the Financial and Banking legislation
Review of legislation relating to banking and financial sector to identify areas, which require
rationalization and/or modernization -- and making proposals for legislative reform. This
component will consist of an examination of legislation applicable to the financial sector including
core legislation such as the Monetary Law Act, Banking Act, Finance Companies Act, Leasing
Act, Insurance Act, and the Securities and Exchange Commission Act as well as any other
legislation which has an indirect impact on financial institutions. The review of the existing legal
framework is proposed to be undertaken as follows. A Committee consisting of representatives
of the Central Bank, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Finance, Legal and Judicial Reforms Project
of the Ministry of Justice, Securities and Exchange Commission, Sri Lanka Bankers' Association
be appointed to coordinate the review. In addition to this core group, the Committee would also
seek suggestions and input from other relevant institutions or persons as the need arises.
The study will address the following specific areas in addition to the general overview of the
banking and financial sector legislation:
*  Mergers and consolidation of financial institutions - risks involved and matters to be considered
in approving such amalgamations including consumer protection and anti-competitive aspects;
*  Provisions to deal with troubled financial institutions to prevent systemic risk in the financial
system; and
*  Legislation dealing with payment and settlement systems in general such as finality of transactions,
provisions relating to authorization of payment systems operated by banks, supervision and
regulation of such payment systems
Services of consultants with legal and operational expertise in the financial sector will be secured
to work with the Legal Review Committee. Due to the magnitude of the work involved, the
overview of the legislation will be undertaken in two stages:
*  Initial review of existing legislation -- including a critique of the existing legislative framework
highlighting its deficiencies and areas for improvement. This phase of the project should also
propose an appropriate conceptual framework for rationalizing and revising the existing
legislation; and
*  Based on the findings of the first phase the consultants will work with the Legal Review
Committee to draft amendments to the existing legislation and implement the agreed legal
financial reform program coming out of Phase One.
- 46 -



(3.1.b) Development of a legislative framework for Payment and Settlement Systems and
preparation of legal documentation required for RTGS and Scripless Securities Trading
System
This area involves the formulation of rules and other legal documentation required for the RTGS
and Scripless Securities Trading System and making proposals for legislative provisions relating
to payment and settlement systems in general. The CBSL is working on a RTGS and a Scripless
Securities Trading System in which licensed commercial banks and primary dealers will participate
initially. Enabling legislative provisions for the systems are contained broadly in the Monetary
Law Act, the Registered Stock and Securities Ordinance and the Local Treasury Bills Ordinance.
There are however, areas which may require further legislation. For example, it may be necessary
for participants to enter into Agreements with counter parties. Technical assistance will be
required for the formulation of specific rules and other legal documentation for the RTGS and
Scripless Securities Trading System. This component of the Project will be closely coordinated
with the technical component relating to the RTGS and Scripless Securities Trading System.
(3.1.c) Development of Legislative Framework for Electronic Transactions
Preliminary work for the development of legislation in the area of E-Commerce, E-Business, and
Electronic Funds Transfers (EFT) has been carried out by several institutions in Sri Lanka
including the Central Bank, the Legal and Judicial Reforms Project of the Ministry of Justice, and
CINTEC. Documentation (including draft legislation) has been prepared in several areas (i.e. a
draft Electronic Transactions Act) and draft legislation relating to electronic evidence, data
protection, computer crimes and the use of electronic cards and access devices has been prepared.
Completion of this work and the finalization of legislation are taking time because of uncertainty
as to the suitability of the proposed legislation and the lack of information and experience relating
to possible implementation problems. The CBSL has requested consultancy support under the
project to review the work already undertaken and submit a report on the establishment of an
appropriate legal framework for such activities. A draft Terms of Reference for the Consultant
were prepared and is available in the project files.
3.2 Other Financial Sector Development - CBSL also intends to undertake some research on
the following areas and has requested support under this project.
(3.2.a) Development of E-Business - The main objectives for this study are:
* To asses the adequacy of existing facilities, institutional mechanisms and legal and regulatory
framework to support E-Business; and
*  To study and make recommendation on the role of the central bank and banking institutions,
in facilitating E-Business and identify steps for implementation.
(3.2.b) Development of the Forward Market in foreign Exchange and to Develop Interest
Rate Risk Management Instruments.
The Sri Lankan experience in forward foreign exchange contracts has been limited to a few
- 47 -



authorized foreign exchange dealers and a handful of importers and exporters in the country.
There are a number of limitations for the enhancement of the forward foreign exchange market in
Sri Lanka. Some if these limitations are inherent to any developing market while some are unique
and inter-linked with several other factors such as fiscal and monetary policy functions. Some of
the obvious limitations are inadequate knowledge, the high job turnover in the field of treasury
activities, lack of liquidity in the domestic market, and lack of a legislative framework to cover
these transactions. The main focus of this study will be to: (a) propose steps to be taken to
develop the forward and futures market in the local foreign exchange market; and (b) make
recommendations for the development and regulation of financial derivatives for hedging foreign
exchange and interest rate risk
(3.2.c) Supervision of the Government Debt Exchange
The Primary Dealers (PDs) in Government Securities (Treasury Bills and Treasury Bonds)
proposed to establish a Government Debt Exchange for secondary market retail trading
operations. The PDs will set up a public limited liability company (Sri Lanka Central Debt
Office/Exchange) with the equity participation of all PDs to handle these operations. The Board
of Directors of the Company will be representations of the PD companies. The main functions of
the company will be out-sourced to the Colombo Stock Exchange who will provide automated
trade matching and central depository system. The Primary Dealers Association (PDA) has
signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Colombo Stock Exchange for the services to be
provided and the system specifications. The CBSL is the supervisory authority for the PDs and
will be empowered to supervise the activities of the SLCDO (the PD Debt Exchange Company).
The SLCDO will be required to provide on-line real time information to the CBSL for
surveillance purposes. As the CBSL does not have expertise in supervising a Debt Exchange, it
will be necessary to engage a Consultant for the following purposes:
* To advise the CBSL in designing an effective supervisory system for the Debt Exchange; and
* To train CBSL staff on appropriate surveillance techniques relating to the supervision of the
Debt Exchange.
- 48 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
SRI LANKA: Sri Lanka Central Bank Strengthening
Local        Foreign         Total
Project Cost By Component                    US$ Million   USS Million  US$ Million
A. Central Bank Restructuring and Reorganization                    25.4            5.5          30.9
1. Human Resources Development                                       25.1           0.4          25.5
Establishment of the HR Department                                    0.1           0.4           0.5
Voluntary Retirement Scheme                                          25.0           0.0          25.0
2. Capacity Building of Departments                                   0.4           5.1            5.4
Banking Department                                                    0.0           0.2           0.2
Management Audit Department                                           0.0           0.0           0.0
Secretariat Department                                                0.0           0.0           0.0
Information Department - Library                                      0.0           0.1           0.1
Training Program                                                      0.3           4.6            4.9
B. Development of Payment Settlement System                          0.0            8.5           8.5
Introduction of a Real Time Gross Settlement                          0.0           4.6           4.6
Development of the Scripless Government Securities System             0.0           2.9           2.9
Automation of the General Ledger                                      0.0           1.0            1.0
C. Financial Sector Development and Regulation                       0.1            0.6           0.8
Legal Reforms                                                         0.1           0.3            0.4
Other Financial Sector Development                                    0.0           0.3            0.3
D. Implementation Support                                             0.0           0.0           0.0
E. Project Preparation Facility (PPF)                                 0.0           0.6           0.6
Total Base Cost                                 25.6          15.2          40.8
Physical Contingencies                                                0.0           0.2           0.2
Price Contingencies                                                   0.1           0.9            1.0
Total Including Contingencies                          25.            16.3          42.0
_                   - ~~~~~Local
US$ Million
(Including      Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                      Taxes)       USS Million  US$ Million
Goods                                                                 0.0           8.8           8.8
Works                                                                 0.0           0.0            0.0
Services (Consultancy)                                                0.3           1.5            1.8
Training                                                              0.4           4.9           5.3
Voluntary Retirement Scheme (VRS)                                    25.0           0.0          25.0
Recurrent Costs                                                       0.1           0.5           0.6
Project preparation Facility (PPF)                                    0.0           0.6            0.6
Total Project cost                               25.7           16.3          42.0
- 49 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
SRI LANKA: Sri Lanka Central Bank Strengthening
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The benefits of the scheme will come from a smaller, more streamlined central banking institution
with a narrow focus on two key objectives -- private stability and financial system stability. The
initial outlay ($25 million) for the scheme -- paid out over a three year period -- will take two to
three years to recoup in terms of lower staffing costs to the central bank. This is shown in the
cost-benefit analysis table below.
Main Assumptions:
VOLUNTARY RETIREMENT SCHEME
The restructuring process of the CBSL entails, among other things, redesigning the objectives,
finctions and the structure of the Bank, studying the work process and automation of activities,
re-assessment of the human resource needs, redesigning jobs and assigning some of the functions
to outside agencies.
Consequently, the Bank has found that some categories of employees are likely to become
redundant as part of this process. Redundancy is most likely to take place in the Minor Employee
grades where the bulk of the work is done manually and also in the Non-Staff Class grades where
the work is of a routine nature and the decisions are of programmed type. In the Staff Class
(professional) grades too, redundancy will occur mainly in departments where administrative
matters and support services are handled. The CBSL wishes to rectify this situation as a main
objective of the re-engineering process is to increase staff productivity and to reduce costs. Thus,
the CBSL has designed a VRS scheme where it encourages targeted employees who may wish to
leave the Bank early to do so voluntarily. For its part, the CBSL will have to offer such staff an
adequate retirement/compensation package to encourage them to decide to leave voluntarily.
The main aim of the voluntary retirement scheme (VRS) is to reduce the operational cost and to
improve worker productivity. It is envisaged to substantially reduce the overall staff of the Bank
within about three years, parallel to the restructuring of the CBSL's overall activities. As the
average age of staff and non-staff officers is around 47 years, such a scheme will help the Bank to
re-new its age structure to thereby make it a younger bank and to consequently help in dealing
with succession planning for the future. It is also important to link a performance based incentive
& evaluation scheme with the VRS in order to retain the services of officers who are required.
The VRS would also be a safety net for those who would not wish to continue after the
restructuring.
Hence the VRS has been designed to address the concerns and aspirations of the employees, and
at the same time be cost effective for the CBSL. Also, the impact of such a package on the
working population has been taken into account.
- 50 -



PricewaterhouseCoopers Ltd. (PwC) consultants have been retained to, inter alia, design and cost
an appropriate VRS scheme for the CBSL. As part of this process, PwC has analyzed various
VRS packages offered by other institutions in Sri Lanka and the Central Government's VRS
scheme (1990), see Annex 2. They have identified that the implementation of these schemes
resulted in staff reductions of only about 13 to 15 percent. Since the CBSL target is around 50
percent of the existing work force, the package offered by CBSL will need to be commensurately
more attractive.
The staffing profile of the CBSL as at mid-October 2000 is shown in the following table (it has
since declined to 1953 due to retirements and natural attrition):
Age Structure of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (as at 17/10/2000)
59-60 56-58 51-55 46-50 41-45 36-40 31-35 <30
TOTAL
1. Deputy Govemors          5       5     4                                          14
Executive Directors
Assistants to Governor
2. Heads of Department 6     3     17      6                                  32
3. Deputy Heads             4       2     13      5                                  24
4. Staff Class Grade 3      9      13    29      11    29       2                    93
5. StaffClass Grade 2       17     31     35    33    51    55         7             229
6. StaffClassGrade I        4      11    49    26       17    12    28    31         178
TOTAL STAFF CLASS           45     65    147    81    97       69    35    31        570
7. Supra Grades             14     26    126    67       1                           234
8. Staff Assistants &NSC4   1       5     51    158   123    16                      354
9. NSC Grade 3,2, and 1     4       9     81    125   152    97    26    27          521
TOTAL NON-STAFF             19     40    258   350   276    113    26    27         1,109
10. Minor Employees         2       3     34    99    78    42    40    13           311
GRAND TOTAL                 66     108   439   530   451    224    101   71         1,990
- 51 -



Under the proposed scheme, the CBSL wishes to reduce staff in these various categories on the following
basis:
Number        Expected              Average
Of Staff      VRS Applicants        Age
Staff Officers                550              200               47 years
Non-Staff Officers           1094              500               47 years
Minor Employees               309              309               43 years
Total Staff                  1953            1,009               47 years
The salient features of the proposed VRS are set out below:
A.    For Staff Class
Eligibility: Employees aged 45 years and above and minimum 10 years service.
The Scheme: (The lump-sum compensation is subject to a maximum of current average monthly
salary x number of months of balance service)
Age 55 years and above        Age between 45 & 55 years
Pension                      90 percent salary at retirement  70 to 80 percent of salary at
retirement
0.75 months salary for each
Compensation for Past Service  year of past service        0.75 months salary for each
year of past service
Compensation for Future       2 months salary for each year
Service                      of future service             2 months salary for each year
of future service
House Loan Repayment          Till age 70 years as per
present rules                Loan to be recovered from
VRS compensation.
Medical Benefits             To continue after retirement as
per present rules            No medical benefits after
retirement.
- 52 -



B.     For Non Staff Class
Eligibility: Employees aged 45 years and above and minimum 10 years service.
The Scheme: (The lump-sun compensation is subject to a maximum of current average monthly salary x
number of months of balance service)
Age 55 years and above         Age between 45 & 55 years
Pension                        90 percent salary at retirement  70 to 80 percent of salary at
retirement
0.75 months salary for each
Compensation for Past Service  year of past service          0.75 months salary for each
year of past service
Compensation for Future        2 months salary for each year
Service                        of future service             2 months salary for each year
of future service
House Loan Repayment           Till age 70 years as per
present rules                 Loan to be recovered from
VRS compensation.
Medical Benefits               To continue after retirement as
per present rules             No medical benefits after
retirement.
C.    For Minor Employees
Eligibility: All employees
Scheme (i): For employees with 10 years service or more (The lump-sum compensation is subject to a
maximum of current average monthly salary x number of months of balance service)
Age 55 years and above    Age between 45 & 55           Age below 45 years
years
Pension           90% salary at retirement    70% to 80% of salary at  70% of salary at retirement
retirement                payment to commence at age
45 years
Compensation for  0.75 months salary for   0.75 months salary for each   1.25 months salary for each
Past Service      each year of past service    year of past service  year of past service
Compensation for  2 months salary for each    2 months salary for each  2 months salary for each year
Future Service   year of future service    year of future service     of future service
House Loan        Till age 70 years as per  Loan to be recovered from    Loan to be recovered from VR
Repayment        present rules             VR compensation?           compensation?
To continue after        No medical benefits after    No medical benefits after
Medical Benefits  retirement as per present   retirement?             retirement ?
rules
- 53 -



C.     For Minor Employees (continued)
Scheme (ii): For employees with less than 10 years service (The lump-sum compensation is subject to a
maximum of current average monthly salary x number of months of balance service)
Age 55 years and above    Age between 45 & 55           Age below 45 years
years
Pension           No pension. Gratuity as per No pension. Gratuity as per  No pension. Gratuity as per
rules                    rules                     rules
Compensation for
Past Service      2 months salary for each    2 months salary for each  2 months salary for each year
year of past service     year of past service       of past service
Compensation for
Future Service    2 months salary for each    2 months salary for each  2 months salary for each year
year of future service   year of future service     of future service
House Loan
Repayment         Loan to be recovered from   Loan to be recovered from    Loan to be recovered from VR
VR compensation?         VR compensation?           compensation?
Medical Benefits
No medical benefits after   No medical benefits after    No medical benefits after
retirement as per present   retirement?             retirement?
rules
Other Considerations
The Central Bank of Sri Lanka is aiming to reduce staff by around 1,009 (from a total of 1,953).
These are broadly expected to come from minor grades (200); non-staff grades (500) and staff
grades (309).
Staff who participate in the Voluntary Retirement Scheme will be asked to jointly sign a waiver
with the Central Bank of Sri Lanka which specifically excludes them from future employment with
the CBSL after taking up the VRS package.
Payments from the VRS will be based upon the above formula and will be adrckniistered by a, soon
to be recruited, Human Resources line manager (recruited from the domestic market) and rn HR
professional advisor (recruited from the international market) who will oversee its fair
implementation over a three year period.
The scheme is not designed as a meritocracy and it has not been designed to stop the best staff
leaving -- even though the CBSL does reserve the right to accept or reject an applicant for the
scheme (acceptance must be mutually agreeable). Nonetheless, it is anticipated that in such a
small institution, moral suasion can be exerted to stop the best staff from leaving, combined with
the expectation of a decompression of the salary structure at some later date. As a prestigious
institution with the Sri Lankan civil service, it is expected that good performers can be persuaded
to continue working in the bank.
- 54 -



A full investigation has indicated that there are no evident gender or ethnic issues involved in the
application of the VRS package.
Lastly, as a purely voluntary scheme -- the ultimate decision to accept or reject such a package
will lie with the two parties involved -- the CBSL and the staff wishing to avail himself/herself of
the scheme. The Labor Unions have been consulted, on an on going basis, with the design and
development of the VRS program. Continuous monitoring after the application of the program
will also be undertaken. It has been reported by the CBSL that Unions have been receptive of the
idea and that they are waiting for more information and design of the VRS. CBSL has selected 4
members of the labor unions and sent them to India to look at the VRS experiences in the Central
Bank of India and other banking sectors that have been recently undertaken. As the design of the
VRS are more firmed up in next few months, more close consultations with unions will take
place.
- 55 -



Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Cy"Oa Vk                  5d okm
TAilECFPAR4MElS
Year1        Yew r2      Yewr3
tANboSk*           F    W    I IIt,009id  A             40E         30           30
h*raO*                                    309           309           0            0
Nm~                                       500           100         290         200
SbffOmcs                                  200             O         IOD          10D
SktfCs ln LIS$ (G  sk              PrYE
lK&"BrO                                   25a9
NmM                           3,~~~~~~~103
Swrfabs                                  6,776
Yawl1        Ye8r2       Yer3
^ p agCot-SP               !        ffrv
ww&       S                           697R6Z         697,g7           o           O
NliSbkf                              1S5941          310S88      E21,176     621,1763
SteOmos                             1,1s4                0      677,647     677,647
TO                                                 1M,965    129$Z32        1,298824
PswadTdEi                                            27ScP/o     33.a2%/      3F%MI/
;RD,ACASH RO/Y
V4S1                                                2           3           4     s                  6           7            8           9
NRUM
SdWySmiigdRkd            SUT                       1=565    Z,307,W8    3,60&212    3,606212    3,606212    3,60&212    3,69312    3,606&212    3,606,21
P6VMS&t                                              847,194    1Z&W        3,029218    3M,218    3,0,2918    3,029218    3.02218    3,M3218    3,029218
Saison,s fads                                        32Z998      8O7,596    1262174    1,26174    128174    1,2&2,174    1262174         12&2?174    12ER174
ToAL SRM                                         2tlE757    5A53.18D    789aN   $7,604           7 ,897 ,604    7 ,897,604  7a9a4  97,604    7,897,4    7M87,604
CUFRD
%MOD
d OPacUeo                                          6,99,85      9PXD,071    9,04,071
Ccda ori                                             l1Z41      174,494     174,494      174,44     174,494     174,494     174,494      174,494     174,494
Adrffriia    Cost                                     EO,OCO     100,000     100,0CO
lUALaJIRR                                          T,1%4798    9X555    9a78,f            174A        174E4       INA94       174A43       174,451     174,943
NEC R aN tM                                        4,976042    4,25,B      -t3a=        7,723,110    7,723,110    7,723,110    7,723,110    7,723,110    7,723,110
DcRiFtb                                                lo,/.        11h        1iT/o       13'J.
NrPETRrALLE                                       16,ZSXO7   14,968,0    13,806764    lZ727,146
RR                                                 3937931/6
TQWke*t                                           250'M
Y                               ~~~~~~~~~327
-56 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
SRI LANKA: Sri Lanka Central Bank Strengthening
Years Ending
In UD$ 000
-      ~~MPLEMENTATION PERIOD         .
TtYear Fnc   Yearn2 17Year 3       1             0.0             Year0  7
Total Finaning Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs       10700.0   14840.0   14840.0    1600.0                    0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs          60.0       70.0    300.0                0.0            0.0        0.0
Total Project Costs      10700.0   14840.0   14840.0    1600.0         0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing          10700.0   14840.0   14840.0    1600.0         0.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                6800.0   10800.0   11500.0    1200.0                   0.0        0.0
Government              3650.0    3790.0    3090.0       150.0                 0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Co-financiers           250.0      250.0      250.0     250.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing    10700.0   14840.0   14840.0    1600.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
- 57 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
SRI LANKA: Sri Lanka Central Bank Strengthening
Procurement
Institutional Capacity. An assessment was carried out to determine the institutional capacity of
the project administrative unit (AU). The assessment was based on the information provided by
CBSL and also on the basis of the experience with the Bank financed Emergency Y2K Project.
AU will be the focal point for procurement related activities; it will need to coordinate, monitor,
and provide guidance on procurement matters. The CB should appoint a senior officer in charge
of procurement in the AU who will be provided with additional training if required. The goods to
be procured under the project includes: (i) Information system for RTGS and SGSS estimated at
$7.6 m; (ii) Software for General Ledger (GL) estimated at $ 1.1 m; (iii) equipment for library and
banking department estimated at $53,000; and (iv) computers estimated at $ 28,300. Consultant
services would be required: (i) as an intemational human resources specialist ($ 469,000); (ii) as
a human resources manager ($ 68,000); (iii) for advisory services to various departments of CB ($
314,800); (iv) to develop a library system ($ 88,900); (v) for legal reforms ($324,300); (vi) other
financial sector development reforms ($377.600); and (vii) other technical assistance ($ 15,800).
Procurement schedules including contract packages will be prepared by the AU. Procurement of
goods, and services under the project, will be carried out in accordance with the provisions of
Bank's Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credit published January 1995,
and revised January and August 1996, September 1997 ,and January 1999. Procurement of
Consultants would be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Bank' s Guidelines:
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers published January 1997,
and revised September 1997, and January 1999. The procurement methods applicable to various
expenditure categories are summarized in Table A. Procurement thresholds and prior review
requirements are outlined in Table B.
Procurement Methods (Table A)
Goods ($8.79 million!. Unless otherwise agreed by IDA the procurement of information systems
for RTGS and SGSS would be done under a single contract using International Competitive
Bidding (ICB). Procurement of software for the General Ledger up to an aggregate amount of
US$ 1.1 million will also be undertaken using ICB. Computers, library equipment, and other
office equipment estimated to cost less than $ 50,000 equivalent per contract to an aggregate
amount not exceeding US$ 140,000 equivalent would be procured following shopping procedure.
Consultancy Services ($ 7.1 million!. All the consultancies expected to cost more than $100,000
equivalent would be awarded on the basis of QCBS procedures. The Human Resources
Specialist will be selected following Selection of Individual Consultants, in accordance with
Section V of the guidelines. With IDA's concurrence, small contracts estimated to cost less than
US$ 100,000 for firms and less than US$ 50,000 for individual consultants, may be procured
through Single-Source Selection or Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications. Training
- 58 -



services in established institutions and universities would be procured directly, subject to the
Bank's clearance on the overall training plans. Other training services would be procured
following procedures acceptable to IDA.
The Bank's Review Procurement Decisions (Table B)
Procurement planning. Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed
procurement plan for the project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with the procurement plan which shall
have been approved by the Bank and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. Annual
procurement plans will be reviewed by IDA/Bank.
Prior review of contracts:
Goods and Equipment. All contracts exceeding equivalent of $50,000 would be fully documented
and subject to prior review by the Bank provided in paragraphs 2 and 3, of Appendix 1, to the
Bank's Guidelines.
Consultancv contracts. Prior review procedures would be as follows:
(a)  with respect to each contract for employment of consulting firms/institutions, estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix I to the Consultant Guidelines shall
apply;
(b)  with respect to each contract for employment of consulting firms/institutions estimated to
cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more but less than the equivalent of $100,000, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply; and
(c)  with respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost
the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference, and terms of
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the IDA for its prior review and approval.
The contracts shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
Post review
Goods. The contracts below the prior review threshold for works and goods shall be subject to
post-review provided in the procedure set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 of the Bank's
Guidelines; and
Technical Assistance, Studies and Training. Contracts for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, and contracts for the employment of
- 59 -



individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, shall be subject to
post-review, provided that the generic TORs and shortlists for critical assignments have been
cleared by the Bank.
Procurement Information
Procurement information would be collected and recorded as follows:
(a) Prompt reporting of contract award information by AU;
(b) Comprehensive semiannual reports by AU indicating:
(i) Revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the total cost;
(ii) revised timings of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award,
and completion time for individual contracts; and
(iii) compliance with aggregate limits on the specified methods of procurement.
(c) The Borrower's completion report to be received by the Bank within three months of the
credit's closing date.
Procurement Schedule and Proposed Procurement Arrangements
The proposed packages and the Procurement Schedules for goods/equipment required for the
project have been provided by the AU. The project elements, their estimated costs, and proposed
methods of procurement are summarized in Table A. Figures in parentheses are the respective
amounts to be financed through the IDA/Bank.
- 60 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB           Other2       N.B.F.   Total Cost
1. Works                            0.00            0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                            8.65            0.00          0.14         0.00        8.79
(8.65)          (0.00)        (0.12)      (0.00)       (8.77)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00          6.10         1.00        7.10
Consultancies                      (0.00)          (0.00)        (3.07)       (0.00)      (3.07)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         25.00         0.00        25.00
VRS                                (0.00)          (0.00)       (17.50)       (0.00)     (17.50)
5. Operation and Maintenance        0.00            0.00          0.56         0.00        0.56
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.28)      (0.00)       (0.28)
6. PPF                              0.00            0.00          0.60         0.00        0.60
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.60)      (0.00)       (0.60)
Total                            8.65            0.00         32.40         1.00        42.05
(8.65)          (0.00)       (21.57)       (0.00)     (30.22)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
includes goods to be procured through limited international bidding and international\national shopping,
consulting services, training, and technical assistance services related to managing the project.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure Category   Contract.Value Threshold Procurement Method   Contracts Subject to Prior
(US$ thousands)                                 Review
(US$ Ms)
1. Goods               > =50                   ICB                  All contracts
= <25                  Shopping             Post Award Review
-61 -



2. Services               Firms
>100                      QCBS                    All contracts
<100                      As per Bank guidelines: For contracts of value
QCBS, SSS, CQ, IC      SI 00,000 and above the
etc.                   procedures set forth in
paragraph 1, 2 (other than
tlhird sub-paragraph of
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of
Appendix I of Consultant
Guidelines shall apply.
For contracts of value
$50,000 or more but less
than $ 100,000 the
procedures set forth in
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than
second subparagraph of
Individuals                                       paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of
Appendix I of Consultant
>50                                               Guidelines shall apply
For employment of
< 50                                            individual consultants of
contract value $50,000 or
more, the qualifications,
experience, terms of
reference and terms of
employment shall be
subject to prior review.
Terms of reference and cost
estimates shall be prior
reviewed
Procurement Risk - AVERAGE
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every four months for the first year of
implementation and one every six months for the subsequent years (includes special procurement
supervision for post-review).
- 62 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
I. Assessment of the Financial Management System of CBSL
(a)   Present Financial Management Arrangements of CBSL: Accounting for financial
transactions of the CBSL is split between the Banking Department and the Secretariat. The
Secretariat is responsible for maintaining records of the 'Charges' account, whilst the Banking
Department is responsible for maintaining records of all operational transactions, such as,
commercial bank deposits, investments in Treasury Bills, foreign debts and debt service payments.
The 'Charges' account has numerous sub-accounts to record administrative expenses of the
CBSL, including expenditure on staff salaries, office occupancy, acquisition and maintenance of
premises, office equipment, vehicles, furniture, and so on. The Banking Department consolidates
accounts of all financial transactions of the CBSL, including the 'Charges' account. The
accounting systems of the CBSL are partly computerized.
(b)   Audit: CBSL's accounts are audited by the Auditor General of Sri Lanka (AG). As
required by statute, CBSL prepares monthly expenditure statements and balance sheets and
submits them to the AG within seven days after the end of each month. These monthly statements
are verified and certified by the AG and published in the national Gazette. In addition to the
external audit, CBSL has a 'Management Audit Division', which periodically reviews financial
transactions, accounting procedures, internal controls, and reports directly to the Governor.
(c)   Proposed Financial Management Arrangements of the Reorganized CBSL: In the
re-organized CBSL, the functions of the Banking Department and the Secretariat will be changed
significantly. The payment settlement function of the Banking Department will be taken over by
the Payments Settlements Department to be established under the Financial Sector Stability
Group, and the current administrative accounting functions of the Secretariat will be transferred
to the Finance Department to be established under the Corporate Services 1 Group. The
'Management Audit Division' will be retained, but its scope of work will be expanded to include
auditing of automated systems, performance evaluation, and value added audits.
(d)   Scope of the Project: The project has as one main objective the automation of the
payment settlement system of the CBSL. This will include funding for the following three major
information systems.
*  Real-Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) system to provide the necessary infrastructure to clear
and settle payments between financial institutions and CBSL in a secure and timely manner.
*  Scripless Government Securities System (SGSS) to establish a scripless central depository,
registry and settlement system for transacting government debt securities and to interface with
the RTGS system.
- 63 -



*  General Ledger (GL) system to maintain the financial records of CBSL and other relevant
institutions of the financial sector, so as to consolidate CBSL's financial position on a daily
basis. The GL system will include provisions for expense control, processing some
administrative accounting transactions, and generating primary financial reports, i.e. profit and
loss account and balance sheets. Specific accounting functions relating to fixed assets,
accounts payable, personnel and payroll expenses, and specific purpose current accounts, may
still be maintained outside of the GL, but will be reconcilable to specific control accounts in
the GL system. It is expected that both the Finance Department and the Payments
Settlements Department will use the GL system.
(e)   Conclusion: As stated above, the proposed re-organization plan of CBSL includes
significant imnprovements to the financial accounting system. Details of the new accounting
system will be worked out during development and implementation of the GL system. For the
implementation of the project, CBSL has adequate financial management capacity as per the
requirements of OP/BP 10.02 (see below).
II.   Proiect Financial Mana2tement System
(a)   Internal Controls: The project will adopt the CBSL's existing internal control
procedures and, where applicable, the Financial Regulations (FRs) of the Government of Sri
Lanka. The internal procedures and controls of the CBSL are specified in the 'CBSL Manual'.
This manual covers in detail the authority and approval levels, cash receipts and disbursements,
procurement and payables, employee compensation, accounting systems, and safekeeping of
capital assets, etc. The FRs, which are well established and documented, cover almost every
aspect of financial administration and will provide necessary safeguards for ensuring orderly and
efficient conduct of project activities. A review of the FRs can be found in the Country Profile of
Financial Accountability report and in the Country Financial Accountability Assessment study
carried out by the consultants.
(b)   Accounting System: The Project Management Unit (AU) will maintain separate set of
accounts for recording all financial transactions of the project in accordance with sound
accounting practices. The Chart of Accounts developed for the project (Annex 1) will facilitate
recording of project expenditure by financing source, disbursement category, project components
and expenditure type and will also enable production of the quarterly Project Management
Reports (PMR) as per the agreed formats (Annex 2). Cash basis of accounting will be adopted
for this project. Project accounts will be maintained electronically in a simple spreadsheet
application to be developed by the Project Accountant, and periodically reconciled with the GL
system.
(e)   Reporting: The project will report on a quarterly basis according to the agreed PMR
formats. The simplified PMR cash model format was adopted for this project. (Refer Annex 1 for
the Financial Management Reports and the Project Progress Report).
(d)   Staffing: The Project Accountant will be responsible for ensuring timely recording and
- 64 -



reliable reporting of all financial transactions of the project. CBSL has already assigned a
qualified and experienced accountant to work on this project. IDA has concurred with this
appointment.
(e)   Auditing: The AG will audit the annual financial statements of the project. The AU will
be required to submit the audited project financial statements and the audited CBSL annual
accounts within six months of the end of each financial year. The project/SOE audit report, SA
report and the entity audit reports will be monitored in the ARCS system.
(t)   Status of Compliance with Audit Covenants in Existing Bank-financed Projects:
CBSL, as the implementing agency for the Year 2000 Emergency Assistance, has satisfactorily
complied with the audit covenants of that project.
III. Disbursement Arrangements
The project will adopt the traditional disbursement method and will produce simplified PMRs on a
quarterly basis from the start of the project. Nevertheless, after the first year of implementation,
GOSL, CBSL, and the Bank can jointly consider the appropriateness of adopting the PMR
disbursements after the PMR procedure is revised by the Loan Department.
(a)   Special Account (SA): CBSL will be responsible for opening and operating a SA at the
Banking Department of Central Bank of Sri Lanka, according to terms and conditions acceptable
to the IDA. The SA will be denominated in US Dollars. The amount of advance in the SA
should not, at any given time, exceed the equivalent of US$ 2,300,000. The initial authorized
allocation at the beginning of the project will be limited to US$ 1,000,000, until cumulative
disbursement reach SDR 2,500,000.
(b)   Statement of Expenditure (SOE): Withdrawals under the credit may be made on the
basis of Statement of Expenditure (SOE) procedure for:
* Contracts for goods and equipment costing less than $ 50,000 each.
* Contracts for consultancy services with individuals costing less than $ 50,000
* Contracts for consultancy services with finms costing less than $ 100,000
* All Voluntary Retirement Scheme (VRS), training, workshop expenses, and operation and
maintenance of equipment.
(c)   Project Management Reports: CBSL will produce the simplified PMRs from the
inception of the project although the reports will not be used as the basis for disbursements.
(Refer Annex I for the PMR formats). The PMR formats will be reviewed and modified, if
necessary, after one year of project implementation.
(d)   Allocation of Credit Proceeds: The disbursement categories to be used for the project
and allocations of the credit proceeds amongst these categories are given in the table below. Cost
of the new payment system and the VRS was finalized during credit negotiations. The credit
allocations are given below.
-65 -



Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category       Amount in US$million         Financing Percentage
Goods                                     8.50              100% of foreign expenditure;
100% of local expenditure (ex-factory
cost);
and 85% of local expenditure for other
items procured locally.
Consultants' Services and Training        3.05                        100%
Voluntary Retirement Scheme               17.50                       70%
Operation and Maintenance of              0.27                        50%
Equipment
Project Preparation Facility              0.60
Unallocated                               0.38
Total Project Costs                       30.30
Total                                     30.30
- 66 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
SRI LANKA: Sri Lanka Central Bank Strengthening
Project Schedule                                  Plannred                    Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      11                 1_1
First Bank mission (identification)             05/12/2000                   05/12/2000
Appraisal mission departure                     04/06/2001                   04/06/2001
Negotiations                                    05/07/2001                   05/14/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   07/31/2001
Prepared by:
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Simon C. Bell                     Sr. Financial Economist, SASFP (Task Manager)
Robert Keppler                    Sr. Advisor, FSD
Hans Eric Berggren                Human Resources Advisor, HR Departnent
Sriyani Hulugalle                Industrial Economist, SASFP
Shideh Hadian                     Operations Officer (PSD), SASFP
Irene Julitta Rasiah              Financial Management Specialist, SARFM
Jayantha De Mel                   Procurement Specialist, SACSF
Deepal Fernando                  Implementation / Procurement Specialist, SACSL
Santhanam Krishnan                Procurement Specialist, India Hub
Mary Agnes Evidente               Team Assistant, SASFP
Kenneth Miller                    Sr. Disbursement Officer, LOAG2
Dolly Aziz                        Disbursement Analyst, LOAG2
Ghada Youness                     Country lawyer, LEGOP
Mohammed Nawaz                    Consultant Lawyer, LEGOP
-67 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
SRI LANKA: Sri Lanka Central Bank Strengthening
A. Project Implementation Plan
1.    First Government proposal for technical assistance.
2.     Borrower Project Implementation Plan (BPIP)
3 .    Final Report by the 5 Focus Group on the Transformation of CBSL
4.     Various Terms of reference for the consultants.
5.     5-Year Training Plan for the CBSL staff.
6.     One Year Procurement Plan
7.     Circular issued by the CBSL to the employees on the proposal for the Voluntary Retirement
Scheme (VRS) and Human Resource Management Plan (this is a draft for discussion only).
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Identification mission's reports
C. Other
Proposed Model for the VRS
*Including electronic files
- 68 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
SRI LANKA: Sri Lanka Central Bank Strengthening
May-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                                 disbursements'
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                          ISRD          IDA                  GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.          Orig   Frm Rev'd
P050738        2001 LAND TIT. & REL.SERV (LIL)                            0.00       5.00                  0.00        0.00       4.94       0.00       0.00
P069784        2001 Distance Learning Initiative - LIL                    0.00       2.00                  0.00        0.00       2.03       0.00       0.00
P044809        2000 LEGAL AND JUDICIAL REFORMS                            0.00      18.20                  0.00        0.00      15.82      -1.37       0.00
P058070        2000 North-East Imgated Agnculture Project                 0.00      27.00                  0.00        0.00      24.58      -0.85       0.00
P063472        1999 EMERGENCYY2KTA                                        0.00      29.00                  0.00        8.49       4.19      13.98       0.00
P035828        1998 CONS OF MEDIC PLANTS                                  0.00       0.00                  4.60        0.00       2.49       0.79       0.00
P034212        1998 MAHAWEU RESTRUCTURI                                   0.00      57.00                  0.00        0.00      29.58      12.94       0.00
P010525        1998 GENERAL EDUCATION II                                  0.00      70.30                  0.00        0.88      48.43      31.3B       0.00
P039965        1997 ENERGY SERV.DLVY.                                     0.00      24.20                  5.90        0.00       3.05       0.80       0.00
P010498        1997 ENERGY SERVICES OLVY                                  0.00      24.20                  5.90        0.00       8.83       2.54       0.00
P010513        1997 ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION                                  0.00      14.80                  0.00        0.00       7.33       7.35       0.00
P010526        1997 HEALTH SERVICES DEV                                   0.00      18.80                  0.00        3.46       3.91       6.45       0.00
P042266        1996 TEACH EDSDEPLOYMENT                                   0.00      64.10                  0.DO        0.00      26.17      29.89       0.00
P010517        1996 PVTSECTINFRASDEV                                      0.00      77.00                  0.00        0.00      61.40      65.56      19.00
P010467        1995 COL. ENV. IMPROV.                                     0.00      39.00                  0.00        7.76       4.37      17.42       0.00
Total:        0.00      470.60               16.40        20.56      245.13      186.87      19.00
- 69 -



SRI LANKA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
May-200 1
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1999               Aitken Spence                  0.00    2.73    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.73     0.00    0.00
1996/97            Asia Power                     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1999               DCR Lanka                      0.00    0.09    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.05     0.00    0.00
1992               Eagle NDB                      0.00    0.06    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.06     0.00    0.00
198]               Lanka Hotels                   0.00    0.64    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.64     0.00    0.00
1997               Lanka Orix                     1.50    0.30    0.00    0.00    0.60    0.16     0.00    0.00
1996               Lanka Orix Lease               0.92    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.92    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998               MLL                            0.00    0.00    1.55    0.00    0.00    0.00      1.55    0.00
2000               NDB Housing Corp               0.00    1.09    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1999               Nations Trust                  0.00    1.09    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.09    0.00    0.00
1997               Packages Lanka                 0.00    1.11    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.11    0.00    0.00
1992               Pyramid Trust                  0.00    0.25    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.25     0.00    0.00
1999               SAGT                          35.00    7.30    0.00    0.00    5.00    2.33     0.00    0.00
2000               Suntel                         0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00
1988/95            Union Assurance                0.00    0.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.50     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        37.42    22.66    1.55    0.00    6.52   16.42     1.55    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
1998              Apollo Lanka                      5.00      0.00      1.56      0.00
2000               NDB Credit Line                 35.00      3.50      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:       40.00      3.50      1.56      0.00
- 70 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
SRI LANKA: Sri Lanka Central Bank Strengthening
Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        Sri     South   middles-
Lanka       Asia  Income         Development diamond'
1999
Population. mid-vear (millionsl                          19.0      1.329     2,094                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                       820        440      1,200
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                         15.6       581      2,513
Averaae annual growth. 1993-99
Population `%)                                            1 3        1.9       1.1
Labor force (%J                                           1.6        2.3       1.2      GNP                               Gross
per    ~              .          primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                                   capita              /         enrollment
Povertv (/% of poPulation below national poverty line)    25
Urban Population (% of totel population)                  22         28         43
Life expectanev at birth (vears)                          73         62         69                 .
Infan: mortalitv (per 1,000 live births)                  17         75         33
Child malnutrition (% of children under 51                38         51         15                 Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of oopulation)         64         77         86
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                      11         46         16               Sri Lanka
Gross Primarv enrollment (% of school-age population)    109        100        114
Male                                                   110        110        114          ---Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                 108         90        116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998       1999
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                              3.4       7.0       15.4      16.0
Gross domestic investmient/GDP                 25.8      21.7       25.1      27.1                      Trade
Exports of Qoods and services/GDP              33.7      27.3       36 2      35.3
Gross domestic savinaslGDP                     13.5      12.2       19 1      19.8
Gross national savings/GDP                        ..    14.6        23.8      23.9                         T
Current account balance/GDP                     -6 7     -5.9       -1 5       -3.1     Domestic   ..4
Interest oavments/GDP                           0.8       1.6       0.8        1.0      Sn. f9A                       Investment
Total debt/GDP                                 46.2      74.1       55.4      54.7           -s
Total dobt service/exports                     12.9      18.6        6.5      10.0                         1
Present value of debt/GDP                         .         .       40.8
Present value of debt/exports                     .                                                  Idb90e8dns
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99      1998      1999   1999-03
(averaoe annual growth)
GDP                                    5.0      5.3       4.7        4.3       5.           -Sn  Lanka
GNP per capita                         3.4      4.0       3.4        2.4       3.6                Lower-middle-income group
Exports a1 ooods and servtces          5.5      7.4       t.0        4.0       4.7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998       1999      Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                             a5
Agriculture                                    26.9      25.6       21.1      20.7  37
Industrv                                       28.2      26.8       27.5      27.3 
Manufacturinq                                 19.1     15.3       16.5       16.4     s
Services                                       44.8      47.6       51.4      52.1 D
Private consumption                            77.1      77.3       71.1      71.2             94   95   96   97   98   99
General government consumption                  9.2      10.5        9.8       9.0               -- GDI         -_-GDP
Imports of goods and services                  45.8      36.8       42.2      42.6
1979-89  1989-99       1998      1999      Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                     3.5       2.1        2.5       4.5    15t
Industry                                        5.0       7.1        5.9       6.0
Manufacturinq                                 5.5       8.3        6.3       4.4    10
Services                                        6.5       5.6        5.1       4.0      s
Private consumption                             5.7       5.7        7.5       6.4
General government consumption                  7.0       5.9        3.4      -2.5      o
Gross domestic investment                       7.5       6.9       15.2       6.4              .Exports   --*-Impsrts
Imports of qoods and services                   8.0       8.4       11.5       7.0
Gross national Product                          5.0       5.3        4.6       3.9
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
- The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-aroup average. If data are missina. the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 71 -



Sri Lanka
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989      1998      1999     Inflation (%)
Domestic pnices
(% chanqe)                                                                      20
Consumer prices                             10.8    11.6        9.4      4.7    15
Implicit GDP deflator                                81         9.2      4.6    10
Govemment finance                                                                S t
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                              o
Current revenue                               ..    24.0       17.9     18.2            94   95   94   97   98    9
Current budget balance                        ..      1.4      -1.7     -0.4            -GDP delator  -0-CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..    -8.7       -8.4     -6.9
TRADE
1979    1989      1998      1999      Export and import levels (USS mill.)
tUSS millions)
Total exports (fob)                           ..   1,558      4,798    4,600    6
Tea                                         ..    379         780      621
Other agricultural goods                    ..       ..       352      373    4 00c
Manufactures                                ..    490       2,460    2,425         T
Total imports (cif)                           ..   2,226      5,890    5,899
Food                                        ..      94        723      655    2,000iiii               I
Fuel and enerqy                             ..    165         215      257
Capital goods                                ..    333      1,477    1,565                       96   97
Export price index (1995=100)                  .       ..      141       139
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..      ..       116       122                 aExports      EImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     ..       ..      121       114
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    1989      1998      1999     Current account balance to GDP (%/.)
(US$ mil/lions)
Exports of goods and services              1,134    1,851     5,712    5,565              Ii
Imports of goods and services              1,537    2.565     6,659    6,718
Resource balance                           -403    -714        -947   -1,153     2
Net income                                   -15    -163       -180     -253         *fl
Net current transfers                         ..       ..      900       911     4        l
Current account balance                     -226    -414       -227     495    -6
Financing items (net)                         ..       .,      190       758
Changes in net reserves                       ..       ..       37      -263    -a
Memo:
Reserves includinq gold (USS millions)        ..      ..    1,984    1,639
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)            15.6    36.0       66.1     69.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989      1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                   Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       1,554    5,181     8,526    8,727
IBRD                                       33       82        26        15                  G:433  A: 15
IDA                                        78      702      1,648    1,651             F: 556           B. 1,651
Total debt service                          159      422       452       683
IBRO                                        7       12         8         8
IDA                                         1        7        24       27                                    C:265
Composition of net resource flows
Officialgrants                            116      195       114
Official creditors                        103      298       379      504
Private creditors                          10      -48       126      -201        E: 4,049   _. D: 1,758
Foreign direct investment                  47       20       193
Portfolio equitv                            0        0         6
World Bank proqram
Commitments                                68       20        57        56     A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              15       59        97       48      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Prvate
Principal repayments                        4        7        19        4      C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                  11       53        78       44
Interest payments                           3       12        14        14
Net transfers                               7       41        64        30
Development Economics                                                                                            9/9/2000
- 72 -



Central Bank of Sri Lanla
30, Janadhlpat  Mwawss
A. S. Jayawardea                                     CoIb   1, Sri Leaka.
The Governor                                        *I   May  2001
Ms. Mieko Nishimizu,
Vice President,
South Asia Region
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.,
Washington, D.C., 20433
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Dear Ms. Nishimizu,
Letter of Development Policiesfor the Central Bank of Sri Lanka
As you are aware, the Central Bank of Sri Lanka has been working for over a year on a fundamental
restructuring and re-engineering of the CBSL. We believe that we can transform our institution into a
premier central bank in the region - fully modernized and re-vamped to meet the challenges posed w&ithin the
Sri Lankan economy over the medium to long term. To this end, we were pleased that you participated in a
session in which we were able to explain the process of reform and our vision of our Bank during your recent
visit to Sri Lanka in February, 2001.
I would like to reiterate several important aspects of the re-engineering process and to confirm our
strong commitment to the reform process that we have embarked upon and for which we have sought World
Bank support and assistance.
Re-focussing on Core Functions. Firstly, the Central Bank of Sri Lanka intends to confine its
future activities almost exclusively to those, which we believe are core central banking areas of focus. As we
indicated to you, these include price stability (through appropriate macro-economic management) and
financial system stability (mainly through our role as a supervisor and regulator of the financial sector). This
will include the devolution of other non-core functions from the CBSL over the next four to five year period.
Our focus groups working on the re-engineering process have identified for reform: (a) the control of foreign
exchange which we hope to phase out as our domestic conditions permit; (b) development finance activities'
(c) management of the Employees Provident Fund (EPF): (d) management of public debt functions on behalf
of the Government of Sri Lanka; and (e) most administrative functions which will be streamlined through
outsourcing.
Devolution of Non-core Functions. With respect to the devolution of non-core tasks we have
developed the following plan:
(a)    Exchange Control is no longer an important function of the CBSL, and it is intended to downsize the
staff in this area of the bank and convert it to a significantly smaller exchange monitoring unit which
will be subsumed into the International Department during the second year of the project.
Legislative amendments will also be adopted, as required, to support the proposed changes (2002/3);
(b)    The public debt management function will be transferred to the Treasury and a much smaller public
debt monitoring function will be maintained in the Research Departnent of the central bank.. also
during the second year of the project (2002/3);
-73 -



(c)    With respect to the development finance function, it is our intention to continue this role but on a
limited basis for donor on-lending programs (although, as much as possible, we will encourage
donors to identify private apex agencies outside of the Central Bank). The Central Bank will,
however, continue to advise on the development of financial markets throughout the country. Under
the World Bank credit we further intend to engage a consultant to advise on the sale of CBSL shares
in the six regional development banks and also to advise on other appropriate steps in instances
where the shares in loss making development banks cannot be sold - so that the central bank can
remove itself as an owner of these institutions by the end of the proposed project period (by June
2005);
(d)    Management of the Employees Provident Fund will be devolved to an independent agency outside of
the CBSL (by June 2004);
(e)   Finally, the CBSL will develop an out-sourcing plan for most administrative and ancillary functions
by September 2001 - leading to the implementing/out-sourcing of these functions during the second
year of the project (2002/03).
It should further be noted that we are well advanced in spinning off the clearing house function to a
separate company with shares owned by the Central Bank and the various commercial banks operating in Sri
Lanka. Consequently, it is anticipated that all five areas of activity mentioned above will be devolved by the
end of the project period, permitting the newly re-engineered central bank to effectively focus on its core
objectives of price stability and financial system stability.
Changes in Human Resource Management within the CBSL. Simultaneously the CBSL intends
to completely revamp its human resource policies to move from the current system of "time-in-grade"
performance criteria to one based upon performance and merit. This represents a sea change in the way that
the CBSL deals with its staff and will need to be implemented carefully and cautiously. It will require a
change in policies related to entry and exit from the CBSL, promotions, portability of pensions, staff
evaluation, compensation and pensions, and so on. It will further require an experienced Human Resources
Manager to head the Human Resources Department to assist in the implementation of these reforms. In this
regard we intend to recruit an expert under the World Bank project to undertake this function. We anticipate
that such a change in pclicies will enable the promotion of our best and brightest within the bank as well as
the removal of non-performers and the provision of lower rewards for marginal performers.
Developing Management Capital. Over the years the CBSL has found that its managerial skills
have become inadequate to meet the needs of a modem central bank. In addition, a different type of
management will be required in our re-vamped, merit focused, institution. To assist in the development of
modem managers within the CBSL we intend to establish a dynamic Management Development Center
(MDC) which will play a key role in our change management process through education, awareness raising
and critical analysis, and continuous evaluation of our processes and activities. Funds from the World Bank
project will be used to staff this center with international expertise and fund its research and training for an
initial period.
The Voluntary Retirement Scheme. As indicated, we intend to implement a Voluntary Retirement
Scheme (VRS) - the cost of which will be bome 30/70 between the CBSL and the World Bank to retire
personnel who are currently working in functions no longer considered part of the core work of the central
bank and to reduce the overall size of the bank by around 50 percent to just under 1,000 staff within about
three years. Although the scheme will be offered on a voluntary basis throughout the bank, it will need to be
implemented in conjunction with a plan of higher incentives for the good performers to ensure their
continuation within the CBSL. Higher financial rewards will also be offered in conjunction with the change
in human resource policies indicated above to incentivise the good performers to stay with the bank and not
accept the VRS.
2



Since we wish to vigorously pursue out-sourcing options, it is our intention to make certain positions
redundant and offer staff at these levels a Voluntary Retirement Scheme (VRS) which will be supported
financially by the World Bank. This should reasonably quickly remove 300 to 400 staff in such activities
from the payroll of the CBSL. All such redundant staff will be encouraged to avail themselves of the VRS
and this process should take place as quickly as possible - but certainly within the first year of
implementation of the project.
As you can well imagine, such a system of voluntary retirement, appropriate incentives, and removal
of functions is key to the re-engineering of the bank and will have to be carefully and appropriately
sequenced to ensure optimal results. These activities will be overseen by the Human Resource Manager
hired under the World Bank credit - who will assist in the delicate implementation of this complex reform
program.
Up-Grading CBSL Professionalism. CBSL modernization involves moving to a new streamlined
management structure, which will require a heightened degree of professionalism. To this end we will move
to hire a number of professionals at senior level from the market within the first year of the project. This will
enable the CBSL to quickly acquire new skills as well as move towards a new corporate culture.
Maintaining the Appropriate Size of the CBSL. We are aware that, in many institutions,
including previous experiences in Sri Lanka, the implementation of a VRS program has been followed by a
subsequent inflation of staff numbers - back to, or beyond, the original staffing complement. I propose five
methods of ensuring that our efforts at right sizing are not reversed in the future. First, our commitment, as
indicated by this letter, backed up by the approval of the Monetary Board (which has reviewed and endorsed
the contents of this note). Second, a reduction of finctions, as part of the overall re-engineering exercise,
which will necessitate a lower level of staffing within the institution. Third, all expansions of positions will
continue to be subject to Monetary Board oversight and approval. Fourth, CBSL will commit to a staff
complement/cadre of 1,000 or less. Lastly, Central Bank shall make it a condition of voluntary retirement,
that those who exercise the right to voluntarily retire will not be re-employed in the Central Bank, in the
future. It is our expectation that these five safeguards will ensure that the CBSL remains at around the level
of staffing supported by the World Bank under the VRS.
Legal Reform. With a new modern focus for the CBSL, it will also be necessary to amend our
existing legislation to bring this into line with the new realities of the bank. Within this context we will be
requesting World Bank support to help the legal department of the CBSL undertake a comprehensive review
of the existing financial legal infrastructure and to make recommendations for its amendment. As this will
initially be a process task, we will require support to work with a group of concerned lawyers and other stake
holders from the financial and legal community and the various concerned ministries to ensure buy-in and
commitment to this review task. We are then hopeful that, once consensus has been reached for the
necessary changes, that we will be able to move into an implementation phase with the same group of stake
holders, again supported by World Bank assistance, and led and coordinated from the CBSL. We anticipate
that this will be undertaken over the first four years of the project.
Payments System Support. Support for the implementation of a Real Time Gross Settlement
System (RTGS), its inter-linkage with the Scripless Government Securities System (SGSS), and the
automation of the general ledger are also integral components of the overall re-engineering and
modernization of the CBSL. Real time settlement of large and other time-critical, transactions and its inter-
linkage with the SGSS is an important part of central bank support for a more efficient payments system
within Sri Larlka. Automation of the general ledger of the Central Bank will help to integrate various central
banking functions into a single, seamless management information system which will further enhance our
own internal efficiency and effectiveness.
3



Project Processing Details. As you can appreciate, the reformn exercise to date has been a large and
all consuming task for my staff. I personally feel that the progress that we have made together has been
extremely encouraging and that we now stand on the cusp of a radical institutional reform unprecedented in
this country. In addition, for the first time in the history of Sri Lanka, the reform process has been initiated,
designed, and implemented by a Sri Lankan institution. As we move into the implementation phase we are
likely to encounter constraints and resistance which may divert us from the important task at hand.
Currently, the re-engineering is operating with the support of five Focus Groups staffed by some of our
young, brightest staff in the bank (working on issues pertaining to Objectives, Organizational Structure,
Management Processes, Human Resources Management, and Consensus Building). These five focus groups
report to a Steering Committee including the Deputy Governors, my Advisors and other senior staff of the
bank. In addition, support to project implementation is provided by a small team of staff in a designated unit.
As the lines of responsibility and accountability are sometimes blurred between these various groups, I have
decided to appoint a full-time "Transformation (or Change) Agent" who will oversee and be responsible for
implementing the agreements reached by the Steering Committee and approved by the Monetary Board. The
transformation agent will be the main implementor of the re-engineering process and will oversee all aspects
of the transformation from an implementation perspective. The role of this individual will be central in
ensuring that the re-engineering takes place in a holistic and well-integrated manner rather than on a unit by
unit, or function by function basis which might otherwise be the case. This individual will also be provided
with sufficient delegated authority to ensure that he/she can undertake all required tasks in an expeditious
manner as possible without continuous reversion to senior management for approval. This individual will
also ensure that the transformation process is implemented in a timely manner and will assist in the
coordination of donor support efforts for the CBSL.
In conclusion I am extremely encouraged by the process that the staff of the CBSL has put in motion
and am grateful for the support that the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the Government of
Sweden have lent to our efforts. Our vision is of a fundamentally rejuvenated and modern institution within
five years - streamlined, efficient, focusing on two core objectives and ancillary services , and released from
other activities not deemed to lie within our core competencies and objectives. We believe that this re-
orientation will both play a key role in increasing our capacities to support stronger economic development
in Sri Lanka as well as act as a prototype of successful re-engineering for other public sector institutions in
this country.
urs Sincerely,
A.S. Jaa  re n
Governor, Central      ri Lanka
cc    International Monetary Fund;
Government of Sweden/S.I.D.A.
4



MAP SECTION






IBRD 27509
<                                      m~~~ 
1]                                                           -
DECEMBER1996



