Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3525 CE
Project Agreement
(Sri Lanka Central Bank Strengthening Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
CENTRAL BANK OF SRI LANKA
Dated July 11, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3525 CE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 11, 2001, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and CENTRAL BANK OF SRI LANKA (hereinafter referred to as “CBSL”).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA (the Borrower) and the Association, the 
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to twenty three million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 23,900,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development 
Credit Agreement, but only on conditions that CBSL agree to undertake such obligations 
toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a Subsidiary Administration Agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and CBSL, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development 
Credit Agreement will be made available to CBSL on the terms and conditions set forth 
in said Subsidiary Administration Agreement; and
WHEREAS CBSL, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) CBSL declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and banking practices, and shall provide, or 
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and CBSL shall otherwise agree, CBSL shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) CBSL shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, CBSL shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and CBSL, a plan for the continued 
achievement of the Project objectives; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with CBSL on said plan.
Section 2.04. CBSL shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Administration Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, CBSL shall 
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Administration Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) CBSL shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Administration 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
CBSL shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by CBSL of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Administration Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Page  3
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) CBSL shall maintain, at all times, a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in 
accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and to register 
separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
CBSL shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, for such year as so audited, and 
(B) an opinion on such statements and report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Association may from time to 
time reasonably request.
Section 3.02. CBSL shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter, a Project management report for such period, which:
(a)
(i) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and projected sources and 
applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the period 
covered by said report; and (ii) shows separately expenditures financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(b)
(i) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (ii) explains variances 
between the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and
(c)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of the period 
covered by said report.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of CBSL 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms and the Association shall promptly notify CBSL 
thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Page  4
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For CBSL:
Central Bank of Sri Lanka
30 Janadhipathi Mawatha
Colombo, Sri Lanka
Telex:
Facsimile:
21176 CENBANKCE
941-477677
21290 CENBKCE
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of CBSL, may be 
taken or executed by the Governor of CBSL or such other person or persons as the 
Governor of CBSL shall designate in writing, and the Governor of CBSL shall furnish to 
the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Colombo, Sri Lanka, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mariana Todorova
Country Director, Sri Lanka
CENTRAL BANK OF SRI LANKA
Page  5
By /s/ A.S. Jayawardena
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than US$25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed US$140,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions 
of the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Association in January 1997 and 
Page  6
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to "Bank member 
countries" and "member country" shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
"Participating Countries" and "Participating Country".
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$200,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for local human resources manager, development of library, and any 
other small advisory services for the development of various departments of CBSL, 
estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for any small advisory services which are estimated to cost less than
US$100,000 equivalent per contract for a firm and less than US$50,000 for individual 
consultants, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan 
for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Page  7
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.
The steering committee, appointed by the Monetary Board of CBSL, shall be 
chaired by a Deputy Governor of the CBSL. Such committee shall be in charge of the 
oversight of the Project implementation.
2.
Responsibility for the day-to-day supervision of the implementation of the 
Project, shall be vested in the transformation agent.
3.
CBSL shall implement the Project in accordance with the BPIP.
4.
CBSL shall adopt VRS satisfactory to the Association, no later than July 31, 
2001.
5.
CBSL shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about March 2003, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of 
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by July 2003, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
