Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBERS 2880-CE, 3058-CE,
 
AND 3525-CE
 
North East Reconstruction 
Agreement 
 
(North East Emergency Reconstruction Program) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
and 
 
NORTH EAST PROVINCIAL COUNCIL OF SRI LANKA 
 
Dated December 12, 2002 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBERS 2880-CE, 3058-CE, 
AND 3525-CE 
 
NORTH EAST RECONSTRUCTION AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated December 12, 2002, between the INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the “Association”) and the NORTH EAST 
PROVINCIAL COUNCIL (the “NORTH EAST PROVINCIAL COUNCIL”) OF THE 
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA, acting by the Governor of 
the NORTHERN AND EASTERN PROVINCES. 
 
WHEREAS by the Agreement Amending Selected Development Credit 
Agreements (the “Part Z Amendment”) of even date herewith between the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to reallocate a portion of the proceeds of the Credit provided for in each Selected 
Development Credit Agreement (as such term is defined in the Part Z Amendment) for 
the purpose of financing emergency reconstruction activities in the Northern and Eastern 
provinces as set out in Part Z of Schedule 2 to the Selected Development Credit 
Agreements, but only on condition that the North East Provincial Council agree to 
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; 
 
WHEREAS, the North East Provincial Council, in consideration of the 
Association’s entering into the Part Z Amendment with the Borrower, has agreed to 
undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto, hereby, agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
each Selected Development Credit Agreement to which this Agreement relates, the Part Z 
Amendment, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) 
have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
Execution of Part Z of the Project 
Page  3
-
2
-
Section 2.01. (a) The North East Provincial Council declares its commitment to 
the objectives of Part Z of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Selected 
Development Credit Agreements, and, to this end, shall carry out Part Z of the Project, 
through its relevant departments and agencies under the overall coordination of the 
Provincial Committee, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and  technical practices, and shall provide, or cause 
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for such Part Z of the Project. 
 
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Association and the North East Provincial Council shall 
otherwise agree, the North East Provincial Council shall carry out Part Z of 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The North East Provincial Council shall make the proceeds of the Credit 
available to the ministries and departments of the North East Provincial Council and 
other agencies responsible for implementation of Part Z of the Project, in accordance with 
arrangements and procedures satisfactory to the Association. 
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for Part Z of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The North East Provincial Council shall carry out the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The North East Provincial Council shall, at the request of the 
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of Part Z of 
the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Credit made available for Part Z of the Project. 
 
(b) 
The North East Provincial Council shall promptly inform the Association 
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part Z of 
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit for Part Z of the Project, or 
the performance by the North East Provincial Council of its obligations under this 
Agreement. 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE III 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 3.01 (a) The North East Provincial Council shall establish and maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect in accordance 
with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition, and to register 
separately the operations, resources and expenditures relating to Part Z of the Project and 
of the departments and agencies of the North East Provincial Council responsible for 
carrying out Part Z of the Project. 
 
(b) 
The North East Provincial Council shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each Fiscal Year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said records and accounts as well as the audit thereof, as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably request. 
 
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the North East Provincial Council shall provide to the Association for every 
six-month period, beginning with the six-month period ending on December 31, 2002, a 
certificate of expenditure from an independent auditor acceptable to the Association 
evidencing the expenditures of its departments in respect of Part Z of the Project in 
accordance with appropriate accounting principles and procedures, such certificate to be 
provided within 2 months after the end of each such six-month period. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the North East Provincial Council’s progress 
reporting obligations in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the North East Provincial Council 
shall prepare and furnish to the Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for Part Z of the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
showing separately funds provided under Part Z of the Project, 
Page  5
-
4
-
and explains variances between the actual and planned uses of 
such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in implementation of Part Z of the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and explains variances between the actual
 
and planned 
implementation of Part Z of the Project; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under Part Z of the Project, 
as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter 
after the date of effectiveness under the Part Z Amendment, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and 
shall cover such calendar quarter. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date of 
effectiveness of the Part Z Amendment. 
 
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of the 
North East Provincial Council thereunder shall terminate on the last date on which any 
Selected Development Credit Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, 
and the Association shall promptly notify the North East Provincial Council thereof. 
 
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or 
Page  6
-
5
-
facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such 
party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have 
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The 
addresses so specified are: 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
Telex: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
 
248423 
(MCI); 
or 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
For the North East Provincial Council: 
 
Chief Secretary 
 
North East Provincial Council 
 
Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
Trincomalee 
Sri Lanka 
 
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the North East 
Provincial Council may be taken or executed by its Chief Secretary or such other person 
or persons as the North East Provincial Council shall designate in writing, and the North 
East Provincial Council shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person. 
 
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
Page  7
-
6
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Trincomalee, Sri Lanka, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
/s/ Peter Harrold 
 
Country Director, Sri Lanka 
 
NORTH EAST PROVINCIAL COUNCIL 
 
By 
/s/ S. Rangarajah 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  8
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits”, 
published by the World Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section I. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.   
 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to 
be carried out by domestic contractors. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Goods and equipment required for Part Z of the Project estimated to cost 
less than $100,000 equivalent, per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of competitive bidding advertised nationally, in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Association and the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. 
(b) 
Works required for Part Z of the Project estimated to cost $20,000 
equivalent or more, per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding advertised nationally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to 
the Association and the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
Page  9
-
8
-
(c) 
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad 
consistency with the provision of Section 1 of the Guidelines: 
 
(i) 
invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one national 
newspaper with a wide circulation, at least 30 days prior to the 
deadline for the submission of bids; 
 
(ii) 
bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to 
all who are willing to pay the required fee; 
 
(iii) 
foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no 
preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders in the 
bidding process; 
 
(iv) 
qualification criteria (in case prequalification was not carried 
out) shall be stated in the bidding documents, and, if a 
registration process is required, a foreign firm declared as the 
lowest evaluated bidder shall be given a reasonable opportunity 
of registering, without let or hindrance; 
 
(v) 
bids shall be opened in public in one location, immediately after 
the deadline for submission of bids; 
 
(vi) 
bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison 
with an official estimate without the prior concurrence of the 
Association; 
 
(vii) 
contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders; 
 
(viii) 
post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest 
evaluated or any other bidders; 
 
(ix) rebi
dding shall not be carried out without the Association’s prior 
concurrence; 
 
(x) 
all bidders/contractors shall provide bid/performance security as 
indicated in the bidding/contract documents; 
 
(xi) 
evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria 
disclosed in the bidding documents, in a format and specified 
period agreed by the Association; 
 
(xii) 
a bidder’s bid security shall apply only to a specific bid, and a 
contractor’s performance security shall apply only to the specific 
contract under which it was furnished; 
Page  10
-
9
-
(xiii) 
bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or 
discount over the estimated cost; 
 
(xiv) 
extension of bid validity shall not be allowed unless justified by 
exceptional circumstances; and 
 
(xv) 
there shall not be any restrictions on the means of delivery of the 
bids. 
 
2. National 
Shopping
Individual pieces of furniture, training materials and publications estimated to 
cost less than US$30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed US$350,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international or national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Three Quotations/Direct Contracting/Force Account
Civil works estimated to cost less than US$20,000 per contract shall be procured 
in accordance with the following provisions. 
 
(i) 
Lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from at least three qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, 
where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor 
who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and 
who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully. 
 
(ii) 
With the Association’s prior agreement, under direct contracting 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines. 
 
(iii) 
As a last resort and, if the proposed contracts meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.8 of the Guidelines, they may be 
carried out, with the Association’s prior agreement, by force 
account in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph of 
the Guidelines. 
Page  11
-
10 - 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for Part Z of the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its 
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 in the Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance 
with a procurement plan approved by the Association, and with the provisions of 
paragraph 1, mentioned above.  The procurement plan shall be updated every three 
months during the execution of Part Z of the Project, and each updated plan shall be 
furnished to th
e
Association for its review and approval.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with selection plan, updated from time to 
time, as approved by the Association. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply to: 
 
(a) 
the first two contracts awarded in each of the following categories during 
each Fiscal Year following the date of effectiveness of the Part Z Amendment 
commencing with the Fiscal Year 2003-04; 
 
(i) 
contracts for goods procured through international 
competitive bidding; 
 
(ii) 
contracts for works procured through national 
competitive bidding; and 
 
(iii) 
contracts for goods procured through national 
competitive bidding; 
 
(b) 
each contract for goods estimated to cost US$250,000 equivalent or 
more; and  
 
(c) 
each contract for works estimated to cost US$500,000 equivalent or 
more. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedure set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  12
-
11 - 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers”, published by the World Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the following provisions of this Section. 
 
Part B
:
Quality-and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services under Part Z of the Project, estimated to cost less than 
$200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Contracts for consulting services, including services of non-governmental 
organizations for providing community health intervention and awareness programs, 
estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Page  13
-
12 - 
 
3. Least-cost 
Selection
Services estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. 
Selection of U.N. Agencies as Consultants
Services for monitoring and evaluation activities and conducting training 
workshops under Part Z.1 of the Project (health component) estimated to cost not more 
than US$500,000 equivalent shall be procured in accordance with paragraphs 3.9 and 
3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
5. 
Service Delivery Contracts
Services to be provided by medical personnel under Part Z.1 of the Project 
(health component) estimated to cost less than US$10,000 per contract up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed US$500,000 shall be procured in accordance with paragraph 3.19 
of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Association, for its review and approval, prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals.  The plan shall be updated every three months 
during the execution of Part Z of the Project, and each updated plan shall be furnished to 
the Association for its review and approval.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with selection plan, updated from time to time, as approved by 
the Association. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
Page  14
-
13 - 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, the 
qualifications, experience and the terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said 
approval shall have been given. The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
 
Page  15
-
14 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Implementation Program 
 
1. 
The North East Provincial Council shall carry out civil works under Part Z of the 
Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with design 
standards and technical specifications satisfactory to the Association. 
 
2. 
The North East Provincial Council shall not carry out any reconstruction of 
houses involving relocation of people to new areas under Part Z of the Project to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit unless the North East Provincial Council 
ensures that no involuntary resettlement arises from any use of land, or change of land 
use for such relocation, except to the extent that the Association agrees in writing prior to 
any such proposed land use that arrangements for involuntary resettlement, if any, are 
satisfactory to the Association. 
 
3. 
The North East Provincial Council shall implement Part Z of the Project or cause 
such part to be implemented in accordance with the Part Z Implementation Plan and shall 
ensure that any changes made thereto would not adversely affect the ability of its 
ministries and departments or any other agencies responsible for implementing Part Z of 
the Project. 
 
4. 
Subject to paragraph 14 of Schedule 1 of each Selected Development Credit 
Agreement (as amended by the Part Z Amendment), the North East Provincial Council 
shall carry out activities relating to Part Z.3 of the Project (rehabilitation of internally 
displaced persons) strictly in accordance with the Acceptable Rehabilitation Criteria. 
 
5. 
The North East Provincial Council shall, within 7 days after the end of each 
month commencing the date of effectiveness of the Part Z Amendment, provide to the 
Association for the next six months, monthly reports on the progress of carrying out 
Part Z of the Project. Thereafter, the North East Provincial Council shall provide 
quarterly reports to the Association within 15 days after the end of each quarter 
describing the progress achieved to date in implementing Part Z of the Project.  All such 
reports shall be prepared in a format satisfactory to the Association. 
 
6. 
The North East Provincial Council shall implement Part Z of the Project in 
accordance with the Environment Assessment and Management Framework and the 
Social Safeguards Framework. 
 
7. 
The North East Provincial Council shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of Part Z of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
Page  16
-
15 - 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about December 31, 2003, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) of this 
paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Part Z of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of Part Z of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by February 29, 2004, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of Part Z of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendati
ons
of
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
