Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2666 AM
Project Agreement
(Power Maintenance Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
ARMENIA STATE ELECTRICITY COMPANY
Dated December 23, 1994
CREDIT NUMBER 2666 AM
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 23, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and ARMENIA STATE ELECTRICITY COMPANY (ARMENERGO).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Republic of Armenia (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to 
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to nine 
million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,400,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that 
ARMENERGO agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth 
in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and ARMENERGO, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit 
Agreement will be relent to ARMENERGO on the terms and conditions set forth in said 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS ARMENERGO, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) ARMENERGO declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative,  financial, engineering and sound operating 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and ARMENERGO shall otherwise agree, ARMENERGO shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. ARMENERGO shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. ARMENERGO shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ARMENERGO 
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, 
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision 
thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) ARMENERGO shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance 
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
ARMENERGO shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by ARMENERGO of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ARMENERGO
Section 3.01. ARMENERGO shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and public utility 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. ARMENERGO shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and public utility practices.
Section 3.03. ARMENERGO shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, 
or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank, for insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Page  3
Section 4.01. (a) ARMENERGO shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of ARMENERGO responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
ARMENERGO shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association.
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
ARMENERGO thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Development Credit 
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Association shall 
promptly notify ARMENERGO thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are: 
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS 248423 
(RCA)
Washington, D.C. 
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
 197688 (TRT)
For ARMENERGO:
27, Abovian Street
Yerevan 375009
Armenia
Telex:
Page  4
243499 ACTPA
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of ARMENERGO, or 
by ARMENERGO on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be 
taken or executed by the President of ARMENERGO or such person or persons as the 
President of ARMENERGO shall designate in writing, and ARMENERGO shall furnish to the 
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Basil Kavalsky
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
ARMENIA STATE ELECTRICITY COMPANY
By /s/ Rouben Shougarian
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Implementation Program
1.
ARMENERGO shall maintain PIU referred to in Section 1.02 (f) of the Development 
Credit Agreement which, at all times, shall be staffed and shall operate in accordance 
with the guidelines agreed between ARMENERGO and the Association.
2.
Not later than March 31, 1995, ARMENERGO shall sign a contract with a consulting 
firm to be hired in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines to assist 
ARMENERGO with Project implementation according to terms of reference agreed with the 
Association.
3.
Not later than December 31 of each year during execution of the Project, 
ARMENERGO shall adopt measures necessary to ensure the reduction of the average 
collection period for electricity sold to no more than 60 days by December 31, 1995, 
no more than 45 days by December 31, 1996, and no more than 30 days thereafter.
4.
ARMENERGO shall reduce its total electricity system losses: (i) by December 31, 
1995 - by at least 30 percent of the losses assessed for 1994; and (ii) by December 
31, 1996 - by at least 30 percent of the losses assessed for 1995.
For the purpose of this paragraph:
"total electricity system losses" means the difference between the total 
amount of electricity produced from all sources and the total amount of 
electricity paid for by all users.
5.
Not later than July 15, 1995, ARMENERGO shall submit to the Association an 
action plan which shall include priority metering and control investments, billing and 
accounting methods, incentive programs and other organizational arrangements to meet 
the electricity loss reduction targets specified in paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
6.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the General Conditions, 
Page  5
ARMENERGO shall:
(a)
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between 
ARMENERGO and the Association, a plan of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project;
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
ARMENERGO on said plan; and
(c)
thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Association's comments 
thereon.
7.
Not later than September 30, 1996, the Association shall review with ARMENERGO 
the progress made in the implementation of the Project. ARMENERGO shall take all 
necessary measures to execute the actions identified and agreed upon between the 
Association and ARMENERGO during such review.
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in accordance with the following 
additional procedures:
(a)
When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, 
such period may be extended once, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete 
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract.  The 
bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the 
request for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid price to 
reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. 
Such an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid 
evaluation. With respect to each contract made subject to the Association's prior 
review in accordance with the provisions of Part D 1 (a) of this Section, the 
Association's prior approval will be required for: (i) a first extension of the bid 
validity period if the period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days, and (ii) any 
subsequent extension of the bid validity period.
(b)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, ARMENERGO 
shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such 
modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the 
purposes of the Project.  Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been 
issued by the Bank, ARMENERGO shall use bidding documents based on other 
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic of Armenia may be granted a margin of 
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,700,000, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations 
obtained from at least three suppliers from at least three different countries 
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the 
Association.
Page  6
2.
Contracts for goods which the Association agrees: (a) are of proprietary nature; 
(b) the timely supply thereof is critical for efficient Project execution; or (c) need 
to be compatible with other installment equipment, up to an aggregate amount 
equivalent to $3,200,000, may be awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $250,000 or more, and all contracts awarded in accordance with procedures under 
Part C.2 of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 
1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out 
of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two 
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the 
Development Credit Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist ARMENERGO in carrying out the Project, ARMENERGO shall employ 
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment 
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis 
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World 
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant 
Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, ARMENERGO shall employ such  
Consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' 
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the 
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, ARMENERGO shall use other standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall not apply 
to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single source selection of 
firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the 
Association; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value
to $50,000 equivalent or above.
