CREDIT NUMBER 2666 AM
Development Credit Agreement
(Power Maintenance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated   lEk8 eQ     o23, 1994


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2666 AM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     13'e$-tidp " 4  a      , 1994, between
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   the Project will be carried out by the Armenia State
Electricity Company (ARMENERGO) with the Borrower's assistance and
under its overall supervision and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to ARMENERGO the proceeds of the Credit
as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
AAMERGO;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section   1.01.  The   "General  Conditions  Applicable   to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January
1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "ARMENERGO" means Armenia State Electricity Company
established pursuant to the Decree No. 34 of the Borrower's Ministry
of Energy and Fuel, dated February 28, 1994.
(b)   "Project  Preparation  Advance"   means  the   project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower


﻿-2-
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated October 20, 1993 and
November 4, 1993 between the Borrower and the Association.
(c)    "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
(d)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and ARMENERGO pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes any schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
(e)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and ARIENERGO, of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
(f)   "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit established
within ARMENERGO.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to nine million four hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR9,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.


﻿-3-
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date anJ to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 1998 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.


﻿-4-
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15
commencing January 15, 2005 and ending July 15, 2029. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on July 15,
2014 shall be one and one-fourth per cent (1-1/4%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. ARMENERGO is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted
to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement
and Article V of the General Conditions.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement: (i) shall cause ARMENERGO to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of
ARMENERGO therein set forth; (ii) shall take and cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable ARMENERGO to
perform such obligations; and (iii) shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
ARMENERGO under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower, represented by the Borrower's Ministry of Fuel
and Energy and the Ministry of Finance, and ARMENERGO, under terms
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association
which shall include: (i) a twenty-year maturity with a five-year
grace period; (ii) an interest rate at the Bank's variable rate; and
(iii) the foreign exchange risk to be borne by ARMENERGO.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to the Project
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out
by ARMENERGO pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.


﻿-6-
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)   prepare and furnish to the Association not later than
six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a
plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project;
(b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan; and
(c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into
account the Association's comments thereon.
Section 3.05. Not later than June 30, 1995, the Borrower shall
prepare and submit to the Association an investment plan for the
power subsector which will take into account the retirement of the
Medzamor nuclear power plant.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall undertake all necessary
measures to reduce the total electricity system losses: (i) by
December 31, 1995 - by at least 30 percent of the losses assessed
for 1994; and (ii) by December 31, 1996 - by at least 30 percent of
the losses assessed for 1995.
For the purpose of this Section:
"total electricity system losses" means the difference between
the total amount of electricity produced from all sources and the
total amount of electricity paid for by all users.
Section 3.07. Not later than July 15, 1995, the Borrower shall
submit to the Association an action plan which shall include
priority metering and control investments, billing and accounting
methods, incentive programs, and other organizational arrangements
to meet the electricity loss reduction targets specified in Section
3.06 of this Agreement.


﻿- 7 -
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources, and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower or ARMENERGO responsible for carrying out
the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section and those for the
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)    furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested, including a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the
statements of expenditure submitted during such
fiscal year, together with the procedures and
internal controls involved in their preparation,
can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals; and
(iii)    furnish   to   the   Association   such   other
information concerning said records and accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;


﻿- 8 -
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit report for
the fiscal year in which the last disbursement
from the Credit Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and   other    documents),   evidencing   such
expenditures;
(iii)    ensure that such records and accounts evidencing
such expenditures are retained until at least
one year after the Association has received the
audit report for the fiscal year in which the
last withdrawal from the Credit Account was
made; and
(iv)    enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1995, adopt
an interim methodology, satisfactory to the Association, for setting
and adjusting the prices ARMENERGO charges for its services which
would allow ARIMENERGO to cover at least its full operating and
maintenance costs.'
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   ARMENERGO shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that ARMENERGO will
be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)   Decree No.34 on establishment of ARMENERGO referred to
in Section 1.02 (a) shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
The principles for developing the methodology are set
forth in a supplemental letter.


﻿-9-
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of ARMENERGO to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of ARMENERGO or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additic-aal events are specified: (a) any
event specified in Section 5.01 paragraph (a) of this Agreement
shall occur, and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower;
and (b) any event specified in Section 5.01, paragraphs (c) and (d)
of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
executed on behalf of the Borrower and ARMENERGO.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by ARHENERGO, and is legally binding upon ARMENERGO in
accordance with its terms; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been       duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and ARMENERGO and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and ARMENERGO in accordance with its
terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
1, Government House
Republic Square
Yerevan 375010
Armenia
Telex:
243331 LADA SU
For the Association:
International Development
Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                  248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.          82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
By IAS         P-.bk6eFAlj             4AZu)
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By    /SflL                kPvPtEicy
4   i Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Equipment and              6,000,000      100% of foreign
Materials                                 expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and
85% of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(2)   Technical                    700,000      100%
Assistance
(3)   Operating Costs              200,000      100%
(4)   Refunding of                 830,000      Amounts due
Project                                   pursuant to
Preparation                               Section 2.02 (c)
Advance                                   of this Agreement
(5)   Unallocated                1,670,000
TOTAL                      9,400,000


﻿- 13 -
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency
of the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory
of which the goods and services are supplied, expenditures in such
currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures"; and
(c)   the term "operating costs" means incremental operating
costs, including office rent and maintenance, minor office equipment
and consumable supplies, printing, translation, interpretation,
communications and transportation.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of any payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures under contracts for goods and services not exceeding
$100,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to arrest and reverse
the deterioration of three thermal generation units and three hydro
power generation plants, and improve their availability (reduce
unscheduled down-time); and (ii) strengthen the electricity load
management and dispatch capability of the national dispatch center
and arrest the further deterioration of the electricity distribution
system.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Maintenance of Power Generation Plants
(1)   Hrazdan Thermal Power Plant
Provision and installation of spare parts and materials for
the maintenance of two (Units 2 and 3) thermal, combined heat and
power units of 200 MW each.
(2)   Yerevan Thermal Power Plant
Provision and installation of spare parts and materials for
one 150 MW unit (Unit 7).
(3)   Hydropower Plants on the Sevan-Hrazdan Cascade
Provision and installation of spare parts and materials for
the critical maintenance of selected hydro power plants on the
Sevan-Hrazdan Cascade.
(4)   Hydropower Plants on the Vorotan Cascade
Provision and installation of spare parts and materials for
the maintenance of the Shamb plant (2 units, 170 MW total).
Part B:     Electricity Dispatch and Distribution
(1)   Provision of a limited amount of modern telecommunication
equipment to strengthen ARMENERGO's load management and system
control capacity, and improve operating flexibility.


﻿- 15 -
(2)   Replacement and upgrading of, inter alia, circuit breakers,
substations, transformers, cables and overhead conductors to
hospitals, schools, public transportation, bread factories and
telecommunication stations.
Part C:     Technical Assistance
(1)   Provision of consultants' services in project management and
procurement, and general office and logistical support services for
the PIU.
(2)   Carrying out of a study to design a system management
information system that allows a quick collection and dissemination
of data regarding electricity supply, demand, and load flows
throughout the network.
The Project is expected to be completed by January 31, 1998.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an     amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an
amount equivalent to $100,000 until the aggregate amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to
or exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits into the Special Account of an amount or
amounts determined by the Association to be required to pay for
eligible expenditures during the four months following the date of
each such request which amount shall not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such


﻿- 17 -
amount or amounts as the Association shall have determined to be so
required.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.
(ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
such request, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
and as shall have been shown by said documents
and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph      3  of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or


﻿- 18 -
(b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; or
(c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant
to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount      of the   Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the


﻿- 19 -
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


