                           64304 v1
           Document of
        The World Bank


                                      Report No:




     RESTRUCTURING PAPER

             ON A

PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
              OF
        GRANT TF094952
    APPROVED AUGUST 6, 2009



            TO THE

     REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA


         August 25, 2011
         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS




 Regional Vice President:        Philippe H. Le Houerou
        Country Director:        Martin Raiser
Sector Manager / Director:       Wael Zakout / Peter Thomson
       Task Team Leader:         Ronnie W. Hammad



                             2
                                 ANNEX 3:
                         Extension of Closing Date
   MOLDOVA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND SOCIAL PROTECTION GRANT


1.      The closing date for the Moldova Regional Development and Social Protection
Project [Grant No P118405] will be extended from September 30, 2011 until September
30, 2012. This 2nd extension follows the signing of an amendment to extend the closing
date of the Administrative Agreement with the World Bank by one year, to December 31,
2012. This extension would allow for the completion of components 3 and 4, namely the
Road Maintenance and Waste Water Treatment activities.

2.      Due to the 11 month delay between the signing of the Administrative Agreement
(AA) with the EC and the Grant Agreement (GA) with the Government, the projected
implementation period was shortened from three years to two, leaving insufficient time to
complete all project activities. The AA was signed with the EC on September 2, 2008,
while the GA, because of political events related to the election, was not signed until
almost a year later, on August 7, 2009. The original GA’s closing date (June 30, 2011)
was six months earlier than the closing date of the AA. This six-month interval was
necessitated by Bank procedures relating to post-project disbursement activities and
Grant processing by TACT. However, because of the urgency, TACT and the Loan
Officer for the project have agreed to condense this interval to three months to facilitate
the extension request. This three month interval has been maintained with this extension.
As a result of shortening the standard 4-month grace period to 1 month, the new grace
period established for the Grant is October 31, 2012.

3.      The project has been rated MS. The Government has made good progress on all
four components. Components one and two being implemented by the Moldova Social
Investment Fund (MSIF) -- Small Scale Irrigation and Integrated Social Services -- have
both shown steady progress and are expected to be completed by September 30, 2011.
With the signing of the AA, the State Roads Agency has signed a contract for the Roads
component with the understanding that all project activities must be completed by
September 30, 2012, with no possibility of extension. This is feasible given that the
stretch of road is only 5 km. Nonetheless, the Government and Contractor have agreed to
manage the risk of any possible delays. A second tendering for the Waste Water
Treatment Plant has been initiated and a contract is expected to be signed by September
2011, with all works completed by closing. The Government has committed to fund any
remaining works beyond September 30, 2012.

4.      This will be the last extension as the EC has indicated that it will not extend the
project again, since extension involves amending the Financing Agreement with the
Government of Moldova, which it did on an exceptional basis this time. There are no
outstanding audits and the PIUs have been submitting quarterly financial statements
regularly and on time, and Financial Management has been rated Satisfactory.

                                              3
4
