                                              Document of
                                          The World Bank

                                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                                               Report No: 72820 v1




                                    RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                                  ON A

                       PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                                     OF
                    MOLDOVA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                   GRANT


                                                TO THE

                                    REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA

                                          September 18, 2012




ECCS6
ECA


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS




AA          Administrative Agreement
GA          Grant Agreement
NWSS        National Water Supply and Sanitation project
RP          Restructuring Paper
WWTP        Waste Water Treatment Plant




       Regional Vice President:       Philippe. H. Le Houerou
             Country Director:        Qimao Fan
              Sector Manager:         Sumila Gulyani
            Task Team Leader:         Ronnie W. Hammad



                                  2
   MOLDOVA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND SOCIAL PROTECTION GRANT
                       (P118405/TF071114)

                               Restructuring Paper (RP)

1.      The closing date for the Moldova Regional Development and Social Protection
Project (TF071114/P118405) will be extended from September 30, 2012 to November
16, 2012. A six week extension will allow the Project to meet its development objectives
and for full disbursements under components 3 and 4, the Roads and Waste Water
Treatment Plant (WWTP). This does not require an extension of the completion date of
the Administrative Agreement, which remains December 31, 2012, but an amendment
stating that the end dates of activities provided under components 3 and 4 are extended
until November 16, 2012.

2.      The first two components of the project managed by the Moldova Social
Investment Fund (MSIF) have been completed satisfactorily and fully disbursed. In
2011, after extension of the Grant Agreement was obtained, contracts were signed for
construction of the WWTP and the rehabilitation of a 5 km Roads section. Both works
were to start in 2012 but were delayed by a few months due to an exceptionally harsh
winter.

3.      For the WWTP, once works started, a major design error in the topographical
survey was identified and thus required 10 times more filling material than originally
planned for (22,000 cubic meters in lieu of 2,000). In addition to a stoppage of all works
in Spring 2012 to deal with this issue, there was a delay in ordering some equipment. An
amendment to the contract has been agreed to, on an exceptional basis, that allows the
contractor to be paid upon supply of material on site. If this RP is approved, goods will
be on site by November 15, 2012 and fully disburse that component.

4.     A mission and site Visit in early September 2012 confirmed that significant
progress has been made at the WWTP. The WWTP plant was always scheduled to be
operational a few months after construction and is being co-financed by the National
Ecological Fund and the IDA National Water Supply and Sanitation Program (NWSS).
The revised operational date of the WWTP is May 30, 2013, since the planting of seeds
requires a few months to blossom in time for Spring.

5.      For the Roads component, in July 2012, during a supervision mission the team
learned that the Spanish contractor Ezentis was in receivership. This meant that they were
unable to obtain a Bank guarantee to get an advance on the project and mobilize the
required staff and material. After some discussions, the contractor and subcontractor
reached agreement that would allow the local subcontractor to take over management of
the project. While substantial progress has been made, a four to six week extension
would allow the works to be completed satisfactorily, given the challenges of finding
adequate material in Moldova and the necessity to import from neighboring countries.

6.      FM and Procurement ratings have been satisfactory. There are no safeguard issues
that have been triggered. Disbursements to date are at 65%. With this extension we
expect all the project’s proceeds to be fully disbursed.

                                            3
7.      This will be the third and last extension. The first in June 2011 was for three
months to allow time for the Administrative Agreement and Framework/Financing
Agreement between the Government and EC to be amended. Once the Framework
Agreement was approved, in July 2011, the Administrative Agreement was extended by
one year to December 31, 2012 and the Grant Agreement to September 30, 2012. There
is no possibility of further extension due to the fact that the EC cannot extend the
Administrative Agreement.




                                           4
