                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR1969



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (TF-94952)



                                     ON A

                                    GRANT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF 12.5 MILLION EURO

                                    TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA

                                     FOR A

               MOLDOVA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                               September 16, 2013




Sustainable Development Department
Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
          (Exchange Rate Effective August 1, 2013)
               Currency Unit = Moldova Leu
                    1.00 = US$ 0.0809
                  US$ 1.00 = MDL 11.90

                      FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1 - December 31
          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AA        Administrative Agreement
AM        Apele Moldovei
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CDD       Community Driven Development
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
CW        Constructed Wetlands
EC        European Commission
EIA       Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP       Environmental Management Plan
EU- NIF   European Union Neighborhood Investment Facility Grant
FSU       Former Soviet Union
GA        Grant Agreement
GEF       Global Environmental Facility
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
MRTI      Ministry of Transport and Road Industry
MSIF      Moldova Social Investment Fund
MTRI      Ministry of Transport and Road Industry
NDS       National Development Strategy
NEF       National Ecological Fund
NWSSP     National Water Supply and Sanitation Program
O&M       Operation and Maintenance
OM        Operational Manual
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
RSPS      Moldova Road Sector Program Support
SEA       Sector Environmental Assessment
SRA       State Road Administration
TFO       Trust Fund Operational
VOC       Vehicle Operating Costs
WWTP      Wastewater Treatment Plant

                Vice President: Laura Tuck (Acting)
              Country Director: Qimiao Fan
               Sector Manager: Sumila Gulyani
          Project Team Leader: Ronnie W. Hammad
             ICR Team Leader: Paula Restrepo
                            REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
                    MOLDOVA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT



                                                        CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  Project Background......................................................................................................... 1
  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 12
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 16
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 17
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 19
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors .............. 20
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 21
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 22
  Annex 3. Results Framework........................................................................................ 26
  Annex 4. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 27
  Annex 5. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ....... 30
  Annex 6. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 32
  Annex 7. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 35
  Annex 8. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR........................ 36
  Annex 9. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 45
  Annex 10. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 46
  MAP .............................................................................................................................. 47
A. Basic Information
                                                                         MOLDOVA
Country:               Moldova                 Project Name:             REGIONAL
                                                                         DEVELOPMENT
Project ID:            P118405                 L/C/TF Number(s):         TF-94952
ICR Date:              08/30/2013              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                         REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:    SIL                     Grantee:
                                                                         MOLDOVA
Original Total
                       USD 16.67M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 15.75M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:        USD 15.41M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 State Road Administration
 Moldova Social Investment Fund (MSIF)
 PIU under the Ministry of Environment
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 European Commission (EC)

B. Key Dates
                                                                             Revised / Actual
     Process             Date            Process           Original Date
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        07/11/2008   Effectiveness:                              08/07/2009
                                                                                05/30/2011
Appraisal:                          Restructuring(s):                           09/30/2011
                                                                                09/30/2012
Approval:              07/31/2009   Mid-term Review:        10/15/2010
                                    Closing:                06/30/2011          11/16/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Moderate
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Satisfactory
Grantee Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings            Borrower            Ratings
                      Moderately
Quality at Entry:                          Government:         Moderately Satisfactory
                      Unsatisfactory
                           Moderately                Implementing
Quality of Supervision:                                                        Moderately Satisfactory
                           Unsatisfactory            Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank               Moderately                Overall Borrower
                                                                               Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:               Unsatisfactory            Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                               Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                           No                                                None
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                             No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before             Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:     Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other social services                                                   30                  30
Roads and highways                                                      20                  20
Solid waste management                                                  30                  30
Water supply                                                            20                  20


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other environment and natural resources management                      30                  30
Regional integration                                                    20                  20
Social safety nets                                                      30                  30
Water resource management                                               20                  20

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                           At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:              Laura Tuck (Acting)                  Philippe H. Le Houerou
Country Director:            Qimiao Fan                           Martin Raiser
Sector Manager:              Sumila Gulyani                       Wael Zakout
Project Team Leader:         Ronnie W. Hammad                     Ross S. Pavis
ICR Team Leader:             Paula Restrepo Cadavid
ICR Primary Author:          Paula Restrepo Cadavid
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the project was to reduce economic and social disparities among regions
through the following:
  (i) By improving social services at the local and community level to provide better
assistance to the vulnerable, especially the disabled, elderly, children and the poor;
  (ii) By improving water management at the community level so as to increase the
supply of potable water, construct and rehabilitate small-scale irrigation systems, and
adequately equip water accumulation facilities;
  (iii) By lowering road transport costs for road-users in Moldova, and providing better
access to services by improving the condition and quality of its road network; and
  (iv) By improving the quality of sanitary services in Orhei.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                        Original Target    Formally       Actual Value
                             Baseline    Values (from       Revised        Achieved at
         Indicator
                              Value         approval        Target       Completion or
                                          documents)        Values        Target Years
                         Number of people with access to community centers rehabilitated or
Indicator 1 :
                         constructed under the project
Value quantitative or
                         NA                                 1450           1500
Qualitative)
Date achieved            08/30/2009                                        09/16/2013
Comments (incl. %         Daily capacity of community centers constructed or rehabilitated
achievement)             under the project. Target was exceeded.
                         Increased number of persons with access to potable water as a result
Indicator 2 :
                         of small water works financed under the project.
Value quantitative or
                         0                                  17000          34,500
Qualitative)
Date achieved            08/30/2009                                        09/16/2013
Comments (incl. %
                         Target was exceeded.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :            Roads rehabilitated (km)
Value quantitative or
                         0                                  4.8            4.8
Qualitative)
Date achieved            08/30/2009                                        09/16/2013
Comments (incl. %         4.8 km of the Balti – Sarateni road were rehabilitated and the target
achievement)             was met.
                         Increased percentage of Orhei's total wastewater discharge that is
Indicator 4 :
                         treated by the new WWTP
Value quantitative or
                         0                                  90             0
Qualitative)
Date achieved                   08/30/2009                                         09/16/2013
                                The new WWTP has been completed and is expected to start treating
Comments (incl. %
                                wastewater by end-September 2013. Target will be met eventually as
achievement)
                                the new plant replaces the existing, yet dilapidated plant.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                                              Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                    Formally
                                     Baseline  Values (from                       Achieved at
         Indicator                                                   Revised
                                      Value       approval                       Completion or
                                                                 Target Values
                                                documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 :                   Number of rehabilitated / constructed community centers
Value
                                0                                 30             30
(quantitative or Qualitative)
Date achieved                   08/30/2009                                     09/16/2013
Comments                         Number of community centers rehabilitated or constructed by the
(incl. % achievement)           project. Target has been met.
Indicator 2 :                   Number of small water works completed
Value (quantitative
                                0                                 29             43
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                   08/30/2009                                      09/16/2013
Comments (incl. %                A total of 43 small water works were completed. Target was
achievement)                    exceeded.
Indicator 3 :                   Number of water storage tanks operational
Value (quantitative
                                0                                 35             35
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                                    09/16/2013
Comments (incl. %                Number of water storage tanks reconstructed or constructed by the
achievement)                    project. Target was met.
Indicator 4 :                   Length of aqueduct constructed or rehabilitated (km)
Value (quantitative
                                0                                 192            192
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                   08/30/2009                                      09/16/2013
Comments (incl. %               Length of aqueduct constructed or rehabilitated by the project.
achievement)                    Target was met.
Indicator 5 :                   Number of protected zones
Value (quantitative
                                0                                 60             60
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                   08/30/2009                                        09/16/2013
Comments (incl. %                Number of protected zones rehabilitated or constructed by the
achievement)                    project. Target was met.
                                Contract for rehabilitation of road section between Balti and Sarateni
Indicator 6 :
                                signed
Value (quantitative
                                no                                yes            yes
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                   08/30/2009                                       09/16/2013
Comments (incl. %
                                Target was met.
achievement)
Indicator 7 :             Civil works for wastewater facility completed
Value (quantitative
                          0                                  100            100
or Qualitative)
Date achieved             08/30/2009                                     09/16/2013
Comments incl. %          The wastewater treatment plant has been completed and is expected
achievement)              to be operational by end-September 2013.
Indicator 8 :             Considerable reduction of pollutants
Value (quantitative
                          NA            NA                   NA             NA
or Qualitative)
Date achieved             08/30/2009                                       09/16/2013
Comments (incl. %          This indicator was included in the GA but no targets were defined
achievement)              during project implementation.
                          Low-cost wastewater treatment technology feasibility studies for
Indicator 9 :             Moldova have been developed and are available for replication in its
                          neighboring countries.
Value (quantitative
                          NA            NA                   NA             NA
or Qualitative)
Date achieved             08/30/2009                                        09/16/2013
                          This indicator was included in the GA but no targets were defined
Comments (incl. %         during project implementation. However, the low cost technology
achievement)              has been piloted, is serving as a demonstration and is available for
                          replication.
Indicator 10 :            Direct project beneficiaries (Component 1 & 2)
Value (quantitative
                          0                                  33,000         96,066
or Qualitative)
Date achieved             08/30/2009                                      09/16/2013
                          This indicator was added by the team during project implementation
Comments (incl. %
                          as an intermediate indicator for Component 1 & 2. Target was
achievement)
                          exceeded.
Indicator 11 :            Female beneficiaries (Component 1 & 2)
Value (quantitative
                          0                                  15,000         48,033
or Qualitative)
Date achieved             08/30/2009                                      09/16/2013
                           This indicator was added by the team during project implementation
Comments (incl. %
                          as an intermediate indicator for Component 1 & 2. Target was
achievement)
                          exceeded.

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
                                                                                 Actual
         Date ISR
No.                            DO                          IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     11/06/2010    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory                 2.13
  2     07/05/2011    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory                 7.42
  3     02/20/2012    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory               10.09
  4     06/17/2012    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory               10.09
H. Restructuring (if any)
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board    Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                           Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO       IP      in USD
                                         millions
 05/30/2011               MS     MS           6.54     Extension of closing date
 09/30/2011               MS     MS           9.35     Extension of closing date
 09/30/2012               MS     MS          10.91     Extension of closing date

I. Disbursement Profile
Project Background

The Moldova Regional Development and Social Protection Project is a Recipient
Executed Trust Fund (RETF) financed by the European Commission (EC). It was the
result of interest by the EC in working jointly with the WB to support activities in
Moldova for regional development and social protection. The project financed four
different components belonging to three different sectors (social services, roads, and
water supply and sanitation) and was linked to three existing World Bank operations: (i)
the Moldova Road Sector Program Support Project (RSPS); (ii) the Moldova Social
Investment Fund (MSIF) and subsequent Additional Financing I and II; and (iii) the
Moldova National Water Supply and Sanitation Program (NWSSP). It leveraged
additional resources and existing implementing institutions.

At the time of appraisal Bank guidelines did not require the preparation of a Project
Appraisal Document (PAD) for Trust Funded Projects or the development of a detailed
Results Framework. For this reason the ICR team decided to use the Grant Agreement
(GA) as the main benchmark document and the project Implementation Status and
Results Reports (ISRs) to determine targets for key monitoring and performance
indicators, given that specific targets were not included in the GA. As such, the PDO
statement on reducing economic and social disparities among regions is being considered
by this ICR as a higher level objective, with the specific objectives corresponding to the
projects it co-financed.

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
1. Country Background: Moldova is a small country in Eastern Europe with a
population of about 3.6 million people. It is mostly rural, with around 60 percent of the
population living in towns and villages with fewer than 10,000 inhabitants, and 20
percent living in the capital Chisinau. Like many Former Soviet Union (FSU) countries,
Moldova underwent a series of economic and social challenges during its transition to a
market economy following independence in 1991. Nonetheless, the economy registered
a period of steady growth between 2000 and 2008, halving the poverty rate from 70
percent to 35 percent, largely fueled by remittances. With a per capita GNP of US$
1,696, Moldova was still the poorest country in Europe at appraisal in September 2008.
2. Sector background. Although the project financed components from three different
sectors (social services, transport, water supply and sanitation), they all faced similar
challenges. Common features include infrastructure built without considering economic
efficiency (e.g. over-dimensioned, with high operating and maintenance O&M costs) or
no longer adapted to the needs of the population. Many towns and cities suffered from
demographic decline and de-industrialization that affected both their economic base and
reduced their agglomeration economies. By 2008, the country was in dire need of
rehabilitating and/or replacing key infrastructure.




                                            1
3. Social Service Provision. Economic growth in the 2000s increased budget revenue
which allowed the Government to increase social expenditure. Nevertheless access to
social services remained limited. Due to large net emigration, many children and
teenagers were left behind either with elderly relatives who could not adequately take
care of them, or were placed in institutions. Similarly, people with disability, and many of
the poorer elderly, were placed in large-scale residential institutions that further isolated
them from the community. To address this crisis, the Ministry of Social Protection sought
to expand and improve social services to these vulnerable groups.
4. Roads. Moldova, a land-locked country bordering Romania and Ukraine, is highly
dependent on road transport. Developing this physical infrastructure is critical to
enhancing its competitiveness. Overall, the road network is well developed totaling about
16,800 km, of which 3,666 km is classified as National Roads and the remainder as Local
Roads. In 2007, however, around 67 percent of National Roads and more than 75 percent
of Local Roads were classified in poor condition. This was due to a severe and prolonged
neglect of the road network over the 15 years following independence. By then, about
400 km of roads had lost their pavement and reverted to unpaved gravel or earth roads.
5. Water Supply and Sanitation. Moldova inherited most of its water and sanitation
infrastructure from the Soviet Union. Since independence the quality and reliability of
these services deteriorated due to ageing, lack of investments and under-maintenance.
Water Supply and Sanitation (WSS) fees had not been adjusted to cover operations and
maintenance (O&M) cost leading to the steady deterioration of the WSS system. In 2007,
around 80 percent of urban residents had access to centralized water supply and 63
percent to sewerage services. Coverage in small and medium sized towns was much
lower, at about 60 and 35 percent, respectively. In addition, Moldova suffered an
extraordinary drought in 2007 losing more than half the harvest of its principle crops.
Losses in the South were particularly severe, with many villages losing all or part of their
access to potable well water.
6. Wastewater Treatment. Wastewater infrastructure in many areas had insufficient
capacity and did not meet effluent standards. In 2007, of about 100 Wastewater
Treatment Plants (WWTPs), only four met the required discharge standards. The city of
Orhei 1 was one that required construction of a new WWTP since its physical state
rendered rehabilitation uneconomic. It was also located on a hilltop which entailed high-
energy cost for pumping water. Prior to appraisal, Orhei Municipality had been
investigating options for a new WWTP when the Government obtained Global
Environmental Facility (GEF) funds to pilot the use of constructed wetland technology in
the city of Soroca.
7. Rationale of Bank assistance. The project was aligned with the Bank’s Country
Partnership Strategy (CPS) for 2008-2012 which identified: (i) improving economic
competitiveness to support sustainable economic growth, and (ii) minimizing social and
environmental risks, building human capital, and promoting social inclusion, in two if its
three pillars. Specific country outcomes the project was expected to contribute were: (i)


1
  Component 4 of the Project financed the design and construction of a new WWTP using wetland technologies in the city of Orhei to
replace the existing WWTP.



                                                                2
improving management of the road network, (ii) improving access to and the quality of
water and sanitation services, and (iii) reducing environmental degradation.
8. Link to ongoing operations. Project components were developed to provide
additional funding or complement activities in existing operations. They were closely
linked to three World Bank funded project: (i) the Moldova Road Sector Program
Support Project (RSPS); (ii) the Moldova Social Investment Fund (MSIF) and subsequent
Additional Financing I and II; and (iii) the Moldova National Water Supply and
Sanitation Program (NWSSP). The NWSSP financed the improvement of wastewater
collection in Orhei.
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
9. At the time of appraisal Bank guidelines did not require the development of a Project
Appraisal Document PAD for Trust Funds or the identification of a detailed Results
Framework. For this reason the ICR team decided to use the Grant Agreement (GA) as
the main benchmark document and the project Implementation Status and Results
Reports (ISRs) to determine targets for key monitoring and performance indicators, as
specific targets were not included in the GA. It also sought guidance on the results to be
achieved from the corresponding projects it co-financed. The following paragraphs
present the PDO and indicators as they appear in the GA and project ISRs
10. Some of the key monitoring and performance indicators, either appearing in the GA
or project ISRs, were vague in definition or poorly worded. Therefore, some of them had
to be revised by the ICR team in order to be able to assess the project’s performance.
These revisions are mentioned as footnotes in this section and the final set of indicators
used by the ICR team to assess project’s performance can be found on Annex 3.
11. The objective of the project was to reduce economic and social disparities among
regions through the following:
           (i)     By improving social services at the local and community level to provide
                   better assistance to the vulnerable, especially the disabled, elderly, children
                   and the poor;
           (ii)    By improving water management at the community level so as to increase
                   the supply of potable water, construct and rehabilitate small-scale irrigation
                   systems, and adequately equip water accumulation facilities;
           (iii) By lowering road transport costs for road-users in Moldova, and providing
                 better access to services by improving the condition and quality of its road
                 network; and
           (iv) By improving the quality of sanitary services in Orhei.
12. The following set of key performance indicators to measure achievement of the
development objectives were identified for each of the project’s components:
           (i)     Number of people with access to community centers2


2
 This indicator, as defined in the ISRs and understood by the ICR team, corresponds to the number of people (daily) with access to
community centers constructed or rehabilitated under the project



                                                                 3
           (ii)     Number of persons with access to potable water3
           (iii) Roads rehabilitated (kilometers)
           (iv) Increase the percentage of Orhei’s total wastewater discharge that is treated4
13. Monitoring and performance indicators for the project were also to include:
           (i)      Number of rehabilitated centers5
           (ii)     Number of small works completed6
           (iii) Contract for the rehabilitation of a section road between Balti and Sarateni
                 signed
           (iv) Civil works for wastewater facility completed
           (v)      Considerable reduction of pollutants7
           (vi) Low-cost wastewater treatment technology feasibility studies for Moldova
                have been developed and are available for replication in its neighboring
                countries8.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

14. The PDO was not revised during implementation.
15. The PDO indicators were not changed during project implementation but some of the
targets were adjusted. These changes are discussed on Section 2.3.
16. The following intermediate results indicators were added to the Results Framework
during implementation and are considered for the assessment of the project (refer to
Section 1.5 for components description):
           (vii) Direct project beneficiaries (in reference to Component 1 and 2)
           (viii) Female beneficiaries (in reference to Component 1 and 2)
           (ix) Number of water storage tanks (in reference to Component 2)
           (x)      Length of aqueduct (kilometers, in reference to Component 2)
           (xi) Number of protected zones (in reference to Component 2)



3
  This indicator was included in ISRs as an Intermediate Indicator but for the purpose of this ICR it will be considered as a PDO
Outcome indicator for Component 2. This will allow including the performance of this component for the overall evaluation of the
project. This indicator, as defined in the ISRs and understood by the ICR team, corresponds to the number of people who gained
access to potable water as a result of the small water works financed under the project.
4
  This indicator, as discussed with the project’s team, corresponds to the increase percentage of Orhei’s total wastewater discharge that
is treated by the new WWTP financed under the project.
5
  This indicator corresponds to the number of community centers that were either rehabilitated or constructed by the project.
6
  This indicator, as defined in the ISRs and understood by the ICR team, corresponds to the total number of small water works
completed which was financed under the project.
7
  Neither the GA nor ISR presented a detailed definition of this indicator or targets to be met. For this reason the ICR team did not
assign any targets or revised the indicators definition.
8
  Neither the GA nor ISR presented a detailed definition of this indicator or targets to be met. For this reason the ICR team did not
assign any targets or revised the indicators definition.



                                                                   4
1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
17. Component 1. The primary beneficiaries of the rehabilitation or construction of new
community centers are vulnerable groups including families with children in difficulty,
disabled children and adults, and youth and elderly at risk or in difficulty.
18. Component 2. The primary beneficiaries of the small water works component are
communities living in selected towns that benefited mainly from improved access to
water. Prior to project implementation, most communities used shallow wells, which had
seasonal variations of quality and quantity, as their main source of water. The original
design allowed communities to choose from a list of small water works – including small
scale irrigation, construction of micro-dams and ponds – yet most opted to rehabilitate
deep wells and extend access to the water supply system.
19. Component 3. The primary beneficiaries of the rehabilitation of the Balti-Sarateni
road section are its road users who will benefit from lower transport cost, improved
access to social services and economic opportunities and reduced traveled time. Better
road conditions lower vehicle operating costs through reduced fuel consumption and
reduced wear and tear on the vehicles.
20. Component 4. The population of Orhei is the primary beneficiary of the improved
quality of sanitary services through construction of a new WWTP. Other potential
beneficiaries include downstream communities along the Raut River that are expected to
benefit from improved water quality of the river due to the reduced discharge of
pollutants from the city of Orhei. Potential beneficiaries include four nearby villages in
dialogue with Orhei’s Apa Canal to have their wastewater treated at the new plant.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
21. Component 1: Development of Integrated Social Care Services at the Community and
District Levels. This component was to be implemented by the Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) of the MSIF Project and provided grants for the creation and launching of
multifunctional social day-care centers in rural and semi-rural areas. The centers were to
provide a range of social services for children left behind by parents that emigrated,
people with mild to moderate disabilities, elderly who need help living independently,
and others. In addition, most sub-projects were to target vulnerable groups and deliver
services such as counseling, physical therapy, study, exercise, diverse leisure activities,
and meals.
22. Component 2: Improved Water Management in Southern Moldova. This component
was to be implemented by MSIF and provided grants for the improvement of water
services in small towns using a Community Driven Development (CDD) approach.
Communities could apply for funds to finance sub-projects in the following areas: small
scale irrigation, potable water supply, watershed management, forestry, control of water-
related natural disasters, deepening or rehabilitation of artesian wells, creation of
protection zones, micro-dams to capture rain run-off, excavation and fencing of ponds,
terraces to retain water, and water storage tanks. Sub-projects were initially targeted in
the raions of the Southern Moldovan Development zone, including Basarabeasca, Cahull,
Cantemir, Causeni, Cimislia, Leova, Stefan Voda and Jaraclia. However, it was agreed



                                            5
that depending on the number and quality of proposals, other raions in draught affected
areas could be considered.
23. Component 3: Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation. This component was to be
implemented under the general supervision of the Ministry of Transport and Road
Industry (MTRI). MTRI was to execute the project through the State Road
Administration (SRA). It was expected to finance the rehabilitation of a road section
between Balti and Sarateni complementing other road rehabilitation financed by the
World Bank and other donors (EIB, MCC and EBRD). Works were expected to consist
mainly of the application of a leveling course and a wearing course of asphalt concrete.
Other works included the reestablishment of adequate drainage, and the improvement of
horizontal and vertical signage. Specific road safety features were to be included where
appropriate and cost-effective, such as the supply and installation of guardrails and traffic
calming measures in villages along the road. The road section to rehabilitate could
include badly deteriorated short road sections where rehabilitation costs per km could be
significantly higher. The works design for the road segment rehabilitation, which were to
be financed under the RSPS, were not completed at appraisal; therefore the precise length
of the segment to be rehabilitated had not been estimated.
24. Component 4: Orhei Wastewater Treatment Plant. This component would finance: (i)
plant design, (ii) construction of a wastewater treatment facility using constructed
wetlands technology, (iii) supervision and training, and (iv) one month of operation after
completion to train Apa Canal staff in the proper operations and maintenance of the
facility. Investments under this component were to be complemented by investments in
sewerage rehabilitation in the city or Orhei – financed under the NWSSP. Apele
Moldovei (AM) would be responsible for overall oversight and management of the
Project and a PIU would be responsible for the day-to-day management of the Project.
Orhei Apa Canal was to be responsible for implementation and management of the
construction of the WWTP, including environmental and progress reporting in
accordance with the operations manual.
1.6 Revised Components
25. The project components were not revised during implementation.

1.7 Other significant changes
26. The main changes to project implementation related to the schedule. The project was
restructured three times to extend the closing date. Apart from these, minor changes were
made to funding allocations.
27. Changes to implementation schedule. The first extension of the closing date, from
June 30, 2011 until September 30, 2011 was granted following a request from the
Government on May 30, 2011. This three month extension allowed for sufficient time to
extend the Administrative Agreement (AA) with the European Commission (EC) from
December 31, 2011 to December 31, 2012. Once the AA was extended the closing date
of the Grant Agreement (GA) was extended until September 30, 2012. The latter was
necessary because of an 11 month delay between the signing of the AA with the EC and
the GA with the Government which shortened the projected implementation period from
three years to two, leaving insufficient time to complete all project activities. The closing


                                             6
date of the grant was extended a third time, from September 30, 2012 to November 16,
2012. This six week extension was intended to allow the Project to meet its development
objectives and fully disburse funds under Components 3 and 4. At this point, it was not
possible to extend the closing date any further since the AA extension was limited by the
closing of the EU Financing Agreement with the Government that closed on December
31, 2012 as well. None of the project restructuring involved changes to the PDO,
indicators or targets.
28. Changes to funding allocations. Although the scope of components was not modified
during implementation, a total of US$ 530,000 was reassigned from Component 4 to
Components 1 and 2 prior to project closing. The latter allowed for the majority of project
funds to be disbursed, as activities under Component 4, which were co-financed by the
Government, could not be completed before the project closing date. The funding gap to
complete Component 4 activities was covered by the Moldova National Ecological Fund
(NEF).
29. For Component 3, two small bridges on the road section had to be reconstructed in
lieu of being rehabilitated due to their severe condition which led to a minor modification
of contract value (less than 4 percent).
30. Changes in implementing agency. Component 4 PIU, which was the same PIU
managing the NWSSP project, was originally under the responsibility of AM. The
Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, which later became the Ministry of
Environment, took over the project from AM in 2009. Although AM was transferred to
the Ministry of Environment after changes in the Government Structure, the Ministry of
Environment was legally responsible for the project, with the NWSSP and project PIU
reporting directly to the Minister. This change led to changes in some of the key
personnel responsible for the project.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
31. Assessment of the project design. During preparation, the Bank team chose a
complicated implementation arrangement, where one GA with four components was co-
financing three different projects and implemented by three different ministries. Trust
Fund Operations (TFO) rated the overall risk as substantial while the Bank team rated it
Moderate. During implementation this arrangement proved efficient as it benefitted from
the capacity of existing structures (PIU). It also allowed for more cost-effective
supervision by seasoned sector specialists as component supervision was done in
conjunction with the projects it was linked to.
32. At appraisal Bank Guidelines did not require Trust Funds of this size to follow the
same appraisal processes as investment projects. As a result the project did not follow a
detailed appraisal process. While deficiencies in the project’s Results Framework are
evident, the specific activities to be financed were coherent with existing WB projects
which allowed leveraging existing structures for the development of detailed designs
during project implementation. Specific PDO objectives were coherent with activities
financed under the project and linked to each of the components. However, the project’s


                                            7
overarching PDO “to reduce economic and social disparities among regions” is overly
ambitious, given the scope and amount of the project’s investments, is beyond
measurement, and corresponds more to a higher level objective to which project activities
are expected to contribute rather than the PDO to which the project performance should
be measured.
33. The amount of funds allocated for the rehabilitation of the road section (Component
3) was not sufficient to allow for an efficient use of resources given the procurement
process that needed to be followed (International Competitive Bidding ICB).The contract
amount was too small to attract sufficient international bidders – given the fixed costs of
entering the road sector in Moldova. Although the team identified these risks during
project implementation - and put in place mitigation measures- it was a major cause for
delay. Please refer to Section 2.2 for more details.
34. The selection of Constructed Wetlands (CW) technology for the construction of the
new WWTP in Orhei was strategically relevant to the municipality and the country’s
priorities of finding cost-effective ways of treating wastewater, and reducing nutrient
pollution.
35. Assessment of risks. While the complexity of the implementation arrangements was
identified as an important risk, the team failed to identify some risks during project
preparation. The innovative character of one of its components – use of CW technology –
should have been flagged. In addition, the team under-estimated the implementation
period and did not identify the restriction to eventual project extension (Financing
Agreement between the EC and Moldova).
36. Adequacy of Government’s commitment. The project development objectives were
relevant to country priorities and the Government had already proven to be strongly
committed to pursuing improvements in these sectors. During project preparation the
Government passed a Law on Regional Development and a framework for a new Social
Protection Law was expected to be adopted later in 2008. In addition, these sectors were
included in the National Development Strategy of Moldova for the period 2008-2010.

2.2 Implementation
37. A number of issues emerged during implementation and contributed to the project’s
ultimate outcome. The main issues are outlined below:
38. Reduction in the implementation period due to delays in signing of the GA. The AA
was signed with the EC on September 2, 2008, while the GA, because of political events
and disagreements between stakeholders, was not signed until August 7, 2009. This time
lag - of almost 1 year - reduced the potential implementation period. The closing date
could not be extended beyond December 31st, 2012 because a Financing Agreement
between the EC and the Government of Moldova ended on the same date. Despite the
project closing date being extended on three occasions (to November 16, 2012) the total
implementation period was only 4 months longer than the 3 years originally planned.
While project outcomes cannot be blamed only on this, there were delays in procurement
that were directly related to it. In particular, the first tender for the construction of the
WWTP resulted in non compliant bids, largely because of the unrealistic timetable for
completion of the work which prevented many of the potential firms from biding. For the


                                             8
road section, the contract could not be signed as the twelve-month implementation period
exceeded the closing date. As a result, the tender for the WWTP had to be re-launched,
and the contract for it and the Roads section signed, only after extension of the GA was
obtained. Both works were to start in 2012 but were further delayed by a few months due
to an exceptionally harsh winter.
39. Design and tendering strategy for the Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation
Component. The contract for the rehabilitation of a section of the Balti-Sarateni road
under Component 3 was procured through ICB in accordance with Bank procurement
guidelines. However, since the amount and location of the contract was considered too
small to attract a sufficient number of international firms, the Bank and the SRA agreed
on a bidding strategy aimed at enhancing competition especially among successful
bidders of other road rehabilitation packages tendered by the same agency. Bidding for
the EC funded section was initiated immediately after the contract for another section of
the Balti-Singerei – financed by EU-NIF 9 - road was awarded. While the wait was
expected to result in better bids – as firms working nearby were expected to have a lower
barriers to entry- it further delayed implementation. The final tender only managed to
attract two international firms. This suggests that while the amount for the rehabilitation
of the road section required the use of ICB, the barriers to entry might have put off many
international firms from bidding.
40. Financial crisis and difficultly supplying materials. In July 2012, the Bank team
learned that the contractor who was awarded the road section was in receivership. The
firm was thus unable to obtain a Bank guarantee to get an advance and mobilize the
required staff and material. After some discussion, the contractor and subcontractor
reached an agreement which allowed the local subcontractor to take over management of
the project. The Bank was also informed that due to a large number of road projects in
Moldova at that time, there was a shortage of crushed granite which needed to be
imported from neighboring countries. The Ministry of Transportation intervened to
facilitate both rail transport and clearance at the borders. Together these two issues
generated further delays in the implementation of Component 3.
41. Design errors in the WWTP. Once works for construction of the new WWTP started,
the contractor identified a major design error in the topographical survey. The error
meant that the contractor required 10 times more filling material than originally planned
(37,000 m3 in lieu of 2,000 m3). The cost overrun amounted to US$ 285,894, though the
contractor had made claims of many times that amount. The error led to significant delay
of construction activities, which could only fully resume after new surveys were carried
out, designs adjusted, and additional earthworks executed. Given the accumulated delays
and the approaching closing date, a contract amendment was made to allow, on an
exceptional basis, the contactor to be paid upon supply of materials on site, as opposed to
being paid upon supply and installation. This allowed the disbursement of additional
funds, originally allocated to this component, and reduced the funding gap to be covered
by the Government. Prior to closure, the Government confirmed that the remaining costs,
including the funding gap, would be financed through the NEF. The Bank agreed to


9
    European Union Neighborhood Investment Facility Grant



                                                            9
continue monitoring Component 4 under the NWSSP Project. The NWSSP also funded
the supervision engineer for the duration of construction of the WWTP. While some
implementation delays were due to external factors (such as the delay in signature of the
GA) the actual time required for the design, procurement and completion of the WWTP
suggests that the team under-estimated the time required to implement this component. In
order to maximize the use of funds from the EC Grant prior to closing, unused funds
from Component 4 were reallocated to finance additional investments under Component
1 and 2. These funds were used to co-finance the construction/rehabilitation of 3
community centers and 12 sub-projects for small water works. These were initially to be
financed solely by the MSIF II project.
42. Changes in the scope for Component 2. The second component was primarily
targeted to a few southern rayons of Moldova that suffered the most from the drought.
However, due to the low number of applications for sub-projects in these rayons, it was
agreed to extend investments in water supply management to villages and towns located
in other drought-affected rayons.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
43. M&E design. Each implementing agency was responsible for monitoring progress of
their respective component and prepared a quarterly and annual Project Report. These
reports covered the agreed performance indicators, which were adequate measures of the
specific PDO statements, but targets were not identified during preparation. The
overarching PDO – reducing economic and social disparities among regions – was overly
ambitious and beyond measurement given the nature and amount of the investment. In
addition, the team did not identify any key indicators linked to the overarching PDO. The
AA specified that the Bank would report to the EC twice a year, however, the detail and
format of these reports was not specified. While the EC received all Aide Memoires and
Bank reports, joined many missions, and were always briefed during each mission, the
EC expected a separate report that did not necessarily include information on other Bank
projects that it was co-financing.
44. M&E implementation and utilization. Although the initial M&E system was not
adequate, as no targets were identified during preparation, indicators were revised and
targets were set early in implementation. Progress Reports were regularly submitted to
the Bank by each PIU and most of the key performance indicators outlined in the GA
were followed during implementation10. Some targets were revised when appropriate, in
particular the number of persons with access to water was revised upwards to reflect the
fact that most communities under Component 2 opted for this type of investment. In
addition, the progress indicator for civil works completed (WWTP) was changed to
reflect the percentage of works completed – as opposed to a yes/no indicator– which was
expected to improve the capacity of the team to track progress. The team explored the
possibility of restructuring the project in 2011 in order to change the PDO but was
advised against it since the first two components were fully disbursed and the project
closing date was near. For Component 4, weekly meetings were held with all major


10
   Two indicators were not followed: (v) considerable reduction of pollutants and, (vi) low-cost wastewater treatment technology
feasibility studies for Moldova have been developed and are available for replication in its neighboring countries.



                                                                10
stakeholders to review progress and agree on key actions needed to be taken by each
stakeholder11. This facilitated the identification of bottlenecks and problem-solving.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
45. The GA did not mention safeguards but specified (Article 2, 2.03) that each sub-
project will adhere to the implementation policies and procedures of the main project to
which they were tied. That is, Component 1 and 2 would adhere to the MSIF Operational
Manual (OM), Component 3 to SRA policies, and Component 4 to the NWSSP OM.
46. The environmental category for the MSIF II project – linked to Component 1 and 2 -
was Financial Intermediary since investments were selected by communities and not
determined in advance. The OM included environmental guidelines and was subject to
regular review by a safeguards specialist. These reviews did not find any significant
issues with compliance.
47. The Roads Sector Support Project – linked to Component 3 – was assessed as
environmental category B. During project implementation a Sector Environmental
Assessment (SEA) and a Social Assessment were carried out. It was found that all
environmental and social safeguards were handled satisfactorily, and all fiduciary
requirements were met during the project. An Environmental Management Plant (EMP)
was prepared for the Balti-Sarateni road segment.
48. The WWTP (Component 4) was classified as an environmental category B. An
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) was developed and negative impacts mitigated
in accordance with the Environmental Management Plan (EMP). No documented
evidence of periodic monitoring of environmental safeguards for this component was
found.
49. Financial Management and Procurement. Financial management and procurement
arrangements for the project were satisfactory. Each component was implemented by the
existing PIU that had experience with Bank procurement guidelines. During project
implementation there were no major issues related to procurement, apart from the ones
mentioned in Section 2.2.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
50. Transition arrangements. To ensure that investments under Component 1 would be
maintained, MSIF made sure that beneficiary rayons provided allocations in their budgets
to cover the operational cost of running these services. In addition, it evaluated if assets
had been included in the localities’ balance sheet. For the small water works under
Component 2 public utilities were trained and tariffs were calculated to cover O&M costs.
For Component 3 the contractor of the rehabilitated road section is in charge of the O&M
for the first year of operation. This is intended to serve as a guarantee. After this year, the
SRA will take charge of O&M and the MTRI will own the asset.
51. Hand-over arrangements for the newly constructed WWTP (Component 4) were not
considered carefully at the project design stage. The following arrangements were agreed


11
     Including contractor, supervisor, PIU director, Apa Canal representatives and Orhei’s Government representatives.



                                                                   11
to by the major stakeholders during project implementation: The supervisor will provide
start-up assistance and training during the first month of operation to bring Orhei Apa
Canal into a position that is capable to operate and maintain the new WWTP, and in the
long run, to both control and comply with discharge criteria and removal efficiencies.
The PIU will hand over ooperation of the plant to Orhei Apa Canal in September 2013
upon take-over from the contractor. The plant will be commissioned one year after
completion, on August 2014, which is intended to serve as a guarantee. During the
warranty period and onwards the plant will be operated by Orhei’s Apa Canal.
52. Operation & Maintenance. The project components were designed to reduce O&M
costs, which are expected to have a positive impact on the sustainability of investments.
Renewable energy sources (such as biomass heating systems and solar panels) and energy
efficient building techniques were used to build/rehabilitate community centers. Water
tanks were relocated when needed in order to reduce the energy intensity of water supply
systems in beneficiary villages. Finally, the replacement of the old WWTP for the new
WWTP in Orhei, which uses CW technologies, will considerably reduce the unitary costs
of treatment, as discussed on Section 3.3.
53. Follow up project – next phase. It is unlikely that a similar operation will follow and
most of the projects that were linked to this project have been closed. Orhei utility is
undergoing reforms, under an EBRD Project, for the regionalization of utilities. It is
evaluating the possibility of extending wastewater treatment services – under this new
WWTP – to nearby villages. However, the economic justification of expanding services
to nearby villages has not been fully studied.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Rating: Poor relevance of design, high relevance of objectives and implementation.
54. Both specific and overarching objectives were relevant to conditions in Moldova (see
section 1.1) at the time of appraisal and linked to the Bank’s CPS. Specific objectives,
which were linked to each of the project components, were consistent with the project
design. However, the overarching objective – of reducing economic and social disparities
among regions – was overly ambitious given the scope and amount of the project and
beyond measurement. The latter seems to represent a higher level objective to which
project activities were expected to contribute rather than to the project PDO.
55. Specific objectives remain relevant to Moldova’s current development priorities and
the Bank partnership strategy. The current Government program – National Development
Strategy (NDS) 2020 – identifies the need for better roads as one of seven national
priorities. In addition, the NDS recognized social and environmental protection as crucial
for Moldova’s sustainable development. The Bank’s CPS, currently under preparation,
proposes three pillars: (i) increased competitiveness; (ii) building human capital; and (iii)
supporting a green, clean and resilient Moldova. Among these lines is improving
connectivity to better social infrastructure and adapting to climate change through better
water resource management.



                                              12
56. Implementation arrangements ultimately allowed for each component, which was
linked to a separate project, to be completed satisfactorily and expand the impact of EC
funds. The link with Bank projects enabled highly experienced sector and operational
staff to supervise each component, a situation unlikely to be replicated as a stand-alone
grant. It also allowed the Bank to continue supervision of the WWTP and see it to
completion, even after the EC Grant was closed.
57. Overall the project specific objectives were highly relevant and remain relevant to
Moldova’s development priorities. In addition, they were coherent with project design
and linked to each of the project’s components. Implementation arrangements were also
highly relevant, allowing EC funds to leverage additional resources and senior staff, and
allow for supervision even after the closing date. The overarching objective, despite
being relevant to the county priority, was disconnected from the project design given its
scope and available funds which suggest poor relevance of design.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
58. As mentioned earlier, there was no PAD (and thereby PDO) and the over-reaching
objective mentioned in the Grant Agreement – reduce economic and social disparities
among regions - was too broad, ambitious, and beyond measurement. Therefore for this
ICR, the achievement of the project development objectives will be assessed using the
four specific PDOs which are linked to each of the project’s components. The complete
Results Framework – which was used to assess project’s performance, can be found on
Annex 3.
59. Judging from results achieved and the outcome indicators, the project met objectives
(i), (ii), and (iii), linked to the first three components; and has not yet met, but will likely
meet objective (iv), linked to the improvement of the quality of sanitary services in Orhei
(Component 4). As a result the overall achievement of project development objective is
considered as Moderately Satisfactory.
60. The project improved social services at the community level by providing better
assistance to vulnerable groups in beneficiary villages. In total 30 sub-projects12 were
financed under Component 1 which include both rehabilitated and new buildings. Of the
30 sub-projects, 27 are multi-functional centers designed to provide a variety of services
to vulnerable groups (children, youth, elderly and people with disabilities). The other 3
centers provide multiple services, but are focused on the disabled and elderly. The
rehabilitation of these centers allows vulnerable groups – such as poor elders – to remain
in their communities receiving social services closer to home. All the centers started
operating in the period of 2011-2012. Total installed capacity of these centers is 1500
beneficiaries per day while the initial target was 1450. A total of 2821 people
beneficiated from social services provided at community centers during the 2011-2012
period (Refer to Annex 2 for more information). In addition, results from a study of all
MSIF projects indicate an increase in the number of vulnerable people who received


12
     Three (3) additional sub-projects were co-financed with IDA using funds reallocated from Component 4.



                                                                  13
quality care in their communities (See Annex 6). With respect to this specific objective
the project performance is considered Highly Satisfactory.
61. The project improved water management of beneficiary communities – through
Component 2 - and led to an increase in the supply of potable water to around 34,500
people, against the 17,000 target. A total of 43 sub-projects were approved and financed
under this component, against an initial target of 29. Since this component used a CDD
approach, communities were allowed to select from a range of water management sub-
projects. Investment decisions were taken collectively, and most chose to build water
supply systems in their villages as it was thought to benefit the community at large. As a
result, most of the funds were used for this purpose. Communities were required to cover
at least 15 percent of the cost with some proposing to cover a higher percentage. Local
utilities were trained, meters installed in all beneficiary households, and tariffs set to
cover O&M. This contributed to improved water management and sustainability of the
system. In addition, communities have learned from this experience and some have
applied for other funds – such as the NEF – as they now feel more capable of managing
their own development. With respect to this specific objective the project performance is
considered Highly Satisfactory.
62. The rehabilitation of a section of the Balti-Sarateni road – financed through
Component 3 has led to an improvement in the condition and quality of this section.
Initial target of rehabilitating 4.8 km was met. Road rehabilitation reduces wear and tear
on vehicles and increases Vehicle Operating Cost (VOC). A reduction of VOC for road
users of this section – evaluated using HDM4 analysis – was estimated at 6 percent. With
respect to this specific objective the project performance is considered Moderately
Satisfactory.
63. The project has not yet met its development objective – linked to Component 4 – of
improving the quality of sanitary services. At the time of writing, it was estimated that 98
percent of the work for the construction of the WWTP in Orhei had been completed.
Wastewater is still being treated in the old WWTP. The target for the key outcome
indicator – increase percentage of Orhei’s total wastewater discharge that is treated by
the new WWTP to 90 percent – has not yet been met. The plant is expected to be
completed in and start treating water by end-September 2013. However, according to the
plant’s design only after one year of operation will reed-roots and micro-organisms grow
enough to ensure treatment of wastewater compliant with designed parameters. In
addition, Orhei’s Apa Canal has decided to switch gradually wastewater from the old to
the new WWTP. Therefore the treatment target linked to this PDO is expected to be fully
met in September 2014. As a result with respect to this specific objective the project
performance is considered Moderately Unsatisfactory.

3.3 Efficiency
Rating: Highly Satisfactory
NPV: EUR 5.0 million; ERR: 19 %
64. Economic estimate of project benefits. No ex-ante economic analysis was done during
project preparation. The ex-post economic analysis included: (a) the costs of all project
components, including community contributions to small water works and the


                                            14
Government’s contribution to the construction of the WWTP; and (b) all measurable
benefits, including welfare gains to households who benefited from piped water
connection (Component 2), reduced cost for road users 13 (Component 3), and higher
efficiencies in BOD removal (Component 4). Given the nature of Component 1
investments, it was not possible to estimate its economic benefits. The following table
summarizes results from the most conservative estimate by component.

                                    Summary of NPV and ERR by Component


                                                 NPV (EUR million)          ERR                       Comments
        Component 1. Integrated Social                                                   No benefits were estimated for this
        Care Services at the Community                   -0.19                --
                                                                                                    component.
              and District Levels
        Component 2. Improved Water                                                     Main benefits include reduced water
                                                         9.32               62%            collection time and reduced
              Management
                                                                                          investments in water storage.
       Component 3. Road Maintenance                                                       Main benefits included reduced
                                                         1.50               22%
            and Rehabilitation                                                               Vehicle Operating Costs.

           Component 4. Wastewater                                                        Main benefit estimates increased
                                                         -1.96               2%        treatment efficiency. A more realistic
              Treatment Plant
                                                                                             estimate is an ERR of 11%
                                                                                           This includes all project cost and
                   All project                           5.00               19%        estimated benefits for only components
                                                                                                       2, 3 & 4


65. Welfare gains for new water connections – estimated from avoided collection14 and
water storage – amounted to about EUR 1.9 million annually. For Component 3, using a
with/without project case, road agency costs increase by EUR 1.6 million and road user
benefits increase by EUR 3.1 million. Greater treatment efficiency – estimated as the
difference in the cost of BOD removed when passing from the old to the new WWTP
assuming constant treatment efficiency in the old WWTP over the next 20 years –
amount to EUR 0.17 million in the early years and EUR 0.25 million in the later years. A
more realistic estimate – assuming decreasing treatment efficiency in the old WWTP
which is in a dilapidated state – results in EUR 0.17 million in efficiency gains in the
early years and EUR 1.7 in the later years; and a ERR of 11 percent for this component.
66. Taken together, the estimated ERR for the project using conservative assumptions is
19 percent and the NPV is EUR 5.0 million, assuming a discount rate of 12 percent and
20 years of asset life. In fact, given the very conservative assumptions used (low skill
wages, constant treatment efficiency in old WWTP) and the fact that no benefits could be
accounted for Component 1 the project’s ERR and NPV is expected to be higher than the
one estimated. As a result this project is rated Highly Satisfactory in regards to its overall
efficiency. Please refer to Annex 4 for additional information.


13
     Using the HDM-4 model
14
     Assuming only 2 hours per day per household and valued at the low skill wage at USD 0.29 per hour.



                                                                  15
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
67. The project objectives remain highly relevant to the sectoral needs and the project
achieved most of its specific objectives, meeting targets linked to Component 3 and
exceeding targets for Component 1 & 2. Delays in the construction of the WWTP have
postponed the achievement of the PDO linked to this component. However, all PDOs are
expected to be met by September 2014. Assigning equal weights to each of the project’s
components, the resulting rating for achievement of PDOs is Moderately Satisfactory.
The economic analysis suggests that the project was cost-effective, in particular under
Component 2 which produced substantial welfare benefits. In addition, once the WWTP
commences operation, substantial efficiency gains in treatment are expected. The rating
for efficiency was Highly Satisfactory. Based on the harmonized evaluation criteria, the
team rates this project as Moderately Satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
68. Components 1 and 2 focused on community participation and implementation by
local governments. This means the project can be classified as both social development
and institutional building.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
69. Refer to 3.5 (a)
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
70. This project was the first to implement15 CW technology for wastewater treatment in
the country. As a result, the success or failure of this component will have consequences
on the further use of this technology. If viewed as a success, other municipalities might
be interested in implementing similar projects as a way of lowering O&M cost and
having a more cost-efficient wastewater treatment.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate
71. The risk to development outcome appears moderate to low. Investments financed
through this project favored the design of low O&M costs, so as to improve their
sustainability. Meters were installed in all households with new water connections and
tariffs were set to cover O&M costs. Although no specific assessment has been done on
the affordability of water tariffs; and/or collection of bills, during the ICR preparation
local utilities did not mention having issues in this regard. For community centers, MSIF
ensured that sufficient budget was provisioned for their operation and assets were
reflected on the municipality’s balance sheet. Under Component 4, the new WWTP is


15
   Prior to this project the Government of Moldova received a GEF Grant for the implementation of a CW pilot in the city of Soroca.
However this operation was cancelled on December 2010 after it became apparent that there was a lack of consensus on the choice of
technology and there were strong stakeholders’ objections to the proposed site.



                                                                16
expected to lower O&M costs as compared to the current WWTP. In addition, the
Government and IFIs continue to be actively involved in the improvement of the road
sector. The institutional improvements achieved during the past years – as a result of
Bank and other donors involvement – have substantially increased maintenance funds
and the road sector’s performance and a new Bank Technical Assistance activity, focused
on financing local roads, will start soon.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
72. During preparation the team worked with existing project structures, identified
components and an institutional arrangement that was complementary to existing
operations. However, some risks, such as possible delays in procurement of contracts
were not fully assessed during project preparation. In addition, the team might have sub-
estimated the time required for implementing Component 4 and the amount allocated for
the rehabilitation of the road section did not allow for efficient management of funds. In
addition, the overarching PDO was too ambitious and targets were not set at the time of
appraisal for PDO outcome indicators. For this reason the team considers the rating for
Quality at Entry as Moderately Unsatisfactory.
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
73. The World Bank monitored the project through semi-annual support visits, with
more intense supervision in the last 18 months. Each component was supervised by the
TTL of the associated Bank operation, and the level and mix of expertise were adequate.
However, no documented evidence of environmental safeguards monitoring for
Component 4 was found. The Government believes that the Bank provided timely
support and remained active even after project closure. For Components 1 and 2, a
Quality of Lending Portfolio Review was carried out by the Quality Assurance Group for
the MSIF II Project, and it rated the quality of Bank supervision as Highly Satisfactory.
For the road section, supervision was done in parallel to the Roads project which was
carried out with other donors (EBRD, EIB, MCC, etc.), and the EC focal point in
Chisinau regularly accompanied the missions.
74. The extensive supervision in the last year helped solve bottlenecks in project
implementation such as finding agreement on a solution to the cost over-run for the
WWTP and identifying resources to cover the funding gap for Component 4. Likewise, it
helped identify and resolve the agreement to transfer the road contract from the Spanish
contractor to the local sub-contractor in a timely manner. However, implementation
delays coupled with insufficient communication with the EU Delegation to Moldova led
to tensions between the Bank and the EC. The EC also objected to the Bank team’s
reliance on Aide Memoires and other reports rather than EC reporting formats for
recording project progress.



                                           17
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
75. Following the harmonized evaluation criteria for ICRs the overall Bank performance
is Moderately Unsatisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
76. Initial delays in signing the GA impacted the implementation period of the grant.
Although elections were held during this period it is still not clear whether delays in
signature of the GA were due to political events or disagreements between different (and
changing) stakeholders on the project’s scope and location of investments. During
implementation, the Government demonstrated its commitment to solving emerging
issues such as securing construction materials and finding sources to the funding gap for
the WWTP (component 4). At a lower level, municipalities (including Orhei) and
beneficiary villages proved to be committed to the implementation of investments under
different components. In the case of Orhei, representatives of the mayor’s office attended
weekly progress meetings that allowed them to identify bottlenecks and solve them. As a
result Government Performance is considered Moderately Satisfactory.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
77. Components 1 and 2. MSIF mobilized communities, trained leaders and arranged for
the realization sub-projects at a rapid pace. This PIU deployed an experienced
management team along with well-qualified experts on community-driven development;
civil engineering; social care services; and on contracting, accounting, and M&E. The
performance of MSIF is considered Highly Satisfactory.
78. Component 3. The World Bank, external partners, and the Ministry of Transport and
Finance officials were satisfied with the SRA and did not flag any major shortcomings.
What prevents the rating for this PIU from being highly satisfactory is that SRA’s
performance in some areas, such as procurement, financial management and safeguards,
was initially slow and required capacity development at the beginning of project
implementation. This resulted from the conscious decision to not have a separate PIU but
rather leverage and develop SRA’s own resources for project implementation. The
performance of this PIU is thus considered Satisfactory.
79. Component 4. A number of issues related to the NWSSP PIU affected the
achievement of the PDO linked to this component. During the initial implementation
period, tensions arose between the ministry, the PIU and contractors which had
consequences on project implementation and generated delays. To solve this issue the
Minister decided to replace key staff in the PIU. Due to the rearrangement of the PIU,
there were critical problems with PIU capacity and staffing during some period of time.
In September 2012, for example, there were five vacant positions (Director, Engineer,
Accountant, Community Mobilization and Institutional Development Specialist, and
Monitoring and Evaluating Specialist). Prior to project closing, a new Director was


                                            18
recruited and most positions were filled resulting in a marked turnaround in performance.
As a result, this PIU is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
80. The combined rating is moderately satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned
81. The project had a complex institutional arrangement with four different components
under three ministries, and managed by three different PIUs. These arrangements were
considered highly risky during project preparation and the Bank team, in charge of
preparation, was advised against it. However, despite its complexity and initial concerns
this arrangement proved workable. Project components were closely linked to three
ongoing operations that facilitated supervision by seasoned sector and operational staff,
even after the Grant closed. This arrangement also meant that EC Funds leveraged the
resources of Bank projects and staff, and thereby enhanced the impact of both Bank and
EC Funds. On the Government side, experience suggests that using existing PIUs –
while assuring that they have the capacity to deliver and absorb the extra work – can be
an efficient way to leverage existing government structures and reduce administrative
cost.
82. Donor’s coordination and EC relations. This project had a very unique financial and
administrative arrangement, being a RETF funded by the EC and administered by the
Bank. A number of lessons emerged during project preparation and implementation; the
importance of identifying external risks – linked to Donor’s and Government relationship
and arrangements – which might affect project implementation. Since funds for this
project were tied to the Financing Agreement between the EC and Moldova, its extension
was restricted to the duration of the later, which meant that grant funds went unused, and
the Government had to increase its contribution at a time of fiscal contraction.
83. Reporting requirements: A detailed reporting mechanism that allowed the Bank to
inform the EC on the status of project implementation and meets Donor’s expectations,
should be agreed upon during preparation. The Bank relied on its own monitoring
instruments (Aide Memoires, ISRs) and the clients Progress Reports to inform the EC on
progress. However these did not correspond to EC expectations which generated tension
in relations.
84. Lessons from the implementation of Components 1 and 2 include the following;
       a. Increased wastewater generation. Since most communities that benefited
          from Component 2 opted for improving their access to water supply, the
          project led to an increase in water connections and consumption in villages.
          Some beneficiaries installed water flush toilets and washing machines that
          increases the amount of wastewater produced. As a result, some villages
          starting to have issues with managing wastewater. This highlights the
          importance of having an integrated approach to dealing with water issues.
          Although this lesson is considered typical for the design of water projects,
          there is a need to integrate this lesson in the design of social investment funds


                                           19
                  with water sub-projects particularly in the case of Community Driven
                  Development programs.
             b. Community willingness to pay for services. Experience from Components 1
                and 2 reveal local government and community willingness to contribute to
                their own development. Local governments were willing to cover 15 percent
                of total investment cost for small water works and 3 percent for the
                improvement of social services. In fact, a number of local governments
                proposed to cover a higher share. Households re-affirmed their willingness to
                pay for improved water supply, share connecting costs, have meters installed,
                and cover monthly payments for piped water connections. Prior to the project,
                the main source of water was shallow wells, which was available at no cost16.
             c. Investment caps. For Component 2, MSIF contributions were capped at
                US$ 75,000. As a result, the fund was able to more significantly impact
                smaller rather than larger villages. Although the purpose of the fund is
                twofold – to improve local capacity to contribute to their own development
                and improve service provision – there might be room to re-evaluate the use of
                size-sensitive caps (e.g. per capita caps) in future investment.
85. Taking into account procurement guidelines for an efficient use of funds. Experience
in the procurement of the road rehabilitation section – where the total investment was
considered too low to attract international bidders but the amount required to use ICB–
revealed the importance of assessing sector entry costs and procurement guidelines to
define investment amounts.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Grantee/Implementing Agencies/Donors
(a) Grantee/Implementing agencies
86. Detailed evaluation reports from the three PIUs covering each component were sent
in July 2013. A summary of these reports appears in Annex 8.
 (b) Cofinanciers/Donors
87. Comments from the EU Delegation to the Republic of Moldova appear in Annex 9.
 (c) Other partners and stakeholders
88. Not applicable.




16
     Apart from coping costs



                                                20
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in EUR Million equivalent)
                                                            Actual/Latest
                                      Appraisal Estimate                    Percentage of
           Components                                      Estimate (EUR
                                       (EUR millions)                        Appraisal
                                                              millions)
1. Integrated Social Care Services          4.34                6.0            138%
2. Improved Water Management                1.84                2.5            136%
3. Road Maintenance and
                                            2.84                4.0
Rehabilitation                                                                 141%
4. Orhei Wastewater Treatment Plant          2.84               4.0            141%
           Total Financing Required         11.85              16.5            139%

(b) Financing
                                                            Actual/Latest
                                      Appraisal Estimate                    Percentage of
          Source of Funds                                     Estimate
                                       (EUR millions)                        Appraisal
                                                           (EUR millions)
EC Grant – Moldova Regional
                                            11.85              11.62            98%
Development Project
Borrower                                                        4.88
Total                                       11.85               16.5           139%




                                            21
Annex 2. Outputs by Component
                      Component 1: Outputs by type, location and beneficiaries of community centers.

Nr.    District      Locality            Type of center                                        Number of potential beneficiaries who   Number of beneficiaries
                                                                                                      need social services
                                                                                                Total        Women            Men      Total   Women     Men
1.    Anenii Noi     t. Anenii Noi       Social Rehabilitation & Integration Centre             2887          1453            1434      59       54        5
2.    Basarabeasca   t. Basarabeasca     Multifunctional Community Centre                        2118         1312             806       91       59      32
3.    Basarabeasca   v. Sadaclia         Multifunctional Community Centre                        1315          867             448      171       47      124
4.    Briceni        v. Caracusenii      Multifunctional Community Centre                        535           232             303       73       36       37
5.    Briceni        v. Larga            Multifunctional Community Centre                         496          289             207       95       52      43
6.    Briceni        t. Briceni          Multifunctional Community Centre                        964           425             539       25       17        8
7.    Briceni        v. Drepcauti        Multifunctional Community Centre                        818           409             409      276      110      166
8.    Calarasi       v. Hirjauca         Multifunctional Community Centre                         484          252             232       40       22      18
9.    Calarasi       v. Horodiste        Multifunctional Community Centre                        515           232             283       38       26      12
10.   Calarasi       t. Calarasi         Multifunctional Community Centre                        3706         2152            1554       73       17      56
11.   Causeni        v. Chircaiesti      Multifunctional Community Centre                         138           70              68      176       95      81
12.   Causeni        v. Baccealia        Multifunctional Community Centre                        222           119             103      144       66      78
13.   Causeni        V Ucrainca          Multifunctional Community Centre                         930          557             373       22       19        3
14.   Criuleni       t. Criuleni         Centre for the elderly and people with disabilities     1000          510             490      24       15        9
15.   Edinet         v. Terebna          Multifunctional Community Centre                        692           369             323       46       28      18
16.   Glodeni        v. Surzovca         Multifunctional Community Centre                        2887         1453            1434       32      13       19
17.   Glodeni        v. Balatina         Multifunctional Community Centre                        1340          762             578      500      240      260
18.   Glodeni        v. Fundurii Vechi   Multifunctional Community Centre                        1191          714             477       50       21       29
19.   Glodeni        t. Glodeni          Multifunctional Community Centre                        2967         1239            1728       84       39      45
20.   Nisporeni      v. Siscani          Multifunctional Community Centre                        1426          683             743       68       36       32
21.   Nisporeni      v. Milesti          Multifunctional Community Centre                         344          186             158       20       16        4
22.   Ocnita         v. Dingeni          Multifunctional Community Centre                         990          688             302       35       20      15
23.   Orhei          v. Peresecina       Multifunctional Community Centre                       1576          1048             528      207       94      113
24.   Orhei          v. Isacova          Multifunctional Community Centre                        1249          750             499       65       38      27
25.   Orheni         v. Piatra           Multifunctional Community Centre                         790          365             425       32       17       15
26.   Soroca         v. Rublenita        Multifunctional Community Centre                         483          264             219      165      112      53
27.   Taraclia       t. Taraclia         Multifunctional Community Centre                       1532          1072             460      28       13       15
28.   Telenesti      t. Telenesti        Multifunctional Community Centre                        251           129             122       12       8        4
29.   Telenesti      v. Verejeni         Multifunctional Community Centre                        734           549             185       35       19      16
30.   Ungheni        t. Ungheni          Centre of rehabilitation and orientation                360           234             126      170      94       76
                                         TOTAL                                                  34940         19384          15556     2821     1423     1398




                                                                                       22
Component 2. Outputs by subproject location, detailed description of investments and beneficiaries.

#    SP #                      Subproject Title                         District          Settlement        Number     Aqueduct   Number of    Number of   Beneficiaries
                                                                                                           of Towers    Length    Protection    WWTP
                                                                                                                         (km)       Zones
1    3064   Refurbishing the water supply system in "Romanovca"
                                                                      Basarabeasca       Basarabeasca         0          4,2          0            0           5688
            self-contained District
 2   3123   Building an aqueduct fragment                             Basarabeasca           Iserlia          0         6,875         0            0            616
 3   3141   Refurbishing the water supply system                      Basarabeasca         Ivanovca           1         1,645         1            0           177
 4   3101   Refurbishing the water supply and sewerage system            Cahul               Paicu            1         4,548         3            1           506
 5   3112   Supplying drinking water                                     Cahul               Satuc            1         3,336         1            0           117
 6   3111   Refurbishing the water supply system and sewerage            Cahul          Slobozia Mare         1         3,768         2            1           2056
 7   3122   Building an aqueduct in Sectors 101 and 104 of the town    Cantemir         Cantemir town         0         8,116         0            0           5136
 8   3102   Refurbishing the water supply and sewerage system          Cantemir         Constantinesti        1         4,549         2            1           354
 9   3108   Building the water supply and sewerage system              Cantemir             Craciun           1         6,415         2            0           334
10   1891   Refurbishing the water supply and sewerage system           Causeni         Chircaiestii Noi      1          5,31         3            1           1084
11   3365   Building an aqueduct fragment in the village                Causeni            Copanca            1         3,81          1            0           5005
12   3338   Refurbishing the water supply system                        Causeni             Leuntea           1           3,1         1            0            260
13   1919   Refurbishing the aqueduct                                   Causeni              Opaci            0         5,121         3            1           3486
14   3087   Refurbishing the water supply and sewerage system           Causeni          Tanatarii Noi        0          4,72         1            1            414
15   3073   Refurbishing the water supply and sewerage system           Causeni              Tocuz            1         3,31          3            1           4500
16   3334   Rebuilding the water supply system                          Causeni             Ursoaia           1          6,52         1            0            849
17   3088   Refurbishing the water supply system                        Causeni          Ursoaia Noua         1          1,85         1            0            176
18   3118   Refurbishing the water supply and sewerage system           Cimislia             Fetita           1         3,932         2            1            307
19   3109   Refurbishing the water supply and sewerage system           Cimislia           Maximeni           1         5,978         3            1            474
20   3114   Refurbishing the water supply and sewerage system           Cimislia           Munteni            0         6,318         2            1            382
21   3067   Building an aqueduct fragment in the village                Criuleni           Raculesti          1         1,215         1            0           696
22   3408   Building an aqueduct fragment in the village               Dubasari            Marcauti           1         4,025         1            0           250
23   3261   Building an aqueduct fragment in the village                 Falesti            Pompa             1         6,01          1            0           241
24   3132   Building an aqueduct sector                                  Leova            Leova town          0         3,149         0            0          11576
25   3285   Refurbishing the water supply system                        Riscani            Corlateni          1          6,51         1            0           3020
26   3096   Refurbishing the water supply system                        Riscani             Costesti          5         4,46          6            0           3832
            Drilling an artesian well and building an aqueduct
                                                                        Riscani            Mihaileni          1          2,03         1           0            1759
27   3284   fragment in the village
            Carrying out repairing works at the sewerage system,
                                                                        Riscani            Nihoreni           0          0,75         0           1            1009
28   3305   having mounted a wastewater treatment plant
29   3292   Building an aqueduct fragment                               Riscani             Recea             0          8,61         0            0           397
30   3283   Supplying the Village with drinking water                   Riscani            Saptebani          2          1,03         1            0           769




                                                                                   23
#    SP #                       Subproject Title                        District             Settlement     Number         Aqueduct   Number of    Number of   Beneficiaries
                                                                                                           of Towers        Length    Protection    WWTP
                                                                                                                             (km)       Zones
31   3002    Building an aqueduct fragment                             Stefan Voda         Purcari              1              8         1            0            2253
32   3005    Refurbishing the water supply system                      Stefan Voda        Rascaieti             1           4,49         1            0            1582
33   3350    Building an aqueduct fragment in the village                Taraclia       Cortenul Nou            0             1,1         0            0            137
34   3176    Refurbishing the water supply system                       Telenesti       Chitcanii Noi           1            3,11        1            0            289
35   3248    Building an aqueduct fragment in the village                Ungheni         Cioropcani            1            4,35         2            0           1532
36   1903    Refurbishing the water supply system                        Ungheni         Condratesti            1           2,97         1            1           1090
37   3082    Building an aqueduct fragment in the village                Ungheni          Medeleni              1           2,12         3            0            296
38   3089    Building a water supply system                              Ungheni         Valea Mare             0           13,85        1            0           1524
39   3426    Building an aqueduct fragment in the village                 UTAG            Chirsova              1           5,01         1            0           1128
40   3405    Re-equipping the pumping stations at the artesian wells      UTAG          Comrat town             0              0         0            0           25024
41   3429    Rebuilding the water supply system                           UTAG           Cotovscoe              1           5,886        2            0            995
42   3411    Building an aqueduct fragment in the village                 UTAG             Etulia               1           2,569        1            0            244
43   3410    Rebuilding the drinking water supply system                  UTAG             Svetlii              0           7,581        2            0           1681
                                                                                            Total              35          192,246       60           12          93245


In addition, to the investments mentioned in the previous two tables, the following sub-projects were co-financed by Component 1 and
Component 2 and MSIF II.
#                                 Community                                                        Subproject’s typology
1    v. Dingeni            (r. Ocnita)                                  Social care centre
2    t. Riscani            (r. Riscani)                                 Social care centre
3    v. Carahasani         (r. Stefan Voda)                             Social care centre
4    v. Mihălăşeni         (r. Ocniţa)                                  Water supply
5    v. Cobusca Veche      (r. Anenii Noi)                              Water supply
6    v. Cotiujenii Mici   (r. Singerei)                                 Water supply
7    v. Piatra            (r. Orhei)                                    Water supply
8    v. Milesti           (r. Nisporeni)                                Water supply
9    v. Caşunca           (r. Floreşti)                                 Water supply
10   v. Fîntîna Albă      (r. Edineţ) LPA.Parcova                       Water supply
11   v. Gvozdova          (r. Floreşti) LPA Gura Camencii               Water supply
12   v. Bujeac             (UTAG)                                       Water supply
13   t. Singera           (mun. Chisinau)                               Water supply
14   v. Ciopleni          (r. Criuleni)                                 Water supply
15   v. Schinoasa         (r. Calarasi)                                 Water supply




                                                                                   24
Component 3: Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation. A section of 4.8km of the R14 Balti – Sarateni Road, km 38-300 – km 43+000,
was rehabilitated. The rehabilitation works comprised: crack sealing (4810 line meters); patching (300 tonnes); pavement widening
and new construction in some areas (12,100 sq.m.); regulating layer (4,152 tonnes); a 4 cm overlay (38,740 sq.m.); and reconstruction
of 2 bridges (total 440 sq.m.). The rehabilitation cost defined at contract signature was EUR 2.37 million or EUR 0.503 million per km.
The actual rehabilitation cost was EUR 2.49 million or EUR 0.529 million per km. The actual rehabilitation cost is 5 percent higher
than the contract cost. Despite the 5 percent increase in the rehabilitation cost compared with the contract cost, the project still has a
robust economic justification, as expected for rehabilitation of pavements on medium traffic roads.
Component 4: Orhei Waste Water Treatment Plant. This component financed the design and construction of a CW technology WWTP
in Orhei. At the time of writing, around 95% out of the total volume of planned works were completed. Wastewater is still being
treated in the old WWTP. It is expected that the plant will be completed in September 2013, and will start treating water end
September 2013. According to the design, the CW WWTP will treat approximately 837.000 m3 per year in the first phase. It expected
by the authorities than in the next 10 years the total flow will increase due to growth of population, increasing of connection to the
sewer and increasing of agro-food industrial production. The system is designed to support this progressive variation.




                                                                   25
 Annex 3. Results Framework
                      Component                                                         PDO Indicator                               Units           Baseline        Target        Actual
     Component 1. Integrated Social Care Services at         Number of people with access to community centers                 Number per day           0            1450         150017
          the Community and District Levels                  rehabilitated or constructed under the project
       Component 2. Improved Water Management                Increased number of persons with access to potable water as a        Number                0          17,00018       34,500
                                                             result of small water works financed under the project.
Component 3. Road Maintenance & Rehabilitation               Roads rehabilitated (km)                                            Kilometers             0           4.8019         4.80
       Component 4. Wastewater Treatment Plant               Increased percentage of Orhei's total wastewater discharge that     Percentage             0             90             0
                                                             is treated by the new WWTP
                      Component                                                  Intermediate indicators                            Units           Baseline        Target        Actual
     Component 1. Integrated Social Care Services at         Number of rehabilitated / constructed community centers              Number                0            30 20
                                                                                                                                                                                    30
          the Community and District Levels
                                                             Number of small water works completed                                Number                0            2921           43
                                                             Number of water storage tanks operational                            Number                0             35            35
       Component 2. Improved Water Management
                                                             Length of aqueduct constructed or rehabilitated (km)                Kilometers             0             192           192
                                                             Number of protected zones                                            Number                0             60            60
Component 3. Road Maintenance & Rehabilitation               Contract for rehabilitation of road section between Balti and          Text               No            Yes            Yes
                                                             Sarateni signed
                                                             Civil works for wastewater facility completed                       Percentage             0             100           95
                                                             Considerable reduction of pollutants
       Component 4. Wastewater Treatment Plant                                                                                 No specific baseline or targets were identified at appraisal
                                                             Low-cost wastewater treatment technology feasibility studies
                                                                                                                               and indicators were not followed during implementation
                                                             for Moldova have been developed and are available for
                                                             replication in its neighboring countries
                                                             Direct project beneficiaries                                         Number                0           33,000        96,066
              Component 1 & Component 2
                                                             Female beneficiaries                                                 Number                0           15,000        48,033




17
   This corresponds to the daily capacity of the 30 community centers financed under the project.
18
   Initial target was 17,000 (First ISR)
19
   From first ISR
20
   Initial target was 25 (First ISR) then revised to 30.
21
   Initial target was 17 (First ISR)




                                                                                                    26
Annex 4. Economic and Financial Analysis

No ex-ante economic analysis was done for any of the project components; thus it was
not possible to compare the ex-post economic analysis results with the project appraisal
estimate. The ex-post economic analysis comprehends investments under Component 2, 3
and 4. As discussed on Section 3.3 given the nature of Component 1investments, it was
not possible to estimate its economic benefits. The evaluation period was defined at 20
years, beginning in 2011, which best accounts for the economic life of the activities under
the project. The adopted discount rate was 12 percent. Assumptions and key results are
summarized below. A summary table of the economic analysis can also be found further
in this Annex.
Component 2. Costs include – apart from the Grant investments - community and local
Government’s contribution to small water works. Main benefits were assumed to be
reduced cost of collection of water and water storage. Although no survey was conducted
during the project, a number of households and communities were visited and asked
about their experience before and after the project. Prior to the project most households
had access to water through shallow wells with considerable seasonal variations in water
quality and quantity. These wells were located in different parts of the village. It was
assumed that households spend on average two hours per day collecting water and invest
in water tanks – having 20 years of life – at a cost of 120EUR (2000MLD). The
minimum hourly wage for unskilled labor in Moldova (0.2175EUR/hour) was used to
estimate time savings. Based on these assumptions benefits amount to 1,869,312EUR
annually while the initial investment – made in 2011 and 2012 - was of 2,300,743EUR.
The ERR for this component is 62 percent and the NPV is of 9,324,739EUR.
Component 3. The ex-post economic analysis was conducted for the rehabilitation of the
Bălţi – Sărăteni road from km 38+300 to km 43+000 (4.7 km), which is the project sole
road rehabilitation component. The rehabilitation works improved the ride quality leading
to lower road user cost, in terms of both vehicle operating cost and passenger time cost.
It also guaranteed the structural soundness of the roads for a prolonged period, preventing
collapse, and leading to lower life-cycle maintenance cost of the road assets. It used the
Highway Development and Management Model (HDM-4), which simulates life cycle
conditions and costs and provides economic decision criteria for road construction and
maintenance activities. This analysis considered considering actual road condition and
rehabilitation costs and estimated annual traffic growth rates for 2011 to 2030. The road
works were completed in 2012 with duration of 15 months. Financial costs (market prices
of materials, labor and equipment including taxes) were converted to economic costs, net
of all transfer payments, using a financial to economic costs factor of 0.87.
The rehabilitated road was in poor condition before the project. The average roughness
was 6.8 IRI, m/km, in 2010 and in 2013 the average roughness decreased to around 2.0
IRI, m/km, as expected for rehabilitation works of asphalt concrete. The economic
analysis of this component was based on 2010 annual average daily traffic data (4,203
vehicles per day with 73.7 percent composed of cars). The average annual increase in
traffic on the project road during the 2011 to 2018 period was estimated at 4.2 percent for



                                            27
all vehicle types and 3.0 percent thereafter. This is based on the IMF outlook projections of GDP growth during this period and an
elasticity of traffic to GDP growth of 1.0. Results suggest that the ERR of this investment was 22.3 percent and the NPV 1.5EUR
million. Using a with/without project case, road agency cost increased by EUR 1.6 million and road user benefits increased by EUR
3.1 million. Thus, the Benefit/Cost ratio of the project is 2.0. Road user cost decreased on average by 6 percent with the project.
Component 4. The new WWTP which uses CW technology is expected to reduce substantially O&M costs and improve treatment
efficiency in comparison to the old WWTP. Since the plant is not yet in operation, information from the plant’s technical design – on
O&M costs and expected BOD removal – was used. Energy costs were revised to their economic costs. Investments were made during
2012 and 2013 and benefits of higher treatment efficiency are expected to start in 2014. Benefits from greater treatment efficiency –
estimated as the difference in the cost of per ton of BOD removed when passing from the old to the new WWTP and assuming
constant treatment efficiency for the old WWTP – amount to EUR 0.39 million in the early years and EUR 0.58 million in the later
years. The ERR for this component is 2 percent and the NPV is of EUR -1,959,117.  
All project. Taken together – and including investments but not benefits under Component 1 – the resulting ERR is 19 percent and the
NPV is EUR 5.0 million assuming a discount rate of 12 percent and 20 years of asset life.




                                                                 28
                                                                                                                                   (in millions  of  Euros)
A            TREATMENT  EFFICIENCY ‐ TONS BOD  REMOVED      Unit                   2011 2012            2013       1      2      3       4        5        6     7     8     9   10    11     12     13     14     15     16     17     18     19     20
A1           Savings  in treatment                     Euro  per year                  ‐     ‐             ‐     0.17   0.18   0.19   0.19   0.20   0.21   0.22   0.23   0.24   0.25   0.25   0.25   0.25   0.25   0.25   0.25   0.25   0.25   0.25   0.25
A2           Investments                               Euro                            ‐  (1.91)        (1.91)     ‐      ‐      ‐       ‐        ‐        ‐     ‐     ‐     ‐     ‐     ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐
             SUM                                       Euro                            ‐  (1.91)        (1.91)   0.17   0.18   0.19   0.19   0.20   0.21   0.22   0.23   0.24   0.25   0.25   0.25   0.25   0.25   0.25   0.25   0.25   0.25   0.25   0.25

             IRR                                                             2%
             NPV                                                          (1.96)
                                                                           

B                      WELFARE ‐ NEW CONNECTIONS                    Unit            2011      2012     2013       1      2      3      4      5      6      7      8      9    10     11     12     13     14     15     16     17     18     19     20
B1           Saving  in coping  costs  for new connections     Euro  per year          ‐         ‐       1.87   1.87   1.87   1.87   1.87   1.87   1.87   1.87   1.87   1.87   1.87   1.87   1.87   1.87   1.87   1.87   1.87   1.87   1.87   1.87   1.87
B2           Investments                                       Euro                 (1.15)    (1.15)       ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐
             SUM                                               Euro                 (1.15)    (1.15)     1.87   1.87   1.87   1.87   1.87   1.87   1.87   1.87   1.87   1.87   1.87   1.87   1.87   1.87   1.87   1.87   1.87   1.87   1.87   1.87   1.87

             IRR                                                             62%
             NPV                                                            9.32

C                        REDUCED TRANPORT COSTS                     Unit           2011 2012           2013       1      2      3      4      5      6      7      8      9    10      11      12      13     14     15     16     17     18     19      20
C1           Saving  in transport costs  (in Economic Costs)   Euro  per year          ‐     ‐           0.22   0.25   0.29   0.37   0.47   0.60   0.77   0.98   1.23   3.05  (0.02)  (0.03)  (0.38)   0.01   0.01   0.01   0.01   0.01   0.02     ‐       ‐
C2           Investments   (in Economic  Costs)                Euro                    ‐  (1.99)           ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐       ‐       ‐       ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐       ‐
             SUM (In Economic  Costs)                          Euro                    ‐  (1.99)         0.22   0.25   0.29   0.37   0.47   0.60   0.77   0.98   1.23   3.05  (0.02)  (0.03)  (0.38)   0.01   0.01   0.01   0.01   0.01   0.02     ‐       ‐

             IRR                                                              22%
             NPV                                                             1.50 <‐Different NPV  Formula
                                                                                  On HDM‐4, we don't discount  the value of the first  year
D                          SOCIAL CARE SERVICES                       Unit         2011 2012 2013          1      2      3        4         5       6      7      8      9      10     11      12     13     14     15     16      17     18     19     20
D2           Investments                                       Euro                (2.23)  (2.23)

                        ALL  PROJECT BENEFITS                         Unit          2011      2012      2013       1     2      3      4      5      6      7      8      9    10     11     12     13     14     15     16     17     18     19     20
A1+B1+C1    SUM of Benefits                                    Euro                    ‐         ‐       2.09   2.29   2.34   2.42   2.53   2.67   2.85   3.07   3.33   5.16   2.09   2.09   1.74   2.13   2.14   2.14   2.14   2.14   2.14   2.12   2.12
A2+B2+C2+D2 SUM of investments                                 Euro                 (3.38)    (7.28)    (1.91)     ‐     ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐      ‐
            SUM ‐ SUM                                          Euro                 (3.38)    (7.28)     0.19   2.29   2.34   2.42   2.53   2.67   2.85   3.07   3.33   5.16   2.09   2.09   1.74   2.13   2.14   2.14   2.14   2.14   2.14   2.12   2.12

             IRR                                                          19%
             NPV                                                        $5.00 EUR
                                                                        $6.75 USD




                                                                                                                                 29
Annex 5. Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                        Responsibility/
         Names                             Title                 Unit
                                                                          Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation
Ross S. Pavis               Senior Operations Officer              AFTDE TTL
Menahem M. Prywes           Senior Economist                       ECSH3
Andreas Schliessler         Lead Transport Specialist              MNSTI
Sarah Leigh Hammil          Senior Program Assistant               ECSSD
Kashmira Daruwalla          Senior Procurement Specialist          ECSO2
Andrei Busuoic              Senior Financial Management Specialist VIEWB
Olgamarie Villa             Resource Management Analyst            ECACA
Gurcharan Singh             Senior Procurement Specialist          TWICT
Supervision/ICR
Ross S. Pavis               Senior Operations Officer              AFTDE TTL
Ronnie W. Hammad            Senior Operations Officer              ESCUW TTL
Andreas Schliessler         Lead Transport Specialist              MNSTI
Manuel G. Marino            Led Water and Sanitation Specialist    ECSUW
Maria Angelica Sotomayor    Sector Leader                          LCSSD
Stephane Dahal              Water & Sanitation Specialist          ECSUW
Yuliya Smolyar              Social Protection Specialist           ECSH3
Irina Shmeliova             Procurement Specialist                 ECSO2
Sandu Ghidirim              Operations Officer                     ESCEG
Elena Corman                Procurement Analyst                    ECSO2
Ruxandra Maria Floroiu      Senior Environmental Engineer          EASER
Elena Segura Labadia        Senior Counsel                         LEGLE
Ruxandra Costache           Cousel                                 LEGAM
Oxana Druta                 Financial Management Specialist        ECSO3
Galina S. Kuznetsova        Senior Financial Management Specialist ECSO3
Tamar Sulukhia              Sector Leader                          ECCSD
Iuliana Stratan             Team Assistant                         ECCMD
Irina Guban                 Consultant                             ECSH1




                                          30
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                     US$ Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
              FY9                                                     NA
                          Total:                                      0.00
Supervision/ICR
              FY10                                                    NA
              FY11                                                    NA
              FY12                       11.85                       91.48
              FY13                       10.16                       36.58
                          Total:                                      0.00




                                       31
Annex 6. Beneficiary Survey Results

MSIF – the PIU charged of Component 1 and 2 financed three evaluation reports that
surveyed beneficiary views of project outcomes:
      Bernard Brunhes International (2008) covers beneficiaries of the original
       financing,
      CBS-AXA (2013) covers beneficiaries of the first Additional Financing,
      CBS-AXA (2012) covers beneficiaries of the Second Additional Financing.
For each report, the consultants surveyed beneficiaries and compiled quantitative figures
on responses. Moreover the consultants also interviewed beneficiaries and summarized
their perspectives on the project. This Annex presents a summary of the findings of these
reports that are relevant to the investments made under Component 1 and 2 of the
Moldova Regional Development Grant.
Summary of the Bernard Brunhes International (2008) on the original financing
Sources and type of analysis. To assess the project objectively, the consultants
computed and reported difference-in-differences estimates of outcomes. These estimates
computed the difference between the change in an outcome indicator over 2003-2008 in
communities that received assistance from the original financing of the MSIF-II Project
and the change in the same indicator in comparison communities. ‘Communities’ means
villages and small towns. ‘Beneficiaries’ means residents of these MSIF-supported
communities. For this analysis, Bernard Brunhes International surveyed beneficiaries in
36 communities and 36 control communities. In total, the consultants surveyed 1,691
people.
Satisfaction with infrastructure sub-projects. The difference in difference analysis
showed an impressive increase in public satisfaction over 2003-2008 among beneficiaries,
compared to residents of control communities. The increase in satisfaction was 13
percent higher for communities that built water supply.
Not all households benefited from project-supported sub-projects, and that limited
satisfaction. For instance, grants for water sub-projects were too small to connect all
households. About 77 percent of beneficiaries in communities with an MSIF-supported
sub-project reported that high costs limited their access to the sub-project. This was
particularly true for natural gas and water supply sub-projects.
Beneficiary well-being. Indicators of household well-being in project-supported
communities increased further than in control communities. For instance, household
incomes rose by 51 MDL more in project-supported communities than in control
communities.
Community capacity to manage their own development. About 52 percent of
beneficiaries reported improved or much improved relations between community
members, and about 32 percent reported improved expectations for the future. About 48
percent of beneficiaries reported an increase in the capacity of their local public
authorities. About 5 percentage points more beneficiaries reported improved local
administration ability to resolve social and economic problems than in the control group.


                                           32
Moreover, project-supported training appeared effective, with about two-thirds of
beneficiaries expressing approval.
Summary of CBS-AXA (2013) Report on the (first) Additional Financing
Sources and types of analysis. The consultants surveyed beneficiaries in 56
communities, where the project supported 74 sub-projects and conducted 10 interviews
with representatives of local administrations. Unlike the Bernhard Brunhes, CBS-AXA
did not attempt a difference-in- the-differences analysis. This introduces an increased
degree element of uncertainty about the results of the first Additional Financing.
Satisfaction with infrastructure sub-projects. The consultants presented evidence of
beneficiary satisfaction in communities that received support from the first Additional
financing. They found a 57 percent point increase over 2008-2012 in beneficiaries who
were satisfied or very satisfied with their communities’ social and economic development.
Impact on well-being. Emigration out of the flood region, targeted by the Additional
Financing, fell slightly over 2008-2012. Moreover, the number of new businesses opened
per 1,000 inhabitants increased over 2008-2012 and the number of farms per 1,000
decreased –probably because of the floods. It is not clear whether the fluctuations in the
other social and economic indicators can be attributed to the project.
Community capacity to manage their own development. There is some evidence that
the project was associated with stronger social capital and stronger community ability to
manage their own development. For example, 84 percent of beneficiaries reported that
carrying-out their sub-project increased activism among community members. Nearly
half of beneficiaries said that their local governments had improved their ability to
address social and economic problems since 2008. Nearly 70 percent of beneficiaries
reported that the experience accumulated during implementation of their MSIF-supported
sub-project improved their capacity to implement similar projects. In the in-depth
interviews, representatives of local public authorities said that they learned practices that
they would apply in implementing other community projects.
Summary of CBS-AXA (2012) Report on the Second Additional Financing
Sources and types of analysis. Like Bernard Brunhes International (2008), these
consultants reported some difference-in-differences evidence on impact of the financing
alongside summaries of interviews with beneficiaries. They surveyed 71 communities
that received sub-projects supported by the Second Additional Financing and 7
comparison communities. Moreover, the consultants relied on a baseline survey
conducted over 2011-2013.
The difference-in-difference analysis likely understates the project impact. This is
because, by the start of the Second Additional Financing, the MSIF-II Project had served
so many communities that the consultant could not assemble a comparison group of
communities that were similar to the beneficiary communities but had not received
support from MSIF or from other donors. To illustrate the issue, communities that
benefited from the Second Additional Financing carried out, on average, 3.5 sub-projects
over 2010-2013, with support from all donors, while the comparison communities carried
out 3 projects.



                                             33
Satisfaction with infrastructure sub-projects. The consultants reported widespread
satisfaction with sub-projects supported by the Second Additional Financing. For
example, almost 55 percentage points more beneficiaries said that educational services
were good or very good in 2012, compared with 2009. The improvement was 58
percentage points for water supply sub-projects, and 52 percent for roads sub-projects.
The difference-in-differences analysis of the increase in satisfaction with social services
found more modest improvements. Satisfaction with schools sub-projects rose nearly 20
percent percentage points further in beneficiary than in comparison communities. The
figure was 5 percent for roads sub-projects, and -1 percent for water-supply sub-projects.
The survey results reveal some inconsistency between beneficiary demand and the sub-
project proposals approved and submitted by the same communities. In 2012,
beneficiaries reported that the highest demand was for roads (36 percent) and then for
water supply (22 percent) sub-projects. Yet the proposals for funding that communities
submitted were for mainly for schools and kindergartens (53 percent) and water supply
(13 percent). The high demand for roads sub-projects may reflect the poor condition of
multi-kilometer long village access roads, while the project only finances short roads
within villages. The reduced demand for school and kindergarten sub-projects in 2012
may reflect the MSIF Project’s satisfaction of community demand.
Impact on well-being. The difference-in-differences analysis found generally higher
increases in indicators of well-being in beneficiary than in comparison communities.
Most of these difference-in-differences are modest or small. Average monthly household
expenditure increased by about 120 MDL (US$ 10) more in beneficiary than in
comparison communities. Employment improved by almost 12 percentage points more
in beneficiary communities, consistent with achievement of the project’s employment
objective. The increase in the number of farms was 66 percentage points greater in
beneficiary communities, but the number of new businesses was 3 percentage points
smaller.
Community capacity to manage their own development. As in the earlier evaluation
reports, the consultants found evidence of strengthened social capital and community
capacity. The difference-in-difference analysis found that almost 19 percentage points
more beneficiaries were satisfied with the social and economic development of their
communities than in the comparison communities.
The results of training and of practice in implementing a project are reflected in the
survey results on capacity for management development. Over 69 percent of
beneficiaries sampled said they had participated in MSIF-supported training. The most
commonly mentioned benefits of training were increased self-confidence (36 percent)
and what to do to solve community problems (24 percent). The consultants reported a 34
percent increase in beneficiaries appraisal of the local public administration’s (usually the
mayor’s office) capacity to manage community development projects over 2009-2012.




                                             34
Annex 7. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

No stakeholder workshop was done for the evaluation of the project. However individual
meetings with each of the main stakeholders – for each component -were held during the
ICR preparation.




                                         35
Annex 8. Summary of Grantee's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


Summary of MSIF’s ICR: Component 1 & 2
The Moldova Social Investment Fund (MSIF) manages the financial resources offered to
the Republic of Moldova in the form of loans and grants by different donors. One of the
Grants managed by MSIF was offered to the Republic of Moldova by the European
Commission (Grant Agreement No. TF094952). Components 1 and 2 of this Grant were
implemented by MSIF. The initial Grant implementation period was 6 August 2009
through to 30 June 2011, which was later extended to 30 September 2012. The initial
amount of the Grant managed by MSIF was of €6,174 million, and with the additional
funding of €0.435 million offered in the last trimester of 2012, the total sum managed by
MSIF under the given Agreement amounted € 6.6 million.
Results
Financial resources were utilized in accordance with the World Bank’s procedures and in
compliance with MSIF’s Operating Manual.
The program was launched by holding promotional workshops for local and district
government representatives, as well as local consultants and other representatives of the
districts that would potentially benefit from the funding. As a result of discussions
selected communities listed their priority issues which were then included in the
subprojects proposals, and evaluated from social, technical and financial perspectives.
Subprojects were approved for funding by MSIF’s Executive Committee. Communities
selected construction companies and local technical supervisors, monitored the process of
civil works execution, and organized acceptance of the renovated facilities. The
beneficiaries of the investments developed plans to ensure the sustainability of the
implemented subprojects for the following 2 years.
Major emphasis was put on encouraging the communities to be able to find the solutions
to the most pressing issues in an independent and cooperative manner.
Communities were responsible for various aspects, such as identifying financial resources,
purchasing goods and services, evaluation and quality control, maintenance of the
renovated facilities, etc. It is worth mentioning the competitive spirit arising with the
notion “First come – first served”, as communities were keen to donate financial
resources and develop the required technical documentation. Thus, the project helped to
develop social workers' capabilities, as well as assisted the institutional development of
local authorities and NGOs.
Target groups were: representatives of the local and district public administration,
Implementation Agencies responsible for the subprojects, other public institutions and
NGOs, economic agents etc. Communities are responsible for ensuring sustainability of
the renovated facilities. Every community that benefited from the investments was
trained in the development of a sustainability plan, and developed their own sustainability
plans that include specific actions, terms of realization and persons responsible for
compliance with them.




                                            36
Component 1. Development of an integrated system of social services at the community
and district levels
   Financing amount: €4.3 million
   Community contribution: €0.5 million, equivalent in Moldovan Leu
   Planned number of subprojects: 30
   Number of the implemented subprojects: 30
30 funding proposals were approved for funding and subsequently implemented. Centers
can be divided by type, as follows:
   -   Centers for persons with disabilities (beneficiaries – children, youngsters, old
       persons with disabilities);
   -   Centers for the aged (beneficiaries – vulnerable aged, aged people living alone);
   -   Multifunctional centers (beneficiaries – vulnerable families, youngsters and
       children, disabled and aged people).
Managers, staff and local authority representatives were provided with training in both
theory and practical application. There were 300 persons trained, including staff and
managers of the centers; and public administration representatives (chiefs and deputy
chiefs of the districts, mayors and deputy mayors, other persons). Over 900 persons were
involved into the process of needs assessment, strategic planning, developing and
improving subproject proposals, monitoring subprojects implementation etc.
Within the constructing projects, eco-friendly materials were used and modern
technologies for heating water and living spaces were applied (bio-mass boilers, solar
panels), subsequently leading to considerable economies for local budgets. The resulting
30 community multifunctional centers can accommodate about 1,500 beneficiaries. All
the centers started operating in the period of 2011-2012. The results registered under
Component’s implementation were reflected in the publication “Community
multifunctional centres: Realities and possibilities”, that can be accessed at
http://msif.md/attachments/004_Community%20Centers%20EU.pdf. All the Community
Multifunctional Centres funded through MSIF were provided with the appropriate
recovery and physical rehabilitation equipment, appliances, furniture etc. Maintenance
and operational costs of the centres are fully covered by the local public authorities.
Component B. Improvement of water management at the community level in the South of
the Republic of Moldova
   Financing amount: €2.3 million
   Community contribution: €0.235 million, equivalent in Moldovan Leu
   Planned number of subprojects: 30
   Number of the implemented subprojects: 43
Districts from the South, South-East and Centre of the Republic of Moldova were granted
access to the funds; they either suffered from the drought or were identified under a
research carried out by the Government of the Republic of Moldova and hadn’t



                                           37
previously benefited from MSIF’s financial support. The funds were distributed on a
competitive basis under the principle “First come – first served”.
Subprojects implementation led to:
   -   a more efficient management of water resources at the community level;
   -   an increased access of population to potable water;
   -   developed professional and management capabilities of the partners (local public
       administration, NGOs, contractors etc.) within the process of subprojects
       implementation;
   -   an efficient exchange of information and positive experience among the partners
       of subprojects implementation at the community and district levels.
Over 4,350 persons participated in the discussions of focus-groups and Local Council
meetings. The number of participants at general meetings and meetings of representatives
held in the beneficiary communities exceeded 11,000 persons, while over 20,900 persons
took part in the referendums. Almost 18,460 women were involved in the decision
making process. More than 115,000 persons from 43 beneficiary regions gained access to
the renovated or newly-built water and sewage systems, and at least 30% of those were
directly connected to the given networks. All the communities developed sustainability
plans foreseeing continuous connection to the aqueduct and assuring full access to water
for the whole population.

Replicated best practices
During its activity MSIF has accumulated an experience and managed to promote a range
of good practices which have been replicated by different governmental institutions and
nongovernmental organizations in the relevant fields. A list of them can be found below,
1. Identification of community priority needs and problems by communities
2. Participatory identification of different resources, including funds necessary for
   community needs;
3. Involvement of population and local actors into the decision making process,
   strengthening efforts and funds, monitoring and evaluation etc. regarding community
   problems solving;
4. Management/administration of local and external funds;
5. Development of intra/inter partnerships by the communities;
6. Community meetings;
7. Development of the associative sector, support in establishment and development of
   public associations and their activities;
8. Development of Strategic Plans for community development, as well as specific
   fields of district development (social care services);
9. Piloting community multifunctional centers of social care services;
10. Piloting new construction materials and technologies;


                                           38
11. Modification of the standards in the fields of construction, social protection,
    education and energy;
12. Piloting alternative energy resources.

Lessons learned
1. Training conducted in cooperation: foreign experts / local experts had a great impact
   on the efficiency of MSIF Project regarding the creation of integrated social
   assistance services.
2. The implementation of innovative services and technologies requires an intensive
   collaboration with relevant ministries and organizations and institutions that
   implement similar projects to coordinate activities. The combined effort of various
   organizations (financial, human resources, etc) in implementing projects leads to the
   development of new, innovative and efficient services with an important impact on
   the communities.
3. Participative involvement enhances the objectivity in evaluating the sustainability of
   subprojects implemented with MSIF support.
4. The establishment of Coordination Committees (with MSIF support) regarding the
   creation of community multifunctional centers in each district ensured the successful
   coordination of activities and monitoring of SP implementation within Component 1.
5. The existence of a strategic plan for integrated social services development at district
   level confers possibility and flexibility to Local Administrators to financially support
   these newly created services. At the same time, a better planning of resources is
   needed at the community and district levels in order to assure their functioning. In the
   period of economic crises, some of the created centers of social care services face the
   problem of resources deficit, sometimes requiring support from the State Budget for
   maintenance and full operation.
6.   Component 1 implementation became a catalyst for Local Administrators in creating
     community social services. Community social services were created from local
     budgets or with the support of other donors in some districts after assessing the needs
     of beneficiaries.
7.   Seminars regarding accounts reflection of MSIF investments for the local public
     administration representatives and BA contribute to a more efficient control over the
     external investments capitalized in the district/locality and ensure the sustainability
     of renovated facilities.
8.   The evaluation of the current state of the facilities renovated with MSIF assistance
     contributes to an increased sense of community ownership and responsibility of the
     local agents and residents for their maintenance and expansion.
9.   Community contribution (funds donated by local residents and local public
     authorities, economic agents etc.) is an efficient mechanism of assuring sustainability
     of the rehabilitated objects/facilities.




                                             39
10. The involvement of community agents/local residents in MSIF investments impact
    assessment contributed to the development of capabilities in evaluating local-level
    actions and encourages communities to be proactive.
11. The implementation of subprojects with a high degree of transparency with the major
    involvement of population in managing local and external financial means and
    delegating various functions to communities facilitates and ensures a sustainable
    community development.
12. Consolidation of community agents and local residents’ efforts in solving priority
    community problems, solicited by MSIF procedures, was confirmed to be an efficient
    mechanism to ensure community development even in times of economic, social and
    political crisis.

Summary of SRA ICR: Component 3
The Government of the Republic of Moldova has implemented the Moldova Regional
Development and Social Protection Project (the Project) financed by the European
Commission. The Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Component (Road Component)
of the Project is implemented through the SRA as the direct executing agency under the
general supervision and responsibility of the MTRI.
The objective of the Project in relation to the Road Component is to reduce the economic
and social disparities among regions by lowering road transport costs for road users in
Moldova, and providing better access to services by improving the condition and quality
of its road network. The specific objective outlined was to sign the contract for
rehabilitation of road section R14 Balti – Sarateni Road, km 38+300-km 43+000 and
complete the works by October 2010.
The procurement of works contract for this road section has been carried out in two
stages. While the first prequalification stage was combined with procurement of road
rehabilitation works contracts under the Road Sector Program Support Project (RSPSP),
the second bidding stage has been deliberately postponed and conducted separately after
contract award of four works contracts under the RSPSP in order to enhance competition,
especially among successful bidders, and obtain the best price for this relatively small
contract (Please refer to the following table). Following procurement procedures the
contract in question has been awarded and signed on 28.07.2010.
The main works carried out through the Road Component of the Projects consisted of
localized repair and light rehabilitation such as cleaning and sealing of cracks, application of
a leveling course and a wearing course of asphalt mixture. Structural works comprised
remedial works to a total of 3 bridges and a number of minor structures. It included repairs
to sidewalks, to embankment protection, minor repairs and modifications to infrastructures
and bridge decks, waterproofing and expansion joints to existing bridge decks and various
minor remedial works. Heavier rehabilitation has been involved on shorter sub-section
comprising re-construction of a 440 meters long embankment for which a diversion road
with the total length of 1.022 km has been constructed.
The overall outcome of the Project’s Road Component is rated moderate satisfactory
attributable to delay encountered in the execution and completion of the works for the



                                              40
rehabilitation of the said road section. While the indicator regarding signing the contract
has been met, the indicator related to completion of contract by the prescribed deadline
has not been satisfied. The primary reason is attributable to the delay by almost two years
caused by mis-procurement of two road rehabilitation works under the first procurement
phase of the RSPSP in 2008 in which rehabilitation of R14 Balti – Sarateni Road, km
38+300-km 43+000 was to be included. Consequently, the procurement of rehabilitation
works for this section of road has been included in the second procurement phase of the
RSPSP (years 2010-2013). Other reasons are related to delay at the implementation stage
of the project caused by slow mobilization and progress of works, ultimately affecting
timely completion of the contract.
  Contract        Description of Road       Project     Funding         Procurement Tender    Contract
  reference       Rehabilitation Works      Name         Source          Procedure  Package    signed
               R14 Balti-Sarateni Road,
 RSPSP/W2/01                                          EC NIF Grant        EBRD         I      15.03.2011
               km 10+780-26+600
               M2 Chisinau-Soroca Road,
 RSPSP/W2/02                                              EBRD                                18.02.2011
               km 26+200 – km 54+850
                                            RSPSP1
               M2 Chisinau-Soroca Road,                                                II
 RSPSP/W2/03                                               EIB                                18.02.2011
               km 54+850 – km 71+165
                                                                           WB
               R3 Chisinau-Hincesti Road,
 RSPSP/W2/04                                               EIB                                18.02.2011
               km 22+000 – km 29+920
               R14 Balti-Sarateni Road,                 EC Multi-
 RSPSP/W2/05                                RDSPP2                                    III     28.07.2011
               km 38+300-km 43+000                    sectorial Grant


The implementation progress and success of the program was measured in terms of
outcomes (results) and of outputs (physical achievements). The outcome of lower vehicle
operating costs for road users was measured by calculating and comparing vehicle
operating costs on the rehabilitated roads, before and after the project. Therefore, vehicle
operation costs on the roads improved under the Project have decreased to some extent
due to the implementation of R14 Balti – Sarateni Road, km 38+300- km 43+000. The
outputs (physical achievements) was rehabilitation of 4,7 km of R14 road (with 2 lanes).
Consequently, the outcome of Road  Component can be rated as low satisfactory due to
late completion of the road rehabilitation contract attributable to slow mobilization and
physical progress in contract implementation. In terms of outputs or physical
achievements it can be rated as moderate satisfactory.
The performance of the State Road Administration (SRA) as implementing agency of the
Road Component of the Project in carrying out the responsibilities assigned to them was
moderate satisfactory. The capacity of the SRA increased from the beginning of the
project implementation. Government willingness and prioritized approach to tackle road
infrastructure issues has also increased during the last few years. The lessons learned
during reported period is that the delay of any activity on the critical path of the project
directly impacts the planned project completion date. Therefore, after signing a contract
the Employer shall supervise Contractor’s mobilization on site jointly with the Engineer.
Any delays or deviations either in site mobilization or in work progress shall be promptly
notified to and remedied in an expeditious manner by the Contractor.




                                                41
Summary of WWTP PIU ICR: Component 4
Assessment of Project Design: The project design was sound in principle, and relevant
technical, economic, financial, and environmental aspects were duly considered. The
development objectives were strategically relevant to the country and regional priorities
of finding cost-effective ways of treating wastewater, and reducing nutrient pollution in
the Black Sea, respectively. Areas of strength during preparation related to design and
implementation aspects including the use of the PIU from the previous water sector
project instead of creating a new one. Several important lessons from earlier operations
were taken into account, including the importance of selecting a treatment technology
that would be both within the limits of affordability and willingness to pay by the Orhei
community, as well as technically appropriate for Orhei Apa Canal to operate in a
sustainable manner. Moreover, according to the economic and financial analysis the
Constructed Wetland (CW) technology was more economical to operate mainly due to
the considerably lower associated energy costs, hence would be more affordable to users
than the conventional treatment options. 
Assessment of Risks: While the team identified several important risks to implementation
and measures to mitigate them, several critical risks that ultimately impeded project
implementation were not addressed. The risk of objections to the choice of technology
was not highlighted as an issue, yet it had been the subject of much contention and
discussion during preparation. Although some consultations on the project were
conducted in the context of the EIA public consultation process, the importance of these
issues seems to have been underestimated. Moreover, some stakeholders remained
pessimist regarding CW functionality during winter time.  
Non-acceptance of the CW at the initial stage caused delays in selecting the Design
Company. Due to the non-acceptance of the Constructed Wetland Technology envisaged
for the new WWTP, by the Government of Moldova, the selection of the Consultant was
stopped and much delayed. The activities under the project were resumed only at the
beginning of 2010 (February 12, 2010 - the Request for Proposals was sent to short listed
companies). 
Changes in Implementing Agency: Transfer of the PIU from Agency Apele Moldovei to
the Ministry of Environment, with associated changes in skills and levels of commitment
to the project, affected implementation. This change also delayed approval by the Bank
of withdrawal applications. 
The project did not yet meet its development objective of improving the quality of
sanitary services. At the time of writing, under the given contract there have been
completed 95% out of the total volume of planned works. Wastewater is still being
treated in the old WWTP. It is expected that the plant will be completed end-August
2013, and will start treating water September 2013. However, the PDO indicator linked to
this component is expected to be fully met by end- August 2014, (Reed beds consisting of
a gravel-filled container with bed planted with reeds on the top. Wastewater flows
through the gravel and reed-roots and is purified by the actions of millions of bacteria,
fungi and algae (micro-organisms) that digest the sewage. According to designer’s
estimations only after one year of operation reed-roots and micro-organisms will grow
enough to ensure treatment of wastewater compliant with designed parameters).  


                                           42
Deficiencies encountered towards the achievement of Project objectives:
Committed topographical error in the detailed design led to additional costs to be
encountered and respectively extra time needed for the completion of construction works.
The actual construction works of Orhei WTTP were initiated in March 2012, by JV Heilit
Umwelttechnik-BioPlanta GmbH under the Contract signed on November 18, 2011.
Subsequently, on April 04, 2012 the Contractor noticed that the quantities of filling
material from borrowed pits and the conditions of handling the filling materials have
changed in comparison with the former situation described in the Bidding Documents -
final bottom (excavation) level of the RBF and VF basins different to 33,80 m over BSL
as shown on the contractual drawings. Due to the identified topographic error the filling
works in the whole area of the construction site had to be immediately stopped (May 16,
2012). According to site instruction of the Supervision team as of June 04, 2012 the
construction works were partially resumed - the reshaping of the bottom excavation level
of the basins of the Reed Bed Filter and Vertical Filter, the main part still being stopped
because of the time required for adjusting the project design, which required about 2
months period since the identification of the committed error. Such issue caused
additional expenses to be encountered – USD 0.285 mil. and respectively a considerable
delay in project implementation. 
Failure to disburse all EC Grant allocated amount led to additional budget deficit. Due to
the fact that identified topographic error caused a significant delay in project
implementation, by EC Grant Closing Date - November 16, 2012, the construction works
Contract Disbursed amount constituted: USD 2,910,749.64, registering in this way a
budget deficit in the amount of – USD 2,200,071.02. 
Since the start-up of the activities an amount of Euro 2,520,548.32 was disbursed from
the Grant sources within the Project implementation. At the same time, the delay of
construction works caused additional expenses to be encountered for the WTTP works
Supervision.  
Lessons from the implementation of Component 4 include the following;
Remeasurement type of the Contract for construction of WWTP is little known in
Moldova. According to the Project design several stakeholders (Ministry of Environment;
Orhei Local Council; State Service of Verification and Expertise; State Inspectorate in
Constructions; National Ecologic Fund) were involved in monitoring and supervising
construction works of Orhei WWTP. Mentioned authorities have limited knowledge
about that particular type of Contract which subsequently made monitoring more
problematic.  
Contract for construction works did not consider interim deadlines. During Project
implementation PIU and Supervision team warned manifold the Contractor about delays
in construction works. Albeit the delay was obvious, the Contractor left these objections
with no reaction arguing that the Contract had only final completion date till which all
works were supposed to be completed. The PIU did not have contractual tools to enforce
the Contractor comply with the Work Program. Thus, many activities were delayed and
that finally built up a three month delay of completion.  




                                            43
Handing over of the newly constructed WWTP to the Beneficiary (Orhei Apa-Canal) was
not considered at the “Project design” stage. Contract for construction works assumes
that the Project finishes as constructed WWTP should be handed over to the Client (PIU),
and then PIU should pass it to the Beneficiary. Ideally, both operations should take place
one after another; otherwise, within these two activities, PIU becomes accountable for
operation and maintenance of the WWTP, and has to incur considerable unforeseen costs.
In case if Contractor’s commitment ends after handing over to PIU, than Contractor
becomes careless to further legitimate recommendations given by PIU or Beneficiary,
arguing that these requests go beyond the Contract in force. In order to ensure smooth
handing over of WWTP to the Beneficiary, it is recommended that future Contracts
would envisage Contractor’s involvement till the output of the Project is handed over to
final Beneficiary. 
Contract for construction works did not consider requirements of co-financing
institutions. Although, the Contract mentions that “Any other outstanding amount, to
reach the above mentioned Contract Price, or such sum as may become payable under
the provisions of the Contract at the times and in the manner prescribed by the Contract,
shall be covered from the sources granted by the Ministry of Environment through the
National Ecological Fund (NEF)”, however, there is no reference in it that NEF’s
requirements differ from the Contract provisions. In particular: grants provided by NEF
are not tax exempted; NEF forms of reporting differ from the one used by the Contractor
from the beginning of the Project; the volume of NEF grant is approved by the NEF
Council and cannot be subject of monthly revision as “remeasurement” contract assumes.
Meeting NEF requirements during Project implementation constituted a solid obstacle,
and caused tensions with the Contractor accompanied by delays is execution of works.
Thus, different approach imposed by co-financing institutions should be clearly provided
in the Contract. 




                                           44
Annex 9. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

The following comments were provided by the EU Delegation to the Republic of
Moldova:

1. Overall, we agree with the general assessment of the project as "Moderately
   Satisfactory", as:
       a. The underestimation by the Bank of the implementation period and three
           extension requests of the closing date did not allow an efficient management
           of EU funds in this project.
       b. The non-compliance of the Bank to report to the Commission on a semi-
           annual basis (as indicated in the Administrative Agreement, art. 5.01) made
           difficult for the EU Delegation to monitor properly the implementation of the
           project.
       c. Major delays in the implementation of activities (especially for Component 4
           and 3) did not allow the project to meet fully its development objective for the
           moment.

2. On page 10 of the report, there is a statement: "In order to maximize the use of funds
   from the EC Grant prior to closing, unused funds from Component 4 were reallocated
   to finance additional investments under Component 1 and 2. These funds were used
   to co-finance the construction/rehabilitation of 3 community centers and 12 sub-
   projects for small water works." We ask the Bank to provide more details regarding
   this reallocation, as no record of approval from the Delegation for this operation is
   stated in our files.




                                            45
Annex 10. List of Supporting Documents

Administrative Agreement, Moldova Regional Development Project
Aide-Memoires and Management Letters
Bernard Brunhes International (2008). “Assessment of MSIF 2 Project Impact on Beneficiaries:
Final Report.” Paris, France and Chisinau, Moldova.
Center for Sociological Investigations and Marketing CBS-AXA (2012). “Assessment Study of
the Impact over the Beneficiaries of Investments under the Second Additional Financing for the
MSIF Project.” Chisinau, Moldova.
Center for Sociological Investigations and Marketing CBS-AXA (2013). “Impact Assessment
Study on the Beneficiaries of Investments from Additional Financing Sources One for MSIF”
Project. Chisinau, Moldova
Concept Note Paper, Moldova Regional Development Project
Government of Moldova (2004). “Economic Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
2004-2006.”
Government of Moldova (2008). “National Development Strategy, 2008-2011.”
Grant Agreement, Moldova Regional Development Project
Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs), Moldova Regional Development
Project
MSIF (2013), Community Multifunctional Centers: Realities and Possibilities
World Bank (2004). Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Credit in the amount of SDR
13.8 million (US$ million equivalent) to the Republic of Moldova for a Social Investment Fund II
Project. Report No. 28139-MD, May 18. Report No. 35618-MD.
World Bank (2009a). Project Paper on a Proposed Additional Financing Credit (IDA Credit No.
4555) in the amount of SDR 3.4 Million Credit (USD equivalent 5 million) to the Republic of
Moldova for the Social Investment Fund II Project. Report No. 46458-MD, February 26.
World Bank (2009b). Emergency Project Paper on the Proposed Second Additional in the
Amount of and SDR 12.5 Million Credit (USD equivalent 20 million) to the Republic of
Moldova for the Social Investment Fund II Project. Report 51568-MD, December 30.
World Bank Quality Assurance Group (2010). “Second Quality Assessment of the Lending
Portfolio (QALP-2)”




                                              46
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 33448R
                          27°E                                                       28°E                                                       29°E                                                           30°E




                             Dnes
                                  tr                                                 To Vinnytsya
                                                                                                               UKRA INE
                      To Chernivtsi


                                                                           Moghiliov-                        To Vinnytsya
                                              Ocnita                       Podolski
                       Briceni                                                                                                                                                                                   MOLDOVA

                                                               Donduseni
                          B



   To
Chernivtsi
                                               Edinet                                         Soroca
                                 e




                                                                            Drochia
                                       s



  48°N                                                                                                                              Camenca                                                                                               48°N
                                                     Rîscani
                                             s




                                                                                             Floresti                                          Nist
                                                                                                                                                      ru
                                                     a




                                          Costesti                                                                            Soldanesti
                                                                                                                                  ˘
                                                            r




                                                         Glodeni                    Balti                                                                  Rîbnita
                                                                                                                                        Rezina
                                                 Balatina
                                                                a




                                             Pr                                                     Sîngerei
                                                ut
                                                                                                                                                                                  To Voznesens'k
                                                                      r




                                                            Falesti
                                                             ˘
                                                                                                                 Telenesti                                                                    0        10      20      30     40 Kilometers
                                                                            a




                                                                                                                                 Chiperceni
                                                                                    b




                                                                                                                                            Orhei                                             0             10          20         30 Miles
                  RO MAN I A                                    Sculeni
                                                                                                                                               Dubasari
                                                                                                                                                  ˘                    TRANSNISTRIA
                                                                                          i




                                        To Pascani                                Mt. Balanesti Calarasi
                                                                                                 ˘˘                                              Criuleni
                                                                                   (430 m)
                                                                                            a




                                                                          Ungheni
                                                                                                                  Straseni
                                                                                                                     ˘                                                     Grigoriopol
                                                                                     Nisporeni                                                 ˘
                                                                                                                                             Stauceni                                                          To Zhmerynka


  47°N                                                                                                                                             ˘
                                                                                                                                             CHISINAU                                                                                     47°N


                                                                                                                  ˘
                                                                                                                 Lapusna           Ialoveni                 Anenii
                                                                                                                                                              Noi                        Tiraspol
                                                                                                                 Hîncesti                                              Bender
                                                                                                     Leuseni                                                         (Tighina)
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Slobozia


                                                                                                                                                  ˘
                                                                                                                                                 Cainari
                                                                                                                                                                                 Causeni
                                                                                                                                                                                  ˘
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              To Odesa
                                                                                                                                                                     Plain
                                                                                                                             Cimislia
                                                                                                                                                       c                                            ˘N
                                                                                                                                                                                          Stefan-Voda       ist
                                                                      To Birlad                                                                  ea                                                             ru
                                                                                                                                            g




                                                                                                        Leova
                                                                                                                                        Bu




 This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
 shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                       Comrat                         Basarabeasca
 Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any To Birlad
 endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                      Cantemir
                      27°E                                                                                                    ˘ ˘
                                                                                                                             GAGAUZIA

                                                                                                                                Ceadîr-                              To Artsyz
                                                                                                                                                                                   UKRA INE
                                                                                                                                 Lunga
               MO LDO VA                                                          46°N                                                                                                                                                    46°N
                                                                                            Prut




                   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                     Cahul                       Taraclia
                   AUTONOMOUS TERRITORIAL UNIT
                   CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                              ˘ ˘
                                                                                                                                             GAGAUZIA
                   RAIONS OR MUNICIPALITIES
                   CAPITALS*
                                                                                                        ˘
                                                                                                    Vulcanesti
                   NATIONAL CAPITAL
                   RIVERS
                   MAIN ROADS
                   RAILROADS                                                                                                    To Imayil
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             B l ack
                   AUTONOMOUS TERRITORIAL UNIT
                   BOUNDARIES                                                  To Bucharest                                                                                                                                   Sea
                                                                              and Constanta
                   RAIONS OR MUNICIPALITIES
                   BOUNDARIES
                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
             *Names of the raions or municipalities
             are identical to their capitals.                                      28°E                                                             29°E                                                              30°E

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MAY 2007
