CIRCULATING COPY 
Report No. 397a-TA                                       TO  BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
Appraisal of Cashewnut N
Development Project                                                     FJgPOW oDU
Tanzania                                                               I    tN
May 2,1974                            FILE COPY 
Agricultural Credit and Livestock Division
Eastern Africa Region
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility
for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =         Tanzania Shilling (Tsh)
Tshl.0              =          US$0.145
US$1.0               =         Tsh6.86
In January, 1974 the Tsh was revalued to US$1.0 = Tsh7.14
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 hectare (ha)              =          10,000 m2 = 2.46 acres
1 kilometer (kim)           =          0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)   =           0.39 sq. miles = 100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)             5          2.20 pounds
1,000 kg   1 metric ton                0.98 long ton
ABBREVIATICNS
CNSL                    C Cashewnut Shell Liquid
CATA         =          Cashewnut Authority of Tanzania
RMEA         5          IBRD Regional Mission in East
Africa
CEC          =          Community Education Centers
TAC          =          Tanzania Audit Corporation
TANU         =          Tanganyika African National
Union
Government FiEcal Year
July 1 - June 30



TANZANIA
CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ................             ..................  i-ii
I. INTRODUCTION ..                                                                1
II. BACKGROUND  ...............................................                    2
A. General .......................                                          2
B. The Agricultural Sector ..... ...............                           3
C. Cashewnuts ..........................................                   4
III. THE PROJECT                ....................................... .           7
A. General Description ........           .........................         7
B. Detailed Features  ...................................                  8
C. Project Costs ................... ....................                 10
D. Financing             ...........................................      12
E. Procurement              .........................................     12
F. Disbursements  .......          ................................       13
C . Accounts and Audit ......           ............................      13
H. Project Monitoring          .....................                      14
tV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ..............................                  14
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRODUCER BENEFITS ....                ..........    16
VI. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ......................                    18
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS  ..........................................                   20
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Tanzania
in October 1973 composed of Messrs. D. Lomax and U. Mbanefo (IBRD) and
D. Rest (Consultant).



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
A?NEXES
1.   Ujamaa and TANU
Table 1      Formation of Ujamaa Villages:  Comparison of 1971 & 1972
data
2.   Cashewnut Production
3.   Cashewnut Processing - Appendix A - Fitancial and Economic
Analysis of Hanc. and Machine Processing
4.   Factory Construction and D)evelopment
Table 1      Factory Capital Costs
Table 2      Typical Factory Profit and Loss Accounts
Table 3      Raw M4aterial - Requirements
Table 4      Estimates of Factory Labor Requirements
Table 5      Supplies Requirements
Table 6      Transportation of Kernels
Appendix A   Cashewnut Processing Facilities:  Outline of a Request
for Tender
5.  Extension and Grading
6.   Cashew Research
7.   Project Costs
Table 1      Summary of Development Cost
Table 2      CATA Headquarters Fixed Assets
Table 3      CATA Headquarters Operating Costs
Table 4      Extension and Grading Services - Fixed Assets
Table 5      Extension and Grading Services - Operating Costs
Table 6      Mtwara Agricultural Research Center - Pixed Assets
fable 7      Mtwara Agricultural Researth Cente-r - Operatihg Costs
Taible S     Factory Development
Table 9      Factory Land Development Costs
Table 10     Factory Building Requirements
Table 11     Factory Equipment Requirements
Table 12     Costs of Factory Water Infrastructure
Table 13     Cost:  Rural Water Supply
Table 14     Cost:  Community Education Centers
Table 15     Technical Services



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Contined)
8.   Disbursements
Table 1      Disbursement Categories of Bank Loan
Table 2      Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
9.   The Cashewnut Authority of Tanzania
10. Staffing Schedules
11. Markets and Prices
Table 1      Cashew Kernel Sales Prices
12.
Table 1      CATA Project Related Profit and Loss Accounts
Table 2      CATA Project Related Cash Flow
Table 3      CATA Profit and Loss Accounts
13. Government Project Related Cash Flow
14. Economic Analysis
Table 1      Economic Costs
Table 2      Economic Benefits
Table 3      Financial Costs
Table 4      Financial Benefits
MAP
Cashewnut Development Project
CHARTS
CATA Organization Chart IBRD 8246
Factory Construction Schedule IBRD 8551
Rate of increasing Factory Capacity IBRD 8552






TANZANIA
CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Tanzania's development strategy has given emphasis to agricultural
and rural development, As part of its rural development program and in line
with Government's recent decentralization of its administrative functions, a
balanced regional development effort has recently been undertaken. Within
this context greater attention has been given to the construction of agri-
cultural feeder roads, rural water supplies and health and educational fa-
cilities. Government also intends to concentrate its resources in directly
productive investments, particularly in agriculture. As Tanzania is the
world's second largest producer of cashewnuts and nearly all of this comes
from smallholders of whom 350,000 in the Project area produce 75% of Tanzania's
production, the expansion of cashewnut processing is the most promising
method of developing the area and has been given a high priority under Gov-
ernment's Second Five-Year Plan (1969-74).
ii,       The proposed Project is aimed at integrating the cashewnut industry
and providing a base for increasing farmers' incomes by establishing processing
factories and providing essential infrastructure. As part of the Project five
processing factories would be established each of which would include a farm
access road maintenance unit, a cooperative shop and a dispensary. The Proj-
ect would also provide storage facilities for Cashewnut Shell Liquid (CNSL)
and offices, houses and equipment for the Cashewnut Authority of Tanzania
(CATA) headquarters at Mtwara. The Project would support cashewnut research
and the establishment of a cashew extension and grading service, and in addi-
tion, would include provisions for expanding rural water and education facili-
ties. Finally, it would provide for technical services, training and future
Project preparation. The Project would be implemented by Government and
CATA.
iii.      Total Project cost is estimated at US$30.3 million.  The proposed
IUS$21 million Bank loan would cover the foreign exchange costs and 36% of
local costs. Factory plant, machinery, equipment and technical services
valued at US$9.5 million (excluding contingencies) would form the basis of
a turnkey contract, other machinery, equipment and motor vehicles (US$.8
million) would be procured separately from this. Both would be procured
under international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA guide-
lines. A turnkey contract is considered essential due to the small number
of processing machinery manufacturers and due to the technical nature of
their products each factory would have to be equipped with one type of
equipment to ensure efficiency of production. As the Project area is
remote and there is adequate local building capacity, all buildings and



costruction contracts (US$2.4 million) would be subject to local competi-
tive bidding or construction by force account. The bulk of the IBRD loan
and the Governments' own contribution would be respectively onlent to CATA
and take the form of an equity investment. The loan would be at 8-1/2Z for
20 years including a 5-vear grace period and would amount to about Tsh 80
million (US$11.7 million excluding contingencies).
iv,       The Project would support Government's rural development objectives
by expanding the production and processing of cashewnuts, by expanding rural
water supplies and by providing seven new community education centers. The
maintenance of the farm access road network would ease the difficulties of
transporting not only raw cashewnuts, but also food and other items not
directly connected with the cashew industry. The dispensary at each factory
would help to meet the health requirements of the rural population. As a
direct result of the Project, family cash incomes would be increased by
about 24% in thf poorer regions of the country. At full development, the
Project would create additional permanent employment for about 5,000 indivi-
duals who would be employed by CATA in the factories and in the extension,
grading and research services. Annual cash income of these employees would
be about US$420 against a current wage estimated at not more than US$200.
By expanding cashew research, the Project would provide a base from which
it will be possible to increase farmers' benefits.
v.        As a result of the Project, total output of raw cashewnuts in
Tanzania would increase from 124,000 tons to about 143,000 tons; that is
by 19,000 tons per year at full Project development in year 7 (1983). The
five factories to be constructed under the Project woulld process 9,000 tons
of cashew kernels and 2,500 tons of cashewnut shell liquid (CNSL).
vi.       The economic rate of return on the Project is estimated at 39%
over 20 years. Foreign exchange costs and earnings were shadow priced at
Tsh 10 per US$1 to reflect the scarcity value of foreign exchange in Tanzania
(th-e official exchange rate is now Tsh 7.14 per US$1).
vii,      Six IDA credits totalling US$62.1 million have been approved thus
far for agricultural projects in Tanzania. These include one for agricultural
credit, two for livestock and one each for tobacco, tea and cotten. In addi-
tion, an education credit provided US$3.3 million for agricultural training
in 1971. Performance under the projects has been mixed.
viii.     Subject to the required assurances, the Project would be suitable
for a Bank loan of US$21 million for a period of 20 years to the Government
of Tanzania.



TANZANIA
CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01       Tanzania's development strategy has given emphasis to agricultural
and rural development. As part of its rural development program and in line
with Government's recent decentralization of its administrative functions,
a balanced regional development effort has recently been initiated. Within
this context greater attention has been given to the construction of agri-
cultural feeder roads, rural water supplies and health and educational facili-
ties. Government also intends to concentrate its resources in directly pro-
ductive investments, particularly in agriculture. As Tanzania is the world's
second largest producer of cashewnuts and nearly all of this comes from small-
holders of whom 350,000 in the Project area produce 75% of Tanzania's produc-
tion, the expansion of cashewnut processing is the most promising method of
developing the area and has been given a high priority under Government's
Second Five-Year Plan (1969-74). The objectives, to which this Project
would make an important contribution, are to increase cashewnut processing
capacity as well as raw cashewnut production by peasant farmers in order to
provide a base from which rural incomes can be increased.
1.02       The proposed Project would comprise a 5-year program to increase
the production and processing of cashewnuts. It would provide 5 new processing
factories, support services to ujamaa-villages, 1/ storage facilities and
extension, research and other teclmical services.  It would ultimately reach
about 350,000 of Tanzania's cashew farm families (about 2 million people).
1.03       Government's original request included two items which were excluded
during appraisal. The first was for peeling units to assist hand processing
operations and the second was for two factories at Tunduru and Kilwa. On
appraisal it was found that the use of peeling machines would not improve
the economic viability of hand processing in Tanzania (Annex 3 Appendix A).
Because of its location in relation to CATA's headquarters, Tunduru would
create difficult management control problems. Kilwa also has locational
problems and the production and quality of nuts in that area are too low for
efficient processing. The Goveinment has agreed to these changes.
1.04       Six IDA credits totalling US$62.1 million have been approved thus
far for agricultural Projects in Tanzania. These include one for agricultural
credit, two for livestock and one each for tobacco, tea and cotton. In addi-
tion, an education credit provided US$3.3 million for agricultural training
1/    Ujamaa are economic and social communities where the members of the com-
munity agree to live and work together for the benefit of the community
as a whole.



-2-
in 1971. Performance under the projects has been mixed. The Agricultural
Credit project was moderately successful after some initial institutional
problems.  The first Livestock Project has been satisfactorily complet-
ed, while the second has only jus: started.  The development of the tobacco
Project has been disappointing and slower than expected. There has been a
shortfall in recruitment of farmers expected to grow tobacco due to prema-
ture introduction of collective cultivation under the ujamaa system. The
Smallholder Tea Project has serious management problems and area planted is
only about one half of that originally expected. The Geita Cotton Project
has recently been approved by the Executive Directors.
1.05       The Bank's Economic Mission of 1972 drew attention to the need for
investment in the cashewnut industry and subsequently the Project was prepared
by Government with assistance from the IBRD Regional Mission in East Africa
(RMEA). This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to
Tanzania in October, 1973 composed of D. Lomax, U. Mbanefo (IBRD) and D.
Rest (Consultant).
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01       Tanzania with a total area of about 880,000 km  is sparsely popu-
lated; the average density is under 15 per km2. The population of 13.9 mil-
lion is increasing at 2.7 percent a year. Overall per capita-GNP for 1973 is
estimated at US$110 per annum while in the Southern region per capita income
is estimated at about US$38 per annum. Over 90 percent of the people are
dependent on agriculture and 40 percent of GNP is derived from this sector.
The growth rate of the economy has been about 5.6% per annum from 1965 through
1971. Actual growth has been behind the Second Five-Year Plan (1969-1974)
targets, mainly due to failure of the main agricultural crops to reach plan
projections.
2.02       Tanzania aims at reducing inequalities in income distribution through
emphasis on smallholder agriculture and rural development, and State control
of important industries, services and large-scale agricultural enterprises.
To facilitate rural development and to improve the efficiency of Government
administration, greater responsibility for development was recently given to
the 20 regions (divided into about 70 relatively autonomous districts) speci-
fically for the identification of education, feeder road, rural water supply
and agricultural projects within the regions,



- 3 -
B. The Agricultural Sector
The Organization of Production
2.03       Most production is concentrated on smallholdings which are culti-
vated by hand and produce family subsistence as well as cash crops. The
family provides most of the labor, and hiring workers is discouraged as alien
to the socialist spirit of the country. Limited use is made of oxen, mainly
in the less densely populated parts of the cotton growing area. The area
cultivated by a family is generally about 5-6 ha (some of this interplanted)
but varies from under 2 ha in the more favored agricultural areas to 50 ha in
less favored areas. Plots tend to be irregular but fragmentation is only
serious in such densely populated areas as Kilimanjaro.
2.04       Important smallholder cash crops are cotton, cashewnuts, tea, tobacco,
coffee, maize and rice. Large estates produce sisal, coffee, tea and coco-
nuts, and state farms mainly wheat, rice and livestock. Estate production has
diminished in importance, and the state farm program remains small. Tanzania's
national herd of 13 million cattle grazes extensively over the 40 percent of
the country which is free from tsetse fly. There is little integration of
livestock into crop farming. Coffee is the major export crop; coffee ex-
ports valued at Tsh 383 million represented 19% of total exports in 1972; in
the same period cotton accounted for 17% of the total, and sisal and cashew
8% each. The remainder consists, inter alia of exports of tea, meat, pyrethrum,
and beans.
Ujamaa Villages (Annex 1)
2,05      A major instrument of Government's rural development strategy is
the reorganization of production on communal lines in ujamaa villages, usually
comprised of 60-70 families, Ujamaa is a movement based on a maximum of self-
help and self reliance: the ultimate aim is to transform Ujamaa villages into
multi-purpose cooperative production societies, Some of these are formed by
physical resettlement, others without change of location, Although the objec-
tive is primarily social and political, Government recognizes that Ujamaa
villages must be economically viable. In December, 1972 a total of 5,556
ujamaa villages involving nearly 2 million people were in some stage of de-
velopment, and 315 of these were registered cooperatives. There has been
some opposition by farmers to ujamaa, particularly in areas with established
cash crops. Success in implementing this program has varied considerably
between areas and regions, and over-enthusiasm by local officials has on
occasion led to undue pressure on farmers to form ujamaas, with subsequent
adverse effects on production.
Agricultural Services
2.06       Extension.  The agricultural extension service is organized region-
ally with a coordinating office in Dar es Salaam. About 2,500 field staff



-4-
are engaged on crop work, and a further 2,000 on animal husbandry and animal
health programs; the average officer is responsible for 900-1,000 farmers.
The extension services have thus far been rather ineffective in introducing
improved techniques to farmers. Major factors have been the lack of adequate
staff, inadequate training in the more valuable techniques, and poor manage-
ment; the latter is reflected in a lack of logistic support, frequent transfers,
and problems with the administration of pay and allowance. There is no spe-
cific cashew extension section.
2.07       Research.  Agricultural research is organized in twelve major
centers, each handling several crops or livestock. Priorities are set by
a conference under the chairmanship of the Director of Crop Development or
Livestock Development in the Ministry of Agriculture. Cashew research is
carried out at the Mtwara Research and Training Institute, Thus far the
program has concentrated mainly on seed selection, vegetative propagation
and spacing trials, The cashew research section at Mtwara is severely under
staffed and there is a serious shortage of research equipment.
C. Cashewnuts (Annex 2)
2.08       The cashewnut is the product of the cashew tree which grows on poor
sandy soil to a height of around 6 meters. The tree has about a 30-year bear-
ing life, yielding a significant quantity of nuts (attached to an apple-like
fruit) from about year 5 on. The cashewnut itself has an outer hard shell as
well as a brittle inner shell which protects the kernel.  A resin between the
two shells is the source of cashewnut shell liquid (CNSL) used commercially
for paints and varnishes. The cashew trees are best spread 10 meters apart
(about 100 trees per ha) and require a small amount of weeding in the form of
annual bush clearing. The crop is harvested by collecting the ripe nuts from
the ground under the tree, and it is essential that this area be kept clean
if significant losses are to be prevented.
2.09       Tanzania ranks second only to Mozambique in total production of
cashewnuts. In 1971/72 it produced about 115,000 to 120,000 tons of nuts,
as compared with 170,000 tons for Mozambique and 55,000 tons for India. Tan-
zania's production in that year thus represented about 28% of total world
production of 407,000 tons. About 75% of Tanzania's production is concentrated
in the Project area, being the Lindi and Mtwara regions and the Tunduru dis-
trict of Ruvuma region (map) where cashewnuts are the major cash crop of the
two million inhabitants.
2.10       Cashewnuts are produced almost entirely by smallholders who own
between 200 and 400 trees crowded onto an area of about 1 ha. Plantings are
generally scattered rather than set out in rows, and in many cases are not
given adequate spacing. The smallholder generally pays little attention to
his trees due to the mistaken belief that as a bush crop they need no care.



-5-
This belief is reinforced by the latk of any cashew extension service. Crop
yields average about 325 kg per ha F.s compared with yields of over 1,000 kg
per ha which could be achieved by following simple husbandry practices;
essentially, weeding and thinning. About 60% of this total production is
Tanzanian standard grade and 40% is second grade. Standard grade is defined
as that sample of raw nuts having less than 13% defective nuts; a sample 13%
to 23% defective is classified as second gracle, and any sample over 23% is
discarded. Defective nuts include black nuts, aborted nuts and nuts where
germination has started.
2.11       Project area farmers are organized into cashew cooperatives and
market their raw nuts through cooperative btying centers where they are
weighed, graded and purchased. Each cooperative operates 3 or 4 buying
centers. Cooperatives then transport the nuts to a central marketing store
now operated by the Cashewnut Authority of Tanzania (formerly operated by
the National Agricultural Produce Board) where a regrading is done prior to
processing or eventual export as raw nuts.
Processing (Annex 3)
2.12       The objective of processing raw cashewnuts is to extract the high-
est percentage of whole kernels. The processing of cashewnuts has developed
from the original 100% manual processing prevailing in India to the highly
mechanized systems now used in some parts of Tanzania and Mozambique.  At
present, there are only three companies in the world who manufacture cashewnut
processing equipment (one British, one Italian and one Japanese). Both the
manual and mechanical systems involve the following steps: sizing, humidi-
fication, heat treatment, decortication (removal of both shells) drying of
kernel, peeling the kernel, grading and packing. The cashewnut shell which
has a high calorific content can be used as fuel in the heat treatment step
of processing. The essential difference between the methods arises at the
decortication stage. With manual processing the nut is cracked open by
being placed upon an anvil and struck with a stick or wooden hammer; the
kernel is then separated from the shell by hand. In mechanical shelling the
shell is opened either by knives or by projection at high velocity against
an anvil; the kernel is then separated by pneumatic devices. Mechanical pro-
cessing allows for the separation of a higher percentage of CNSL, production
yield being about 6% by weight. In most countries under both processes the
production yield of kernels whether whole or broken is about 23% by weight;
however, Tanzania has not been able to develop a sufficiently high standard
for hand processing and there is a significantly higher percentage of broken
kernels. Hand processing operates at a financial loss in Tanzania due to
low labor productivity and low quality of production. Financial and eco-
nomic comparisons of hand to mechanical processing in Tanzania are set out
in Annex 3, Appendix A.
2.13      Out of a total production of about 124,000 tons (1972/73) of raw
nuts Tanzania now has the capacity to process about 27,000 tons, 20,000 by
machine an4 7,000 by hand.



-6-
Cashew Marketing
2.14       Cashewnut shell liquid is exported mainly to Japan, the United King-
dom and the USA for use in the automobile and paint industries. CNSL is of
minor importance in cashewnut processing as its sales value represents only
about 2.5% of total sales value. India is the main market for exportable raw
cashewnuts not processed in producing countries. Historically, the Indian
processors have bought for their own account, but in 1970 the Indian Govern-
ment formed a single buying agency--the Cashew Corporation of India. Imports
of raw cashewnuts by India have declined from 178,000 tons in 1968 to 131,000
tons in 1971, as the producing countries, particularly Mozambique, have moved
to develop their own processing capability. Tanzania now exports about 80%
of its raw nut production to India; the remaining 20% is processed domestically
and then exported.
2.15       The cashew kernel is sold mainly as a dessert nut.  Other important
dessert nuts include the almond, walnut, brazil, hazel and pecan. Dessert
nuts are packed either as mixed nuts or as single varieties and because of
its bland taste and low price related to other nuts, the cashew (together
with groundnuts) generally constitutes the largest percentage of a mixed pack.
For primary marketing purposes cashew kernels are classified by number of
whole nuts per lb and the 320 whole nut classification price is the price
which is quoted by dealers in London and New York. Broken kernels are sold
mainly to the confectionery industry. Kernel sales are mainly through agents.
2.16       The main importing countries for cashew kernels are USA and USSR,
and these two countries accounted for about 80% of total world kernel imports
during the years 1969/71. Although world kernel imports have remained steady
at around 82,000 tons for this period, FAO projects world demand for cashew
kernels to grow at 10% per annum over the next 7 years while current supply
projections indicate a growth of about 5% per annum over the same period.
Cashewnut Authority of Tanzania (Annex 4)
2.17       The Cashewnut Authority of Tanzania (CATA) was established in 1973
under the Cashewnut Industry Act as a statutory body designated to coordinate
all aspects of production, processing and marketing of cashewnuts. The Act
gave CATA virtual monopoly powers over the cashewnut industry, subject only
to the over-riding authority of the Minister of Agriculture. It provided
for a Chairman appointed by the President, a Board of Directors comprised of
from ten to fifteen members appointed by the Minister of Agriculture, and a
General Manager appointed by the President to serve as chief executive of
the Authority. Final financial details with regard to the initial capital
structure of CATA are not expected to be completed until mid 197h; in the
interim it will continue to function under provisional arrangements. When
fully operational CATA will purchase raw nuts from the cooperative unions
for its processing facilities and arrange for the export of kernels and the
export to India of all unprocessed nuts. CATA will also be responsible for



-7-
maintenance of an extension and grading service and for cashew research.  CATA
has already taken over the activities of the National Agricultural Products
Board;(NAP3) related to the purchase and sale of raw cashewnuts. The National
Development Corporation (NDC) still owns the National Cashew Corporation (NCC),
and CATA will eventually take over those assets of NCC necessary for its opera-
tions. CATA will also take over from the National Development Corporation its
85% equity in the Tanita Co. (the other 15% being held privately) and its 50%
equity in Mtwara Cashew Company, the other 50% is held by the Japanese Cashew
Corporation. Tanita at present mechanically processes about 12,000 tons of
raw nuts per year at its plant in Dar es Salaam, however plans are being im-
plemented to increase this capacity to 25,000 tons by 1980. Mtwara Cashew
Company recently opened new facilities with a design capacity of 8,000 tons
per year and has approved plans to increase this to 20,000 tons. NCC operates
hand processing units with a total annual capacity of about 7,000 tons.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The Project would over 5 years (1974/75-1979/80) increase cashewnut
production and processing in Tanzania through the strengthening of extension
services, the establishment of processing factories, and the improvement of
infrastructure. The Project would include:
(a) establishment of 5 Cashewnut processing factories and port
storage facilities for Cashewnut Shell Liquid (CNSL);
(b) establishment of a cashew extension and grading service;
(c) improvement of cashew research facilities;
(d) construction of office and staff accommodation for CATA
headquarters;
(e) construction of improved water supplies and education
facilities in selected villages within the cashewnut
producing areas; and
(f)  technical services, and future project preparation.
The Project would be implemented by the Government and by the Cashewnut
Authority of Tanzania (CATA) under the general direction of the Ministry of
Agriculture.



-8-
B.  Detailed Features
Factory Development (Annex 4)
3.02       The Project would provide 5 new factories (Map) with a processing
capacity of 40,000 tons of raw nuts per annum to produce about 9,000 tons of
kernels and 2,500 tons of Cashew Shell Liquid (CNSL). Factories At Masasi,
Newala and Lindi would each have a 10,000 ton raw nut capacity per annum and
factories at Nachingwea and Mtama would each have a raw nut capacity of
5,000 tons per annum. Suitable factory sites, already owned by Government,
have been identified at each of the locations based, inter alia, upon their
proximity to labor, production, and infrastructure sources. The main invest-
ment items for factories would include buildings (including a dispensary and
cooperative shop), processing equipment (comprising decorticators, roasters,
peelers, humidifiers, etc.) and factory water development. Provision would
also be made for a farm access road maintenance unit to be attached to each
factory which would maintain about 500 km of such roads in the surrounding
area. The Project would also provide for the construction of CNSL storage
facilities at Mtwara which would include a storage tank, pumps and piping
and would have a capacity of 700 tons equivalent an annual throughput of
2,800 tons, Assurances were obtained at negotiations that Ministry of Com-
munications and Works would continue to maintain primary and secondary roads
in the Project area.  Assurances were obtained that the location, design and
specifications of the processing and storage facilities would be acceptable
to the Bank. To ensure orderly development of the industry, assurances were
obtained at negotiations that no other cashewnut processing plant would be
built or expanded during the constructiop period of Project factories without
prior consultation with the Bank.
Extension and Grading Service (Annex 5)
3.03       An extension and grading service would be set up within CATA under
the direction of a Chief Agricultural Officer. The service would be de-
signed to advise cashew farmers on improved agricultural methods through farm
visits, demonstrations and the use of radioprograms and mobile film units.
It would concentrate on instructing farmers in good husbandry practices, and
would also serve to familiarize farmers with some of the practical recommen-
dations arising out of the projected research program (para 3.04).  The ex-
tension staff would be organized with one extension officer for each of the
existing 395 buying centers which would service about 900 farmers each. The
grading service would complement the extension service, as it would not only
test the quality of the nuts but would also identify those farmers most in
need of extension advice. The grading service would be set up with one
grading officer for each of the existing 131 cooperative societies; each
officer would then service about three or four buying centers.



-9-
Cashew Research (Annex 6)
3.04       A research program would be carried out by the Mtwara Research and
Training Institute which would be designed to improve the efficiency of
farming and land use. The program would include research on individual tree
care, fertilizer application, controlled utilization of insecticides and
inter-cropping of cashew with food crops. Provision would be made for 12
man-years of senior research personnel to include inter alia an entomologist,
agronomist, and an economist as well as for the necessary vehicles and equip-
ment and supporting staff.
CATA Headquarters
3.05      In view of Mtwara's position as the most prominent commercial
and administrative center in the Project area, and in view of the latter's
remoteness from Dar es Salaam, Government has proposed to move CATA Head-
quarters to Mtwara, Assurances were obtained at negotiations that sufficient
qualified senior staff would be transferred to Mtwara in time to supervise
all factory construction works. Under the Project provision would be made
for additional offices, houses, vehicles and equipment for about 33 Project
staff stationed at CATA Headquarters.
Rural Water Su plies
3.06      In order to supplement the supply of domestic water in rural areas,
the Project would include provision for appropriate dam and well construction
and distribution at seven locations within the Project area. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the design of the rural water systems
would be acceptable to the Bank and that funds for recurrent expenditure would
be made available by Government.
Community Education Centers (CEC)
3.07      Government has embarked on a countrywide program to provide com-
munity education centers each of four classrooms; as part of this Project,
seven CEC's would be constructed under the Project. Assurances were obtain-
ed at negotiations that the design of the centers would be acceptable to the
Bank, and that teachers and funds for recurrent expenditures would be made
available by Government.
Technical Services
3.08       Technical services to be provided under the Project would include:
(a)  CATA Processing Services.  A senior manufacturer's
representative for four years and five assistant
manufacturer's representatives (each for a period of
three years) would be provided as part of a turnkey
contract (para 3.13). Consultant services to assist
in the preparation and evaluation of bid documents for
factory equipment and services would also be provided;



- 10 -
(b)  CATA Other'Services.  Provision would be made for a
Marketing Manager, Financial Manager for four years
each and 12 man-years service of research personnel
to include inter alia an entomologist, agronomist
and an economist;
(c)  Training Program.  Two two-year overseas fellowships would
be provided for assistants to the research personnel at
the Mtwara Research Center; provision would also be made
for study tours and seminars. The Project also includes
provision for one four-month overseas management training
course for each of the five factory managers; and
(d)  Future ProJect Preparation.  Consultant services would be
provided to assist Government or CATA in the preparation
of future cashew projects, as it :Ls expected that the Project
could be replicated.
Operating Expenses and Working Capital
3.09       It will take at least 5 years of concentrated attention by CATA's
administrative, extension and research staff to establish the income earning
capacity of the Project. The operating costs of these services have therefore
been considered as investment costs for the five-year Project period. Factory
working capital is considered to be three months operating costs; the Project
costs provide for factories incremental working capital built up over the
Project period.
C. Project Costs (Annex 7)
3.10       Total Project costs are estimated at Tsh 208.1 million (US$30.3
million), of which Tsh 108.3 million '(US$15.8 million) or 52% would be foreign
exchange. Project costs are summarized below:



- 11 -
-----Tsh million---  ----US$ million----  Foreign  Component as
Exchange    % of
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total        %     Total Costs
Factory Development         31.2   50.2   81.4   4.5    7.3    11.8    62          63.0
Extension & Grading
fixed assets              1.8    2.6    4.4    .3        .4      .7    59         3.4
Mtwara Research Center
fixed assets                .2     .4      .6     -      .1      .1    68         0.5
CATA Headquarters
fixed assets              2.0    1.8    3.8    .3        .2      .5    49         2.9
Rural Water Supplies        3.5    3.5    7.0    .5        .5     1.0    50         5.4
Community Education
Centers                   4.5    2.3    6.8    .7        .3     1.0    34         5.3
Technical Services           1.6    3.9    5.5    .2       .6      .8    70         4.2
Operating Costs
CATA Headquarters           .8     .8    1.6    .1       .2      .3    50         1.5
Extension and Grading   14.5    1.1   15.6   2.1        .1      2.2     7         1.2
Research                  1.9      .7    2.6    .3       .1      .4    25         1.8
Subtotal              17.2    2.6   19.8   2.5       .4      2.9              15.3
Total Project Costs
without contingencies   62.0   67.3  129.3   9.0    9.8    18.8    52           100.0
Contingencies:
Physical                  6.2    6.8   13.0    .9    1.0        1.9    52
Price                    31.6   34.2   65.8   4.6    5.0        9.6    52
37.8   41.0   78.8   5.5    6.0    11.5    52
Total Project Costs
including contingencies 99.8  108.3  208.1  14.5   15.8    30.3    52
Cost estimates include import duties Tsh 800,000 (US$120,000).  A physical
contingency allowance of 10% and a price contingency allowance of 15% per
annum have also been included on all costs.



- 12 -
D. Financing
3.11      The Project costs would be financed as follows:
Tsh million       US$ million       X
Government of Tanzania              32.2             4.6           15
CATA                                31.9             4.7           16
IBRD                               144.0            21.0          69
Total                        208.1            30.3          100
The proposed IBRD loan of US$21 million would be at 7.25% per annum for a
period of 20 years with a grace period of 5 years to Government and would
cover the foreign exchange costs and 36% of local costs. Project funds for
capital expenditure on factory development, the extension and grading ser-
vice, the Mtwara Research Center and CATA Headquarters, would be channelled
to CATA. These funds represent about 70% of total Project Funds. Funds for
rural water development and Community Education Centers would be channelled
directly by the Government to the Regional Director's Office (after approval
by the Ministry of Water Development and Power) and the Ministry of Educa-
tion, respectively. The Government would onlend funds to CATA at 8.5% (the
general onlending rate for agro-industry in Tanzania) for 20 years.  The
loan would have a five-year grace period to allow CATA to achieve sufficient
cash generation. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that Government's
own contribution to CATA would take the form of a grant. The signing of a
subsidiary loan agreement approved by the Bank between the Goveroment and
CATA would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
E. Procurement
3.12      Factory plant, machinery and equipment, four years service of the
senior manufacturer's representative and three years service of each of five
assistant manufacturer's representatives would form the basi-s of a turnkey
contract (US$9,5 million excluding contingencies) whose terms would be accept-
able to the Bank.  Annex 4, Appendix A sets out a pro-forma guideline of a
request for tender, This turnkey contract would be subject to international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. However, as there
are only a few manufacturers of cashewnut processing machinery, competition
is likely to be limited (para 2,12). A turnkey contract is considered essen-
tial due to the small number of processing machinery manufacturers and due to
the technical nature of their products each factory would have to be equipped
with one type of equipment to ensure efficiency of production. Because of the
detailed technical knowledge required in preparing and evaluating bids for
this type of contract, Government would employ a consultant acceptable to



- 13 -
the Bank upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank to assist in the
preparation and evaluation of the bids. All items costing less than US$30,000
would be procured under standard Government or parastatal procedures which are
satisfactory; orders would be bulked. to the maximum extent possible. As the
Project area is remote and as there is adequate local building capacity, all
buildings and construction contracts (US$2.4 million) would be by contracts
sublect   to local competitive bidding or construction by force account
(contracts are likely to be small). Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that the above procurement procedures would be followed.
F. Disbursements (Annex 8)
3.13      Disbursement of funds from the loan would be on the following
basis (costs exclude contingencies):
(a)  100% of foreign expenditures and 95% of local expendi-
tures for the turnkey contract (US$9.5 million);
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures and 95% of local expendi-
tures for other technical services (uS$0.5 million);
(c) 90% of total expenditures for the construction of
buildings and schools (US$2.1 million);
(d) 100% of foreign expenditures and 75% of local expenditures
for equipment and vehicles (US$.7 million); and
(e) 25% of the salary and wages costs of the extension and
grading service of CATA (US$0.4 million).
Disbursement against (a), (b), (c), and (d) would be fully documented. Dis-
bursements against (e) would be made against certificates of expenditure
endorsed by the General Manager of CATA the documentation for which would
not be submitted for review but would be retained by the borrower and made
available for review by the Bank during the course of supervision. As this
Project has a high degree of replicability funds remaining on the loan account
upon completion of the Project would be used in agreement with the Bank for
further development of the cashewnut industry. Annex 8 Table 1 shows dis-
bursement categories and Table 2 shows the estimated disbursement schedule.
G. Accounts and Audit
3,14      CATA would maintain records and accounts adequate to explain all
of its transactions. It would also maintain for each factory cost and other
information necessary for proper management control. The accounting for



_ 14 -
Project expenditures on rural water development and Community Education Cen-
ters would be dealt with in the normal accounting system of the Government
Ministries concerned. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that these
accounting procedures would be followed.
3.15      rJnder the Cashewnut Industry Act 1973 the Tanzania Audit Corpora-
tion (TAC), which audits the accounts of most of the parastatal organizations
and cooperative societies in Tanzania, was appointed the auditor of CATA. In
principle TAC has sufficient independence to discharge these duties but due
to a shortage of personnel within TAC, there have in the past been delays in
presenting audited accounts for which TAC has been responsible. Government
and TAC are now making considerable efforts to overcome this problem. The
accounts of Government Ministries are audited by the Auditor General. Assur-
ances were obtained at negotiations that CATA's accounts would continue to
be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; that a certified
copy of CATA's accounts and of a detailed auditors' report thereon would be
submitted to IBRD within six months following the end of CATA's financial
year. The Government was reminded at negotiations that TAC's continued
acceptability would be dependent upon its achievement of high auditing standards
and timely production of audit reports.
H. Project Monitoring
3.16      The Prime Minister's Office as part of its regular activities is
well placed to monitor a Project of this nature. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that the Government would appoint suitable officials or an
organization to monitor all Project activities; that an annual report would
be prepared, the details of which were discussed at negotiations; and that
a copy of this report. would be submitted to IBRD within six months follow-
ing the end of CATA's financial year.
IV, ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Cashewnut Authority of Tanzania (Annex 9)
4.01      CATA is the independent statutory body set up in 1973 which con-
trols all aspects of the cashewnut industry in Tanzania (para 2.17). Its
policies are formulated by the Board of Directors, and carried out by the
General Manager operating through five departments: factory coordination
and control; marketing; finance; extension, grading and research; and admi-
nistration (Chart). The General Manager would be advised on technical mat-
ters by the senior manufacturer's representative to be provided as part of
the turnkey contract (para 3.12), and would serve as head of the factory
coordination and control department; other department heads would be re-
cruited as part of the Project; while every effort would be made to fill
these posts locally, it is expected that with the possible exception of
the head of the extension, grading and research department, candidates for



- 15 -
these posts would be recruited internationally. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that the appointment of the senior manufacturer's repre-
sentative would be made subject to IBRD approval, and that the Bank would
be consulted prior to the future appointment of heads of departments and
suitably qualified senior research personnel during the 5-year Project period.
4,02                            . All five project factories would be owned
and operated by CATA as self-accounting branches. They would be managed by
Tanzanians who would be advised on technical matters for the first three
years of each factory's operations by the as4istants to the senior manu-
facturer's representative supplied under the turnkey contract (para 3.12).
Development and production plans of the factories would be supervised and
coordinated at CATA headquarters by the General Manager (para 4.01). Pro-
visions made for farm access road maintenance units management and workshops
are adequate, Assurances were obtained at negotiations that appointments
of factory managers and assistant manufacturer's representatives during the
project period would be made after consultation with IBRD.
4.03      Extension Staff.  The extension, grading and research department
of CATA would be headed by a Tanzanian Chief Agricultural Officer. He would
be supported by three Regional Cashew Officers, seven District Cashew Officers,
131 Cashew Officers (one grader per cooperative society, (each cooperative
covers 3 or 4 buying centers)) and 395 Assistant Cashew Officers (one exten-
sion officer per buying center). Regional and District Cashew Officers
would be university graduates. Cashew Officers would hold Certificates of
Agriculture; Assistant Cashew Officers would hold Certificates of Agriculture
or have completed a two-year course at a Farmer Training Center and no recruit-
ment problems are expected as there is an adequate number of potential appli-
cants, Contact would be maintained with the political party, Tanganyika
African National Union (TANU), at its Regional, District, Ward and cell-
organization levels which have up to now carried out virtually all the cashew
extension services (Annex 5). Personnel would live in their operational
areas close to cooperative societies or at ujamaa villages.
4,04      Research.  Under the Project, research into cashew production would
be carried out by a unit within the Mtwara Research Institute. The research
program would be drawn up, implemented and supervised by CATA's Chief Agri-
cultural Officer. Provision has been made as part of the Project's technical
assistance component to cover the cost of 12 man-years' service of research
personnel to include inter alia an entomologist, agronomist and an economist.
It is expected that these would have to be recruited internationally. Three
Tanzanian graduates would be trained to replace the expatriates after the
fourth year. The unit would be supported by adequate field assistants,
laboratory staff and clerks. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
a research program would be drawn up and submitted for review by the Bank
within one year of loan effectiveness.
4.05      Rural Water.  The siting, construction and operation of rural water
facilities would be the responsibilities of the Ministry of Water Development
and Power and the Regional Authorities.



- 16 -
4.06       Community Education Centers.  The location and design of the centers
would be the responsibility of the Ministry of Education which would also super-
vise the evaluation of construction bids and procure the necessary educational
equipment. For the sake of expedience, construction of the CEC's would be
supervised by CATA on behalf of the Ministry of Education where such an
arrangement is mutually agreed between CATA and the Ministry. In the absence
of such agreement, construction of CEC's would be supervised by the Ministry
of Education.
4.07       Staff and Training.  With the exception of staff operating rural
water supplies and community education centers, who would be supplied and
controlled by their respective Government Ministries, all Project staff would
be employed by CATA. Factory staff training would constitute an important
element in the turnkey contract, provision being specifically made for about a
4-month management course for each of the five factory managers (Annex 7,
Table 8). Initially, extension staff would be seconded to CATA from the
Ministry of Agriculture.  Those recraited directly by CATA would have at
least two-year training certificates. All extension staff would undergo
short training courses emphasizing cashewnut and food crop cultivation, and
they would also periodically attend special i;efresher courses. All training
would be carried out at the Ministry of Agriculture Training Institutes and
Farmer Training Centers in the Project area. Provision has been made for
research staff to be trained both in Tanzania and abroad. An overall staff-
ing plan is presented in Annex 10.
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRODUCER BENEFITS
5.01      Project production would arise as a result of:  increased raw nut
production from extension and grading; increased quality of raw nuts from
extension and grading; increased production of fully processed nuts from fac-
tories; and increased production of CNSL from factories.
Increased production from these by year 7 would be:
(i) 19,000 tons of raw nuts;
(ii) a small value increase of Tsh 4 million represented by
a shift in quality of raw nut from a standard grade/second
grade ratio of 60:40 to a ratio of 75:25;
(iii) 9,000 tons of processed nuts (representing 40,000 tons
of raw nuts); and
(iv) 2,500 tons of CNSL.
Current raw nut production in Tanzania is about 124,000 tons and there is
capacity to produce 6,200 tons of kernels and about 1,200 tons of CNSL.



- 17 -
Prices and Markets (Annex 11)
5.02      Farmer prices of raw nuts are state controlled.  In keeping with
current practice, Government and CATA would at the beginning of each buying
season publish the fixed prices at which CATA would buy raw nuts from coopera-
tive unions and the prices at which the unions would buy from the farmers.
For the 1972/73 season, farmer prices were Tsh 950 per ton for standard grade
nuts and Tsh 750 per ton for second grade nuts. These prices are consistent
with world prices, In 1973/74, the National Agricultural Products Board (CATA's
predecessor) paid the unions prices averaging about Tsh 1,200 per ton for
standard grade and about Tsh 950 per ton for second grade nuts. Raw nuts
are exported to India at a negotiated price which in 1972/73 averaged about
Tsh 1,295 per ton of 60:40 standard/second grade ratio. Exports of raw nuts
are subject to a tax of 7,5X payable by the buyer. It would be desirable
for CATA to introduce a grading/price structure which will give more of a
differential between standard and second grade. However, it is anticipated
that this would take some time to introduce. The increase in value added
as a result of Project processing is expected to be passed on to the farmers
in the form of higher prices. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
within two years the borrower would establish and thereafter maintain a pric-
ing structure for cashewnuts based on the grading of such nuts and closely
relating world prices to farmgate prices less appropriate marketing and
processing costs. Processing costs would include depreciation and a reason-
able return on capital.
5.03       The local processing industry now has capacity to absorb about
27,000 tons, or 20% of Tanzania's total current production. The remainder
is exported to India for processing and subsequent re-export as kernels.
Tanzania's cashew kernels are exported mainly to Europe and the USA; CNSL
is exported mainly to Japan for use in the manufacture of automobile brake
linings and certain paints and lacquers. Demands for both cashew kernels
and CNSL are strong and are expected to remain so, with demand for kernels
growing at about 10% per annum. With proper marketing, good marketing in-
telligence and continued use of well-established brokers in New York, London
and Tokyo, no difficulty is envisaged in marketing the Project's output of
kernels and CNSL.
5.04       Kernel prices are usually quoted per pound of 320 wholes --this
being the standard to which prices of all other sizes (e.g., 420 wholes,
240 wholes, splits, brokens, etc.) are directly related. In the last three
months of 1973, kernel sales prices ranged between US$1.03 and US$1.20 per
lb c & f New York for 320 wholes. These prices are slightly higher than those
projected for the long term; however prices are expected to stabilize and
remain firm at about US$0.90 lb c & f New York for 320 wholes and this is
the constant price which has been employed throughout in the calculations of
Project benefits. CNSL prices are now around US$240 per ton c.i.f. Tokyo.
This price is expected to remain fairly stable in the long run.



- 18 -
Farmer Benefits
5.05       There would be two sources of benefits accruing to farmers as a
result of the Project. First, there would be an increase of about 20% in
the total output of raw nuts and secondly the standard grade/second grade
nut ratio would shift from 60:40 to about 75:25. These two factors would
combine to increase the family cash income oi. about 350,000 families in the
Project area from the current level of about US$41 per annum to an average
of US$51 per annum by 1983.
Benefits to CATA
5.06      Financial arrangements for the setting up of CATA had not been
finalized at the time of Project appraisal (para 2.17). Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that by June 30, 1976 Government would take avail-
able to CATA sufficient funds in the form of grants so that the.consolidated
current assets of CATA and its subsidiaries shall be at least equal to the
consolidated current liabilities of CATA and its subsidiaries. The Project
within CATA is expected to sustain trading losses during the first three
years (Annex 12, Table 1). Thereafter, net profits are expected to rise
rapidly from.Tsh 5.7 million (US$.8 million) in year 4 to Tab 3.0 million
(US$1.9 million) in year 5, and reach a peak of Tsh 14.6 million (US$2.1
million) in year 7. There would be no subsidy to CATA. A projected cash
flow statement (Annex 12, Table 2) shows that the Project, within CATA,
would generate a net annual cash surplus of Tsh 2.5 million (US$.4 million)
in year 3 rising to Tsh 11,3 million (US$1.6 million) in year 5 and averag-
ing annual surplus of about Tsh 2,0 million (US$.3 million) thereafter.
Government Benefits
5.07       A Government cash flow for the Project is in Annex 13.  It shows
that Government annual cash inflows including taxes on CATA profits, dividends
and loan repayments from CATA would exceed Government's expenditure on the
Project and Bank loan service by Tsh 3.3 million (US$.5.million) in year 6.
This surplus would build up to an average of Tah 6.0 million (US5.9 million)
per year from year 7 to year 20. From 1980 onwards, the Project is expected
to result in annual average net foreign exchange earnings of about Tsh 50
million (US$7.3 million).
VI. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01       The Project would support Government's rural development objectives
and the high priority given to cashew processing under the Second Five Year
plan by expanding the production and processing of cashewnuts, by expanding
rural water supplies and by providing seven new community education centers.



- 19 -
The maintenance of the road network would ease the difficulties of transport-
ing not only raw cashewnuts, but also food and other items not directly con-
nected with the cashew industry.  The dispersary at each factory would help
to meet the projected health requirements of the rural population. As a
direct result of the Project, family cash incomes would be increased by about
24% in areas among the poorer regions of the country. Total family subsist-
ence and cash income in the area is estimated at US$217 including US$41 cash
income and would increase to US$227 including US$51 cash income. At full
development, the Project would create additional permanent employment for
about 5,000 individuals who would be employed by CATA in the factories and
in the extension, grading and research services. By expanding cashew research
the Project would provide a base from which it will be possible to increase
farmer's benefits.
Economic Rate of Return (Annex 14)
6.02      The benefits of the Project arise from sales of raw nuts, cashew
kernels and CNSL. The economic rate of return on the entire Project is es-
timated at 39% over 20 years; that on the extension and grading element ex-
ceeds 100% while that on the processing element is estimated at 29%. In
these calculations foreign exchange costs and earnings were shadow priced
at Tsh 10 per US$1 to reflect the scarcity value of foreign exchange in
Tanzania (the official exchange rate is now Tsh 7.14 per US$1). Without
shadow pricing of foreign exchange, the rate of return on the whole Project
would be 27%. Processing labor has not been shadow priced. There is under-
employment in the area but nevertheless it seems that labor would not be
prepared to work in the processing plants at wages below the prevailing ones.
If labor were shadow priced at 50% of the prevailing wage rate, however, the
rate of return would increase by 4% to 43%. The farm labor has not been
costed as there is little additional work required.
Sensitivity Analysis
6.03      There are a number of factors which could adversely affect the out-
come of the Project. The two most important considerations are the problems
involved in administering this complex and extensive Project in relatively
remote locations, and those associated with finding suitable managerial talent
for the factories which would be located in those areas. However, in view of
the Government's regionalisation policy, the detailed Project preparation and
and the elimination of two of the more remote factory sites, and taking into
account the technical services to be provided as part of the turnkey contract
no substantial difficulties in Project administration are foreseen. A 10%
increase in costs would reduce the IER on the whole Project by 3% to 36%.
With a 10% reduction in benefits the IER would fall by 5% to 34%. The Project's
rate of return is therefore not particularly sensitive to either an increase
in costs or a reduction of benefits.



- 20 -
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations assurances were obtained from Government that:
(a) The location, design and specifications of processing
factories would be acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.02);
(b) No other cashewnut processing plant would be built or
expanded during construction period of Project factories
without prior consultation with the Bank (para. 3.02);
(c) That sufficient qualified senior staff would be transferred
to Mtwara in time to supervise all factory construction
wo.rks (para 3.05);
(d) Factory plant, machinery and equipment, four years service
of the senior manufacturer's representative and three years
service of each of five assistants to this representative
would form the basis of a turnkey contract whose terms would
be acceptable to the Bank; the contract would be awarded after
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines, and Government would employ a consultant
acceptable to the Bank upon terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank to assist in the preparation and
evaluation of bids (para. 3.12);
(e) Within two years of signing the Government would establish
in consultation with the Bank and thereafter maintain a
pricing structure for cashewnuts based on the grading of
such nuts and closely relating world prices to farmgate
prices less appropriate marketing and processing costs
(para 5.02); and
(f) That by June 30, 1976 Government would make available to
CATA sufficient funds ini the form of grants so that the
consolidated current assets of CATA and its subsidiaries
shall be at least equal to the consolidated current liabili-
ties of CATA and its subsidiaries.
7.02      Condition of loan effectiveness would be that:
(a) A subsidiary loan agreement approved by the Bank had been
signed between Government and CATA (para. 3.11).
7.03      The proposed Project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$21.0 million.
April 29, 1974



ANNEX 1
Page 1
TANZANIA
CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ujamaa and TANU
The Ujamaa Village Program
1.        Tanzania's socialist development policy is aimed at the simul-
taneous achievement of rapid economic growth and an egalitarian society.
Perhaps one of the most important aspects of this policy is the increasing
emphasis on agriculture and rural development, and in recent years the rural
development strategy was focused on the establishment of cooperatives or
ujamaa villages throughout the country. The immediate objectives are social
and political to foster a sense of self-reliance through self-help, to
achieve equality of income, and to raise rural incomes in order to close the
rural/urban gap and reduce the flow of people to the major towns. Government
recognizes, however, that to be successful in these spheres, the strategy
must be economically viable, and cooperative production - only possible
with the new social attitude - is set as the final goal. The formation of
ujamaa villages, which is one of the most conspicuous features of the
execution of the policy, is important in those rural areas of Tanzania,
where the greatest progress towards ujamaa has been made so far. However,
cooperative production can take place without any resettlement and, parti-,
cularly in the most closely populated area, will probably be developed on
that basis.
2.        The Prime Minister's Office is charged with the development of
ujamaa villages. A Rural Development Division coordinates with TANU (the
political party organization) and other executive Ministries, and is
responsible for continuous evaluation of ujamaa operations. The standardi-
zation of reporting and assessment of economic performance is still poor
but these problems are receiving close attention. Technical support is given
by other Ministries, especially the Ministry of Agriculture.
3.        It is difficult to gauge progress with ujamaa in quantitative
terms, because this is marked by the acceptance of a cooperative attitude
to working and living as well as by the economic success in production.
The latter is only now being evaluated by the Tanzanians. A count of
ujamaa villages and the population involved in them is some guide to pro-
gress, but village formation is reported in three stages and the first,
unspecific, stage which dominates the statistics tends to be overestimated
in spite of efforts to improve reporting. Estimates of population in
villages may also be high due to double counting. Subject to these reser-
vations, Table 1 shows progress with village formation.  In April 1971,



ANNEX 1
Page 2
17 villages had been registered with the Registrar of Cooperatives and vere
accepted as being Stage III; by October 1971 this total had rdlen to bout
40, and in December 1972, 315 villages had been registered.
4.        The stages in ujamaa development, based on sources of fla=ce
open to villages, are:
(a)  A formative stage during which resettled villages acquire
financial aid for activities such as clearing bush, access
road construction and purchase of initial equipment. In
practice, they often also need food, which cannot always be
raised locally. At this stage the Regional Developzsnt
Funds are the major source of assistance. Villages,that
are members of primary marketing cooperatives also receive
the same servicing facilities as individual members.
(b)  A growing stage in which the village members learn to live
and work together, putting increasingly more of their work
effort into commercial crops and activities. The village
had a workable constitution, and when it has become
-economically viable Tegisters as an Agricultural Association.
Credit may then be obtained from the Tanzania Rural Develop-
ment Bank (TRDB).
(c)  The final, mature stage is when the ujamaa village registers
with the Registrar of Cooperatives. It may become a full
multipurpose cooperative society, and would have adequate
security to attract commercial credit. The assessment of
when this stage is reached is carried-out by the local
Cooperative Officer, Agricultural Officer, and TANU
secretary.
5.        In the early years of ujamaa development, officials exerted
pressure on farmers to form villages. The basic principle of ujamaa
formation was thus transgressed, i.e., that it take place on the un-coerced
initiative of members. This policy of coercion has been abandoned for some
years, but there have been signs of undue persuasion again being used,
almost certainly without the approval of central policy makers. There is
evidence that the three-stage approach is being short-circuited in some
areas and that ujamaas are registered without first going through a learning
period. This has clearly happened in the Coast, Dodona and the Iriaga
Regions and to a lesser extent in Mara, Mwanza and Shinyana, where the
number of registered villages in December 1972 greatly exceeded those in
Stage II, 18 months earlier.
6.        Progress with ujamaa village formation varies considerably by
-region. The differences reflect both the variety of motives for the forma-
tion of villages, and the social and geographical conditions of the areas.



ANX 1
Page 3
The greatest development has been close to the boundary with Moaambique
where the dominant motivation has been security. Elsewhere the largest
number of villages are in areas which have limited involvement in the cash
economy, are sparsely populated, and have a harsh environment. These
include Dodoma and Kigoma where there has been a concentration of planning
effort and technical assistance. It is in these areas where the concept of
physical movement into concentrated villages (probably located on a new
water supply), and the introduction of new crops (necessitating rather
intensive technical guidance, modern inputs and credit) is a particularly
appropriate approach. Because of the real need for services, and the
flexibility which available land presents, these areas will probably accept
ujamaa most readily.
7.        Progress in numbers has been noticeably slower in two types of
areas. These are: (i) the densely populated highland areas where individu-
ally owned land is under coffee, tea or bananas (such as in Kilimanjaro,
Bukoba and Rungwe districts) and where ujamaa will be based on cooperative
work on existing crops and is unlikely to involve any resettlement; and
(ii) generally less densely populated areas with established cash crops such
as cotton, tobacco, and cashew. These are drier regions than the highlands,
with more extensive cultivation and marked seasonal peak labour requirements
(traditionally met by hiring). Technical and social problems seem parti-
cularly likely in the cotton area around Lake Victoria, where an individualis-
tic attitude, typical of first-generation settlers exists. An unhurried
approach to ujamaa seems especially appropriate in these areas.
8.        The economic justification for communal farming rests on the
greater production arising from economies of scale and division of labor,
and the more economical (and therefore increased per capita) provision of
Government services such as extension advice, water supplies, schools and
disnensaries.  The case for economies of scale is based on (i) sharing bulk
orders of inputs and group marketing; (ii) making more efficient use of
labor and hand or powered Implements, enabling a greater area to be cultivated;
(iii) allowing specialization of function, such as herding and tool repair
in the village; and (iv) enabling wider access to and acceptance of yield-
increasing technical advice. The channelling of agricultural credit can
be facilitated by cohesive ujamaa units, as can the economic distribution
of packages of inputs supported by extension services. Potentially, ujamaa
villages would extend the coverage of cooperative marketing organizations,
but until they reach a sufficient size to provide marketing services
economically, ujamaa villages would be members of existing cooperative
societies. A further argument for ujamaa villages is that a group of
farmers will accept an innovation to which individuals are indifferent.
However, there is a lack of empirical evidence on where economies of scale
are achievable in commercial production; the optimum scale of different
operations is not known, but it is clear that radical changes are needed in
farm management as production becomes increasingly communal and is carried
out on a larger scale. A well-trained extension service familiar with or
trained in decision making on large farms then becomes a necessity.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
9.        These management changes will be particularly required for crops
like cashew, tobacco and cotton. The application of ujauaa principles to
organized cashew production would support major changes in husbandry
techniques. These would include introduction of the use of insecticides,
herbicide fertilizer, pruning and possible changes in pricing and grading.
10.       Difficulties within villages - which are likely to be a continuing
concern - are the lack of leadership and management skills among village
members, and problems of measuring the share of communal production which is
the due of the individual. The former can be helped by planning, training,
and assistance from extension services. The most important factor is to
ensure that ujamaa villages develop from the desire of the people and at a
pace at which they can absorb the new ideas and techniques essential for
viable communal production.
TANU
11.       The mobilizing force in ujamaa development has been the political
party, TANM. Organized down to cells of ten families, TANU reaches the
grassroots of the rural areas, and in its pyramid structure rising through
village development committees and ward organizations provides a hierarchy
for channelling both policy decisions and local opinions. At the village
level it provides a forum within which a group of farmers can debate
possible cooperation through which technical and planning advice (e.g., on
site selection, crops, planting areas) can be channelled, and through which
farmers' problems and wishes can be passed to the party and Government.
12.       The unpaid leader of the 10-family cell, known as the 'Balozi',
is a TAIJR member elected by party members of the cell. It is his job to
keep records of the cell membership, collect dues from party members, and
pass on political and policy information to the cell. He is also to keep
the party leadership and - through TANU - the Government informed on local
problems. The Balozi tries to settle local disputes which otherwise would
go to the courts. The position is primarily political, but with party and
development matters so closely linked, the Balozi obviously fills an
economic role as well. Although the 10-cell system has not been working
uniformly well, partly because the duties of the Balozi have become over-
burdensome, it does provide the most effective two-way channel for information
available.
March 15, 1974



TANZANIA
" SHEWNUJT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Formation of Ujamaa Villages: Comparison of 1971 and 1972 Data
Advanced IFillages                                                                    People Per Village
Total Villages       April 1971   December        Population in Villages          Regional Percentage                       Increase
April*    December   Stage           1972       April       December    Increase   April   December   April   December (Decrease)
feflgo n              1971       1972        II  Registered           1971          1972           %       1971       1972      1971      1972        %
Arusha                   44         92         5    1        6         9,000         20.000       122       1.3        2.8       200      220         1(
Coast                    58        185        26    1       46        55,000        112,000       103       6.0       12.2       940      600       ( 36)
Dodoma                  150        299        17    1       65        47,000        400,000       750       5.9       50.2       310    1,340        332
Iringa                  350        630        -     1       80        84,000        208,000       148      10.8       26.7      240       330         37
Kigoma                  108        129       15    -         1        32,000        114,000       256       6.3       22.4       300      890        197
KilimanUaro              11         24         2    -        1         2,000          5,000       150       0.3        0.7       190      210         10
Mara                    250        376        20    4       30        95,000        127,000        33      15.5       20.7       380      340       ( 11)
Mbeya                   194        713        -     3        6        50,000         99,000        98       4.6        9.1       260      140         4 46)
.Morogoro                22        116         2    1        1         5,000         24,000       380       0.7        3.h       210      210          0
MStwara                 672      1,088        21    -        2       282,000        441,000        56      44.1       68.9       420      410       ( 2)
Lindi                   188        626        26    -        2        79,000        175,000       121       18.3      40.5       420      280       ( 33)
Mwanza                   41        211         3    -       14         8,ooo         32,000       300       0.7        2.8       190      150       (21)
Ruvuma                  120        205        15    -        3        12,000          29,000      142        2.7       6.5       106      140         40
Shinyanga               132        123         1    -        9        13,000         15,000        15        1.3       1.5       100      120         20
Singida                  57        263        15    -        5        13,000          59,000      354        2.7      12.2       230      230          0
Tabora                   82        148        43    4       14        20,000         25,000        25        3.2       4.0       240      170       ( 29)
Tanga                   146        245        32    1       13        23,000         78,000       239        2.7       9.1       160      320        100
West Lake                43         83        -     -       17        11,000          17,000       514       1.5       2.3       250       200      (20)
Totals           2,668       5,556       241   17      315       840,000      1,981,C00       136       6.3       14.8       315      360 144
* Given as June 1971 in Economic Survey, 1971-72                                                                                                                & M
(D H
February 20, 1974






ANNEX 2
Page 1
TAIZANIA
CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cashewnut Production
1.        The cashew tree is a tropical tree generally found in coastal
areas between the tropics of Cancer and Capricorn. The tree grows well on
poor, sandy soils and thrives where other more sophisticated commercial
trees would not. It will grow in areas with a rainfall anywhere from 90 mm
to over 400 mm, but requires a long dry spell in order for the cashewnut
to ripen. The tree has a strong root structure, with a tap root which is
as long as the tree is high, and side root structures as wide as the
canopy of the tree. The tree is thus ideal for erosion arresting purposes;
in fact the tree was originally transported to Africa and India from its
native Brazil by the early Portuguese navigators specifically for this
purpose. It now flourishes along the West Africa coast from Senegal to
Nigeria and in Angola. It also is found in varying quantities in
Mozanbique, Madagascar, Tanzania and Kenya. The west coast of India South
of Goa is now a major cashew growing area, and small quantities have been
grown in Sri Lanka, Central America and the West Indies.
2.        The tree, which has a bearing life of about 30 years, produces an
annual nut crop attached to an apple-like fruit. This "cashew apple" is
highly astringent, and is plucked for sucking as a thirst quencher. In some
areas, typically in Brazil, the apple has traditionally been used to produce
a potent alcoholic drink. The cashewnut itself has outer shell (Epicarp)
which is greenish to pinkish brown depending on its degree of dryness. With-
in this outer shell there is a honeycomb structure (Mesocarp), in the cells
of which is secreted a natural resin known commercially as the cashewnut shell
liquid (CNSL). This liquid has vesicant properties and will blister the
human skin unless precautions are taken. Within the Mesocarp there is a hard
and brittle inner shell (Endocarp) which protects the cashew kernel from
the resin. The kernel is also protected by a thin membrane covering known
as the testa, or peel, which is pinkish in coloi. This inner kernel is
the most Important product of the cashew tree and the cashew processing
industry has evolved in an effort to extract the kernel without damaging
it in any way.
3.        Most of the cashew trees cultivated today are the progeny of the
wild trees which spread naturally along various coastal areas. Except for
a few organized plantations which may account for two percent of annual
production, the bulk of the crop comes from wild growths on small peasant



ANNEX 2
Page 2
holdings. for the most part the crop is gat4ered from the ground after the
cashew apple with the attached nut has fallin. While it is good practice
to allow the fruit to fall of its own accorci, the crop should be collected
daily in order to reduce any deterioration of the nut. The fruit is thea
removed and the nut dried in the sun; this process reduces the soisture
content and may help to further mature the nut.
4.        The extraction of the kernel was traditionally a long and laborous
process. First the natural resin was burned off by heating the nuts in an
open fire. The charred nuts then had a brittle outer shell which would be
cracked by striking it with a small wood batten, causing the nut to split
open along the natural line of cleavage. The resultant kernels were often
scorched, but in any case served as an acceptable foodstuff. This crude
method of extraction served as the basis for the establishment of the cashew
processing industry which developed in India and later in other cashew
growing areas (Annex 3).
5.        Annual production of exportable nuts has been growing at a rate
of only 4% over the last few years. As a result of the growing popularity
of the cashew kernel for use as a dessert nut (along with almonds, walnuts,
brazil nuts, and pecans), some efforts are now being made to directly
stimulate production in the major cashew growing areas. Estimates of past
annual 'production of cashewnuts in these areas are given below:
1968/69   196970   1970/71   1971/72
___ 0-0 tons
Mozambique                   160       140        178       170
Tanzania                     11S       116        113       120
India                         70        60        65         55
Kenya                         10        15        23         20
Brazil                        15        15         15        40
Others                        -          2          2         2
Total                   370      348        396        407



ANNEX 3
Page 1
TANZANIA
CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cashewnut Processing
Harvesting and Drying
1.        Cashewnuts are harvested by collecting the ripe nuts from the
ground once they have fallen naturally from the tree. They should be
collected daily before they become soaked by ground moisture or rain. As
harvested, the raw nuts contain loose debris, detached pieces of apple, and
a high moisture content, and include a varying proportion of bad vuts.
Unless these defects are immediately reduced to a minimum, the rau nuts
deteriorate in storage with an attendant loss in kernel content value and
subsequently higher processing costs.
2.        The most serious defect is high moisture content.  The harvested
nuts contain about 15 percent moisture, but this percentage can be much
higher if the nuts have absorbed a significant amount of moisture while
lying on the ground prior to gathering. A high moisture content encourages
microbiological decay, germination of the kernel and spontaneous heating in
storage, all of which result in a lower out turn and a lower value kernel.
3.        As the first step in processing, the raw nuts are dried immediately
following harvesting by spreading the nuts in the sun. The rule of thumb
is that nuts exposed to bright sun and protected from rain and night time
dew will be adequately dry in three days. Except where following an accepted
routine the harvester has no objective way of determining whether or not
the nuts are sufficiently dry. Subjective means such as rattling a handful
of nuts and listening to the noise What they make, or pressing a finger
against the end where the nut was detached from the apple, must therefore
be used. It is desirable that the nuts be dried to less than 10 percent
moisture (ideally about 8 percent) as quickly as sun drying permits. A
harvester generally gathers only a few kilos of nuts and spreads them on
the ground. Proper drying requires that the spread nuts be picked up at
sundown and placed under cover so that moisture condensation during the
night can be avoided. The nuts must then be spread again the following
morning to continue drying.
4.        During the period that the nuts are spread for drying, bad nuts
and debris can be picked out and discarded. It is estimated that up to 15Z
of original harvesting is discarded at this stage. The purpose of this step
is to increase the value of the nuts marketed by avoiding contamination of
sound nuts and the cost of subsequent handling of nuts which will not yield
valuable kernels.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Central Grading and Storage of Nuts
5.        The second step in processing is carried out at the point of
collection of the raw nuts. If the nuts move from the field through buying
centers, then the next processing step will occur there. If the DUts nwe
from field to the processor, then the second step should be carried out at
the processing facility. This step is in fact a replica of the first step
and is carried out to assure a higher standard of quality. The raw nuts
received at this point should be carefully sampled and analyzed for moisture,
debris and bad nuts. If the batch represented by the sample falls outside
the limits established for these variables, then the raw nuts should be
dried and/or cleaned and/or improved by discarding bad nuts. At this point
the nuts are placed into storage for later processing; some provisions need
to be made to ensure adequare circulation, although they will vary according
to the moisture content of the anuts.
6.        There are no technical problems involved with regard to drying or
cleaning the nuts. However, there is some question as to how effective the
separation of useless nuts from sound nuts can be given the present level
of technical knowledge about means of appraising raw nuts. The only really
reliable methods are cutting tests and the use of a moisture meter.
Processing
7.        The processing of cashew nuts has developed from the original
emspletely manual processing used in India to highly mechanized systems now
in use in Tanzania and Mozambique. Under the so-called Indian system all
operations are carried out manually, with an absolute minimum of mechanical
aids. This hand processing system is utilized in Tanzania in the National
Cashew Company operations in Dar es Salaam, the grading and packing station
in Mtwara, and at nine other locations in rural areas. The manual operation
typically requires 100 man days per ton of nuts processed. In the rural
operations the peeled nuts are moved to a central grading and packing
station in Mtwara or Dar es Salaam.
8.        A system has been developed in Brazil that uses a hand-fed, foot-
operated cutting tool in an attempt to increase the productivity of labor.
In fact this system is more labor intensive (120 man days per ton nuts)
than that employed in the hand processing plants in Tanzania. For that
reason no consideration is being given to its introduction in Tanzania.
Another system being developed by a Portuguese company for use in Mozambique
is dependent upon a chemical process to help in the peeling operation whereby
the testa is removed from the kernel. The pure food problems inherent in
this system as well as the possible degradation of the organoleptic
properties of the kernel as the result of the use of chemicals have yet to
be defined.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Processing Systems
9.        Processing systems vary, but all essentially include the following
steps: sizing, humidification, heat treatment, shelling, drying of kernel,
peeling the kernel, grading and packing.
10.       Sizing.  The classification of nuts by size prior to processing
is required in all types of machine processing so that there can be a proper
matching of nut size and shelling tool adjustment. Pre-sizing is also
necessary for accurate control of rehumidification and heat treatment.
Without size calibration there is a likelihood of scorching some small nuts
while under-roasting large ones. Establishing the size distribution in
advance allows more efficient planning of the entire operation.
11.       Humidification prior to Shelling.  Humidification is usually only
carried out in the process that includes hot CNSL roasting of nuts. Humidi-
fication is carried out by piling the raw nuts according to size on a
concrete slab or in concrete bins or silos. Water is added by spraying the
pile of nuts on the slab with a hose, or admitting water into the bottom
of the concrete bin or silo through permamently installed spray headers.
The moisture content of the nut after humidification should be approximately
20 percent. The purpose of humidification is to provide moisture which in
the hot oil bath will become steam and rupture the cellular material in the
shell releasing CNSL. The moisture in the kernel will make it more plastic
and less friable so that in subsequent shelling operations less degradation
by breakage will occur.
12.       Heat Treatment.  The method of heating varies between machine
processing and hand processing. In hand processing the heating of the nuts
is done over an open flame in a rotating hollow cylinder in a position
slightly inclined from the horizontal. The time that the nuts remain in
the cylinder is related to the initial moisture content of the nuts at the
time they are fed into the roaster. The nuts in the roaster actually catch
fire and as the nuts leave the rotating drym the fire is extinguished by
a spray of water applied to the flaming nuts. The control over the heating
process is dependent on operator skill and experience rather than any form
of technical measurement.
13.       A technically more advanced method of shell embrittlement used
in both hand and machine processing is the heating of nuts in a hot bath of
CNSL. In this bath the nut rupture releases additional CNSL into the bath.
Thus the value of CNSL recovery is added to the value of the edible kernel.
14.       In East Africa hot oil roastitg is carried out in hot oil baths
containing conveyors which move the nuts at a controlled rate through the
bath. In India on the other hand the nuts are placed in a basket and the
basket is dipped manually into the hot oil bath. Careful control of both
time and temperature is important to avoid scorching of kernels.
15.       Shelling.  Following the heating operation the nuts are cooled
prior to shelling. Shelling is carried out either manually or mechanically.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
In hand processing the nut is cracked open by being placed upon an anvil
and hit with a stick or wooden hammer. In mechanical shelling the shell
is cut open by reciprocating or stationary converging knives or by throwing
the nut at high velocity against an anviL.  When shelling is carried out
manually the kernel is separated from the shell by hand. In machine
shelling the separation is done by pneumatic devices and/or vibrating screens.
16.       Drying.  Following the shelling operation the kernels are heated
and dried in hot air and/or steam to condition the skin or tests and
facilitate its removal from the kernel.
17.       Peeling. Peeling of the kernel is carried out either manually or
with mechanical aids. In all types of processes some part of the peeling
operation is carried out manually. The mechanical aids used vary with the
system. Following drying, further temperature adjustments may be made to
the kernel and some method of abrading one kernel against another or
against an abrader is frequently used to remove the peel.
18.       Sorting and Grading. Following the peeling operation the kernels
are sorted into as many as 20 or more grades; whole kernels are divided by
size and color and broken kernels by color and piece size. While the bulk
of the grading takes place after peeling, some grading actually occurs
during the entire process from immediately after shelling until packing.
Grading is done by hand and by mechanical devices, and electronic color
sorters are sometimes used.
19.       Packing.  After grading, the kernels are usually conditioned so
that they have a moisture content of about 5 percent - but never more than
5.5 percent prior to packing. They are packaged in a 4-gallon tin container
under an atmosphere of carbon dioxide gas. The 25-pound tins are assembled
in a corrugated board container with two tins to a container - the standard
commercial package.
20.       Three mechanical processing systems have been developed, each of
which is financially viable.  The first system is unique in the shelling
technique employed and to a lesser degree in the method of pre-conditioning
the kernel prior to peeling. The decorticator consists of two opposed
horizontally fixed blades between which the nuts are rapidly conveyed. In
addition, a rotating blade assist in splitting the under side of the shell.
This device has been demonstrated in pilot plant studies using Tanzania
cashew nuts, and is currently being utilized in the recently opened factory
at Mtwara (Mtwara Cashew Company).
21.       The second sytem makes use of unique decorticator and peeling
techniques. Here decortication is accomplished by inpacting nuts at a high
velocity against a fixed anvil, thereby splitting the shell and releasing
the kernel. The peeling operation in unique in that the kernel with the
peel is exposed to low (-10C) temperatures after the more conventional
drying ot heat treatment of the kernel. The system is now in limited use in
Mbzambique and a major installation is currently being set at Nacala in
Mozambique.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
22.       The third system differs from the others in the uniqueness of the
decorticator and the kernel pre-conditioning techniques employed. Decortica-
tion is accomplished by cutting the shell with reciprocating opposed, shaped,
knife blades which split the shell and release the kernel. The precondition-
ing of the kernel is carried out in a batch heater (compared to the continuous
process used in other systems) in which the time and temperature profile to
which the kernel is exposed is carefully controlled. The remaining operations
in all three systems are essentially the same, one system differing from the
other only in the degree of engineering ingenuity employed in the design and
construction of the machinery.
Current Status of Processing in Tanzania
23.       Tanzania now has the capacity to process only about 27,000 tons out
of its total production of 124,000 tons of raw cashewnuts. About 12,000 ;
tons per year are processed at the Tanita factory in Dar es Salaam, although
plans are now being implemented to increase this capacity to 25,000 tons per
year. About 8,000 tons per year are processed at the recently renovated
factory operated by the Mtwara Cashew Company at Mtwara, and it is planned to
eventually expand this facility to 20,000 tons per year. After about 6 years
of financial losses, the Tanita factory now operates at a profit.
24.       Hand processing operations within Tanzania have a total annual
capacity of about 7,000 tons. Most of these facilities are operated by the
National Cashew Company and located in the ujamaa villages. Kernel grading
and packing plants for these operations are located at Mtwara and Dar es
Salaam. Hand processing operates at a loss to Tanzania due to low labor
productivity and the low quality of production. A financial and economic
analysis for both factory and hand processing is given in Appendix A.






ANNEX 3
Appendix A
Page 1
TANZANIA
CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial and Economic Analysis of Hand and Machine Processing
1.        About 100 man-days are required to process one ton of raw nuts in
Tanzania. One ton of raw nuts will yield about 230 kg of kernels. With
an f.o.b. price of US$0.85 per lb, and adjusting for typical hand processing
outturn, the net factory price is US$0.60 per lb (Tsh 9 per kg) (Annex 12,
Table 1).
Tsh
Cost - 1 ton of raw nuts                              1,200
Shrinkage - 4%                                           48
Labor - 100 man-days at Tsh 240 per month             1,120
Packing and Administration                              200
Total Cost                                      2,568
Sales 230 kg at Tsh 9 per kg                         2,070
Loss per ton                                     (498)
2.        The labor input is comprised of 55%o peelers and 45% shellers.  The
use of a peeling machine would reduce the number of peelers required by about
60%. Thus labor cost per ton would be reduced by .60 x .55 x 1,120 = 370.
This would leave a loss per ton of Tsh 118 before charging for any cost of
peeling machine (about Tsh 133 per ton). The relative costs of machine and
hand processing are compared in the Tables below:



IANNEX 3
Appendix A
Page 2
CompariFon of Hand and Machine Processing
Tsh per Ton of raw nuts
Hand         Foreign    Machine        Foreign
Processing   Exchange   Processing   Exchange
Financial                                                  %                        %
CostF
Raw Nuts                                    1,248         1001/      1,248 5001/
Labor                                       1,120                      365
All other operating costE including
packing, Administration, etc.                200           15         397           15
Total costs                        2,568                     2,0102/
Sales                                      c2,070                   - 2,490?_
Profit/(LoFs)                                (498)                     480
Economic:  Using a foreign exchange shadow price of TshlO per US$1.00 and a 50%
shadow price for labor:
Hand         Stand Processing          Machine
Processing   with Peeling Machines   Processing
-aw nuts                                    1,617             1,817                 1,817
Labor                                         56o               375                   182
Peeling Machine coEtEV                                          194                    -
All other operating costs including
packing, Administration etc.                214            -  214                   513
Total                        2,591             2,600                 2,512
Sales                                       3,014             3,014                 3,625
Surplus                                       423               414                 1,113
T- Being the opportunity cost as theFe raw nuts could be exported.
2/  Costs and sales including CNSL at factory full development.
3/  For 150 tonE kernel throughput machine costs approximately TFh400,000 which
after shadow pricing foreign exchange = Tsh482,000 and writing off over
5 years = Tshl16,500 per annum for 150 ton kernels or 600 tons raw nuts.
Cost per ton of raw nu-ts iF therefore Tshl9lt.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
TANZANIA
CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Factory Construction and Development
1.        Under the Project five factories would be constructed which would
be capab]e of processing a total of 40,000 tons of raw nuts per annum into
approximately 9,000 tons of cashew kernels and 2,500 tons of cashew nut shell
liquid (CUSL).  The factories would be located within the cashew nut producing
areas of the country. Those factories located at Masasi, Newala and Lindi
would each be constructed to a capacity of 10,000 tons per annum while those
at Mtama and Nachingwea would each have a capacity of 5,000 tons per annum.
These factory sites were selected on the basis of the volume of raw nut
production within their immediate area, local labor availability, and the
accessibility of the sites from the port at Mtwara.
2.        Factory construction would be carried out under the turnkey contract
to be awarded after international competitive bidding. The contract would
include provision for factory plant, machinery and equipment, three years
service of an assistant manufacturer's representative for each factory,
and four years service of a senior manufacturer's representative. The
estimated capital costs of a typical 10,000 and 5,000 tons/year factory are
given in Table 1. The contractor would construct the CNSL facility to be
located at the Mtwara port. The specifications and conditions of the turnkey
contract are detailed in Appendix A.
3.        The phasing of factory development would be spread over a period of
36 months in order that experience gained in the process would be transmitted
from one factory to another, and to allow for the manufacture and installation
of equipment in an orderly manner (Chart 8551). The rate at which the factories
may be expected to come up to full production is indicated in Chart 8552. Some
initial production is expected from the Masasi factory (the first factory scheduled
for construction) about one year after the initiation of the Project, or six
months after construction is actually underway. Thereafter as capacity is expanded
and experience gained, the rate of production would increase rapidly until
full production is achieved in just over four years.
4.        The five factories to be constructed under the Project would be
owned and operated by CATA as self-accounting branches. The accounts would
be maintained at CATA headquarters and local records would be kept by the
factorv accountant.  Typical factory profit and loss accounts for both a
10,000 ton/venr and a 5,000 ton/year factory are given in Table 2, with
supporting data in Tables 3-6.






ANNEX 4
Table 1
TANZANIA
CASIhUWUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Faca_Capital CosEtS
Tsh I OOO
5,o00 ton / ear     10,000 tons/year
Land!/                             52                 52
Building2/                      1,472             2,607
Equipment31                     6,020             11,620
Motor Vehicles4/                  214                214
Furniture5/                       255                255
WIatery/                          260                260
lsrking Capital-                2,32r5               65o
10,598            19,658
I/  Annex 7 Table 9
21 Annex 7 Table 10
3/ Annex 7 Table 11
5/ Annex 7 Table 6
5/  Annex 7 Table 8
6/ Annex 7 Table 12
7/ Annex 7 Table 8
Apri. 5, 19Th



ANNX 14
Table 2
TANZANIA
CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Typical Factory Profit and Loss Accounts
(Tsh'OOO)
Three             Two
10,000 Ton/yr.    5,000 Ton/Yr.
FactorieE         FactorieE        Total
Raw Material-                                37,500            12,500        50,000
Labor V                                      9,762             3,688        13,450
SuppliesE                                     3,624             1,208         4,832
TranEport.V                                     420               140            560
Road Maintenance-5                            1,500             1,000          2,500
Depreciation-                                 3,?77             1,259          5,036
Dispensary Operation                             60                20             80
Factory and Equipment Maintenance7/           2,812               938         3,750
Insurance                                       127                43           170
Total                                  59,582            20,796        80,378
Costs per Factory                            19,861            10,398
Sales per Factory                            24,904            12,452
Profit per Factory                            5,043             2,054
1/ Annex 4 Table 3
2/ Annex 4 Table 4
3/ Annex 4 Table 5
L/ Annex 4 Table 6
5/ At Tshl,OOO per Io and 500 km per factory.  Total includeE about T'hl.2
million for labor.
6/  Buildings 5%, Furniture and equipment 71, Motor vehicles 25%
7/ Maintenance at 5% of capital cost.
March 11, 1974



ANNEX 4
Table 3
TANZANIA
CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Raw Material - Requirement-
5,000              10,000
Tons/Yr.           Tons/Yr.
Nuts Processed (Ton*)            5,000              10,000
Shrinkage       (4%)               208                 416
Nuts Purchased  (Tons)           5,208              10,416
Unit CoEt        (Tsh/ton)       1,200               1,200
Total Purchases (Tsh)        6,250,000          12,500,000
March 6, 1974



ANNEX 4
Table 4
TANZANIA
CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimates of Factory Labor Requirements
5,000      Annual   10,000        Annual
Rate     Tons/Yr.   Cost      Tons/Yr.      Cost
(Tsh/month)      (No.)    (Tsh)       (No.)       (Tsh)
Factory Manager                  2,000            1       24,000       1         24,000
1st Shift Supervisor             1,350            1       16,200       1         16,200
2nd Shift Supervisor             1,356            1       16,200       1         16,200
1st Shift Mechanic               1,350            1       16,200       1         16,200
2nd Shift Mechanic               1,350            1       16,200       1         16,200
R;oasting Foreman                   300            2       7,200       2          7,200
Shelling Foreman                    300           2        7,200       2           7,200
Peeling Foreman                     300            2       7,200       2          7,200
Peeling Leaders                     280          10       33,600      10         33,600
Grading Foreman                     300            2       7,200       2          7,200
Quality Control Foreman             300           2        7,200       2          7,200
Quality Control                     280           2        6,720       2          6,720
Peelers-Graders                     240         490   1,411,000    900        2,592,000
Other Laborers                      240          50      144,000    100         288,000
Office and Clerical                 300          10       36,000      15         54,000
1,756,320              3,099,120
Adjustment for provident Fund   x 1.05                 1,844,136              3,254,076
March 6, 1974



ANINEX a
Table 5
TANZANIA
CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMIT PROJECT
SupplieE Requirements
(tshf' 00)
5,000         10,000
TonE/Yr.        Tons/Yr.
Fuel and Lubrication for
GeneratorE                   80               160
Sawdust                             5                10
Lubrication                          3                6
Packing                           506             1,012
Fuel and Lubrication for
Vehicles                    7                1l
Miscellaneous
(Office, water, etc.)          _3                   6
Total                     604             1,208
March 6, 1974



ANNEX 4
Table b
TANZANIA
CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Trangortation of Kernels
5,000            10,000
Tons/Yr.         Tons/Yr.
Cases                         50,600           112,000
Cases/Ton                          4O               4o
Tons                            1,265            2,530
Av. kh  to Mtwara                 120              120
Av. Ton- kn                  151,800          303,600
Rate/Ton- Rri  (Tsh)              .46              .h6
Cost (Tsh  0OO'F)                 70              L4O
April 5, 1974



ANNEX 4
Appendix A
Page 1
TANZANIA
CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROCESSING
Cashewnut Processing Facilities - Outline of a Request for Tender
1.        The Project would include provision for construction and operation
of five cashewnut processing factories to be located at Masasi, Newala, Lindi,
Nachingwea and Mtama. The Cashewnut Authority of Tanzania (CATA) would be
responsible for factory construction. This would be implemented under a
turnkey contract awarded as a result of international competitive bidding
according to Bank guidelines.
General
2.        The Cashewnut Authority of Tanzania (CATA) intends to construct and
operate five cashewnut processing facilities. This request for tender for
a cashewnut processing system is presented as a guide only and offerers shall
submit their best concepts, designs and cost estimates within the parameters
given in the outline.
3.        The contractor shall supply the process and facilities designs,
working drawings, site preparation, buildings, equipment, machinery, controls,
engineering services, labor supervision, tools and other requirements (except
those listed under para.        which are to be supplied by the owner) to deliver
in operating condition (a turnkey project) a cashewnut processing system.
Processing Facilities
4.        The cashewnut processing system would have an annual processing
capacity of 40,000 tons of raw nuts into about 9,000 tons of kernels and
2,500 tons of CNSL. The system is to consist of 5 factories and one CNSL
storage and shipping facility to be located at sites provided by the Government
near the indicated towns. Processing facilities will be designed for 16 hours
per day operation, 300 days per year. Cashewnuts to be processed at these
factories shall be about 75% Tanzanian standard grade and 25% second grade.
(a) Masasi - A facility to process 10,000 tons of raw cashewnuts
per year, to be constructed in two related increments each with
5,000 tons annual capacity. First increment to be in operation
6 months after award of contract. Second increment to be in
oDeration 18 months after contract award.



ANNEX 4
Appendix A
Page 2
(b)  Newala - A facility to process 10,000 tons of raw cashewnuts
per year, to be constructed in two related increments each with
5,000 tons annual capacity. First increment to be in operation
12 months after award of contract. Second increment to be in
operation 24 months after contract award.
(c) Lindi - A facility to process 10,000 tons of raw cashewnuts
per year, to be constructed in two related increments each with
5,000 tons annual capacity. First increment to be in operation
18 months after award of contract. Second increment to be in
operation 30 months after contract award.
(d) Nachingwea - A facility to process 5,000 tons of raw cashewnuts
per year to be in operation 18 months after contract award.
(e) Mtama - A facility to process 5,000 tons of raw cashewnuts
per year to be in operation 24 months after contract award.
(f) Port of Mtwara - A facility to receive and store 700 tons of
CNSL, complete with provisions to deliver the CNSL directly
into ocean cargo vessels at a minimum rate of
tons Per hour.
Utilities
5.        The contractor shall provide the primary source of power
for each of the five factories but not the CNSL facility at Mtwara. ilrimarj source i
to consist of two duplicate units, each unit with a capacity equal to the
connected load of the processing equipment, lighting and other directly
related equipment plus a 20% safety factor.
6.        The contractor shall include a survey and consultations with approp-
riate agencies to prepare cost estimates for providing water from primary
source to each of the five factories.
7.        The contractor shall provide provisions for sanitary drinking water
and a waste disposal system.
Auxiliary Buildings
8.        Each factory site shall have three air conditioned residential
buildings two each with a total area of         square meters consisting of
3 bedrooms, bath, kitchen, sitting room; one to have an area of          square
meters consisting of 2 bedrooms, bath, kitchen and sitting room.
9.        Each factory shall have a building of         square meters to be used
by employees for dressing, showering and toilets.



ANNEX 4
Appendix A
Page 3
10.       Each factory shall have an air conditioned medical dispensary of
square meters consisting of two consultation rooms and one first aid
treatment room.
11.       Each factory shall have appropriate office space of at least
50 square meters that will be air conditioned.
12.       Each factory site shall have a maintenance shop of   .,square
meters to make minor repairs and routine maintenance.  One larger central
machine shop equipped to do major repairs shall be supplied at the Mtwara
CATA headquarters.
13.       Each factory site shall be completely fenced with 2 meter high
"cyclone" type fence of appropriate gauge wire with two double gates for
vehicular traffic and two gates for personnel traffic.
Government Supplied Components
14.       The Government will supply to the contractor without charge the
following:
(a) Uncleared land of 6.5 acres at eacn site;
(b)  Water at point on the periphery of each site;
(c)  Raw nuts for operation;
(d)  Factory operating labor;
(e)  Factory operating and maintenance supplies; and
(f)  A contractor-Government liaison staff of 5 fulltime
managing personnel.
Special Personnel Requirements
15.       The contractor shall provide:
(a)  A competent senior representative to reside in Mtwara
for a period of 4 years commencing with the date of initial
operation of the first increment of the Masasi factory.
(b)  Five competent assistants to the senior representative,
one for each factory, to reside at the factory site in
one of the       square meter houses to be built by the
contractor. Residence shall be for three years from
the date of initial operation of each facility.
(c) The cost of a short training program for each of the five
Tanzanian factory managers.



ANNEX 4
Appendix A
Page 4
Process Requirements
16.       As an option the contractor shall offer equipment to dry raw
cashewnuts as received, from a moisture content of about 14% to less than
8-1/2%.
17.       The contractor shall provide a storage facility at each site to
adequately store a 1 year supply of raw nuts in bags or bulk. Facility
design will provide for a means to dissipate heat generates during storage.
18.       The raw cashewnuts are to be cleaned and size graded prior to
entering processing. The degree of size grading to be determined according
to process requirements and shall be well defined in the proposal.
19.       The graded and cleaned nuts are to be humidified by a controllable
means to yield raw nuts with the appropriate moisture content dictated by
the process which follows.
Decortication
20.       Roasters - Each 5,000 ton per year processing line shall be provided
with at least two shell fired hot oil bath roasters with an hourly capacity
of 12% of the daily rated capacity. The roasters shall have indicating
controllers to control the temperature of the oil bath and the resident time
of the nuts in the bath. Each oil bath roaster is to be equipped with
equipment to collect and pump recovered CNSL to a central receiving tank.
21.       Residual CNSL Removal - The contractor shall provide for the removal
of CNSL that adheres to the roasted nut. If the process dictates, the nuts
shall also be cooled prior to furthering processing and, if necessary, the
roasted nust may be regraded for size at this point.
22.       Decorticators - The roasted, cooled nuts with adhering CNSL removed
shall be decorticated by multiple decorticators.  Upon leaving the decorti-
cators the shell pieces shall be immediately separated from the kernel to
avoid contaminating the kernel with CNSL. If necessary, uncracked nuts may be
recycled through the decorticator.
Kernel Preparation
23.       Peeled, clean kernels from the decorticators are to be submitted to
thermal treatment as required by subsequent testa removal operation. The
testa is to be completely removed by mechanical and/or hand means, minimum
labor consistent with yields of high quality product is sought.
24.       Elaborate electronic product grading equipment is not required.
Adequate mechanical devices and tools necessary to isolate the many commercial
grades of cashew nut kernels shall be supplied.



ANNEX 4
Appendix A
Page 5
25.       Equipment shall be provided to condition the kernels to 4.6% to
4.8% moisture before packing.
Packing
26.       Cashew nut kernels are to be packed in conventional tins of
25 pounds net weight in an environment of carbon dioxide. Two tins are to be
placed in a fiber board carton for shipping.
27.       As an option, quote to furnish equipment to manufacture shipping
tins from sheet tin plate at each factory site,
Conveyors
28.       Contractor shall provide all conveyors including mobile equipment
to move the material from one operation to another. This includes handling
of spent shells and testa.
Gen,eral
29.       Contractor shall provide with each factory a 12 month supply of
operating and maintenance spare parts.
30.       Contractor shall make all inter- and intra pipe, wiring, and
mechanical connections.
Materials of Construction
31.       All materials to be of quality consistent with good engineering
practices. Material in contact with kernels is to be of good grade quality.
Test Equipment
32.       Contractor shall supply devices to allow for rapid and accurate
determination of moisture in nut and kernel.
Drawings
33.       Contractor shall submit preliminary drawings for review by CATA.
Prior to making detailed drawings, all general arrangement and other pre-
liminary drawings must be submitted for approval to CATA.
34.       Upon completion of Project, three full sets of "as constructed"
drawings will be provided to CATA for each factory.
Operational and Maintenance Manuals
35.       Detailed flow diagrams and carefully worded and illustratad
operating manuals for each factory are to be supplied (three copies).



ANWEX 4
Appendix A
Page 6
36.       Repair and maintenance manuals for each piece of equipment shall
be furnished.
37.       Contractor shall prepare preventative maintenance schedules, and
procedures including a list of spare parts.
Contractor Proposal
38.       Proposal submitted by potential contractors shall include:
(a) ComDlete process description including flow diagram and plant
layout including a list of equipment to be furnished both of
your manufacture and that manufactured by others.
(b) The production capability of the system offered complete with
the following table:
Grade                                     Approximate yield in percent
Under 320 wholes
320 wholes
450 wholes
Local wholes
Dessert wholes
Butts
Splits
LWP
swP
Other pieces
(c) A full description of the building required to house the factory.
(d) Estimate of electrical power, water, fuel and other utilities
required.
(e) Maintenance requirements of the system.
(f) Break-down of management and administrative staff as well as
factory labor, by category, including skill requirements.
(g) Warrantees and guarantees that your company is prepared to offer.
A performance bond will be required at the time the contract is
signed.
(h) A graphic timetable showing the phases for preparation of detailed
drawings, construction, start-up of operations, training, etc.
required to bring each factory to full capacity.



ANNEX 4
Appendix A
Page 7
(i) Cost estimates for each factory accompanied with payment schedules.
(j) A'statement as to experience of your company in processing of
cashewnuts.
(k) An outline of a training program for training local managers.






ANNEX 5
Page 1
TANZANIA
CASH ENNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Extension and Grading
1.        Cashewnut production in Tanzania has a high potential for absolute
growth. Production over the past five years has been as follows:
1968/69    1969/70    1970/71    1971/72    1972/73
114.3      116.6      112.8       119.7      124.0
The increase in production since 1968/69 has been attributed to extension
work carried out by TANU (Annex 1). The extension work concentrated upon
farmi clearing, and although it reached only about 20% of the country's cashew
farmers, nevertheless over 4 years total production increased by about
10,000 tons (9%). Thus the increase in production of farmers affected by
the TAIU extension work was estimated at about 44% over the four-year period.
For Project purposes it has been estimated that a 20% increase in production
would be achieved over five years in the Project area (equivalent to a 15%
increase in total Tanzanian production). Production increases would be
expected to continue after this period as a result of both increased area
and improved yields. Improved yields will come about from a more concentrated
extension service which, together with continued TANU campaigns, would
concentrate on thinning, clearing, pruning and weeding. The coverage and
quality of extension staff would be important. With the increase in extension
work it is estimated that Tanzania's annual cashew production would increase
by at least 15% from 124,000 tons to about 143,000 tons by 1983.
Extension
2.        It is proposed that extension staff be based in the buying centers,
with one extension officer per buying center. Each officer would service
about 900 farmers and there would be 395 officers to cover the area. Phasing
of staff recruitment would be as follows:
Project Year        1     2     3     4     5
Incremental       95  1,00   100   100      -
Total        95   195   295   395   395
Total production increases are expected to be as follows:
Extension Year      1     2     3     4     5
Annual increase    -    5%    5%    5%
Total increase     -    5%   10%   15%    15%



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Each cashew officer would be trained for about 2 months in cashew as well
as food crop production.
Grading
3.        Grading of raw nuts consists of a visual inspection for obviously
bad nvts, separation of debris, moisture testing and a cutting test.  The
cutting test is done on a sampling basis to establish the percentage of
aborted nuts. Grading staff would be based in the cooperative societies,
with one grading officer per society. Each of the 131 officers would service,
on average, about 3 buying centers.
Phasing of staff recruitment would be as follows:
Project Year        1      2     3     4      5
Incremental        32    33    33    33       -
Total         32    65    98   131   131
Current quality production in Tanzania is 60% standard grade and 40% second
grade.  It is expected that over 5 years this ratio of quality would improve
from a 60:40 to a 75:25 ratio. Each officer would receive about 2 months
training, and his work would be concentrated on post harvest care.
Yields
4.        The average yield of raw cashewnuts in the Project area is estimated
to be 325 kilos per ha- there is, however, considerable variation between
farmers. Under reasonable husbandry, yields of over 1,000 kilos per ha have
been achieved on farms where clearing had taken place following TANU campaigns.
_ric_s_  Grades and Farm Incomes
5.        Current prices to growers and outturns for raw cashewnuts are:
Grade 1                              60%        Tsh 95/kg
Undergrade                           40%        Tsh 75/kg
Average                                         Tsh 87/kg
Farmer cash income per ha 325 kg x .87         Tsh 283 (US$41)
Thf farmer also grows maize for subsistence.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Prices are set by Government and it is expected that prices to growers in
Tanzania will be at least maintained.  With the improvement in quality and
yields resulting from the extension and grading service, the farmer's cash
income is expected to be as follows:
Grade 1                              75%       Tsh 95/kg
Undergrade                           25%       Tsh 75/kg
Average                                        Tsh 90/kg
Farmer cash income per ha 390 kg x .90        Tsh 351 (US$51)






ANNEX 6
Page 1
TANZANIA
CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cashew Research
1.        Cashew research was originally carried out at the Nachingwea
Research Station (MAP). In 1968 all cashew research was transferred to the
Mtwara Research and Training Institute, a multi-disciplined research station
rtn by the Ministry of Agriculture. However, due to a lack of equipment and
sufficient staff, no intensive cashew research has taken place since 1968.
The Institute now has 50 ha under cashew with about a further 200 ha available
for planting, and is carrying out a limited research program. Additional
support for this program would be provided under the Project.
A. Research Results
Propagation of Improved Planting Material
2.        Floral Biology.  Systematic observations were made on flowering and
fruit setting in cashew. It was found that production of hermaphradite flowers
and the efficiency of pollination and fruit setting were generally sufficient
to secure optimum yields.
3.        Seed Selection by Density.  Records made from a population of seed
selection by specific gravity showed that those seeds with the highest
specific gravity germinated more quickly and had greater viability.
4.        Vegetative Propagation.  Cashew is a cross pollinated crop and seeds
from individual trees are hetrazygons. It was concluded that vegetative
propagation would be the best method to disseminate the characteristics of
high yielding trees. The air layering method was the only method which proved
successful. Hlowever, the distribution of air layers to farmers spread over a
wide area would be extremely difficult and financially prohibitive.
5.        Cashew Breeding.  Considerable time was spent in developing a breed-
ing program for both the short and long term. However, sufficient time has
not yet elapsed for the production of any definite results.
6.        Cashew Multi-stage Mass Selection Trial.  The object was to find
out if the yield of unselected varieties could be improved by carrying out
mass selection in a large population of young trees. Varieties of Tanzania,
Malaysia, Sri Lanka and India were randomized in planting. Yield data were
collected in the 3rd and 4th year from trees selected with greatest girth
and height as compared with unselected trees from four varieties.  No
significant difference was found in these years, but the experiment is
continuing.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Cashew Agronomy
7.        Establishment of Cashew.  In order to find the best method of
establishing cashew, an experiment was laid out to compare the effect of
intercropping, mulch, farm yard manure and natural grass cover on the growth
and yield of cashew; one control plot and three plots with varying treatments
were put down. Stem diameter and height measurements were taken on the
seedlings, and those plots which has intercropping showed significantly higher
growth rates than the control plot. Yields of cashew and an intercrop of
soya were the most encouraging in the early years.
8.        Spacing Trials.  Yields of cashew from time of bearing were measured
on eight different spacings for three years. Results showed that the closer
spacing in the early years gave higher yields per hectare. However, on
reaching maturity, the greater the spacing up to limit of 12 m x 12 m gave
the optimum yield; the experiment is continuing.
9.        Cashew Thinning.  Plots planted in 1958 at a spacing of 6 m x 6 m
were thinned in four different ways in 1965, and yield data collected for two
further years.  It was shown that thinning 50% by selection increased yields
significantly. There are further experiments underway to find the most
economic way of spacing by (i) growing a fixed population from the beginning;
and (ii) having a higher plant population in the beginning and the population
thinned out at a later date. The experiment is continuing.
10.       .ertilizer Trials.  Conflicting evidence has been collected with
regarc to the response of cashew to artificial fertilizers. The Research
Station at Nachingwea conducted a trial using various treatments, and after
measuring girths for two years found no significant effect on the growth
rate. Further trials were carried out and it was shown that adding small
quantities of nitrogenous and phosphate fertilizers to the planting hole
gave some measurable response. Field trials on existing estate planted
trees yielded a measurable response to fertilizers. The trial was repeated
the following year with the same results.
Pest and Disease Control
11.       Helopeltis (schoutedeni and anacardi) are two serious pests which
threaten cashew. Research into the method of attack and the life cycle of
the insects has been carried out, and seasonal variations in numbers to be
found on the trees ascertained. Control by means of BHC has been found
effective, but at that time (1960) it was considered to be uneconomic under
smallholder conditions.
12.       Other insect pests have been identified:  a sucking insect,
Pseudotheraptus wayi; a bark borer, Mecycoyrus loripis; and a defoliating
caterpillar, Nudraureba bellina. The most important pest is Theraptus,
which causes a black spot on the kernel. Some work has been done on
entomological control by using an ant (Occophylla longinnoda); some degree
of success was achieved, but more has to be done to establish the ant
colonies.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
13.       Little research on cashew disease has been carried out, but it is
known that cashew trees do die a "sudden death". However, the real cause is
still to be established.
B. Project Rtesearch Program
Objective
14.       The five-year research development program would expand existing
facilities at Mtwara and would include provision for:
(a) Establishment of 200 ha of nurseries and research plantation;
(b) Fertilizer trial programs;
(c)  Ouantification of insect damage and formulation of an insect
control program;
(d) Variety trials;
(e) Intercropping;
(f) Breeding trials;
(g)  Post-harvest control;
(h) Spacing program;
(i) Vegetative propagation;
(j) Pruning trials.
The Project would also include provision for short term training courses and
for overseas study courses. Field research trials would be carried out at
selected points throughout the cashew growing area to further test promising
results.
Staffing
15.       Project research would be carried out by a special unit within the
Mtwara Research Institute. The research program would be drawn up, implemented
and supervised by CATA's Chief Agricultural Officer. Provision would be made
as part of the Project's technical assistance component to cover the cost of
12 man-years' service to include inter alia an entomologist, an agronomist and
an economist. It is expected that these would be recruited internationally.
Three Tanzanian graduates would be trained to replace the expatriates after
the fourth year. The program would be supported by an adequate number of
field assistants, laboratory staff and clerks.






TANZANIA
CASIHEWI'UT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Development Costs
(Tsh'OOO)
Foreign      Foreign
Annex 8                                                                         Exchange      Exchange
Project Year                                     Table        1           2           3          4           5          Total       %            Amount
CATA Headquarters-Fixed Assets                        2       1,927       1,102         84         430        294        3,837        49           1,870
Extension and Grading-Fixed Assets                    4       1,175         994        994       1,112        168        4,443        59           2,606
Mtwara Research Center-Fixed Assets                   6         243         146         42          44        134          609         68            412
Factory Development                                   8      12,166     33,594      21,260     10,000       4,328       81,348        62          50,229
Rural Water Supply                                   13       1,000       5,000      1,000         -          -          7,000         50          3,500
Community Education Centers                          14       1,956       1,956      1,956         978        -          6,846        34           2,331
Operating Costs
CATA Headquarters                                   3         231         317        319         319        457        1,643        50             821
Extension and Grading Service                       5       1,105      2,211       3,312      4,488       4,488       15,604          7          1,172
Research Center                                     7         334         595        447         601        523        2,490         25            6o4
Sub-total                                                1,670      3,107       4,o69      5,4o8       5s,468      19,737                     2,597
Technical Services                                   11       1,015       1,265      1,530       1,480        200        5,49o         70          3,843
Total Project Costs without Contingencies                    21,152      47,170     30,944      19,452     10,592      129,310         52         67,388
Contingencies -Phyisical 212,115                                          4,719      3,095       1, 915     2,                         52 61874
Price S                                       3,490     16,734      17,782     16,026      11,73       65I3           52          346,4
5,605     21,453        =7,T     17,971      l,T;                       52
Total Project Costs including Contingencies                  26,757      68,623     51,821      37,423     23 434      208,058         52        108,486      |
10 lO3 on all costs.
2/ 15% compounded on all costs.
April 3, 1974



TANZANIA
CAEHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cashewnut Authority of Tanzania (CATA) Headquarters-Fixed Assets
(Tih 000)
Foreign   Foreign
Project Year                                                                                                                                                          Exchange  Exchange
1                  2                  3                4              5        Total          96      Amount
Buildings                                         Unit Cost___
Offices 700 s2 at 339 m2                                                231.0                   -                                                 -       231.0
Senior staff houses X                            110.0                   3                                                                              66o.o
Junior staff houses *                              85.                  340,0               1 o  3340.           _                                -       680.o
Guest house A                                     110.0         (1)    110.0                    _                                                         110.0
Central workshop 250 m2 /1                        300.0         (1)      75.0                   -             _                   _                        75.0
Sub-total Saildings                                               1,086.0               670.0                -                 -              -    1,756.0          33         585
Furniture and Fittings
Offices 2                                        100                    90.0                10.0                -                 -              _       100.0
Senior staff houses 4                             15                    45.0                45.0                -                 -              -        90.0
Junior staff houses L2                            10                    40.0                4o.o                _-                               -        80.0
Guest house 2                                     15                    15.0                    -               _                 _              -        15.0
Workshop /2                                       10                    10.0                    -               _-                               -        10.0
Sub-total Furniture and                                             200.0                95.0                                - -              -       295.0        33           98
Fittings
Equipment
Telephone exchange               /2              100.0                      -              100.0 -                                              -       100.0
Office air-conditioning units                      2.5        (60)    150,0                     -               -                 -              -       150.0
House air-conditioning unitLL2                      2.5         (8)     20.0        (8)     20.0                -                 -              -        4.0
Central workshop equipment              _                               20.0                50.0                -                 -              -        70.0
Telex equipment 4:                                 1.4                      -                1.4                -                 -              -         1.4
Radio equipment L                                 12.0                  12.0                    -               -                 -              -        12.0
Sub-total Equipment                                                 252.0               171.4                -                -               -       373.4        80          299
Motor Vehicles
4 wheel drive - Senior Staff /                    42.0          (6)    22.0                     -               -                 -    (6)  252.0        504.o
4 wheel drive - Chief Mechanic                    42.0           1       2.0                    -               -                 -    (1)   42.0         84.o
Road tanker for C.N .S.. S,                      100.0                      -       (1)    100.0                -              _                         100.0
Sub-total Motor Vehicles                                            294.o               100.0                -                -          294.o        688.o        80          550
C.N.S.L. Storage in Mtwara
Land preparation A                                30.0        ~O.O                              -               -                 -              -        30.0          -
Storage tanks (per ton) 4  /3                      o.4       (125)      50.0    (165)       66.o    (210)  84.0    (200)   80.0                  -       280.0         40         112
Fire fighting equipment L2                        15.0                  15.0                    -               -                 -               -        15.0        80          J2
Sub-total C.N.S.1. Storage                                           95.0                66.0            84.0              80.0               -       325.0                    124
Miscellaneous - Project preparation costs                                     -                   -                -            350.0               -       350.0        50          175
- Consultant Services                                      50.0                                                      -               -        50.0        80          39
Total Fixed Assets                                                    1,927.0              1,102.4            84.o             430.0          294.o    3,837.4           49      1,870
1  Actual builders or suppliers all inclusive quotation as at 26th October 1973.
2  Estimated on the basis of recent experience as at 26th October 1973.
2   Approximately 3 months storage of CNSL.  Includes cost of loading line.
April 3, 1974



TANZANIA
CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cashewnut Authority of Tanzania (CATA) Headquarters-Operating Costs
(Tsh'OOO)
5                   Foreign       Foreign
(and                  Exchange      Exchange
Project Year                                                 1              2            3              4           after)      Total          %          Amount
Unit Cost
Staff Salaries A
Head Office:
Senior Manufacturer's Representative 230.0             230.0          230.0         253.0         253.0              -       966.o         30
Chief Marketing Officer                210.0            210.0         210.0         231.0          231.0          35.0        917.0         30           840
Financial Manager                      210.0            210.0          210.0        231.0          231.0          35.0        917.0         30
Chief Agricultural Officer              35.0             35.0           35.0         35.0           35.0          35.0        175.0
Typists                                  5.3    (3)      15.9           15.9         17.5           17.5          17.5         84.3
Driver/Mechanic                          4.0    (1)       4.0            4.0          4.0            4.0           4.0         20.0
CNSL:
Storage Depot (Mtwara) -                 4.2    (1)         -            4.2          4.2            4.2           4.2         16.8
Supervisor
Driver                                   3.0    (1)         -            3.0          3.0            3.0           3.0         12.0
Labourer                                 3.0    (1)         -            3.0          3.0            3.0           3.0         12.0
Night watchman                           3.0    (1)         -            3.0          3.0            3.0            3.0        12.0
Providence fund - 5% on junior             -    (1)       0.2            o.8          o.8            o.8           o.8          3.4
staff salaries                                        705.1         718.9         785.5          785.5         i4o.5      3,135.5                      840
Dedudt- Rental Income                                    85.5           85.5         85.5           85.5          17.5        359.5                         -
Sub-total Salaries and on-cost                        619.6         633.4         700.0          700.0         123.0      2,776.0                      840
Other Operating Costs
Office maintenance  2                      _             11.5           11.5         11.5           11.5           11.5        57.5                        29
Maintenance of staff houses A               -            39.0           72.5         72.5           72.5           72.5       329.0                       165
Vehicle  running costs                  30.0    (7)    210.0    (8)  240.0    (8) 240.0    (8)  240.0    (8)  240.0         1,170.0                       585
Tank yard maintenance                    1.0              1.0            1.0          1.0            1.0            1.0         5.0                         3
Storage tank 79aintenance /i               -                -            2.5          2.5            2.5            2.5        10.0                         5
Telex rental L                           6.5                -            6.5          6.5            6.5            6.5        26.0                        13
Sub-total                                             261.5          334.0        334.0          334.0          334.0     1,597.5         50            800
Total Operating Costs                                      881.1          967.4      1,034.0        1,034.0          457.0     4,373.5         37          1,640
Less: Technical Assistance 4                               650.0          650.0         715.0         715.0            -        2 730 0        30            819
231,1         317.          319.0          319.0          57.20                       _21
1  In accordance with official salary list for para-statal organizations.
7 5% of capital cost.
7 20 Shillings per ton.
See Annex 8, Table 15.
April 3, 1974



TANZANIA
CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMERT PROJECT
Extension and Grading Service - Fixed Assets
(Tsh'000)
Foreign     Foreign
Exchange    Exchange
Project Year                                                 1              2              3               4              5       Total        %          Amount
Unit
Cost
Buildings
Houses for regional Cashew Officersl/   85.0    (1)       85.o    (1)   85.o    (1)   85.o    (1)       85.0              -       340
Houses for District Cashew Officers-/  60.0    (3)    180.0    (3)  180.0    (3)  180.0    (4)    240.0                   -       780
Sub-total Buildings                                   265.0         265.0          265.0            325.0              -     1,120        33           373
Furniture and Fittings                      10.0    (4)     4o.o    (4)   4o.o    (4)   40o0    (5)       50.0              -        170       33             57
Equipment
Office equipment A                        3.0    (4)      12.0    (4)   12.0    (4)   i2.o    (5)       15.0              -        51        80             41
Typewriters (manual) A2                   2.4    (4)       9.6    (4)    9.6    (4)    9.6    (5)       12.0              -        41        8o             32
Filing cabinets                           o.6    (4)       2.4    (4)    2.4    (4)    2.4    (5)        3.0              -        10        80              8
Grading t bles - one set per buying
center  2                               2.0   (95)    190.0  (100)  200.0  (100)  200.0  (100)    200.0                 -       790        4o            316
Other grading equipment - one per
society 2L                              0.9   (32)    288.0   (33)  297.0   (33)  297.0   (33)    297.0                 -     1,179        80           943
Cinema van                              100.0    (1)    100.0               -              -               -              -       100        80             80
Shooting of film (in swahili)           100.0    (1)    100.0               -             -I                              -       100        50            50
Sub-total Equipment                                   702.0          521.0         521.0            527.0              -     2,271                   1,470
Motor Vehicles
4-wheel drive vehicles                   42.0    (4)    168.0    (4)  168.0    (4)  168.0    (4)    210.0    (4)  168.0           882        80            706
Total Fixed Assets                                       1,175,0          994.0          994.0         1,112.0          168.0      4,443       59          2,606
_    ~        =                                                                  =           _
1  Actual quotations received from constractors and suppliers as at 26th October 1973.
2  Estimated on the basis of recent experience as at 26th October 1973.
April 3, 1974



TANZANIA
CASH3WNUT DORVE1OPMENT PROJECT
Extension and Grading Service - Operating Costs
(Tsh'000)
5                      Foreign       t'oreign
(and                     Exchange       Exchange
Project Year                                                     1                2                 3                 4              after)         Total                      Amount
Unit
Staff Salaries /1                             Cost
Regional Cashew Officer (Yanager
Grade 3)                                  19.4    (1)      19.)i   (2)       38.8    (3)      58.2    (4)       77.6    (4)       77.6         271.6
District Cashew Officer (Exec.
Officer Crade 2)                         13.2    (3)       39.6    (6)       79.2    (9)    118.8   (13)    171.6   (13)    171.6              580.8
Cashew Officers                              7.8   (32)    249.6   (6))    507.0   (98)    764.4  (131)  1,021.8  (131)  1,021.8               3,564.6
Assistant Cashew Officers                    4.9   (95)    465.5  (195)    955.5  (295)  1,445.5  (395)  1,935.5  (395)  1,935.5               6,737.5
Copy Typists (RCO and DCO)                   5.3    (4)      21.2    (8)       42.4   (12)      63.6   (17)       90.1   (17)       90.1         307.4
Driver - Personnel vehicle                   3.8    (3)      11.4    (6)       22.8    (9)       34.2   (13)      49.4   (13)       49.4         167.2
Driver/Cinema van operator                   4.4    (1)        4.4    (1)       4.4    (1)        4.4    (1)       4.4    (1)        4.4          22.0
811.1          1,650.1           2,489.1          3,350.4           3,350.4      1].,651.1          -               _
Providence Fund - 5% of junior
staff salaries                                             37.6              76.6            109.7             155.0             155.0         533.9
Sub-total Salaries and on-cost                           848.7          1,726.7           2,598.3           3,505.4          3,505.4       12,185.0
Other Operating Costs
Office rental RCO!DCO                        1.2    (14)       4.8    (8)       9.6   (12)       14.4   (17)      20.4   (17)       20.14          69.6          -               -
Office sulpplies                             0.8    14)        3.2    (8)       6.4   (12)        9.6   (17)      13.6   (17)       13.6           46.4         60              28
Housing maintenance /2                         -              13.2             26.4              39.6             56.o              56.o          191.2         33              63
Vehicle operation and maintenance           30.0    (4)    120.0    (8)    240.0   (12)    360.0   (17)    510.0   (17)    510.0               1,740.0          50             870
Cinema van operation and maintenance    30.0    (1)           30.0    (1)      30.0    (1)       30.0    (1)      30.0    (1)       30.0          150.0         50              75
Bicycle allowance - Cashew officers          0.3   (32)        9.6   (65)      19.5   (98)       29.4  (131)      39.3  (131)       39.3          137.1          -               -
Bicycle allowance - Assistant COs            0.3   (95)      28.5  (195)       58.5  (295)       88.5  (395)    118.5  (395)    118.5             412.5          -               -
Demonstration material (village
society)                                   0.9   (32)      28.8   (65)       58.5   (98)      88.2  (131)    117.9  (131)        117.9         4'1.3          33             136
Travel allowances (90 days/yr at 40/-)   3.6    (7)          25.2   (14)       5o.4   (21)       75.6   (30)    108.0   (30)    108.0             367.2           -              -
263.3            499.3             735.3           1,013.7          1,013.7        3,525.3                      1,172
Deduct: Rental income 4
Regional Cashew officers            2.4    (1)        2.4    (2)       4.8    (3)        7.2    (4)        9.6    (4)        9.6          33.6           _              -
District Cashew Officers            1.65   (3)        5.0    (6)      10.0    (9)       14.9   (13)       21.5   (13)       21.5          72.9           _              _
7.4             14.8              22.1              31.1             31.1          106.5                          -
Sub-total other Operating Costs                          255.9             484.5            713.2             982.6             982.6       3,418.8                       1,172
Total Operating Costs                                       1,104.6           2,211.2           3,312.0           4,488.o           4,488.o      15,603.8           7          1,172
O official salary list for parastatal  organizations and Ministry of Agriculture.
2 5 of capital cost.
3 RCO's, DCO's and drivers.
As a rule, state and parastatal  staff occupying official houses pay12-1/2%  of their salaries to
the Government as rent.
April 3, 1974



TANZANIA
CASHTEW1IJT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Mtwara Agricultural Research Center - Fixed Assets L
(Tsh'000)
Foreign      Foreign
Exchange    Exchange
Project Year                                              1              2               3               4            5            Total    _%              Amomnt
Unit Cost
Establishment of nurseries
and plantation                                     -               -           10.0           20.0          25.0            55.0         -             _
Library books                                           25.0            45.0           10.0               -             -           80.0        5            40
Motor Vehicles
4-wheel drive                      42.0        (2)   84.0                -              -               -         84.o           168.0        80           134
Equipment
Laboratory equipment                  -              100.0           60.0            20.0             20.0        20.0           220.0        80           176
Nursery equipment                                        -               -            2.0              4.0         5.0            11.0        33             3
Calculators                         5.2         (3)   15.6    (5)   26.0                         -                    -           41.6        80            33
Duplicating equipment               8.0         (1)    8.O               -               -               -            -            8.0        80             6
Typewriters                         2.5         (4)   10.0    (6)   15.0                _        -                    -           25.0        80            20
Sub-total equipment                               133.6          101.0            22.0            24.o         25.0          305.6
Total Fixed Assets                                     242.6           146.0           42.0             44.0       134.0           608.6         68          412
A Estimated on the basis of cost experience.
April 3, 1974



TANZANIA
CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Mtwara Agricultural Research Center - Operating Costs
(Tsh'OOO)
5                  Foreign      Foreign
and                 Exchange    Exchange
Project Year                                                                1             2         3         4      after       Total        %         Amount
Unit Cost
Staff Salaries A
Entomologist                                          105.0      (1)  105.0          105.0    105.0    105.0          -       420.0        30
Agriculturalist                                       105.0      (1)  105.0          105.0    105.0    105.0          -       420.0        30         378
Economist                                             105.0      (1)  105.0          105.0    105.0    105.0          -       420.0        30
Assistants to the above                               15.0       (3)   45.0           45.0      45.0     45.o    105.0        285.0         -
Laboratory and field assistants                        12.0      (5)   60.0   (10)  120.0    120.0    120.0    120.0          540.0         -
Statisticians                                         12.0       (2)   24.o           24.0      24.o     24.0      24.0       120.0         -
Typist/Librarian                                        8.5      (1)    8.5            8.5       8.5       8.5      8.5        42.5         -
Clerk/Typists                                          7.0       (4)   28.0           28.0      28.0     28.0      28.0       140.0         -
Messenger/Cleaners                                      2.9      (2)    5.8            5.8       5.8       5.8      5.8        29.0         -
Guards                                                  2.9      (2)    5.8            5.8       5.8      5.8       5.8        29.0         -
492.1         552.1    552.1    552.1    297.1    2,445.5                       378
Providence Fund-5% on juni,or staff wages                                2.0           2.0       2.0       2.0      2.0        10.0         -            _
Mtwara posting allowance                                               149.2          55.2      55.2     55.2      55.2       270.0         -            -
Sub-total salaries and on-cost                                        543.3          609.3    609.3    609.3    354.3    2,725.5                       378
Other Operating Costs
Vehicles operation and maintenance                     30.0      (2)   60.o           60.o      60.o     60.0      60.0       300.0        50          150
Library (Subscriptions and books)                         -              7.0           7.0       8.0       9.0     10.0        41.0        70          29
Office supplies                                           _              4.o           4.o       5.0       5.0      6.o        24.0        60           14
Demonstration plots and field trials                      -              5.0          10.0      10.0      15.0     15.0        55.0        10            6
Miscellaneous supplies and expenses                       -             15.0          20.0      20.0      25.0     25.0       105.0        50           52
Seminars and conferences                                  -             15.0          45.0      45.0      45.0     45.o       195.0        33           65
Short-term training                                       -                -           5.0       5.0       7.5      7.5        25.0        33            8
Overseas training                                         -                -         14o.o         -    140.0         -       280.0        100         280
Sub-total other operating costs                                        I56,          291.0    153.0    306.5    168.5    17025.0            -
649.3         900.3    762.3    915.8    522.8    3,750.5           25          982
Less: Technical Assistance /3                                          315.0          315.0    315.0    315.0        -      1 260.0        30          378   X        X
_3                      1 3       6 3    522.8        o    2490.5               604
/3 Per parastatal and Ministry of Agriculture salary lists, and estimated rates to attract
essential expatriate staff.
/   Inducement to attract research staff to Mtwara - 10% on all salaries.
See Annex 7, Table 15.
April 3, 1974 '



TANZANIA
CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Factory Development
(Tsh000 )
Foreign     Foreign
Exchange    Exchange
Project Year                                                           1              2              3        4         5          Total        %         Amount
Unit Cost
Land Development                                       52       (2)    104    (3)    156                                             260         -              _
Buildings
1st stage                                         1,472            2,944          4,416
2nd stage                                         1,135                           2,270         1,135
Guest houses                                        110                     (2)    220    (3)    330
Sub-total Buildings                                             2,944          6,906          1,465                          11,315        33          3,771
Furniture and Fittings
No 2nd stage, lst stage, 1st Yr.                    190              380            570
lst stage, 2nd Yr.                    65                             130            195
Sub-total Furniture & Fittings                                    380            700            195                           1,275        33            425
Equipment and Machinery 2
lst stage, 1st Yr.                                3,720           7,440         11,160
1st stage, 2nd Yr.                               2,300                            4,6oo         6,900
2nd stage, 1st Yr.                                3,300                           6,600         3,300
2nd stage, 2nd Yr.                                2,300                                         4,600    2,300
Sub-total Equipment and Machinery                               7,440         22,360         14,800    2,300                 46,900        90         42,224
Motor Vehicles S
lst stage only                                    214              428           642                                428        1,498       80          1,198
Factory Infrastructure
Water source elaboration                            300              500            800                                          1,300        50           650
Training Costs - Factory Managers                                    100            100                                            200        75           150
Total Fixed Assets of Factories                                     11,896         3       1,664  16,46     2,300       428       77 19
Incremental Working Capital 2/                                          270          1,930          4,800    7,700    3,900        18,6oo        10          1,860
Total Factory Development                                            12,166         33,594        21,260   10,000    4,328         81,348        62        50,279
j   Includes for each factory a road maintenance tractor (Tsh 38,500), trailer (Tsh 9,300), and grader (Tsh 3,600) inclusive of 12-1/2% reserve for spares.                     <
E  Includes a road-maintenance and general use 2-ton pick-up van (Tsh 36,200) for each factory.
2   Working capital equals 25% of operating costs excluding depreciation (Annex 4, Table 1).                                                                                    CD
April 3, 1974



Annex 7
Table 9
TANZANIA
CASHEWNIJT DEVELOFffENT PROJECT
Land Development Costs
Tsh
Clearing
2.5 ha at Tsh600 per ha                           2 ,000
Grading
2.5 ha at Tsh 10,000 per ha                      25,000
Fencing
500 meters at Tsh 50 per meter                   25,000
52,000
r  -     (7ii



ANNEX 7
Table 10
TAN'ZANIA
CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PR()JECT
Building Requirements
(Tsh)
Buildings                                           Increment I  Increment II
Raw Nut Storage
500 sq. mtr. at Tsh 200/sq. mtr.                   100,000      100,000
Grading Area
300 sq. mtr. at Tsh 250/sq. mtr.                    75,000       75,000
Humidifying and Roasting
300 sq. mtr. at Tsh 300/sq.mtr.                     90,000        90,000
Decortication Area
150 sq.mtr. at 300/sq.mtr.                          45,000       45,000
Drying, Peeling, Grading,
Residential, Packing Area,
Cooperative Shop
2,500 sq. mtr. at 330/sq.mtr.                      825,000      825,000
Offices 100 sq.mtr. at Tsh4OO/sq.mtr.               4C,000
Wash-house 500 sq.mtr. at Tsh 250/sq, mtr.         125,000
Dispensary 150 sq. mtr. at Tsh 1500 sq.mtr.         75,00c
Utilities
Water Tank and Distribution                             35,000
Sub-Soil Drainage                                       25,000
Sanitary System                                         37,000
Total                  l,h72,000    1,135,000
Apil L, 197Y



TANZANIA
CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Equipment Requirements
---- First Stage (5,000 T/Yr) -----    ---- Second Stage (5,000 T/Yr) ----            Total
Y1            Y2           Total         Y1             Y2           Total    1st & 2nd
Stage
Rawnut Grading                        565,000          _          565,000       325,000          _          325,000        890,000
Humidification                         270,000          -          270,000      270,000           -         270,000        54o,ooo
Roasting and Oil Removal               585,000       585,000    1,170,000       585,000       585,000    1,170,000       2,340,000
Decortication                          370,000       370,000       740,o00       370,000      370,000       740,000      1,480,000
Shell Removal                           68,ooo          -           68,o0o       68,o0o           -          68,ooo        136,000
Peeling                                528,000       527,000    1,055,000       528,000       527,000    1,055,000       2,110,000
Packing Equipment                      110,000          -          110,000        50,000          -          50,000         160,000
Test Equipment                          20,000          -           20,000        20,000          -           20,000         40,oo0
Pneumatic Conveyors                    100,000       100,000       200,000       100,000      100,000       200,000         400,000
Machine Shop                           150,000          -          150,000        50,000          -           50,000        200,000
Hand Tools                             175,000       175,000       350,000       175,000       175,000       350,000        700,000
Freight                                229,000       193,000       422,000       209,000       193,000       402,0oo        824,ooo
Electrical Installation                150,000        50,000       200,000       150,000        50,000      200,000         4oo,ooo
Local Labor and Equipment              200,000       100,000       300,000       200,000       100,000       300,000        600,000
2-175 KVA Generator Sets
(partly factory, partly town)        200,000       200,000       4oo,000      200,000       200,000      )4oo,ooo         800,000                      - 
Total                          3,720,000    2,300,000    6,020,000    3,300,000    2,300,000    5,600,000    11,620,000
Masasi, Newala, Lindi - Stage I and Stage 2
Nachingwea and Mtama - Stage 1 only
April 3, 1974



ANNEX 7
Table 12
TANZANIA
CASHEWNUT DEVEIjDPMNT PROJECT
Costs of Factory Water Infrastructure
(Tsh)
1st Year      2nd Year
MASASI
Pipes, pumps and labor                            4oo ,0oo
Water source is local dam
MTAMA
Pipes, pumps and labor                            100,000         -
Water source is local river
LINDI
Pipes, pumps and labor                              -           500,000
Water source is local spring
NACHT IlT.t,
Pump and pipes                                      -           200,000
NEWALA
Pump and pipes                                      -           100,000
500,000      800,ooo
Api 4 , ]7!



TANZANIA
CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rural Water Supply
(Tsh)
Year 1      Year 2        Year 3        Total
Tunduru District (Marumba)                        4oo,ooo    2,000,000        -          1,400,000
Improve Dam
At Spring add distribution system
to provide standpipe water to
15,000 ujamaa villagers at
Tsh 95 per capita
Masasi District (Masasi)                          500,000    2,000,000         -         2,500,000
Construction of dam and laying of
10 Km pipeline
Newala District (Majembe Juu)                     100,000    1,400,000         -         1,500,000
Will augment development of Majembe Juu
system by adding storage capacity,
pump capacity and increasing diameter
of existing distribution system
Kilwa District (Songosongo)                           -         300,000        -           300,000
3 shallow wells with pumps (100,000/well)
Nachingwea District (Kilinarondo)                     -         150,000        -            150,000
Shallow wells
(Kiangara)                       -         150,000        -           150,000
1 deep bore hole with attending pumps and
distribution system                                                                                           F >
Lindi District (Nsunso)                               -            -        1,000,000    1,000,000                (D X
To supply water to 4,000 villagers from shallow
wells at Tsh 250/capita
1,000,000    5,000,000    1,000,000    7,000 000
April 3, 1974



TANZANIA
CA.SHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Costs of Community Education Centers 1/
(Tsh'0O0)
Foreign     Foreign
Unit                                                                                     Exchange    Exchange
Project Year /                   Cost         1               2              3             4          5        Total          %          Amount
Site Development                   80    (2)    160    (2)    160    (2)    160    (1)        80      -     (7)    560       30            168
Buildings
(11,920 sq. ft. per C.E.C.)    795    (2)  1,590    (2)  1,590    (2)  1,590    (1)    795         -      (7)  5,565       30          1,670
Professional Services              26    (2)      52    (2)      52    (2)      52    (1)     26      -     (7)    182       20             36
Furniture                           6    (2)      12    (2)      12    (2)      12    (1)      6      -     (7)      42      25             10
Equipment                          71    (2)    142    (2)    142    (2)    142    (1)        71      -     (7)    497       go            447
1,956         1,956          1,956            978     -           6,846                   2,331
1/  Costs are based on up-dated estimates used for similar CEC's   included in Tanzania Fourth Education Project(Credit No.371-TA)
2/ It is assumed that for construction convenience and to satisfy demand criteria, the phasing of CEC's would be roughly in
line with the phasing of factory construction.
April 4, 1974



TANZANIA
CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance
(Tsh'000)
Foreign       Foreign
Annual                                                             Exchange      Exchange
Salary     1         2        3         4         5      Total    _               Amount
CATA Headquarters
Senior Manufacturer's Representative             230       230      230       253      253       -         966
Chief Marketing Officer                           210      210       210      231       231       -        882
Financial Manager                                 210      210       210      231       231       -        882
Mtwara Research CenteA./
Entomologist                                      105      105       105      105       105       -        420
Agronomist                                       105       105      105       105       105      -         420
Economist                                         105      105       105       105      105       -        420
Factories
Asst. Manufacturer's Rep.  - 1st factory          100        50      100       100        50      -         300
Asst. Manufacturer's Rep.  - 2nd factory          100       -        100       100       100      -         300
Asst. Manufacturer's Rep.  - 3rd factory          100       -          50      100       100       50       300
Asst. Manufacturer's Rep.  - 4th factory          100       -          50      100       100       50       300
Asst. Manufacturer's Rep.  - 5th factory          100       -        -         100       100      100       300
Total                                                      1,015    1,265    1,530    1,480         200    5,490         70          3,843
1/ These positions do not define the precise reouirements but relate to the provision
for 12 man-years of research personnel.
April 8, 1974






ANN4X R
Table 1
TANZANIA
CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Categories of Bank Loan
Teh       US$        Disburse-   Disburse-
000's     000's         ment         ment
US$'0OOs
Factory Turnkey Contract
Factory Plant and Machinery
(including Factory Water)              62,548    9,117
Training Costs                              200k'      29
Senior Manufacturer's Representative        9662/    141
Assistant RepresentativeC                 1,500       219
65,214    9,506        l0C0  of     9,506
foreign and 95%
_______    --  of local ex-
Technical Services                                             pendniture s
(excluding Factory turnkey
personnel)                  3,660       534        100% of       505
foreign and 95%
Buildings, Civil Works and Schools4/                       of local expendi-
tures
(including land preparation             i.6,238    2,367         90%         2,130
fsuipment and VehiclesJ/                     5,691       829     100% of foreign 663
and 75% of local
6/                                                expenditures
Opera_ing Costs-
Exteneion salaries and Wages             12,185    1,776         25%           444
Subtotal   13,248
Unallocated being contingencies                                                 7,952
21,200
1/  Annex 7, Table 8
2/  Annex 7, Table 15
3/  Annex 7, Table 2 (consultant services and Project Preparation) Annex 7, Table 7
(siminars, short term and overseas training) and Annex 7, Table 15
4/  Annex 7, Tables 2,4,6,8, & 14
5/ Annex 7, Tables 2,4,6, & 8
6/  Annex C, Table 5
April c, 197)j



ANNEX 8
Table 2
TANZANIA
CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$'OO0)
IDA Fiscal Year                               Disbursement
and Quarter End                        In Quarter      Cumulative
1974/75
September
December
March
June                                    1,000           1,000
1975/76
September                              1,950            2,950
December                                1,800           4,750
March                                  1,800            6,550
June                                   1,800            8,350
1976/77
September                              1,800           10,150
December                               1,300           11,450
March                                  1,300           12,750
June                                   1,300           14,050
1977/78
September                              1,300           15,350
December                                 900           16,250
March                                     900          17,150
June                                     900           18,050
1978/79
September                                950           19,000
December                                 550           19,550
March                                    550           20,100
June                                     550           20,650
1979/80
September                                550           21,200
Estimated date of signing: June 30, 1974.
Estimated date of effectiveness: September 30, 197L
April 5, 1974'



ANNEX 9
Page 1
TANZANIA
CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Cashewnut Authority of Tanzania (CATA)
1.        The Cashewnut Authority of Tanzania (CATA) was established by the
Cashewnut Industry Act of 1973 (The Act).  The Act came into operation in
October 1973.
Functions
2.        The Act states the functions of CATA as follows:
(a)  to promote the development and improvement of the cashewnut
industry;
(b) to carry on, either on its own or in participation with any
other person, the business of growers and producers of
cashewnuts, the business of processing cashewnuts and the
business of manufacturing products of cashewnuts and kernels
including any other business or activity conducive or
incidental thereto;
(c) to regulate and control to the extent necessary to secure
the most favorable arrangements for the marketing and export
of cashewnuts, kernels and the by-products of cashewnuts;
(d) to advise the Government on all matters affecting the
cashewnut industry."
The above four functions are elaborated in section 4 (2) of the Act, and
give CATA monopoly powers over all activities connected with the cashew
industry. These powers are to be exercised subject to the over-riding
authority of the Minister of Agriculture.
3.        In nractice CATA's functions will include taking over all the cashew
marketing, processing, and price fixing activities previously carried out by
other bodies, for example:
(a) Purchase or rawnuts from Cooperative Unions throughout Tanzania;
(b) Supply of rawnuts to all the processors within Tanzania;
(c) Export to India of rawnuts not required for domestic processing;



ANNEX 9
Page 2
(d) Holding of 85% equity and 50Z equitv in TANITA Company limited
(TANITA) and Mtwara Cashew Company Limited (MCC) respectively,
the only two cashew mechanical processing factories in Tanzania,
and-possibly some extension of loan capital as well;
(e) Takeover - in exchange for CATA shares - of such assets of the
National Cashew Corporation (NCC) as CATA might wish to acquire.
Functions (a) to (c) were previously the responsibility of the National
Agricultural Produce Board (NAPB), a parastatal organization whose existence
was terminated in 1973 when its trading activities in cashewnuts, oilseeds
and food crops were transferred to CATA, the General Agricultural Products
Export Corporation and the National Milling Corporation respectively. Function
(d) above was previously carried out by the National Development Corporation
(NDC) which was also the sole owner of NCC.
4.        In addition to activities described above, CATA will also undertake
responsibility for:
(a) Cashew research;
(b) Cashew extension services and training, plus grading at the
village cooperative level;
(c) Construction and operation of the five Project factories
and CNSL storage facilities at Mtwara;
(d) Direct responsibility for the export and marketing of all the
kernels to be produced by the Project factories; and
(e) M4aintenance of about 500 kilometers of feeder roads close to
each Project factory.
Organization and Management
5.        The Act provides for:
(a) A Chairman appointed by the President;
(b) Not less than ten or more than fifteen other directors
appointed by the Minister of Agriculture; and
(c) A General Manager appointed by the President who would be
the chief executive of the Authority.
The Government of Tanzania appointed a committee of consultants to devise an
organizational and a financial plan for CATA. Their tentative recommendations
put forward in September 1973 were overtaken by events, in the sense that CATA



ANNEX 9
Page 3
had alreadv come into existence in July 1973, staff had been transferred to it,
and financial transactions had been undertaken which were not provided for in
the consultant's report. However, taking into account staff movements from
NAPB to CATA which have already occurred, the consultants' report, and the
new functions of CATA envisaged under the Project, the attached CHART has
been designed to show the main departments and functional responsibilities
envisaged within CATA under this Project.
6.        The functions of the senior management staff in CATA may be
summarized as follows:
General Manager
Appointed by the President, he is to be chief executive officer
of CATA with overall responsibility for the management atid
operations of CATA and for implementing the Project.
Chief Agricultural Officer
(a) Responsible for research and extension and grading.
(b) Training of extension staff.
(c) Preparation of raw nut production estimates.
(d) Analysis of extension program and results.
(e) Analysis of research program and follow-up.
(f) Supervision of quality of exports.
Chief Administrative Officer
(a) Personnel.
(b) Corporate legal work.
(c) General administrative work.
Financial Manager
(a) Preparation of annual cash flow and profit and loss projections,
identification of procurement requirements.
(b) Establishment of factory accounting and costing systems,
reporting procedures, and a management control system.
(c) Preparation of annual accounts.
(d) Procurement and IBRD Loans disbursement claims.



ANNEX 9
Page 4
Marketing Manager
(a) Responsible for all cashew sales.
(b) Sales projections.
(c) Product mix analysis.
(d) Pricing forecasts.
(e) Demand projections.
(f) Etonthly delivery requirements.
(g) Sales statistics, analysis and reports.
Factorv MIanagers
(a) Responsible for all factory production and administration.
(h) Preparation of estimates.
(c) Factory planning.
(d) Factory transportation.
(e) Research.
Financing
7.        Ulnder the Act, CATA may be financed through:
(a)   Parliamentary grants;
(b) Loans from the Tanzanian Government or "any other person";
(c) Sums or property vested in CATA under the Act, or under any
other written law in respect of any matter incidental to
the carrying out of its functions; and
(d) Levies imposed on cashewnuts produced or processed in
Tanzania.
CATA has already experienced a problem in financing its purchases of raw nuts
for the 1973 season starting in October. It has met this need through a-,bank
overdraft - the traditional source of short-term finance for crop purchase
employed by NAPB.



ANNEX 9
Page 5
Reports, Accounts and Audit
8.        The Act requires the Board of Directors of CATA to file an annual
report on its onerations with the Minister of Agriculture within six months
following the end of its financial year. CATA is also required by the Act
to keep proper books and accounts and to prepare annual balance sheets and
income and expenditure accounts which should be audited by the Tanzania
Audit Corporation and sent with the audit report to the Minister within six
months of the annual audit. The Minister is required to lay the accounts and
audit report before the National Assembly as soon as practicable after the
receipt thereof. The appraisal report contains provisions similar to the
above regarding the keeping of Project books and records and the filing of
audited annual accounts with the Bank.
9.        At the time of appraisal, CATA's accounting books had not been
opened. It appeared that the staff transferred from NAPB to CATA carried
on paying salaries and other operating costs in the name of CATA without
opening proper accounting books reflecting the full assets and liabilities
taken over by CATA. The appraisal mission brought this unsatisfactory
state of affairs to the Government's attention, recommending that the
consultants employed by Government should devise an organizational and finan-
cial plan for CATA (para. 5) should open proper books of account for CATA which
should reflect all its assets and liabilities; this should allow a proper
account of its transactions, as distinct from those of NAPB, to be kept.
The Government accepted this recommendation in principle.






ANNEX 10
TAiNZANIA
CASHEWNUT DEVELOPIMOIT Pi0JECT
Staffing Schedule
Title                    Project Year    1       2       3        4     5       6 on
(irsneral Mana2er                                   1      1        1       1     1          1
Mlarketing Managerl-/                               1       1       1       1      1*        1
Financial Manager-/                                 1      1        1       1      l*        1
Ghief Agricultural Officer                          1      1        1       1      1*        1
Regional Cashew Officer                             1      2        3       4      4         L
District Cashew Officer                             3      6        9      :13    13        13
Cashew Officer                                     32     65       98      131    131       131
Assistant Cashew Officer                           95    195      295       395    395       395
Factory Manager                                     2      5        5        5       5        5
Entomologist,                                       1      1        1        1       1        1
Assistant Entomologist                              1       1       1         1      -         -
Awronomist                                          1       1       1         1      1         1
Assietant Agronomiet                                1       1       1         1      -         -
Economi Eta                                         1      1        1        1       1        1
Assistant Economist                                 1       1       1         1      -         -
1/ First four years incumbent likely to be internationally recruited
thereafter Tanzanians would take over.  These poFition- do not define the prec-se
requireimentF but relate to the provision for a2-nan years of research personnel.
April 8, 1974






ANNEX 1 1
Page 1
TANZANIA
CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Markets and Prices
1.        About 80% of Tanzania's raw cashewnut production is exported to
India for processing. The f.o.b. price obtained for 1972/73 season averaged
about Tsh 1,295 per ton. It is expected that as quality of production
improves, this price in constant terms will increase to about Tsh 1,313 per
ton over eight years. It is expected that raw nuts will continue to be
exported to India.
2.        Imports by the world's major consumers of cashew kernels have
increased as shown below:
_____________' -000 tons -
1967     1968      1969     1970      1971      1972
63       76        82       81        83        102
These imports were distributed as follows:
USA       55%
USSR      21%
Canada     7%
UK         3%
Australia  3%
Others    11%
100%
It is expected that Project production would be exported mainly to the
USA. Marketing of kernels is mainly done through agents who charge 2-1/2%
commission on buyers' account. The demand for cashew is mainly as a cocktail
item with splits and butts going to the confectionery industry. As a cocktail
item cashew kernels are sold in packets of salted mixed nuts with cashew
being the base nut of the mix because of its bland taste.
3.        Prices of kernels over the past 5 years have been steadily increasing,
rising from US$0.60 in 1967 to US$0.75 per lb for 320 wholes in 1972 (320
single complete whole nuts per lb). In 1973 prices ranged from US$1.03 to
US$1.22 due to supply shortages. World production is likely to lag behind
demaad, thus causing prices to increase further. Although 1973 prices are
not truly representative of long term prices, agents responsible for 90%
of all USA imports of kernels believe that in constant terms the price will



ANNEX 1 1
Page 2
never fall below USS0.90 per lb. This basic price of US$0.90 per lb has
been used throughout the Project analysis (Table 1).
4.        Cashewnut shell liquid is sold mainly to Japan for Jse in the
automobile and paint industry; the latest price is $240 per ton c.i.f. freight,
insurance and handling is US$100 to give a net f.o.b. price of US$140 per ton.



AMJR3X 11
TANZANI-A
Oa.SH>]NUT DSV?!J0.LOKTT PROJECT
CaFhew Kernel Qelling Price
320 wholes  lr 1, C e, r- New York            .90
Less freight and handling                     .0g
Erice            l>7achijne     Hand :rocersing
Variation        Uroces,Fin-   'r.lue
o o. Grade       IJS$   oer lb    US cent-       U"' centE
210-240 wholes           Machine  Hand
210-240 wholes              1       3           .88             .o8            2.64
320 wholes                 26      12           .o8          22.19            10.20-
450 wholes                 15       8           .o2          12.30             6.56
Local wholes                7      11           .8            5.67             8.91
Dessert whnles              7       7           .53            ,.71            3.71
Butts                       8       3           .67           5 36             2 .0 1
Splits                     14       9           .6            8.68 
Lar7e white pieces                 17           *56           8.40             9  2
Other pieceE sI                    28           .3            1.36             9.2
100    100                         6 .99            A .67
Apri~l 8a ,'-3 7LI






ANNEX 12
Table I
'4) 0o -t                 0    o04            tO    00 0o 4o C
01    g  _~ _22 oSo                                   '                '             2O
'4 c             R                    4)004           0     00 
21        g                -00                                  .01'.   0  
0I   g          --4 0000                              0 r N   = 
-iC           0                   .t  .o        r 0  
v21        g   _  _2 . .g0   0 .0  s  
\0    0    4                 00      04  0D O0 0Eeo SD NN                 0
21         g    -                      040                 0     00o 0iX N> M
0    0    4                  0000o40             0    00    0             0
21         0s    0I0  _                                           40    0 o0    
0    0    - t                00      04          0 o0 0n                  .0nf = _
01         O.         _                __v 040              0   00_
. f   a    .t                4).4)o4)euo    f4         00    0.           o4
_1         0     -    _                  040                0             0           4 D    
:       1         0s                         _ 0_0                0 =           0           4
_,~0                         D I  0    -) 0              000             \0    0           0           0                4
-                                    l  g                          I                  0     o 0g           '       4) B 
.~~~~~4                                                       t1 N1                                            4) E   .o
E ~ ~      ~      ~     ~     a4 o                      a0         0          .4 ,a          -        a.ne          4) to  
N    4   O _         ,,)1           0  0g                             4)4 '- '.4 O)    4) -i
.e~~~~0 v                                                                                                        .0g0000ow o   _  



TANZANIA
CAShEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CATA Proiect Related Cash Filw-/
Tsh million
Year                        1           2           3           4          5          6          7          8          9        10         11         12         13         14         15         16         17          18         19     20
SOURCES
CATA Pr-fitt after tam (depre-
ciation already adjutte4)              (3.0)       (5.2)       (2.5)        5.7       13.0       14.1       14.6       13.6        9.4       9.7       10.0       10.3       10.6       10.9        11.2       11.5       11.9       12.1       12.4   12.6
Governeent Loan Cepital Z/              14.0        32.0        20.0        10.0        4.0
Gover.nmect Equity Capital                  1.6          3.8         2.4         1.5        1.0
Total S-urces                   12.6        30.6        19.9       17.2       18.0       14.1       14.6       13.6        9.4        9.7       10.0       10.3       10.6       10.9       11.2       11.5       11.8       12.1       12.4   12.6
ONES
Capital Expenditure                     15.6        35.8        22.4        11.5        5.0        1.1        -          -           .9         .7        2.0        1.8        1.8        1.5        -           .2         .9         .7        -    (18.8)
Governoent r.sn Repaymente                                                                           5.3        5.3        5.3        5.3        5.3        5.3        5.3        5.3        5.3        5.3        5.3        5.3        5.2        5.2    6.0
Dividends-                               -           -           -           -          1.7        3.9        4.2        4.4        4.1       2.8         2.9        3.0        3.1       3.2         3.3        3.4        3.5        3.5        3.6    3.7
Total Usee                      15.6        35.8        22.4        11.5        6.7       10.3        9.5       9.7       10.3        8.8       10.2       10.1       10.2       10.0        8.6        8.9        9.7        9.4        8.8   (9.1)
Annual Cash position                     (3.0)       (5.2)       2.5         5.7       11.3        3.8        5.1        3.9        (.9)        .9        (.2)       .2         .4         .9         2.6        2.6        2.1        2.7        3.6   21.7
Cnu-lati-a Cash poaition                (3.0)       (8.2)        (5.7)       -         11.3       15.1       20.2       24.1       23.2       24.1       23.9      24.1        24.5       25.4       28.0       30.6       32.7       35.4       39.0   60.7
1/ Encludee contingencies
G-tovermen  loan capital has been calculated on the basis that 907. of Project cots are CATA related and 70% of thase can be coneidered
as being IBRD Efianced therefore loan capital in equivalent to 63% nf total Pr-ject cents  if Tehl29.3 million, i.e. caset
Tsh8O aillien
3/ Dividends en the basis of 30% no cash fls  from ope-ations.
March 11, 1974



TANZANIA
CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CATA Projected Profit and Loss Accounts
Year                                     1             2              3              4              5              6              7              8              9             10
('000 Tons)
Raw nut Production                                124            126            130            136            141            143            143            143            143           143
Locally processed nuts
Tanita                                   19            25               25            25             25             25             25             25             25            25
MCC                                       -              8               8              8             8              8              8              8              8             8
New CATA factories                        -              3              13            30             40             40             40             40             40            40
Other                                     7              5               2             2              2              2              2              2              2             2
Subtotal                             26             41              48             65             75            75             75             75             75            75
Raw nut exports                                    98             85              82             71            66             68             68             68             68            68
124           126             130            136            141            143            143            143            143          143
(Tsh million)                                                                 -_-                                         -                              __              _
Raw nut sales (exports)                          126.9           110.1           106.2           92.6          86.3           89.2           89.2           89.3           89.3          89.3
(local to factories)              31.2           49.2             57.6          78.0           90.0           90.0           90.0           90.0           90.0          90.0
158.1           159.3           163.8         170.6          176.3          179.2          179.2          179.3          179.3         179.3
Raw nut cost to CATA                             144.8           147.2           151.5         157.3          164.2          168.9          171.3          171.3          171.3         171.3
Direct selling costs                              13.1            11.3            10.2            8.5           8.2            8.5            8.5            8.5            8.5           8.5
157.9           158.5           161.7          165.8         172.4          177.4          179.8          179.8          179.8         179.8
Margin on raw nut sales                             .2              .8             2.1            4.8            3.9          1.8              (.6)           (.6)           (.6)          (.6)
CATA Factory Profits (Project)                    (3.0)           (5.4)           (3.1)           4.5          11.4          12.3            12.8           13.3           13.8          14.3
Tanita Profits3                                 3.1            6.9              8.3           8.9            9.4          10.2            10.9           11.6           12.5          13.2
Subtotal                                .3            2.3             7.3           18.2           24.7          24.3            23.1           24.3           25.7          26.9
Less NAPB Cashew Overheads-2                      4.8             4.8             4.8            4.8           4.8           4.8             4.8            4.8            4.8           4.8
CATA Profits before tax                          (4.5)           (2.5)            2.5           13.4          19.9          19.5            18.3           19.5           20.9          22.1
Tax4/                                                _               -               -            3.6            8.0          7.8              7.2            7.8            8.4           8.8
5'
Net Profit after  taxes-                          (4.5)           (2.5)            2.5            9.8           11.9         11,7             11.1           11.7           12.5          13.3
I/   Annex 12 Table 1 adiusted for raw nut profits and tax.
2/   Based on NAPB accounts  being the administrative staff to be transferred to CATA.
3/   Based on 85% of Tanita's profit pro;ections.
4/   40% of taxable profit.
5!   No account has  been  taken  of any dividends likely to be received from MCC.
April 5, 1974






TANZANIA
CAShEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Government Cash Flov-
Tsh million
Year                                   2           3                      5            Subtotal                  6           7          8           9         10         11       12        13       14        15       16        17       18        19       20
SOURCES.
IBRD Loan                           15.6      35.8        22.4        11.5        5.0              90.3
CATA Lo-n Repaymnts                                                                                                      5.3         5.3         5.3        5.3         5.3        5.3      5.3      5.3       5.3      5.3      5.3       5.3       5.2     5.2      6.0
CATA Tae                             -               -                 -           -                 -                   -           -           1.5        6.2         6.4        6.6      6.8      7.0       7.2      7.4      7.6       7.8       8.0     8.2      8.2
Interest on CATA Loan                _          1.2        3.9         5.6        6.4              17.1                  6.7         6.2         5.7        5.2         4.7       4.2       3.7      3.2       2.7      2.2      1.7       1.2        ,7       2        -
CATA Dividends                       -          -          -           -           1.7               1.7                 3.9         4.2         4.4        4.1         2.8        2.9      3.0      3.1       3.2      3.3      3.4       3.5       3.5     3.6      3.6
Total Sonroen               15.6      37.0        26.3        17.1       13.1             109.1                 15.9        15.7       16.9        20.8        19.2      19.0      18.8     18.6      18.4     18.2   18.0        17.8     17.4   17.2       17.8
USES
Rural Water - Capital
Enpenditure          1.0        5.0        1.0                                      7.0
Community Education Centers
Capital Enpenditure                1.9       1.9          .9                                      6.6
IBRD Loan, interest and
capital repayment                  -         1.7         4.0        5.5         6.2              17.4                 10.1       10.1        10.1        10.1        10.1      10.1      10.1     10.1      10.1    10.1   10.1         10.1    10.1       10.1     10.1
Recurrent Costs - Rural
Water                       .1         .8        1.0        1.0         1.0               3.9                  1.0         1.0        1.0         1.0         1.0       1.0       1.0      1.0       1.0      1.0     1.0        1.0      1.0       1.0      1.0
Recurrent Community Costs -
Education Centers                   .4         .8        1.2         1.5        1.5               5.4                  1.5         1.5         1.5        1.5         1.5       1.5       1.5      1.5       1.5      1.5      1.5       1.5       1.5      1.5      1.5
CATA Loan and Equity Capital   15.6           35.8        22.4        11.5        5.0              90.3
Total U.es                  19.0      46.0        31.5        20.4       13.7             130.6                 12.6        12.6        12.6       12.6        12.6      12.6      12.6     12.6      12.6     12.6      12.6     12.6      12.6     12.6      12.6
Annual Cash position                   (3.4)     (9.0)        (5.2)     (3.3)       ( .6)                                    3.3       3.1          4.3         8.2         6.6       6.4       6.2      6.0      5.8       5.6       5.4      5.2      4.8       4.6       5.2
Cumulativ- Cash ip.siti.n             (3.4)    (12.4)        (17.6)    (20.9)      (21,5)                                   (18.2)  (15.1)        (10.8)       (2.6)        4.0      10.4     16.6      22.6     28.4      34.o     39.4    44.6       49.4     54.0       59.2
1/ Eccludes contingencies
March 11, 1974






ANNEX 14
Page 1
TANZANIA
CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Economic Rate of Return
1.        The economic analysis is based upon the following adjustments to
the financial analysis:
(a) Foreign exchange costs and benefits are valued at Tsh 10.0
per US$1.0 (rather than the official rate at the time of appraisal
of Tsh6.86 per US$1.0 subsequently revalued to Tsh7.14)
to reflect the scarcity value of foreign exchange.
(b) Production of kernels and raw nuts and cost of raw nuts for
processing are valued at export prices adjusted for transport
costs.
2.        Based on these assumptions the economic rate of return was estimated
at 39%. Economic costs and benefits are summarized in Tables 1 and 2 of
this Annex and are based upon the summary of financial costs and benefits
shown in Tables 3 and 4 of this Annex. The basic data for Tables 3 and 4
were obtained from Annexes 7 and 11. The Project has both factory processing
and extension components; the economic yields for these are 29% and more
than 100% respectively. In order to test the sensitivity of the rate of
return to R number of variables, the following alternative assumptions were
employed in a sensitivity analysis:



ANNEX 14
Page 2
Resulting            Effect on
Alternative                     Rate of Return         Rate of Return
(i)  Foreign Exchange not                   27.0                -12.1
shadow rated
(ii)  Processing labor shadow rated at 50Z 43.1                   +4.0
(iii) Capital costs
+10%                                 36.7                 -2.4
-10%                                 42.0                 +2.9
(iv)  No benefits from extensionl/           30.1                 -9.0
and grading
(v) Benefits (World Prices)
+10%                                 43.9                 +4.8
(vi) Recurrent costs
+10%                                 37.8                 -1.3
-10%                                 40.6                 +1.5
Employment and Income Benefits
3.        The establishment of processing factories in rural areas would
create additional employment for about 5,000 individuals both at the factories
and within the extension and grading service. Annual cash income of these
employees would be about US$420. No precise data was available on the current
incomes of those likely to be employed but it can be assumed not to exceed
US$200. The cashew extension and grading service would affect about
350,000 farm families (1.8 million individuals) and increase the annual cash
income per family by about US$10 per annum from about US$41 to about US$51
over 7 years.
Net Foreign Exchange Earnings
4.        The net foreign exchange benefits are the incremental revenues from
the export of cashew kernels, raw nuts, and CNSL, minus the foreign exchange
content of investment and operating costs. The Project would produce some
9,000 tons of cashew kernels, 19,000 tons of raw nuts and 2,500 tons of
CNSL annually for export by 1983. At full development the ongoing annual
incremental net foreign exchange earnings would be US$7.3 million.
1/   This component was selected for sensitivity analysis as the data avail-
able on yield responses could not be considered as reliable.



AmIEK 14
Table 1
-se 0        B-C   44 es0sC C    3  -0 
0f00t C40O CO 4 I' 00 4 r-  a i 
0                                                                       -
0
Oa _    0-Ot        00000.0                 0000          00
0    0' 0. 0        4    44      4    4 .0        4    4
v0
o                 'oOsOnooOOOoOOOOOtOO_   '                                               H   
0~~~     ~        ~~~ ~~c^N~.  .  . 0    .'C4.  44_4_4.I4.4_,4.4.4
0  00             4~
v. 
4    4  o..~           00 e
50~~~ ~~~~            ~~~~~~   .e m0 co  00 00             000          H                       a     .NNnN   
.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~: o5 0.  Ot _c 0       0.05          6   *.-.0 <    ZZ ZZ 0't0   e4
H~~~~~                           _ _0 a _
OH      2
0          0    0    00      0    0     0     0    0     0
::     .0           40                            0               
V      00000000 _      :S _O .           '0N  4 0                 2
.                                                                                         0n_-          c1N.tNIIr    
'.0                                                                                       0 
c00                 c       4        0        0       00
,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                                                         0
c ~            ~~                                          i o      eNr  .r   vNNN>Nr    
*= 0
* 0,                                                                                    0    0
.01                  oozc  ce       o        
0' e>zneenn  
0' I      0, 0 ___      __      ___        __      __ I,  to t.
O~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~*                                                H              00
0 1       .00                                              0'          0                                       0                 
I1                                                                 .0o0 . 
+                                                  Cl:: Q~~~~~0    0    0    0;             3



TANZANIA
CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Benefits
Tsh million
Value of            Value of        2           Total                                   Factory                                    Total
Project Year         Increased            Increased Raw3/        Value Quality          -------------                   5-7-------------------Project
Quality             Nut Production          and Production        Kernel Sales          CNSL Sales            Total Sales          Benefits
1                                            -                      -                    1.2                                        1.2                  1.2
2                    -                    3.0                      3.0                  11.5                   .1                  11.6                 14.6
3                    .8                   9.1                       9.9                 47.5                 1.2                   48.7                 58.6
4                   1.8                  18.1                      19.9                106.3                  2.6                 108.9                128.8
5                   2.8                  24.1                      26.9                139.9                 3.3                  143.2                170.1
6                   3.9                  26.9                      30.8                141.7                 3.3                  145.0                175.8
7                   3.9                 26.9                       30.8                141.7                 3.3                  145.0                175.8
8                   3.9                  26.9                      30.8                141.7                 3.3                  145.0                175.8
9                   3.9                  26.9                      30.8                141.7                 3 3                  145.0                175.8
10                   3.9                  26.9                      30.8                141.7                 3.3                  145.0                175.8
11                   3.9                  26.9                      30.8                141.7                 3.3                  145.0                175.8
12                   3.9                  26.9                      30.8                141.7                 3.3                  145.0                175.8
13                   3.9                  26.9                      30.8                141.7                 3.3                  145.0                175.8
14                   3.9                  26.9                      30.8                141.7                 3.3                  145.0                175.8
15                   3.9                  26.9                      30.8                141.7                 3.3                  145.0                175.8
16                   3.9                  26.9                      30.8                141.7                  3.3                 145.0                175.8
17                   3.9                  26.9                      30.8                141.7                  3.3                 145.0                175.8
18                   3.9                  26.9                      30.8                141.7                  3.3                 145.0                175.8
19                   3.9                  26.9                      30.8                141.7                  3.3                 145.0                175.8
20                   3.9                  26.9                      30.8                141.7                  3.3                 145.0                175.8
1/  Foreign exchange component of benefits is 100/. and has been shadowed priced at TshlO per US$1.0
2/  Quality increases due to extension and grading are expected to increase average price from 607 standard at Tshl,357.7 and 40%/ second grade
at Tshl,200 = Tshl,294.6 to 75:25 ratio = Tshl,318.3.  This increase in price for auality has only been applied to Project area production
and has been phased over the first six years in line with the planning of expected results from extension and grading.
3/   Raw nut production in the area is expected to increase by 20% phased as following Year 1, 0; Year 2, 2,100 tons; Year 3, 6,300 tons; Year 4, 12,500 tons;
Year 5, 16,600 tons; Year 6 and thereafter 18,600 tons.  Production has been valued at Tshl,295 less co-operative costs Tsh300 = Tsh995 per ton.
4/   Kernels valued at US$.7 per lb (TshlO,588 per ton).  Production phasing is as follows Year 1, 75 tons; Year 2 750 tons, Year 3, 3,100 tons; Year 4, 6,900 tons;
Year 5, 9,000 tons; Year 6 and thereafter 9,200 tons.
5/   CNSL is valued at US$140 = Tsh959 per ton.
April 4, 1974



Iv c   oo oaor    sse         oooANEX 14
V| 0 '0 -i I: 0(0 00 0 '0000   01 0........... 0) 0 a                                      i  D  00D   ................. Table 3
11
0    ~            '4
ci4       0000000000
si 0.4.                     000o00  oooo        oooo  
0        ____________000____
'00
v04' 
3-Nil ~ ~  ~      ~      ~     ~      0                                
_   ooo~~~~~~~~~~~~~
v0 0. 0 0 44 0 4 0 4                             0                              0h  0  
cl~ ~ ~~~~~~'                                                       04
'0-                                               00     I .s .. .I        
00c                                                    000       .......00
vo1 0 o 00                                             00       0000  
, ~  ~    ~    '0                                                 0 oa o _9_994 0990 0r
> ~  ~    ~    4 04    .00 __II'                      I '   00'                                        
, ~  ~    ~     0 v'                                                    00 PS0 0
. ~ ~ ~ ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~    ~     0 _0 0 0 0 0 -0
,~~     ~~           .-04000200000 C400000010                                                      .                  0
i    c b   X   e_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z_  m._ :,s,erw  n_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



TANZANIA                             ANNEX 1L4
Table 4
CASHhWlNUT DEVELOPMEiT PROJECT
Financial Benefits
(7Tsh million )
Total ValueV/               Total2/            Total
Year      Quality and Production       Factory Sales      Benefits
1                -                          .8              .8
2               2.1                       8.0             10.1
3               6.8                      33.4             40.2
4              13.7                       74.8            &8.5
t,             18.5                      98.4            116.9
6              21.2                      99.6            120.8
7              21.2                      99.6            120.8
8              21.2                      99.6            120.8
9              21.2                      99.6            120.8
10              21.2                      99.6            120.8
11              21.2                      99.6            120.8
12              21.2                      99.6            120.8
13              21.2                      99.6            120.8
14              21.2                      99.6            120.8
15              21.2                      99.6            120.8
16              21.2                      99.6            120.8
17              21.2                      99.6            120.8-
18              21.2                      99.6            120.8
19              21.2                      99.6            120.8
20              21.2                      99.6            120.8
I/ Annex 14 Table 2 Notes 2 & 3
2/ Annex 14 Table 2 Notes 4 & 5
March 11, 1974



TANZANIA
CASHEW DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CATA ORGANIZATION CHART
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS
_I
GENERAL MANAGER
r~~~~~~~~
MARKETG                                             Ft FANCIAL     l                                                              CHIEF AGRICULTURAL                                   CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE
MANAGER  MANAGER      l|                                                                     FFICER       1OFFICER
|~~~~~~~~RSAC                                    EXTEASIRN ANlESNEAMNSRTV
ES             O~~~~FFICIER                OFICrER              ACCOUNTANT                     MANAGERS                     OFFICERS              GRAIN  OFICR                    OFFICER                   OFFICER
FACTORY                 ~~~~~FACTORY                       FACTORY       |          |FACTODRY PERSONNEL |             |FCTORY STOREKEEPER/|
T ACDNANT                         ENGINEER       l          l      SUPERVISOR      |          [|AND TRAINING OF FICER               STORAGE SUPERVISORi
BOODDK-KEEPER |    |  PLANNING              WORKSHOP
OFFICER             SUPERVISRWld  k-246(2






TANZANIA
CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Factory Construction Schedule
MASASI     NEWALA        LINDI    NACHINGWEA    MTAMA
6
Start
H
-t 2 | ~Complete
-12L
Start
-18                            H
. _ -24    ompleteCompleCompmpeee
Start                   Start        Start
w
-30  Complete                        Complete
Start
36                                     C
World Bank-8551






TANZANIA
CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rate of Increase of Factory Capacity
CAPACITY
(PERCENT)                                                                           50th Month 100%
/    ~~~~I
/       ~~~~~~I
/ 6%         I
/ I   ~~~I    I
/  I         ~ ~~~I          I
/I               I             I
0        6         12       is        24         30        36           42        48  50
MONTHS
World Bank-8552






IBRD 10795
TANZANIA                 33                                                            40' DECEMBER 1973
CASHEWNUT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Southern Cashewnut Production Area
Processing centers
Factory centers                                                                                 Mafia !sland
Major population centers                                                          Kilindoni
-  Territorial main roads         /                                                                                 
District main roads                                    Utete 0
----Feeder roads and tracks        /           - 
Rivers                  -j.                                 I
- District boundaries   /                            -             _
Regional boundaries                                     -n d'i a  n
-   International boundaries
Kil a  Kivinje
Liwole -/J  /             E     ,       ,                      O  c e a n
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K L
-  - y ;  'l:'. ni 2    N  G' W    E A,                                 \
X  LiwoIe ,\                                                           P
/   aXs  1111\ ///                      ;   1                                             '':~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s q
-10,                                                                                                    101-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D,  sSlsm '
LoGEA  I  Ny     I/,-N   E
=0 80                                                                                                :' AM  A 
kindani
\\\\\   ///   Ij   t',-..,,<@&,<-?   ..,.t"9       g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/N` LV TO I . >
W                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AI A                                              ; 1 



