IPP33
Jan. 24, 2003
Primary Education for Disadvantaged Children
(Poject ID: P044803)
Indigenous People's Strategy and Action Plan
Outline
1. Introduction
* Project goals
* Target beneficiaries
2.   Legal and Institutional Framework
* Overarching Framework
* The Education Law
3.   Relevant Existing Programs Targeting Ethnic Minorities
* CEMMA Programs
* Ministry of Education and Training (MoET) Programs
* Major donor programs:
4.   Identification of Ethnic Minorities
5.   Ethnic Minorities and Education: Main Issues
* Access to State Educational Services
* Participation in Development Policies
* The Participation of Minorities in the Formal Economy and the Effect on the Demand
for Education
* The Demand for Child Labor in the Home or on Farms and its Effect on Schooling
* Educational Attainment of the Adult Population and its Impact on the Education of
Minority Children
* Early Marriage
* Tension for Females between Traditional Roles and the Desire for Education
* Impact of Poverty, Fertility, Health, and Nutritional Levels on Demand for Education
* Curriculum
* Language of Instruction
* Boarding Schools and,Other Options for Provision of Services in Sparsely Populated
Areas
6.   Actions for the Ethnic Minority Beneficiaries of the Project
7.   Resources
8. Annexes                                                      FILE COP?
Ethnic minority population by province
* Primary net enrollment and poverty rates by province
* Lower secondary school enrollment rates by gender and province
* A note on primary and lower secondary school enrollment rates by ethnic group


﻿* Technical Note on Girls' Education and the PEDC Project
2


﻿Primary Education for Disadvantaged Children
(Poject ID: P044803)
Indigenous People's Strategy and Action Plan
1.   Introduction
Project goals
The objective of the project is to improve educational services for children-at-risk. For the
purposes of this project, children-at-risk are those who either (i) do not enroll in primary
education; (i) who do not meet minimum expectations for learning as measured by standard tests
of Mathematics and Vietnamese, or (iii) who are at high risk of dropping out or repeating.
Target beneficiaries
Many of children at-risk:
come from poor districts or provinces where school systems tend lack infrastructure,
qualified teachers, and ample supplies of teaching and learning materials;
do not speak Vietnamese, the language of instruction
have physical or cognitive disabilities; or
face other special circumstances, such as recent migration, demands for their labor, or
extreme poverty.
2.   Legal and Institutional Framework
Overarching Framework
Policies that affect education of ethnic minorities are issued by the National Assembly and the
Communist Party. The official guidance of the Party is:
"...to implement policies of equality, unity, and mutual help among ethnic groups, creating
all favorable conditions for ethnic groups to develop and advance towards civilized society,
progress, and the common development of the community of all Vietnam's nationalities.
Respect for the interests, traditional cultures, languages, customs, and beliefs of the ethnic
groups is essential. The socioeconomic policies should be suited to the special
characteristics of the region and ethnic groups, particularly ethnic minorities" (Some
Documents and Policies of the Party and State, 1992, p. 8).
This viewpoint has been reflected in law. Both The Constitution of Vietnam acknowledges the
position, rights, and obligations of ethnic groups, define basic principles on relationships among
ethnic groups, and acknowledge the need to assist the development for ethnic minorities,
officially known as "nationalities." Article 5 of the Constitution states:
3


﻿"The State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is the united state of all nationalities living
in the country of Vietnam, who are equal in their rights and obligations. The State protects,
strengthens, and consolidates the unity of all nationalities, and prohibits any behavior that
looks down upon or sows division among nationalities. All nationalities have the right to
use their own languages and writing systems and to develop their artistic traditions,
customs, and traditional cultures. The State develops a plan to narrow, step by step, the
economic gap and cultural between different nationalities development."
To help achieve the goals set by the Constitution, Vietnam has established the Nationality
Council of the National Assembly. The Council's goal is to help the National Assembly
formulate development strategies that ensure unity among nationalities. The Government then
implements these guidelines by preparing laws, decisions, directives, and other legal remedies.
The ministries and other government actors are responsible for developing detailed circulars and
implementing policies, some of which entitle minority nationalities to preferential treatment with
respect to the national social programs.
The lead coordinating agency of ethnic minority affairs is the Committee for Ethnic Minorities
and Mountainous Areas (CEMMA). CEMMA is a cabinet level committee, established in 1993,
charged with identifying, coordinating, implementing and monitoring projects geared toward
ethnic minority development. It helps the Government develop and implement policies toward
ethnic minorities and the mountainous areas. CEMMA's organizational network reaches down
to the grassroots level. All provinces in the ethnic minority and mountainous regions have an
equivalent agency, which appears under a variety of names depending on the province. At the
district level, the mass mobilization divisions also influence ethnic minority affairs.
CEMMA advises the Ministry of Education and Training (MoET) and other line ministries on
the development of policies relating to ethnic minorities and mountainous regions. For example,
CEMMA and the Ministry of Education and Training collaborate in making policy on the
recruitment and allowances for teachers in mountainous regions. The Ministry of Education and
Training has a department that specializes in ethnic minority affairs and a Research Center for
Ethnic Minority Education.
The Education Law
The Government of Vietnam has made a strong commitment to educating the population of
Vietnam and by ratifying the Convention on the Rights of the Child, acknowledges that every
child has a right to primary education, regardless of ethnic origin, religious belonging, beliefs,
gender, family background, social status or economic conditions. By developing country
standards, Vietnam has been remarkably successful. The net enrollment rate in primary
education is estimated to be between 88% and 91%.
A law on the "Universal Primary Education" (UPE) was approved by the National Assembly in
1991 with the goal to introduce compulsory education at least through grade 5 for the entire
population. The law and later documents recognized that both the government and society have a
responsibility in ensuring that all children from 6-14 years of age complete primary education.
However, the Vietnam's definition of "universal" is somewhat flexible - a province is defined as
4


﻿having achieved UPE goals when 90% of children from 6 - 14 years old in 80% of the communes
attend primary school.
The UPE law and a new Education Law apply to the whole country and all 54 ethnic groups. The
laws permit ethnic minorities to use their own language in primary school along with Vietnamese
and promises additional support and funding to vulnerable areas and populations. The law has a
number of articles that shape the provision of educational services to minority nationalities:
It recognizes four modes of providing primary education, geared to the financial
capacities of the locality and the agricultural calendar in each region: (i) a 165-week
program curriculum for most children; (ii) a 120-week curriculum that is provided mostly
to ethnic minority children in remote locations; (iii) a 100 week program that provides
literacy training for children in very poor circumstances; and (iv) an experimental
"Technology Curriculum" offered by the Centre of Education Technology. The
Government is gradually moving toward a 165 week curnculum for the whole country.
This poses particular challenges for schools in poor areas that lack facilities, materials
and qualified teachers to implement the curnculum.
Supplemental regulations provide each learner attending literacy classes (those children
who follow 120-week and 100-week program) VND 80,000 to buy books, notebooks,
pens and other supplies, and to pay the teacher for the course.
The law state that "Vietnamese is the official language in schools." However, the State
recognizes the right to speak in one's own native tongue, and operates bilingual classes in
some areas.
The Education Law says that the State shall establish boarding schools or semi-boarding
schools for ethnic minority children, and/or children of long-term resident families in
areas with extreme socio-economic difficulties.
3.   Relevant Existing Programs Targeting Ethnic Minorities
CEMMA Programs
CEMMA is the main vehicle for implementing government programs that affect ethnic
minorities. It has a budget of VND7.9 trillion ($546 million) for the five-year period through
2005. If realized, this amounts to a substantial $50 per ethnic minority household per year
(Minot and Baulch, 2001). However, since 1998 CEMMA has troubled by various instances of
corruption, and criticized for being too "top-down" and lacking of transparency. Ethnic
minorities have rarely participated in planning development projects, and rarely know what they
are entitled to even as projects are being implemented.
Program 135 is the largest Government poverty alleviation program designed specifically for
mountainous and remote areas where most of Vietnam's ethnic minorities live. It was launched
in 1998 with the Prime Minister's Decision No. 135/1998/QD-TTg and now distributes about
VND410 billion ($28 million) annually. Program 135 supports small scale infrastructure
development in the poorest communes, including school construction. In theory, program
decisions are decentralized to the local level, however in practice consultation with beneficiaries
has been limited. Although the program is a meaningful attempt at targeted poverty alleviation,
5


﻿funds are spread thinly, thus providing only limited help to the poorest households and
dissipating the program's potential effectiveness in combating poverty. Moreover, large numbers
of poor people living in "non-poor" communes are excluded from receiving many benefits
(Minot and Baulch, 2001).
Poverty reduction is a basic social policy that is accorded special attention from the Government
of Vietnam. Along with the process of renovation and economic growth, the Government line
calls for advancing the task of poverty reduction, implementing social equity, and narrowing the
gap between rich and poor among different population strata and different regions. The
Government with support from the World Bank and other donors id preparing the
Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy (CPRGS), which harmonize economic
growth and measures to solve social problems, promote rapid and sustainable economic growth
coupled with attainment of social progress and equity. The CPRGS is an action plan that
translates the Government's Ten-year Socio-Economic Strategy and Five-Year Plan as well as
other sectoral policies into specific measures with well-defined road maps for implementation.
The CPRGS has received comments from all concern ministries, non-governmental
organizations and donors community at various seminars organized at both central and local
levels, the process is being completed in the next few months.
Ministry of Education and Training (MoET) Programs
MoET has developed an "Education for All" plan and an a strategy for education development
to the year 2010. In these plans, the education of ethnic minorities figures prominently and poses
some of the most vexing challenges. In particular, the Ministry is looking for ways to tackle
challenges of language and remoteness.
There are 54 ethnic minority groups in Vietnam, each with their own language. Many children
come to school unprepared for instruction in Vietnamese, and few teachers are actually prepared
to offer systematic bilingual instruction. Only a few of the indigenous languages are written, and
curriculum materials and teacher training programs for bi-lingual education are not widely
available.
MoET is attempting to tackle the issue of remoteness by establishing boarding schools and semi-
boarding schools (where students board during the week but return home on weekends). The
schools also have the objective of training ethnic minonties to assume key personnel and
leadership positions, including local management posts, teachers, and health care workers. The
boarding schools are given a high pnority when allocating teachers, infrastructure, equipment,
textbooks, teaching aids, and budget, but they are very limited in number.
Major donor programs
At the Millennium Consultative Group Meeting (December 2000) Government called for a
coordinated, multi-donor effort to help it achieve its "Education for All" (EFA) goals. Most of
Vietnam's external partners have made commitments to a global EFA agenda, and are keen to
support Vietnam in achieving its targets. The main donors to primary and secondary education in
Vietnam include the World Bank, ADB, JICA, EU, DFID, AusAID, the Government of Belgium,
6


﻿UNESCO, UNICEF, OXFAM Great Britain, and Save the Children Fund. The large donor
programs have tended to focus on infrastructure development, management training, and policy
advice, while the smaller donor projects have provided interesting incubators for teacher training,
alternative service delivery strategies, and non-formal education.
Improving coordination among donors could help Government achieve a long-term goal of
moving from free-standing traditional capital investment projects to programmatic support. The
most immediate challenges are to: (i) ensure effective coordination between MoET departments
to integrate the Education Strategy 2010, EFA plan, secondary education master plan into a
coherent overall program; (ii) encourage donor coordination in education, while recognizing
restrictions on programming and procurement that constrain some donors flexibility; (ii)
mobilize sufficient resources to achieve the government's goals; (iv) develop the capacity of
officials at Province, District and Commune levels to identify issues, propose solutions and
implement plans; and (v) meet information challenges to enable the targeting of resources to
areas or people in greatest need.
The Education Forum and UNESCO are exploring ways of moving beyond fostenng information
exchange between donors to improving sector-wide coordination. Their goal is to increase
coherence across all education programs and to align external support behind the government
program. Measures could include: (i) developing an annotated inventory of externally funded
projects/programs by level, type of education and objectives; (ii) conducting a "pipeline" review
by all donors of their future programs; (iii) mapping of the Government's sector strategy and the
donor programs onto a coherence matrix to identify mismatches, inconsistencies and conflicts;
(iv) providing a period for donors to adjust and realign external support programs; and (v)
grouping and packaging of donor activities into broad coordinated sector-support programs. A
better coordinated donor program, tightly aligned with the Government's educational
development plans, could be expected to improve education services for all children in Vietnam
- and particularly for those children, including minorities, who may require additional resources.
The Northern Mountains Poverty Reduction Project funding by the IDA provides support to poor
villages in the six of thirteen northern mountains provinces a variety of improved and sustainable
infrastructure and social services, and the institutional capacity of upland communes and districts
is increased. With about 10% of the project cost for both basic education and health component,
the project will improve the provision of basic education and health services, and the access to
and uptake of these services.
By targeting the poorest communes in the Central Vietnam, the Community-Based Rural
Infrastructure Project (CBRIP) assists the ethnic minority population in their pursuit for poverty
reduction. The project provides direct benefits to the ethnic minorities by improving access to
essential infrastructure at commune and district levels in 12 provinces of Central Vietnam. The
project will finance works selected by communes from pre-determined lists of eligible works
(including school construction). In addition, the project will empower the ethnic minorities
through capacity building in various aspects.
4.   Identification of Ethnic Minorities
7


﻿OD 4.20 provides a working defines indigenous peoples as those with the following
characteristics:
a close attachment to ancestral territories and to the natural resources in these areas;
self-identification and identification by others as members of a distinct cultural group;
an indigenous language, often different from the national language;
presence of customary social and political institutions; and
primarily subsistence-oriented production.
This definition is largely in conformity with the Government definition of ethnic groups. The
official classification of the Government identifies 54 separate ethnic minority groups. The
names of the ethnic minority groups and their respective demographic figures by province are
provided in Annex1. The following maps illustrate that a high percentage of ethnic minorities
are in the central and northern highlands (Map 1) and that there is a very high correlation
between ethnicity, highland residence and poverty (Map 2).
8


﻿MAP 1: GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF ETHIC MINORITIES
Map 1. Overlay of Ethnic Minorities
HANOI
DANANG
Rural ethnic minority_%
g50 to 100
El25 to 50
Ej10 to 25
Soto 10
,<Az4.HO CHI MINH
9


﻿MAP 2: ETHNIC MINORITIES AND POVERTY
Ethnic Minorities Overlaid on Rural Poverty
HANOI
HOANG SA
DANANG
POVERTYHEADCOUNTA4
(%ol Individuals)
60 to 100
46 to 60
25 to 46
Oto 25
RURAL ETHNIC MINORIrY_A
10 to SD
OI to t0
00 to 1
oalomebrm
.   -            H CHIMINH CITY
TRUONG'SA
10


﻿Of the 61 provinces in Vietnam, there are 9 where the primary school net enrollment rate is
below 80% and another 7 where the enrollment rate is below 85%. These provinces also tend to
have high poverty rates (see Annex 2). Among the 12 ethnic minority groups for which we have
statistically significant data (those with more than 1000 children of primary or secondary school
age included in the Census sample), 5 have primary school net enrollment rates below 70%. By
far, the lowest enrollment rates are found among the Hmong people, where only 41.5% of
primary school age children enroll in school (51.5% of boys and 31.5% of girls) (see Annex 4).
5.   Ethnic Minorities and Education: Main Issues
Access to State Educational Services
The highland areas are host to the majonty of Vietnam's minonty nationalities. The difficult
topography and poor transport and communications infrastructure in these areas make provision
of educational services difficult. The low level of economic development means that the tax base
is weak and moreover, that highland families do not have income to supplement state
expenditures on education as lowland or urban families do. Many people cannot even afford
basic expenditures on learning materials. This leads to highly inequitable educational outcomes,
with generally better facilities, better qualified teachers, and better results concentrated in the
wealthier parts of Vietnam; while poorer highland areas are in danger of being locked into a
viscous circle with the effects of poor quality educational services, poorly educated parents, and
poverty compounding each other to produce a weak supply and demand for education.
Solutions aimed at increasing access to educational services must therefore address both supply
and demand problems. In the broadest sense, there is a need to integrate poverty alleviation and
education programs into a comprehensive development strategy. More specifically, MoET and
MoF need to work together to improve funding formulas so to account for higher cost of
delivering services in poor, remote areas and to ultimately reduce regional disparities in
educational outcomes. Finally, it is also important to consider making more use of private sector
services in wealthier areas that might help to reduce demands on the Government budget without
compromising availability of services.
Participation in Development Policies
While the government encourages the ethnic minorities to contribute to development policies, the
current mechanism of decision making, which is essentially top-down rather than bottom-up,
considerably limits their participation. Language, organization, and deference to authority also
constitute barriers to participation in policy making. As a result, many policies in areas where
ethnic minorities live are actually centrally designed, and sometimes have little relevance to the
felt needs of the beneficiaries. Weak mechanisms for implementation, monitoring, and feedback
further hamper policy effectiveness.
In education some nationwide policies encounter difficulties at the local level, particularly in the
minority populated areas, where socio-economic conditions differ so much from the urban areas
I1I


﻿where policies are generally set. Issues such as language and curriculum are particularly pressing
issues. The lack of qualified local teachers is also another factor that makes it difficult for
children to master the curriculum while preserving their cultural identity. Better participation in
decision making may help ethnic minorities shape policy and enjoy opportunities that the
education system offers.
The Participation of Minorities in the Formal Economy and the Effect on the Demand for
Education
During the period of collectivization, many ethnic minorities were deployed to work in the
agricultural and forestry cooperatives. Very few were able to work in the state economic sector
due to the fact that this sector was established mainly in the lowlands. The general low level of
educational attainment of the ethnic minorities further hindered their opportunities to participate
in the skilled labor market.
Economic reform has produced high levels of growth, but most of the opportunities have been
generated in the lowlands and specifically benefited people with marketable skills or assets. The
rates of return to education are obvious to people with mobility and opportunity in economically
dynamic areas. However, the continued comparatively low rate of labor force participation by
ethnic minorities may be dampening the demand for education. Furthermore, their dependence
on agriculture poses several challenges to schooling:
the low and unstable incomes contribute to low school enrollment, high drop-out, and
poor learning quality;
working in agriculture, particularly in the upland areas, is labor-intensive, which means
that the opportunity costs of sending a child to school are high; and
people confined to subsistence or semi-subsistence agriculture often have fewer
immediate opportunities for upward social mobility, thus are less likely to realize the
importance of education as a means to improve their social status.
Efforts are therefore needed to engage more ethnic minorities in the formal economy, not only as
a way to bring development to communities and improve their income, but also as an indirect
means of increasing the demand for education.
The Demand for Child Labor in the Home or on Farms and its Effect on Schooling
As mentioned above, since the majority of people of ethnic minorities are working in agnculture,
which is labor-intensive, the demand for child labor, either at home or on farms is high. This has
several effects on schooling:
the opportunity costs of sending a child to school are high, thus there is a tendency not to
enroll, or enroll late, to be absent for school, and to drop out;
children who work long hours on the farm or in the home have less time to study; and
pupils are more likely tired after work, thus influencing their learning quality, either in
class or in doing home work; and
12


﻿girls are more likely to bear more responsibility for family welfare than boys,
compounding the already low demand for girls education among some minority groups
(most notably the Hmong).
Poverty alleviation, formal job creation, even direct economic support are important ways to help
families reduce their dependence on child labor. But social programs are equally important to
increase the perception of parents on the importance of education for their children.
Educational Attainment of the Adult Population and its Impact on the Education of Minority
Children
The average level of educational attainment of the adult population among many ethnic
minorities is much lower than the level of the Kinh population. Comparatively few people have
gone beyond primary school and illiteracy rates are high. The intergenerational effects of low
levels of parental education are well documented. They include susceptibility to cycles of
poverty which keep children out of school; a weak perception by parents and community leaders
of the need for education and its relevance; a shortage of role models for children, and a less
supportive home environment for learning (e.g. a lack of books, shortage of adults able to help
with homework, etc.)
Potential solutions to the low levels of educational attainment in the adult population include the
provision of adult education programs. Such programs should be very accessible, i.e. provided
for very low fees or for free, in a convenient location, and with subject matter that is immediately
useful and interesting to learners. More images of successful adults that minority children can
identify with should also be presented in textbooks, newspapers, movies, and media campaigns.
Local authorities can also participate (there is a widespread desire to become a government
official among minority children) but examples, or models, should be expanded to include those
from the private sector also.
Early Marriage
The law prohibits marriage before the age of 18 but it is not always observed, particularly in the
rural and upland areas where traditions of early marriage, arranged marriage, and large families
are prevalent. The need for labor in a low technology agricultural economy also creates pressure
to have large families. Finally the lack of social diversions in some areas is said to lead many
people to early marriage.
Early marriage means that many children are born by young parents whose social and economic
status are not stable by the time they go to school. As a result, these children will face
difficulties as described in the preceding paragraphs. Also because of early marriage and general
economic difficulties many mothers are not physically developed enough to have healthy
newborns. Poor health continues through childhood and impacts a child's ability to learn.
Strong programs to discourage early marriage well integrated within other economic, social, and
education programs would therefore be desirable.
13


﻿Tension for Females between Traditional Roles and the Desire for Education
In most developing countries females are educationally disadvantaged compared to males.
Tradition often defines female roles primarily as domestic unpaid workers, sometimes from a
very early age (as young as 4, 5 years old). This creates real pressures on females by severely
limiting their autonomy and hindering their opportunities for social upward mobility. The
implications of this are that more priority is given to educating males, and the opportunity costs
of educating girls rises. Families therefore invest less in females' education, treating it luxury.
Female pupils from poor families are reported to enroll late, repeat class more, and complete
fewer grades compared to their male counterparts.
Female education is particularly serious issue among Hmong families in Vietnam. It is therefore
important to make local government and schools more responsive to the needs of female pupils,
particularly those from the Hmong nationality. Where necessary, financial or material support
for girls and their families should be provided. There should also be campaigns aimed at parents
and the community to change their perception and attitudes. Perhaps more importantly,
incentives should be provided to enroll and keep female pupils in secondary schools.
Impact of Poverty, Fertility, Health, and Nutritional Levels on Demand for Education
Poverty rates in Vietnam are highest among ethnic minorities who inhabit the highland regions of
the country. The impact of poverty on demand for education is rather well documented. Ill-
being households in most cases are unable to meet basic education expenses (particularly for
large families), while at the same time have more needs to keep their children at home to work as
unpaid domestic workers. Children of poor households are more likely to enroll late, and
therefore spend less time overall in school and less time at a critical age for learning. Children
from poor households are also more likely to fail grades and repeat classes, thus indirectly raising
the total costs for schooling. Poor health and nutrition are strongly associated with poor
economic status of the family. They inhibit learning, regular class attendance, and thus lead to
high drop-out, repetition, and low achievement.
Solutions to these problems consist of poverty alleviation programs aimed specifically at areas of
ethnic minorities; more investment (development and education); financial and/or material
support programs for children and/or their families; inclusion of nutrition programs in food
insecure areas; expanded programs of fees exemptions and improved design those programs
(including funding from government rather than the school budget); improved and expanded
safety nets, and targeted scholarships.
Curriculum
Currently most ethnic minority students use the 120-week curriculum which is a condensed
version of the formal curriculum (165-week). The government is in the process of converting all
schools to the 165 week curriculum. This curriculum has many positive aspects, including a
distinct emphasis on fostering respect for cultural differences. However, as noted above, few
teachers are prepared to meet the new, higher standards it sets out for subject matter and teaching
methods. Teachers in remote locations, often hired on a contract basis, tend to be the less well
14


﻿qualified than their counterparts in urban and semi-urban areas. Government recognizes the
barriers to implementation and is undertaking a large investment in teacher training, along with a
simplification of some aspects of the curriculum to make it more appropriate to the conditions
commonly found in non-urban schools.
Language of Instruction
Language policy in schools is a sensitive issue in Vietnam. There are 54 ethnic mmorities in the
country, each with its own language, but the national language is Vietnamese. In some areas, in
order to help preserve the culture of minority groups, minority languages are taught as a subject
but not used as a medium of instruction. There are also severe challenges of meeting the high
cost of producing materials in minority languages, grappling with education in languages that are
not written, and the complexities of managing classroom instruction in schools which cater to
several different minority groups.
Research suggests that educating children in their native language during the first years of their
schooling contributes to higher achievement. However, there are debates in the teaching
profession surrounding impact of native or majority language instruction on persistence in
school, cultural identity, and development of language skills needed to pursue further studies or
work. Teachers in minority areas of Vietnam often raise the problem of language as one of the
major limitation to their teaching quality. Non-bilingual teachers have problems communicating
with their pupils and many children fall behind in their education due to language problems.
School head teachers are keen to have a greater number of localized teachers in their schools who
can speak the minority language. So far however the number of bilingual teachers are small and
sometimes such teachers have to be shared between schools. Some schools have coped with this
by using bilingual teachers for the lower grades or by training Viet teachers in local languages.
Methods to teach Vietnamese as a language need to be improved since even bilingual teachers
tend to explain lessons simultaneously in minority languages and in Vietnamese.
Finally, the issue of cultural identity needs to be addressed. Research has shown that both pupils
and parents are keen for children to learn Vietnamese especially as it is vital for any government
employment opportunities. Some pupils even express a desire to "look like the Viet". Obviously
the current language policy, and in a broader sense the policies toward ethnic minorities need to
be reviewed and improved in order to achieve a balance between the government's dual
objectives of national integration and preservation of cultural identity.
goarla'g Sc/hools ana' Oher Opt/ilsfor ProvXchwon ofServkres /;v Sparsely PopulateA reas
The often rugged topography of the minority inhabited areas severely limit the access to
education. In response, the Government has established network of boarding and semi-boarding
schools in these areas. There are two types - one is a rather elite school where pupils are selected
primarily from children of local authorities. Pupils receive free tuition, accommodation and
textbooks, and are generally expected to become state employees (teachers, doctors, local cadres,
etc.). The second type of school is a more "popular" semi-boarding school. These schools more
often lack adequate infrastructure, and pupils live either in local households or in poorly-built
15


﻿accommodations. Assessments of teaching and learning conditions in these schools have been
cntical, but they are nevertheless appealing to local education officials as a means of achieving
the universal pnmary education goals of the Government. More consideration needs to be given
to alternative means of organizing schools that would allow children to remain in their homes,
for example, multi-grade schools or alternate year intakes in small schools.
6.   Actions for the Ethnic Minority Beneficiaries of the Project
6.1. Focus on minonty students: link with poverty targeting
Statistically, minority children underperform in primary education in Vietnam. (See Annex 4).
The project targets areas of greatest educational need through focusing on districts with the
weakest educational indicators. This spatial approach benefits ethnic minorities in particular,
who tend to be concentrated in the poorest districts (See Maps).
The development of Fundamental School Quality Level indicators increase benefits accruing to
minonty.students. District investment plans will stem from an audit to ensure focus on the most
educationally disadvantaged areas within a district. The focus on the schools with poorest
facilities, and on satellite campuses in particular, will also benefit minority children specifically.
This is a consequence of geographical concentrations of poverty in the most marginal areas, and
a close correlation with minority ethnicity.
International practice concerning tackling "social exclusion" suggests that children receiving
inadequate education require more than an equal share of resources in order to tackle their
disadvantaged position. By focusing on the poorest schools, the project will work towards
addressing existing disparities in educational standards; minority children will be major
beneficiaries of this process.
6.2. Encourage community and other stakeholders' participation
The Primary Education for Disadvantaged Project was formulated in the context of significant
works of consultation on development policy in Vietnam. These include "Attacking Poverty",
"Voices of the Poor", the Vietnam Development Report, the Country Assistance Strategy, the
Education Forum consultations, and stakeholder analyses carried out during the preparation of
the Teacher Development Project and the Primary Education for Disadvantaged Children Project.
The project design responds to the limitations and weaknesses of the Government's Program 135
by shifting significant decision-making responsibility to local levels. The project will fund
district plans to achieve a "Fundamental School Quality Level "' (FSQL) in all schools, starting
with the poorest and most remote schools.2 Districts will be asked to develop their FSQL plans
FSQL standards incorporate the minimum requirements for quality education, including facilities, trained teachers,
teaching and learning materials, and community participation.
2 Districts were chosen for this project because they have particularly high concentrations of un-enrolled and/or
poorly performing groups of children are concentrated. The targeting methodology is based on four outcomes
16


﻿in collaboration with stakeholders at the district and community level. This will create many
opportunities for beneficianes to influence the design of programs, and to improve the
transparency, timeliness and responsiveness to local needs. It should help to foster accountability
of local officials, school pnncipals, teachers to the community. Moreover, districts will choose
interventions to be included in their FSQL plans from a longer "menu" of options, decided on
during project preparation in consultation with the intended project beneficiaries. Selection was
be skewed toward interventions, based on research and stakeholder consultation, that are most
likely to benefit the poor and minonties.
Distncts will be assisted in developing their FSQL plans by a local TA team. That team will be
trained on factors that affect the education of children-at-risk (including those mentioned in this
report), needs analysis and program development (including how to conduct broad-based
stakeholder consultations, prioritize goals, and design implementation strategies).
The PEDC program will work at all levels of management and service delivery in the primary
education system. Its target will be the most educationally disadvantaged districts, as indicated
by student outcome measures. It will assist and build distnct education bureau capacity to reach
the poorest and least equipped schools. It will strengthen provincial education departments'
efforts to support the districts. It will work with the central ministry of education (MoET) to
develop and operationalize policies to address educational disadvantage. The end result of
should be policies and programs that are more sensitive to the needs of ethnic minonties and
other disadvantaged children and more supportive of their schools.
At the school level, the project will--
1. Focus on under-resourced satellite campuses in areas of poor educational performance.
Within districts distinguished by low educational outcomes, schools that do not meet a minimum
quality levels (e.g. infrastructure, teacher qualifications, teaching/learning materials) will be
eligible for support.
2. Provide a core set of inputs and support to selected under-resourced schools. This support
will not be limited to a single intervention or input, but will consist of a complementary package
to ensure that overall school quality improves. For example, replacing temporary classrooms
would necessarily be accompanied by the provision of teaching aids, textbook scheme, teacher
support and community development. Both supply-side and demand-side constraints will be
addressed by the basic package.
3. Provide additional inputs and support to selected schools to address locality-specific
problems. The Satellite Campus Support Fund will strengthen ties between the satellite campus
and the local community, and stimulate parental and community involvement. The fund will be
measures- (a) net enrolment rate for Grade 1; (b) Correct age initial enrollment vs overage initial enrollment for
Grade 1; (c) progression rates; and (d) outcomes -proportion of children reaching Grade 5. Each district was
consequently ranked accordingly to these four measures (from 1 to 599) and these ranks were then summed to create
an "index of educational disadvantage"(IED). The lower the IED, the more educationally disadvantaged the district,
and its highest priority for inclusion in the project.
17


﻿managed by the parents association, supervised by the commune people's committee and district
education authorities. Priorities to be supported will be locally identified from a menu, thereby
resulting not only in appropriate local interventions but also in strengthened community
involvement in progress towards FSQL. Given that many satellite schools and their teachers
serve ethnic minority children, locally selected options will address specific difficulties. Schools
could receive support in strengthening Vietnamese-as-the-second-language (VSL) activities,
including bi-lingual teaching assistants. A participatory district audit methodology will be
designed to consider such factors.
One of the problems stated for the ethnic minority students is the language barrier. Access to
educational and subsequent employment opportunity demands fluency in Vietnamese. Language
fluency is also a key tool of empowerment, including engagement with organizations or
individuals in positions of power, access to government or private sector employment, and
arguing for a fair deal in market transactions. It is a key ingredient of social, economic and
physical mobility for families, and frequently a key component of community empowerment
given the need to interact with government officials and other external actors.
The opportunity to learn Vietnamese in a bilingual teaching environment, with the mother tongue
playing an important role, will not only facilitate the general learning process, but also strengthen
the students' self-confidence. But in common with other countries in the region, and even
globally, there is still a shortage of bi-lingual teachers capable of working in minority languages.
This barrier will take many years to overcome fully, although the project will itself help address
the issue in the longer term by improving educational standards of bilingual minority students,
enabling a higher number to qualify for entry to teacher training courses in the future. In the
shorter term. the project will, when the teacher does not speak the students' mother tongue,
recruit a community-selected local person to assist the teacher in the classroom with a wide
variety of activities including managing a multi-grade classroom, blackboard presentations and
one to one assistance of needy students. The project will also ensure that the appointed district
level community development specialists have fluency in more than one language, including a
key minority language of the specific district, wherever possible.
4. Strengthen community-satellite campus linkages. PEDC will assist the satellite campus and
local community to work together in decision-making and support of students, and build their
capacity. The project will support the creation of stronger community involvement in the overall
project design and implementation. Communities will be provided with training and advice for
the establishment of satellite campus parents associations. The associations will both manage
resources provided at the campus level and participate in the consultative planning process.
In order to encourage and facilitate community and stakeholder participation and maximize
ownership and support at the local and community level, participatory techniques have and will
continue to be applied to:
* present, discuss and 'test' proposals, identified during the preparation and design of the
project to overcome pedagogical and non-pedagogical barriers that (i) prevent children
from receiving and/or completing a quality primary education and/or (ii) school districts
from offering a quality primary education (or FSQL);and seek stakeholder input on
further possible interventions.
18


﻿* hold meetings and discussions with local communities designed to mobilize support from
them for the proposed interventions.
6.3  Improving monitoring, supervision and evaluation process
At the district and provincial levels, the project will -
1. Build capacity to improve problem diagnosis, participatory planning and management of
resources to ensure that the most needy schools and populations receive the inputs and support
they require. The primary focus will be on the districts as these are likely to be most instrumental
in carrying out the program, but provincial input and action will also be required.
2. Re-orient the current resource allocation strategy that favors better and richer schools to a
fundamental school quality level strategy aimed at the poorest, least effective schools.
3. Harmonize and adjust operational policies and practices that do not advance, or militate
against, increased educational quality, especially for the neediest schools. For example, the
current satellite school timetable could be optimized to achieve more instructional time on core
subjects, or registration policy requirements could be eased to facilitate enrolment of migrant
children.
4. Strengthen monitoring and evaluation systems to track progress in both student outcomes and
school improvements. A set of performance indicators will be developed and consulted by all
stakeholders (see PAD Annex 1) that would be used to evaluate the achievements of project
objectives. The indicators will also be used for the evaluation purposes in assessing the
eligibility of school/district for continued funding. The district Community Development
Specialist will be involved in tracking performance.
The "national community participation and highly vulnerable children institutional strengthening
team" will ensure that monitoring procedures include action research to indicate the involvement
and inclusion of minority students and parents. A participatory beneficiary analysis, completed
during project preparation, provides sample district baseline data that can be used for trackng
change during implementation in sample areas. The sample areas include minority populations.
5. Increase the focus on activities designed to get ethnic minority girls in school, e.g. textbooks,
incentive programs, public education, language training and better school facilities (see Annex 5:
Technical Note on Girls Education and the PEDC Project).
At the national level, it will-
1. Introduce and adapt the fundamental school quality level strategy to other, less
disadvantaged provinces and districts. Although selected districts will be the primary focus for
program assistance, the FSQL methodology can be used by MoET to guide its planning and
resource allocations to all provinces.
19


﻿2. Develop a national strategy and policy framework for integrating/mainstreaming eligible
disabled children into local schools. Because disabled children are dispersed throughout the
country, and not necessarily concentrated in educationally disadvantaged districts, a national set
of policies, operational guidelines, data base, and training materials, will be developed to assist
districts, communes, schools and teachers respond to the needs of disabled children.
3. Strengthen the Vietnamese-as-a Second -Language (VSL) program. Training modules for
teachers, teacher guides and instructional materials for use in primary and kindergarten classes
will be developed and taught for school readiness. The PEDC will benefit all instructional
materials developed under the Primary Teacher Development Project (Cr. 20276-VN) for the
same purposes.
4. Propose indicators for measuring project success include ethnically disaggregated data (see
PAD for more detail)
-  number of trained ethnic minority teachers increases
-  higher number of ethnic minority children enrolled and who complete primary education
-  more ethnic minority students in secondary school
-  more ethnic minority girls attending and completing primary education
- free school and language training for non Vietnamese speaking children
-  curriculum adapted to non Vietnamese speaking children
The project logframe reflects the need for data disaggregated by ethnicity. Project staff - the
''national community participation and highly vulnerable children institutional strengthening
team" - will take this forward over the first year of the project, as monitoring structures are
finalised during and beyond the base year analysis.
6.4. Strengthening the decentralization autonomy to the local levels through mobilization and
allocation of resourcesDisadvantaged schools in different places may have different needs,
depending on local social economic and cultural patterns. Thus, to make it possible for each
school to find solutions adapted to their specific situation and social environment, it is proposed
to create local school funds, to be used for satellite sites at village level.
The proposed satellite school grant is aimed to help disadvantaged communities, schools and
parents to create a supportive in-school as well as out-of-school environment. Priorities to be
supported would be locally identified, based on community and parental participation and
respond to local needs according to a school-menu approach.
The school menu will be delimited to those activities benefiting and resulting in a supporting
educational environment. Thus, a frame for activities to be financed through the school grant will
be designed, based on proposals from local stakeholders. As a part of the preparation of such a
frame for a school menu, meetings and discussions will be organised with parents and other
stakeholders at local level.
20


﻿Management of the school grant fund for satellite sites would stay with the local community, by
creating a school committee to deal with school support issues. The school committee will be
supervised by the district education authorities, in orientation and training to parents and
community members on ideas for school support and management of the fund.
Institutional strengthening to facilitate and build community involvement will occur as follows:
the national level "national community participation and highly vulnerable children institutional
strengthening team" will ensure the participatory and community aspects of the project are
implemented, monitored and improved over time; community development specialists in each
BOET will ensure project delivery; and training for head teachers in addition to the above staff.
Summary of Ethnic Minority Issues and PEDC Interventions
Ethnic Minority Issues                   PEDC Project Intervention
ACCESS
*  Not Enrolled                        District, School Director and Community Training;
Free Textbooks and Supplies; Fee Waivers;
Vietnamese Language Readiness Programs; Local
Teachers and/or Teacher Aides
*  Enrolled Late                       Community Mobilization
*  Distance to School                  FSQL Quality Improvement at Satellite Schools
PERSISTENCE
*  Incomplete Schools/Campuses         FSQL Quality Improvement at Satellite Schools;
Multigrade Teaching; Enhanced Linkages between
Satellite-Main Campuses
*  Schools are too costly              Alleviate Direct Costs (books, supplies, fee waivers)
*  Sibling care in ethnic minority areas  Community-supported Language-Readiness
Preschooling
*  Non-supportive HH environment/Child  Community Mobilization/Campus Support Fund
labor demands
PERFORMANCE
*  Non-supportive instructional environment Teacher Guides, Teacher Training (including
Vietnamese as a Second Language), School Director
Training, Teacher Aides, Vietnamese Language
Readiness
*  Lack of instructional materials     Free Student Books/Supplies, Teacher
Books/Supplies, Curriculum-Relevant and
Culturally-Appropriate Educational Materials
*  Condensed Curriculum                National Curriculum Standards evenly applied.
21


﻿OTHER ISSUES AND BARRIERS
Boarding schools                         The project promotes alternatives such as
improvement of satellite schools and multigrade
schools.
Poverty and demand for children's labor  Measures taken to decrease the cost of education,
improve the quality, and raise awareness; thus
increasing perceived returns to education
Familial preferences for educating boys  Innovations programs, dissemination of good
before girls                         practice, and awareness building.
Insufficient education budget            Support targeted to districts where disadvantaged
children live and more specifically to the schools
they attend
Language                                 Vietnamese language readiness programs reduce
marginalization and prepare children for advanced
studies and participation in the labor market
Participation in decision making         Stakeholder input into design of program and
implementation of project through the audit and
school development fund.
Monitoring and evaluation                Indicators are tracked by gender, ethnicity and region
22


﻿RESOURCES
Bob Baulch (WB/DFID), Nicholas Minot (IFPRI), Nguyen Van Minh and Mai Van Cam (GSO),
Some Preliminary Results of Provincial Poverty Mapping for Vietnam, 2001.
Centre for Development Studies, University of Wales, Swansea. Vietnam: Primary Education
Teacher Project Stakeholder Analysis. Department for International Development: October
1998.
Canadian Centre for International Studies and Cooperation (CECI) and Rural Development
Services Centre (RDSC), Perspectives of the Poor on Health and Education in Vietnam, 2001.
Government of Vietnam-Donor-NGO Poverty Working Group. Vietnam Attacking Poverty.
Report to the Consultative Group Meeting for Vietnam, December 14-15, 1999.
Government, Socialist Republic of Vietnam. Decision of the Prime Minister Approving the
Socio-Economic Development Programme for Especially Difficult Mountainous and Remote
Communes.
Research Triangle Institute. Vietnam Country Report Health and Education Needs of Ethnic
Minorities in the Greater Mekong Sub-Region. RTI: June, 2000.
Turk, Carrie. A Review of Recent Literature in English on Education and Ethnic Minorities it
the Northern Uplands of Vietnam. Paper prepared for the Ford Foundation. Hanoi: December
1998.
The Socialist republic of Vietnam, Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy
(CPRGS), draft paper, March 2002
World Bank, Poverty Group, PREM. Vietnam Consultations with the Poor. Document prepared
for the Global Synthesis Workshop, September 22-23, 1999.
23


﻿Annexes
1. Ethnic minority population by province
2. Primary net enrollment and poverty rates by province
3. Lower secondary school enrollment rates by gender and province
4. A note on primary and lower secondary school enrollment rates by ethnic group
5. Technical Note on Girls Education and the PEDC Project
C \Data Files\VIETNAM\Ed for the Disadvantaged\Appraisal\lPAP and Beneficiary Assessement\IPAP doc
WB22169
C \Data Files\VIETNAM\Ed for the Disadvantaged\Appraisal\[PAP and Beneficiary Assessement\1PAP doc
June 6, 2002 1 27 AM
24


