ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                            AWorld Frce of Pov(rty tz7
InfoShop
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 07/17/2002                                 24548
Section I - Basic Information                                      July    17, 2002
A. Basic Project Data
Country: VIETNAM                                  Project ID: P044803
Project: VN-PRIMARY EDUC FOR                     Task Team Leader: Christopher J. Thomas
DISADVANTAGED CHILDR
Authorized to Appraise Date: June 25, 2002        IBRD Amount (Sm):
Bank Approval: November 5, 2002                   IDA Amount ($m): 143.32
Managing Unit: EASHD                              Sector: Sub-national government administration
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  (20%); Primary education (80%)
Status: Lending                                  Theme: Public expenditure (S); financial nmgmt &
procurement (P); Other social protection and risk
management (P); Child health (P); Education for all
(P)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The objective of the project is to improve access to schooling and enhance the quality of education for
disadvantaged children. Disadvantaged children are broadly defined as school-aged children who are
not enrolled or are at risk of not completing their primary education; children who attend schools that do
not meet fundamental quality standards; and disabled children or children from other higlhly vulnerable
groups, such as street children or girls in certain ethnic minority areas.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The project consists of four components. First, education stakeholders in 189 targeted districts will
receive technical and financial support to ensure that all school sites in their jurisdiction meet
Fundamental School Quality Standards, with first priority in planning investments given to satellite
schools. This objective will be achieved through a two-pronged approach: by providing necessary
technical support to districts to improve administrative planning and management, and by enhancing the
capacity of schools to provide acceptable quality education and forge close linkages to their
communities.
Second, the project seeks to address the needs of highly vulnerable groups of children throughout the
country. This component consists of two streams. The first stream presents interventions that address
the educational needs of disabled children. The second stream is designed to support innovations in the
delivery of educational services to other highly vulnerable groups, such as street and working children,
children living in fishing communities, and others.



2
ISDS
Third, the project will help MOET and its line departments at the central and provincial levels develop
guidelines for reaching FSQL, as a first step towards achieving national standards; as well as well as
build capacity in provinces, districts and schools to bring all schools up to acceptable educational levels.
Guidelines may be require periodic revision as national policy evolves and conditions on the ground
improve.
Finally, the project will lend support to a Project Coordination Unit, responsible for providing
overall coherence to project activities and monitoring progress towards project objectives.
Components:
1. Achieving Fundamental School Quality Levels (FSQL)
*      District Management for FSQL
*      Instructional Improvement and Teacher Support
*      Infrastructure
*      Community Participation and Student Support for Achieving FSQL and
Universal Primary Education
2. Education for Highly Vulnerablc Children
*      Inclusive Education for Disabled Children
*      Reaching Street Children and Other High Risk Groups
3. National and Provincial Support
*      National Guidelines for FSQL
*      Institutional Strengthening
4. Project Management
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any otlher culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The main project components target the 189 districts of Vietnam, where 70% of Vietnam's
"educationally disadvantaged" children are. Many of these are in areas which high percentage
of poverty and indigenous people, the Northern Mountains, Central Highlands, and Mekong
Delta regions in particular. Indigenous children are far more likely to be educationally
disadvantaged than children from the majority ethnic group. Within districts, further targeting
of the remote primary "satellite" schools, and of the poorest communes, will ensure a closer fit
with the most disadvantaged (frequently indigenous) children. Despite considerable efforts
made by government, education and other services in remote upland areas with a large
indigenous population are often inferior to services available in lowland Vietnam.
B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments:
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                               Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                     Yes * No     TBD



3
ISDS
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                     C Yes * No      TBD
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                             . Yes * No      TBD
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                  Yes *No      TBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    Yes *No      TBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                     * Yes    No     TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                Yes * No      TBD
Cultural Property (OP 4.1 1)                                 Yes *No      TBD
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*           Yes * No      TBD
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)         Yes * No      TBD
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice thefinal determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
There are no pressing issues. The project is designed to have a positive impact on
disadvantaged children, who are frequently indigenous. It aims to reverse policies that have
seen more remote "satellite" schools receive fewer resources than main campuses, and to reduce
entry barriers to school, and improve quality. Common entry barriers include:
*     Distance: the project focuses on remote and poor areas with a higher percentage of
indigenous children.
*     Cost: the project aims to reduce informal costs associated with school for the poorest.
*     Language and cultural barriers: the project aims to introduce a phased and sensitive
transition to Vietnamese language in primary schools. It aims to improve community and
parental involvement in school so that barriers between dominant and minority cultures
are lowered.
No large scale or irreversible negative impacts have been identified. It is acknowledged that in
common with other steps towards "modernization", education in the dominant culture and
language potentially reduces the vibrancy of other cultures. However, continued lack of
education will create far more culturally and socially damaging trends of continued
marginalization, poverty, and inability to participate in and benefit from social provision and
economic growth.
II.D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
N/A
II.D. Ic Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
N/A



4
ISDS
l1.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
Various approaches to language tuition were considered. The proposed approach fulfills
parents' and government's common desire for their children to learn Vietnamese, whilst
encouraging an educational environment more appropriate to specific and different cultures.
Other approaches (i.e. longer mother tongue tuition) encounter capacity, demand and political
constraints.
ll.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
No such issues are envisaged. However, further definition of language and cultural components
of the project as part of project development will ensure that any potential risk is mitigated. See
also below.
Il.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
Key stakeholders already identified are educationally disadvantaged girls and boys, their
parents, community leaders, teachers, district, provincial and national government officials.
Parents, children, teachers, community leaders and officials at the sub-district level have already
been consulted through a series of interventions including earlier Participatory Poverty
Analysis, Stakeholder Analysis of other World Bank projects offering assistance to indigenous
people in Vietnam, and a lengthy consultative design process for this project including
fieldwork. This process is being continued through:
*     Participatory beneficiary assessment during the design phase. with further monitoring of
selected sample areas over time.
*     The participatory elements of the program itself. Intervention plans will include input
from commune and school level.
*     Information and awareness activities as part of b), which should help ensure upward
accountability.
Stakeholders at the district level and above have also been consulted at length during project
design. Additional ongoing steps include:
*     An "Institutional" stakeholder analysis during design, including consultations with
selected districts.
*     A consultation and awareness exercise at the national level and in a representative sample
of provinces with officials responsible for indigenous affairs. This will further test the
project's approach to language policy and related issues.
*     Regular feedback during implementation.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the



5
ISDS
provisions of that policy apply.
S 1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limitecl in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
S3. -No safeguard issues
SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:          Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                         Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:              Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:                                       Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Darn Safety Management Plan:                                Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:             Christopher J. Thomas                       7/3/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Glenn S. Morgan/Person/World Bank
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:  Mary P. Judd/Person/World Bank
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                        Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Glenn S. Morgan                          7/3/2002
Sector Manager/Director:      Emmanuel Y. Jimenez                         7/3/2002



6
ISDS
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SEARCH            FEEDBACK         SITE MAP      ., SHOOCASE         0



