Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23846-VN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 101.4 MILLION
(US$138.76 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
SOCLALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
FOR A
PRIMARY EDUCATION FOR DISADVANTAGED CHILDREN PROJECT
Apnl 3, 2003
Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 2003)
Currency Unit = Viet Nam Dong (VND)
1.0 VND = US$0.000066
US$1 = 15.250 VND
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB         Asian Development Bank           NGO       Non Governmental Organization
AusAID      Australian Agency for            NORAD     Norwegian Agency for Development
International Development
BoET        Bureaus of Education and         ODA       Official Development Aid
Training
CIDA        Canadian International           PC        People's Committee
Development Agency
CPRGS       Comprehensive Poverty            PCU       Project Coordination Unit
Reduction and Growth Strategy
DFID        Department for International     PEDC      Primary Education for Disadvantaged
Development                                 Children
DoET        Departments of Education and     PEP       Primary Education Project
Training
EFA         Education for All                PIP       Project Implementation Plan
EMIS        Education Management             PMR       Project Management Report
Information System
EC          European Commission              PPCU      Provincial Project Coordination Unit
FMS         Financial Management System      QCBS      Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
FSQL        Fundamental School Quality       SBCQ      Selection Based on Consultant
Level                                       Qualifications
ICB         International Competitive        SCF       Save the Children Fund
Bidding
IPAP        Indigenous People's Action       TOR       Terms of Reference
Plan
JICA        Japan International Cooperation  TVET      Technical and Vocational Programs
Agency
LCS         Least-Cost Selection             UNICEF    United Nations Children's Fund
MDG         Millennium Development           UPE       Universal Primary Education
Goals
MoET        Ministry of Education and        USAID     United States Agency for International
Training                                    Development
MOH         Ministry of Health               VLSS      Vietnam Living Standards Survey
MPI         Ministry of Planning and         VND       Vietnam Dong
Investment
NCB         National Competitive Bidding
Vice President:  Jemal ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Manager/Director:   Klaus Rohland, EACVF
Sector Manager/Director:  Emmanuel Y. Jimenez, EASHD
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Christopher J. Thomas, EASHD



VIETNAM
PRIMARY EDUCATION FOR DISADVANTAGED CHILDREN PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                         2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       8
3. Benefits and target population                                                     9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       9
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                         10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies      11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                12
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        14
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          14
2. Financial                                                                          15
3. Technical.                                                                         16
4. Institutional                                                                      16
5. Environmental                                                                      19
6. Social                                                                             19
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                24
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    24
2. Critical risks                                                                     25



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                  28
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                         28
2. OtherClassify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements          28
H. Readiness for Inplementation                                                       28
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      29
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                       30
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                 34
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                      41
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary        42
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earming Project Entities, or Financial Summary  47
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                    48
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                  69
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                71
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                               72
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                         74
Annex 11: Project Monitoring and Supervision                                          76
Annex 12: Fiscal Sustainability Analysis                                              78
Annex 13: Technical Note on Girls Education                                           87



VIETNAM
PRIMARY EDUCATION FOR DISADVANTAGED CHILDREN PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
EASHD
Date: April 3, 2003                               Team Leader: Chnstopher J. Thomas
Sector Manager/Director: Emmanuel Y. Jimenez      Sector(s): Primary education (100%)
Country Manager/Director: Klaus Rohland           Theme(s): Education for all (P)
Project ID: P044803
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)
Project Financing Data : . ,.                                   .                     -
1 Loan      [X] Credit    l ] Grant    [] Guarantee     [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 138.76 million equivalent; SDR 101.4 million
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                         Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0                                 Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (USSmn): - Source                         '  Local'     -Foregn           'Total
BORROWER                                                      43.37           0.00          43.37
IDA                                                           109.27          29.49        138.76
AUSTRALIA: AUSTRALIAN AGENCY FOR                                1.00          0.00           1.00
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
CANADA: CANADIAN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT                     7.65           0.73           8.38
AGENCY (CIDA)
UK: BRITISH DEPARTMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL                       33.79           4.90         38.69
DEVELOPMENT (DFID)
NORWAY: NORWEGIAN AGENCY FOR DEV. COOP.                        10.81           2.66         13.47
(NORAD)
Total:                                                       205.89           37.78        243.67
Borrower: SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING
Address: Lane 30, Ta Quang Buu, Hai Ba Trung District, Hanoi, Vietnam
Contact Person: Mr. Dang Tu An, Vice-Director, Primary Education Department, MoET
Tel: 844 868 2859           Fax: 844 868 2793           Email: duanthkk@bdvn.vnd.net
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
.00    . -,2FY ; 70W7005  2006:  2007      2008      2009    i '2010 10.
Annual      6.00      18.00     25.00      30.00     25.00      25.00       9.76
Cumulative     6.00      24.00     49.00      79.00     104.00     129.00    138.76
Project implementation period: 6 years
Expected effectiveness date: 06/30/2003  Expected closing date: 12/31/2009



A. Project Oevelopmsnt Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of the project is to improve access to primary school and the quality of education for
disadvantaged girls and boys. Disadvantaged children are broadly defined as school-aged children who
are not enrolled or are at risk of not completing their primary education; children who attend schools that
do not meet fundamental quality standards; and dhsabled children or children from other highly
vulnerable groups, such as street children, migrant children or girls in certain ethnic minority areas.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The majority of project resources are targeted to 189 districts, where approximately 70% of Vietnam's
educationally disadvantaged children reside. In those districts, by the end of the project in 2009:
o 4,272 core primary school sites and 14,902 satellite sites will have achieved "fundamental school
quality level" (FSQL).
o   primary net enrollment will have improved from 81% in 1999 to 96%.
O primary student completion (as measured by the G5/G1 ratio) will have increased from 72% in 1999
to 86%.
o primary repetition will have fallen from 8% in 1999 to less than 3%.
O primary school dropout will have been reduced from 12% in 1999 to less than 4%.
O student achievement, as measured by Grade 5 tests in Mathematics and Vietnamese, will show an
upward trend.
In addition, also by 2009:
o national guidelines will have been developed and applied effectively to provide education to children
with disabilities and highly vulnerable children, and for using FSQL as a first step in achieving
national standards.
o the number of children with disabilities in school will have increased.
O children with disabilities, street children, minority girls and other very high risk groups of children
throughout the country will have benefited from expanded and innovative approaches to education
service delivery.
o MoET, and participating DoETs and BoETs, will have regularly demonstrated strengthened capacity
to identify, plan for, support, and monitor the needs of educationally disadvantaged children.
B. Srategic conteNt
I. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 24621     Date of latest CAS discussion: September 3, 2002
The goal of the Government (as expressed in its 2010 Education Strategy) and the program financiers (as
expressed in their institutional or country strategy papers) is to provide a high quality basic education for
all children. Specific goals in the 2010 strategy are:
o   "To facilitate children in the age cohort of primary education to have comprehensive development of
morality, intellect, physical fitness and aesthetics, fondness for and mastery of initial basic skills for
their life long learning"; and
o   "To consolidate and improve achievements in primary education universalization nationwide. To
increase the mobilization ratio of the age cohort from 95% in 2000 to 97% by 2005 and 99% by
2010."
-2 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main Sector Issues
Education, Opportunity, and Development. Vietnam's aspiration to build a prosperous and just
society hinges on its ability to provide a high quality basic education for all of its children. But at the
present time 70% of children are enrolled in school and only 78% of those who enroll in grade 1
complete grade 5. In addition, a substantial number of children fail to achieve acceptable levels of
learming in math and reading. Children who are not provided with opportunities to access a primary
education of sufficient quantity and quality will not achieve their own potential as adults and citizens or
be able to fully support development of the Vietnamese economy and society.
The system of pnmary education in Vietnam is in fact a composite of several sub-systems or levels, at
least one of which can be associated with urban areas and areas of economic growth, and another can be
associated with rural and remote areas and areas of significant economic disadvantage. This is a major
challenge for a country that has a recognized and strong commitment to equity and social justice.
Failure to address this problem will almost certainly result in the growth of a class-divide within society
based on serious differences in educational opportunity and achievement and in economic well-being.
Meeting Vietnam's Education Development Goals. Vietnam has made excellent progress in the
development of its education system. Over the last ten years, it has met ambitious targets set through its
Education for All program, raising net enrollment rates at the primary level from about 80-86% in
1990/91 to nearly 94% in 1999/2000. In addition, it has also shown good improvement in a number of
its intemal efficiency indicators, such as repetition and dropout rates (see table 1 below). These
accomplishments place Vietnam at the very forefront of educational development among countnes with
similar per capita income.
Vietnam is now entenng a new phase of development for its education sector, with objectives that are
equally challenging as those of the previous decade. First, although most children attend school in
Vietnam, approximately 7% of the primary school age population have never been to school and many
more have dropped out before completing pnmary school. Secondly, a substantial minonty of children
repeat grades or are unable to pass the entry exam for lower secondary school, reflecting a lower than
acceptable level of academic performance for these children. Thirdly, there are major differences
between what has been achieved in the urban areas and what has been achieved in rural and remote
areas. Indeed, the national critena for achieving universal pnmary education (UPE) are such that only
70% of 14 year-old students are required to have completed primary education in the most
disadvantaged areas, compared to the more than 80% required in advantaged areas. In addition, many
of the children in the most disadvantaged areas have been provided a shorter primary school curriculum
over a five-year period (120 and 100 weeks) compared to the 165- and now 175-week curriculum
provided in advantaged areas. This situation is complicated by a financing system that does not fully
acknowledge the needs of disadvantaged children. For example, annual per pupil expenditure on
education for children in Hanoi is more than twice as high as expenditure for children in the poor
province of Soc Trang. Per capita expenditures for children in the wealthiest income quintile are two
and one half times the expenditures for children in the poorest income quintile. In addition, a reliance
on user charges favors children of richer households. These issues are well documented in a series of
reports on the education system, stakeholder analyses, school surveys, and a public expenditure review.
Achievements in increasing enrollment in the 1990s were largely the result of the expansion of primary
schools through the development of satellite sites. It is these sites, which enroll 30% of all pnmary
children, that are the most disadvantaged and therefore the focus of this project.
- 3 -



TFable I - Progress on Key Rindicators Vietnam 1990 - 2000
Indicators                  1990/1       1995/6      1997/8      1999/2000
Primary GER                                 103%         114%         116%         110%
Primary NER                                86%(*)       97%(*)       97%(*)       93.7%
Primary Dropout Rate                       12.35%       7.14%         n/a         2.79%
Primary Repetition Rate                    8.77%        4.79%         n/a         4.67%
Survival or Retention Rate                  47%          70%          75%          n/a
(G5/ Gl survival proxy)
Transition to Lower Secondary               78%          87%          88%          n/a
(G6/ G5 transition proxy)
Completion Rate                            49.1%        61.3%          n/a        70.2%
Percent 6-14 cohort never enrolled in school  14.79%                              6.76%
Note: This table draws data from a range of sources including MoET, GSO Census Data, Education for All
(EFA) reports, WB ACER School Survey and the Vietnam Living Standards Surveys (VLSS). Data (*) does not
include remote provinces, so are likely to be an overestimate. GER: Gross Enrolment Rate. NER: Net
Enrolment Rate.
But, reaching UPE (as defined by the Government) in 2000 was only the basic achievement. A
significant proportion of school campuses, especially satellite campuses, will find it extremely difficult
even to maintain the level of participation achieved under UPE, let alone attain the higher levels of
completion and quality demanded by 2010 Government Strategy for Education, Education for All
(EFA) and the Millennium Development Goals (MDG), unless they are provided with a large and
sustained increase in resources. International experience shows that gains made through effective UPE
strategies can be quickly lost if appropriate follow-up investments are delayed, ignored, or are
inefficiently managed.
Factors that contribute to educational disadvantage. Educationally disadvantaged children in
Vietnam are put at risk by factors in the school, home, and socioeconomic environment in which they
live. The most obvious risk factors are the following:
o   poverty and charges made on parents, resulting in non-enrollment, poor attendance, and dropout;
o some children are not well prepared to learn because they have chronic health or nutrition problems
or because they enter school with linguistic barrers;
o   households and communities do not always provide a positive climate for schooling (for example,
there is a high demand for children's labor in some communities and there are inter-generational
effects of poverty and illiteracy);
o some children are particularly susceptible to changes in social conditions and economic downturns;
o   many schools and teaching sites are incomplete or not organized for success in terms of resources,
management, or teaching skills;
o   the schools, particularly the satellite campuses, do not receive sufficient financial, human and
material resources;
o   the institutional capacity of the local, provincial and national education authonties to lead and
manage the system, and to effectively mobilize, allocate, and deliver resources, is limited.
The significance of the last factor should not be underestimated, because capacity is needed to deal with
all other factors. The Vietnamese education authorities - the National Ministry, the Provincial
Departments and the Distnct Bureaus - already have significant capacity. Without it, Vietnam would
- 4 -



have not made the impressive progress of the last 10 years. But the country's entry into a new phase of
development, with different and very challenging objectives, requires additional capacity. The District
Bureaus of education, which are at the forefront of service delivery, are the weakest in the system. Yet,
they are the ones on whom much of the success of the new phase depends. Their ability to deliver
better, higher-level services depends, however, not only on their own capacity, but also on the capacity
of the provincial departments which serve, support, manage and monitor the distrct bureaus.
Government Strategy
Policy framework. The Government of Vietnam has acknowledged and has made a commitment to
universal, high quality basic education for all in its education law, poverty alleviation programs, and
2005/2010 strategies. It has also committed internationally to achieving EFA, the "Millennium
Development Goals" and the Convention of the Rights of the Child. It has also recently introduced a
policy on inclusive education to encourage mainstreaming of disabled children into regular classrooms.
In these ways the government has recognized primary education as the means to develop the
fundamental skills and competencies necessary for economic growth and social development. Pnmary
education is acknowledged as the cornerstone for the broad intellectual development of Vietnam's
citizens, enabling each to participate actively, innovatively, and flexibly in an evolving economy and
dynamic society.
Adjusting targets, developing strategies. In the 2010 Education Strategy the Government says that it
intends to consolidate its achievements in universal pnmary education and to approach the goal of
universalization of lower secondary education nation-wide by 2010. The goal is expressed in the
Education Law, which states that all children, regardless of area of residence, gender, socioeconomic
background or ethnicity, are entitled to a full primary education. These goals are echoed in the recently
completed Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy (CPRGS).
While the country has met its initial UPE goals of 80% net enrollment in 90% of communes, two large
tasks remain. First, the problems of the outstanding communes and the un-reached children need to be
addressed. Second, the educational quality of the overall system must be improved to allow it to
progressively approach and ultimately meet national and international quality standards. This includes
ensunng that all children have the opportunity to attend a school that meets minimum standards in terms
of space, curriculum, matenals and personnel qualifications. It also includes, to the extent possible,
addressing the out-of-school factors that affect a child's education.
At the ten-year review of the Education for All endeavor, Vietnam established other ambitious
objectives, including a focus on improving educational quality, expanding access to lower secondary
school, and ensunng a greater relevance between the education system and the labor market. At the
same time, Vietnam recognized that pnority should be given to "unfinished business" with regards to its
initial EFA objectives. In particular, there still are many children left behind by the pnmary system, in
effect creating unequal educational, social and economic opportunities for its citizens. Vietnam
recognizes that failing to educate all children and failing to educate them to an adequate level of quality
puts the government's plans for UPE, economic growth and poverty reduction at risk.
Providing resources and building capacity. Government has set, and largely achieved, a target of
allocating 20% of the national budget to education. It has also channeled significant funds from the
education budget to nationally targeted programs to poor areas to assist in meeting their infrastructure
needs, including upgrading teacher training institutions and constructing a limuted number of schools.
- 5 -



However, it is clear from an inventory of disadvantaged children and school conditions that a senous
financing gap exists. In particular, there is a need to meet the physical, instructional material and
training needs in more than 4,000 schools and 14,000 teaching sites that are below basic standards and
currently receive little or no investment support. This requires enhanced capacity, particularly, though
not only, at district level. Such capacity includes the additional funds to upgrade school physical
facilites, develop matenals and train teachers. It also includes the human resources, the information
systems, the office technology and the communications equipment at district and provincial bureaus of
education. Lastly, it includes a modified division of labor between districts and provinces, as well as
the skill and incentives to follow effective management practices. It is, indeed, the Government's
strategy to build this capacity.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
This project is designed to assist Government to achieve its pnmary level UPE goals in 189 districts with
the greatest concentrations of educationally disadvantaged children, and help develop programs and
policies that serve the needs of highly vulnerable groups nationwide. The project thus enables
Government to accomplish a slice of its broader UPE agenda, i.e., improving access targets and fostering
quality improvement in primary education.
Targeting resources to educationally disadvantaged chIldnren. The disadvantaged children to be
targeted by this program are those who still do not have access to primary education or who are at risk of
receiving an inadequate primary education. Specifically included in this group are:
o   School age children who do not attend pnmary school;
o   Children at school who are at risk of repeating or dropping out;
o   Children at school who are not able to achieve the level of learning to ensure a solid foundation of
basic skills and to successfully access secondary education.
In effect, these categones represent a "hierarchy" of educational disadvantage. Each successively
broadens the definition of disadvantage from students who have no access to school to those whose
education performance is significantly below an acceptable level. The number of such children included
in these categories certainly exceeds 2 million and may even exceed 3 million.
The phenomenon of disadvantage is not evenly distributed throughout Vietnam. There are particular
regions and populations where un-enrolled and poorly performing groups of children are concentrated.
The project preparation team has identified 189 districts (out of a total of 615) where approximately 70%
of educationally disadvantaged children live. The districts are overwhelmingly in remote or
underdeveloped regions and contain:
o   a total of 2.7 million students, or 27% of all students in Vietnam,
o   1 million ethnic minonty students,
o   1.1 million poor students, and
o   1.2 million students enrolled in satellite sites or multigrade classes
Added to this concentration of educational disadvantage, there are specific groups of children who are
distributed throughout Vietnamese society (rather than being concentrated in certain regions) who are
also educationally disadvantaged. Although accurate statistics are not currently available, it is estimated
there are about 1 million disabled school-aged children in Vietnam and over 70% do not have access to
school. Also, certain groups of children who live in difficult social conditions - such as street children,
working children, children of migrants, children from fishing communities, girls from certain ethnic
- 6 -



groups and those who come from broken homes - are less likely to access, participate and perform well in
pnmary school. As a matter of economic and social equity, it is vital that the needs of all these
disadvantaged children be addressed in the immediate future and the project therefore targets resources
toward these groups through support for a nationwide innovations program.
Reducing private costs to education. Perhaps the single most important factor in excluding children
from primary schooling stems from the imposition of user charges on families. These charges, often
unregulated, are a very significant burden on household income and a real disincentive for poorer
families to send their children to school. Elimination of these charges would have a significant impact to
improve enrolment, attendance and completion.
Fundamental School Quality Level. The project introduces and supports the concept of a "fundamental
school quality level" (FSQL) (See Annex 2). FSQL essentially defines the minimum institutional
capacity, instructional matenals and teacher support, physical infrastructure, and school-community
linkages required to maintain a healthy and productive learning environment. It should be seen as a first
step in achieving the much more ambitious national school standards, which include additional aspects of
teacher and manager qualification, curriculum, space, and infrastructure.
Support for the Most Vulnerable Children in Non-target Districts. While the bulk of the project
interventions are focused in 189 districts with the greatest concentrations of disadvantaged children,
there are vulnerable groups of children throughout Vietnam. In some cases those children live in
wealthier provinces or high performing districts and their needs are gradually being met as the current
system grows and expands. In other cases, children pose multiple challenges -- such as disability,
extreme poverty, homelessness, or migration -- that require much more attention than the system
currently provides. The project therefore supports a program of innovation grants, research and
evaluation, and development of guidelines aimed at improving educational services for highly vulnerable
children.
Capacity Building. The project includes two broad types of capacity building interventions: one aimed
at ensuring that the Government - at all levels - has the capacity to implement the changes supported by
the project, and the other aimed at enhancing the quality of general management in the district bureaus of
education and the provincial departments of education. The capacity to implement the project itself
needs to be in place when implementation commences. Thus, interventions of this type will be
conducted partly between appraisal and project commencement, and partly during early implementation.
The general capacity to manage better can be developed dunng project implementation, and all
interventions aimed at building this capacity are, therefore, included in one of the project components.
All capacity building activities will be camed out in the provinces and distncts selected for this project.
A limited number of such activities will be carried out at the national level, where support and direction
by the Ministry of Education can contribute much to the necessary change at the province and district
levels.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project consists of four components. First, education stakeholders in targeted distncts will receive
technical and financial support to ensure that all school sites in their jurisdiction meet Fundamental
School Quality Standards, with first priority in planning investments given to satellite sites. This
objective will be achieved through a two-pronged approach: by providing necessary technical support to
-7 -



districts to improve administrative planning and management, and by enhancing the capacity of schools
to provide acceptable quality education and forge close hnkages to their communities.
The second component seeks to address the needs of highly vulnerable children. It consists of two
streams. The first stream presents interventions that address the educational needs of disabled children.
The second stream is designed to address the educational needs of vulnerable groups, such as street and
working children, migrant children, orphans, children living in fishing communities and others.
Third, the project will help MoET and its line departments at the central and provincial levels develop
guidelines for reaching FSQL, as a first step towards achieving national standards; as well as build
capacity within MoET, DoETs and BoETs to bring all schools up to acceptable educational levels.
Finally, the project will lend support to a Project Coordination Unit, responsible for providing overall
coherence to project activities, their coherence with developments beyond the project and momtoring
progress towards project objectives.
.ndlcat!ve            Bank-'     % of -
Component                       cosgs     % of    financing-  Bank-
. __________________________________________   _   Q .  US$M )  Total  (US$M)   financing
1. Achieving Fundamental School Quality Levels (FSQL)
1.1 FSQL District Management                         7.07       2.9      0.02       0.0
1.2. Instructional Improvement and Teacher Support for  44.24  18.2     10.78       7.8
FSQL
1.3 Infrastructure Improvement for FSQL            163.61      67.1    127.44      91.8
1.4 Community Participation and Student Support for  12.81      5.3      0.00       0.0
FSQL and Universal Primary Education
2. Education Initiatives for Highly Vulnerable Children         0.0                 0.0
2.1 Inclusive Education for Disabled Children        2.26       0.9      0.50       0.4
2.2 Reaching Street and Working Children and Other HLgh  1.89   0.8      0.02       0.0
Risk Groups
3. National and Provincial Institutional and Technical          0.0                 0.0
Support for FSQL
3.1 National Guidelines for FSQL                     0.44       0.2      0.00       0.0
3.2 Institutional Strengthening                      7.73       3.2      0.00       0.0
4. Project Management                                3.62       1.5      0.00       0.0
Total Project Costs  243.67  100.0    138.76     100.0
Total Financing Required  243.67     100.0   138.76     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will focus on four key reforms:
o   Definition of a irummum standard of educational services, the Fundamental School Quality Level
(FSQL), that focuses on access to educational services and the quality of education provided. FSQL
is seen as a first step towards achieving national standards.
O   Establishment of a needs-based allocative mechanism to achieve FSQL service standards. This
approach will increase resources allocated to provinces and districts with educationally
disadvantaged children.
-8 -



o   Formulation of targeting guidelines to direct resources to educationally disadvantaged school sites in
poor distncts.
*   Lowering the direct costs of education for poor children by helping schools that receive assistance
under this program to eliminate unregulated user charges and other levies on parents.
The project also provides a framework to address the needs of highly vulnerable children
nationally-including the development of national guidelines for inclusive education and an innovations
program-that will allow for a more integrated set of principles to ensure that disabled and highly
vulnerable children gain access to local education services.
3. Benefits and target population:
The target population compnses two groups of disadvantaged children:
*      pnmary school-aged children from the 189 most educationally disadvantaged districts;
*      disabled children of primary school age and other highly vulnerable groups, such as street and
working children, children living in fishing communities, etc.
The project is expected to yield significant long-term benefits, including (i) the adoption of a minimum
service standard that, together with periodic evaluations of learming achievement, can serve as a measure
of educational progress for all campuses across the nation; and (ii) the development of national
guidelines for targeting resources and delivering services to disabled and other vulnerable children.
Research shows that investments in primary education have a high rate of return. They have a significant
positive impact on agricultural incomes and on nonagricultural incomes within rural areas. This not only
will reduce the incidence of rural poverty but also reduce the economic pull of urban and other growth
areas, thus reducing the social and economic costs of internal migration.
Furthermore, investments in pnmary education help to reduce other public and private costs, including
the cost of health care and the costs associated with human disease and environmental degradation.
Education is a major avenue in the continuing fight against these problems.
Finally, equity in education, both in terms of access and quality, is a fundamental cornerstone for social
cohesion. Higher levels of education are also correlated with better health, slower population growth and
improved civic participation.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
MoET will be the executing agency for the project. A PCU will be created to coordinate initiatives in the
various MoET departments and DoETs/BoETs responsible for implementation. The PCU will be
pnmarily responsible for overall planning and coordination, administration, and donor and
inter-ministenal relations, while DoETs will be responsible for most large scale procurement, training,
FSQL proposal review and monitoring, and facilitating relations between districts. BoETs will be
responsible for FSQL planning, coordination of activities in schools, and small scale procurement. More
details on implementation arrangements are provided in Annex 2, under component 4 "Project
Management".
9-



Assessment of the adequacy of the financial manaRement svstem of implementing agencies and a
timetable for measures proposed to improve capabilities: An assessment of the adequacy of the project
financial management systems was carried out by IDA team in May 2002. The scope of the work was set
out in the "Assessment of Financial Management Arrangement in World Bank-financed
Projects-Guidelines to Staff' issued by the Financial Management Sector Board dated June 30th 2001.
The objective of the review was to assess the suitability of the existing project financial management
system as required by the Bank under OP/BP 10.02 with a view to implementing the proposed project. In
Annex 6 the financial management risks have been analyzed and addressed using the recent Vietnam
Country Financial Accountability Assessment. Analysis has been done on implementation units at levels
relevant to the project covering inherent risk, control risks as well as mitlgating factors. The results of
the assessment and a corresponding remedial actions to address weaknesses have been agreed with the
agencies and are included in the Action Plan (see Annex 6). The review has concluded that with the
fulfillment of the above Action Plan, this project will meet minimum Bank's financial management
requirements. The Project will be producing Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs). In terms of
disbursement technique, the traditional disbursement technique will be used.
Status of the borrower and the project implementinR entities compliance with audit covenants in existing
Bank-financed proiects: There are no critical issues that arise from the audit of the current projects under
the MoET. To date there are no overdue audit reports relating to projects under the MoET.
Agreement with the borrower on standard and format for audited financial statements and the timetable
for their submission: Project accounts will be kept for all project related expenditures using accounting
pnnciples and practices acceptable to IDA. Project accounts will be audited on an annual basis in
accordance with international standards on auditing and in compliance with the independent auditing
regulations of Vietnam. The auditor's report will be made available to IDA and other donors within six
months of the close of the fiscal year. The audit will include a separate opinion on the SOEs other than
the Special Accounts and Project Accounts. A management letter addressing internal control weaknesses
of implementing agencies will also be provided by the auditor together with the audit report.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The project was originally conceived as a program to provide support to provinces to achieve their EFA
strategies. However, during preparation the focus of the project shifted to the district level. There were
three reasons for this:
o   The majority of disadvantaged students are located in approximately 30% of the districts nationwide.
Shifting the focus of the project to those districts therefore ensures the better targeting of resources.
O   The knowledge required to make this project function well and the majority of basic operational
decisions that this project supports are taken at the district, rather than at higher levels. These
include in-depth knowledge of the stock of infrastructure and teaching resources at individual
schools, and management of teacher training and the identification of sites for school rehabilitation.
O   Districts are better suited to provide direct school support services and reach out to out-of-school
children.
- 10 -



2. Major related projects fimanced by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
._______________________________ .______.__.______________  j  L ate it  Su p rvisi lon; 
Sector Issue                    Project K.              (PSR) Ratings  ,
,__ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ _ _   _ _._,__ ,(Bank-financed, projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Education planning and coordination  Primary Education Project   S             S
within the MoET, school
infrastructure, curriculum, assessment
capacity.
Market relevance of higher education, Higher Education Project   S             S
qualifications of staff, efficiency in the
use of human and physical resources,
institutional structures.
Teacher standards, teacher training,  Primary Teachers Development  S          S
quality assurance (accreditation of
training programs and certification of
teachers), civil service regulations,
assessment.
Commune and district level planning, Northern Mountains Poverty   S            S
school infrastructure.           Reduction Project
Other development agencies
Primary teacher training         Save the Children/Australia
Teacher Training
Oxfam Teacher Training
Belgium Distance Education
Belgium Northern Regional
Normal Schools
Secondary teacher training       ADB Lower Secondary
Teacher Training
DFID English Language
Teacher Training Project
Secondary education              ADB Lower Secondary
Schools Development
Policy making capacity building  EU Strengthening Ministry of
Education and Training
JICA Primary Education
Development Program
(anticipated)
Non-formal education             UNICEF Alternative Basic
Education
Primary school construction      JICA Primary School
Construction
EU Northern Uplands Project
Education in disadvantaged areas  Oxfam GB Primary Education
-1 1-



Project
EU Son La-Lai Chau Rural
Development Project
UNICEF Primary Education
Program
UNICEF Multi-grade Class
UNICEF Project for Ethnic
Minority Education
Early childhood education        UNICEF Early Childhood
Education
Enfant et Development
Pre-School Development
Pre-school teacher training      UNICEF Pre-school Teacher
Training
Education for Ethnic Minorities  UNICEF Ethnic Minorities
Education
SCF Multigrade Teaching and
Bi-lingual Education
Oxfam Basic Education for
Ethnic Minonties
Education for Vulnerable Children  Catholic Relief Services/
USAID Inclusion Education
Assistance for Disabled
Children
USAID/Peasbuck Inclusion
Education for Children with
Hearing Difficulty
Radda Barnen Inclusion
Education in Vietnam
Save the Children Sweden
Inclusive Education for
Disabled Children
EU Assistance for Street
Children (anticipated)
Health Care Support              UNICEF Health Care and
Environmental Education in
Primary Schools
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Like many other countries, Vietnam school standards place a strong emphasis on the creation of elite
schools and the provision of hardware and infrastructure. However, the MoET is seeking to broaden its
approach about what constitutes a good education into an affordable and achievable framework targeted
to all children, and particularly to children from highly vulnerable groups. For this reason, much effort
has been placed in the project preparation process to refine fundamental school quality standards, as
reflected in FSQL, and lay out some of the pedagogical and administrative changes necessary to raise the
quality of education for the most disadvantaged children in the nation.
- 12 -



The project has drawn on extensive in-country experience related to the pedagogical and language needs
of ethnic minority, disadvantaged and disabled children, such as current interventions supported by
UNICEF, Save the Children and Oxfam as well as those from the Ethnic Minority Education Component
of the World Bank-funded Pnmary Education Project (PEP). This is reflected in the project's focus on (i)
strengthening children's readiness for primary schooling, (ii) supporting teachers in acquiring
pedagogical skills suitable for instructional environments in isolated areas (such as multi-grade
classrooms), (iii) enhancing teachers' abilities to teach Vietnamese as a second language, and (iv)
boosting community and parental participation in schooling.
School building activities conducted under PEP and the JICA-sponsored Primary School Construction
project will guide the civil works included in this project, particularly in relation to the design of
appropriate prototype models and the decentralization of management arrangements.
The project itself will model a method of targeting resources to schools that serve the most educationally
disadvantaged children by supporting interventions that will help those schools achieve very basic FSQL
standards. This approach has been developed partially in response to recent studies that demonstrate a
high degree of inequity in resources spent on education in Vietnam and as a consequence, variation in
student enrollment and achievement. Also, the Community Participation and School Campus Support
Funds activities in this project provide resources to school sites and communities to address locally
specific problems. This program was developed in response to studies which demonstrated the very wide
variety of factors which keep children out of school at the local level and the need for flexibility in
resource allocation and a high degree of community participation to tackle these challenges.
Ultimately, the overall project design reflects a fundamental shift from a commonly held
conceptualization of equity as "equity of inputs" to one that recognizes that disadvantaged children have
differential needs that require greater investments in order to achieve "equity in outcomes."
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Government's commitment to universal basic education is strong. This project fits clearly within stated
Government pnorities to improve the coverage of the educational system and to increase the quality of
education. Recent actions taken by Government are building a strong foundation for increased
investment in basic education:
*   A new Education Law was adopted in 1999. The law calls for compulsory enrollment of primary
school age children. It supports teacher training and improvements in remuneration, and lays out the
nghts of learners, including the right to equal treatment. Regulations to guide implementation of the
law are currently being drafted.
*   Government has developed a new, improved pnmary school curriculum and has begun introducing it
in schools.
*   Professional standards for pnmary teachers are being developed, along with training programs to
help teachers achieve those standards. Importantly for this project, the draft standards call for
teachers to have a good understanding of the context in which children learn, including an
understanding of the special challenges of disadvantaged children.
*   Long term plans and strategy to support education for all are being developed through the 2010 and
2020 Strategies, the CPRGS, 5-year development plans and the EFA Commission.
* The Government recently conducted a national assessment of learning achievement in Mathematics
and Vietnamese. The assessment provides a basis to increase the focus on learming outcomes and to
inform strategies and policies for doing so.
- 13-



5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank and project co-financiers are building a cross-sectoral knowledge base that could help the
Government achieve its basic education goals: (i) the Bank-Government-Donor work on poverty
reduction and development strategies provides a conceptual framework in which to work (see, for
instance, Attacking Poverty and Vietnam Development Reports); (ii) the Public Expenditure Review and
its associated follow-on activities could help to advance progress on difficult public finance issues in
education; (ii) the excellent Bank-Government collaboration in assessment, curriculum, primary
education development, and teacher development could create a strong foundation on which to continue
to build EFA/basic education strategies; and (iv) the VLSSILSMS and other surveys could assist the
MoET to better target resources and monitor progress. Finally, the strong partnership among donors to
education has the potential to produce a well coordinated and powerful support package for primary
education.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$137 million; ERR = 13.6% % (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The economic case for the project rests on the expectation that the improvements brought about, in terms
of the teaching environment, the quality of education and other incentives for children to attend school,
will lead to a greater number of pupils in the targeted districts entering and completing primary school
education than in the project's absence, hence improving their life-time earnings potential. This is
expected to happen, despite the projected decline in the 6-10 age-group population, because the decline
in the number of children is expected to be more than offset by increasing enrolment rates and decreasing
repetition and dropout rates. It is also expected that pupils who would have graduated even without the
project will also benefit because their earnings potential will be increased by virtue of the improved
education that they will receive as a result of the project. Conventional cost-benefit analysis can be
applied in this case, given the existence of research data on the effect of primary education and other
relevant variables on earnings.
A cost-benefit analysis (CBA) was conducted during pre-appraisal in December 2001, using an estimate
of total project costs of $365 million. The project size changed more than once subsequent to that
pre-appraisal mission. The CBA was totally re-computed in May 2002, based on a new estimate of total
costs of $200 million. The results of the two CBAs were substantially the same. The internal rate of
return (calculated on the basis of assumptions detailed below) remained in the 13-15 percent range. The
final estimate of total project costs ($243.7 million) was agreed during the short formal appraisal mission
in October 2002. This figure was in the middle between the two earlier estimates. The Bank made the
judgment during the mission in May that small changes in the project costs would not substantially affect
the CBA results, and that an increase in project costs would, if anything, increase the project's internal
rate of return - because the management costs of the project in the 189 districts would not be affected,
whereas the additional financing would increase the coverage (more school campuses) and increase the
number of pupil beneficiaries. For this reason, the Bank believes that the 13.6 percent rate of return
presented below is probably a conservative estimate and the actual rate of return is closer to 15 percent.
The analysis incorporates a number of conservative assumptions. Benefits are assumed to accrue only to
those who complete primary education. Thus, no benefits are attributed to pupils who do not complete
pnmary education, even though an improved partial education may enhance their lifetime earnings
- 14 -



prospects. No allowance is made for the fact that the improvement in pnmary education may further
improve the earnings of children who pass through primary and attend secondary education and beyond.
In addition, it is assumed that children currently in primary school will not benefit, because they will
have completed their primary education (or dropped out) before the impact of the project can be felt.
Cost savings associated with the improved dropout and repetition rates, which should result in more
efficient use of learning resources in schools, have also been excluded from the analysis, as are possible
external benefits such as the effect of one person's education on the productivity and health of family
members and neighbors.
It is assumed that the number of teachers in the covered schools will not change as a result of the project
- even though pupil-teacher ratios in these schools are quite low by comparison with the national
average, and could become lower, as school-age cohorts get smaller in the future as a result of declining
population growth - unless Government introduces a policy of not replacing all teachers who move or
retire. The project will introduce, on a pilot basis at some satellite school campuses, teaching assistants
in classrooms. Each teaching assistant will receive an annual salary of about $100. For purposes of the
cost-benefit analysis (completed in May 2002, when the project size was assumed to be different), the
additional cost of these teaching assistants has been estimated at $1.21 million annually, assuming that
the pilot will be expanded to all project schools before the project closes. This cost has been factored
into the analysis.
As for classroom teachers, while it is assumed that the structure of teachers' salanes will remain the
same, about a third of the teachers in the satellite school campuses do not now meet minimum national
standards (nine years of basic education plus three years of teacher training). These underqualified
teachers will be upgraded as part of the project. This will increase their earnings by about 30 percent.
The total of additional costs (assumed, for purposes of the CBA, to be about $1.18 rmllion annually) is
also factored into the analysis.
For purposes of the CBA, project costs during implementation are estimated at $199.35 mnllion (VND
2,990 billion) at constant (2002) prices. These have been treated as a reasonable proxy for border prices,
and conversion factors have not been applied. Post-implementation annual maintenance spending has
been assumed at 10 percent on the construction costs. An assumption is made that instructional matenals
will need to be replaced on a six-year cycle.
Based on a project life of 25 years and a discount rate of 10 percent, the present value of the net benefit
stream (incorporating the net earnings benefits of primary completers from 25 successive annual cohorts
of enrollees) is estimated at $137.0 million. The internal rate of return is estimated at 13.6 percent.
Extending the project life to 40 years (40 cohorts of enrollees) increases the net benefit stream to $182.0
mllion, and the internal rate of return to 14.1 percent. Given the conservative assumptions made, the
project is judged to both economically viable and robust. Sensitivity testing indicates that the project
remains economically viable with substantial increases in costs or decreases in benefits.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ mllion; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact:
Annex 12 provides a detailed analysis of the financial sustainability of this project. The project will
generate counterpart funding obligations which the Ministry of Finance has committed to providing. In
addition, it is estimated that it will generate up to $14.7 in recurrent costs beginning in 2009. Analysis of
- 15 -



budget projections show that such costs are feasible provided the government manages new investments
and expenditures prudently.
3. Technical:
A major concern during project preparation and implementation will be to strengthen local capacity to
provide technical assistance to districts and schools. The implementation team will need strong
analytical skills, a wide repertoire of educational development strategies and famiharity with facilitative
approaches. These skills will be essential to support and prepare educators and district administrators to
develop their FSQL action plans and enhance their ability to respond to the needs of disadvantaged
children. In order to effect change, districts and schools will require substantial technical support to
guide them through a reflective process to identify their challenges and acquire new skills to address
them. The implementation team will also need to demonstrate capacity to effectively appraise, control
for quality, monitor and evaluate district FSQL plans and innovation fund proposals.
During project implementation, particular attention will need to be directed towards the effectiveness of
teaching strategies to enhance ethnic minority students' readiness in the use of Vietnamese as the
language of instruction. This will require recognition of the varied nature of the challenges in the
transition from vernacular languages to Vietnamese and a robust technical analysis of the linguistic and
pedagogical demands in this process.
Finally, the project will need to reappraise the relevance and appropriateness of FSQL criteria throughout
the lifetime of the project. A consultative and dissemination approach will be necessary to secure the
understanding, acceptance and institutionalization of this concept within project provinces and beyond.
As the practices and findings of the national assessment exercise take root, FSQL ought also to
incorporate outcome as well as input measures.
4. Institutional:
This assessment is based on a detailed study of capacity at District level, which will be supplemented and
extended during implementation. It also brings together relevant points from the Government Feasibility
Report, Beneficiary Assessment and other project studies.
The main supply side constraints relate to the need to strengthen systems for directing resources and
designing solutions to address the needs of disadvantaged children. On the demand side school fees,
unregulated charges and opportunity costs (income foregone) undermine the incentives for poor children
to attend school.
The project will build on current strengths of the education system, by providing extra resources to
partially fill gaps left by current planning and allocation systems. The December 2000 Public
Expenditure Review drew attention to a complex system of planning norms which did not channel
adequate resources to disadvantaged areas. The project will provide some of the missing resources for
five years and strengthen the capacity to plan and manage them. The introduction of FSQL will provide
the management a framework to identify and address the needs of schools that do not meet minimum
standards. Introducing FSQL will create a management focus on ensuring that minimum standards are
universally met including in marginal and satellite schools where the project will provide substantial
resources for implementation. FSQL will thus reinforce the demand and build capacity to respond to
PER issues on resource allocation, though by itself the project will not be sufficient to bring lasting
change to resource allocation systems. The project team will need to establish strong links with the PER
work by MPI and MOF in those areas.
- 16 -



FSQL will present a comprehensive framework for addressing the needs of educationally disadvantaged
children. It builds on current national standards. Its application by districts nevertheless will require
some important improvements in capacity and practice, and creates a need for sustained support and
facilitation at all levels. The Government's feasibility study identifies MoET's role in explaining the
need for the changes and in facilitating the response from Provinces; Provinces will play a similar role
with Districts. It will be a departure from MoET's current practice of investing heavily in a small
number of schools (10 per cent of which now meet the National Standards) and will require resources to
be spread more widely. Implementation will be coordinated by Component 4, with supporting inputs
from Components 1,2 and 3.
By using the district as the key unit of intervention the project will reinforce current management
arrangements and practices. The districts have traditionally been responsible for many education
decisions as well as the management of resources allocated for schools within theirjunsdictions. The
FSQL framework will be introduced as an extension to current annual plans and the project will provide
the necessary additional resources for implementation. The focus on satellite schools will however be a
new departure. Many have in the past attained low standards but were traditionally subsumed under the
broader unit of the "school" (including a core school and up to 15 satellite campuses) for planning
purposes.
The project will provide resources for strengthening distnct capacity to take on the additional work, in
planning, use of information, community relations and other areas. Changes in procedure, practice and
performance will be embedded through a process "learning by doing" through five successive annual
planning cycles. Project support will be based on assessment of need, which vanes from distnct to
district.
Districts will require additional staff to take on the extra work, particularly on planning and financial
management. The project will provide support for DoETs and BoETS to employ consultant personnel on
financial management and procurement, community participation, and EMIS and planning. The two
former are seen as temporary needs during the life of the project, while the latter category, EMIS and
planning, is a permanent need that the project will meet on a declining basis. Implementation will also
require a well-managed change process with emphasis on the introduction of FSQL and adoption of a
facilitating role especially in the provision of professional support. The PCU will play a key role in
ensuring the process is well designed and managed, particularly in the early stages when there will be
lessons to learn from experience.
The current lack of functional specialization within the Vietnamese education system is a constraint. The
project targets improvements in capacity to deal with education for disabled children, planning, and
pedagogical support. The Task Force on Disability will recommend an organizational home for special
education within the Ministry and developing guidelines and strategy. The Institutional Strengthening
team will manage a program of support for planning at BoET and DoET levels, through help with
procedures, staff, equipment, training and facilitation. Gaps in the provision of pedagogical support are
to be addressed through training of trainers and head teachers to support improved pedagogical practices.
The addition of FSQL to planning processes should create demand for a better education management
information system and project resources are allocated to introduce improvements in response to that
demand.
In the provinces and districts management responsibility is shared. A professional network headed by
MoET takes responsibility for professional matters including design of cumculum, delivery of
- 17 -



instruction and training of teachers. A technical network headed by the People's Comnuttees at each
level is responsible for the management of human and financial resources and infrastructure. This
division of labor operates via a complex set of matrix management practices requiring high levels of
consultation and coordination. Project management will need to ensure that both systems play their part,
endorse the end product in the annual plan and support implementation.
Capacity may be limited by gaps in the provision of materials such as furniture, equipment, office space
and more especially in communications and transport. The Government proposes to address these gaps
by funding office equipment for all district offices as well as providing additional travel and per diem
allowances to carry out key activities such as district audits, facilitation of community participation,
training, monitoring, supervision and professional support.
On the demand side the project will support work to encourage closer contact between schools and the
communities they serve. There is already a policy to exempt poor families from paying formal school
fees and compliance will be monitored in project districts. Project resources should remove the need for
informal unregulated charges for the running and equipping of schools. (Further analysis is in Section 6:
Social). These measures should enhance the incentives for poor families to send their children to school.
The impact of the measures on school attendance will be monitored carefully at all levels (Schools,
Districts, Provinces and Ministry).
The Project Coordination Unit, headed by a MoET-appointed senior educator and administrator will be
responsible for overall direction, management, administration and coordination of the project. It will
provide leadership and supervision, including in the key area of change management. The PCU will also
have oversight responsibility for the Institutional Strengthening Team staff and consultants provided
under Component 3. (details in Annex 2). Completing the design and launching implementation of
systems for monitoring and evaluation will be among the key imtial tasks.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Ministry of Education and Training will be the agency responsible for project execution. However
most implementation activities will be carried out through the Provincial and District education
authorities, which have primary responsibility for the provision of primary education, and within schools
themselves. See Annex 2, Component 4 and the Project Implementation Plan (available in the project
files) for more detail.
4.2 Project management:
See Annex 2, Component 4: Project Management.
4.3 Procurement issues:
There are no major issues except the involvement of dependent SOEs, such as teachers training colleges
and specialized research institutions with unique expertise; and the continuation of the same textbooks
provision and delivery arrangement used under the Primary Education Project, namely, direct contracting
with the provincial Books and Equipment Companies. The rationale is in Annex 6.
4.4 Financial management issues:
During the preparation of this project, a financial management assessment was conducted by IDA team.
The assessment concluded that the concerned agencies have the basic framework to handle the
accounting and disbursement aspects of the project. However, the managers and staff of these agencies
have limited experience in meeting IDA-financed project management information needs. Weaknesses
that need to be addressed are: (i) lack of sufficient accounting staff at all levels of the project; (ii) lack of
comprehensive guidance in the area of accounting and financial reporting; and (iii) lack of capable
- 18 -



computerized accounting system for recording accounting transactions and for management purposes.
The action plan that will be implemented (see Annex 6) will serve to address these weaknesses and
ensure that capacity is adequate to address current financial management deficiencies. Independent
auditors acceptable to IDA will be selected to audit project accounts.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The project bases its approach on a host of existing material, summarized in the Vietnam Development
Report 2000. This builds on Participatory Poverty Assessments, a range of other consultations with
stakeholders, and a broad consensus between government, donors and NGOs of the development
challenges that Vietnam faces.
At present, nearly 94% of the Vietnamese population of 15 years of age or over is literate. Aggregate
levels of enrollment in education in Vietnam are as high as in other much wealthier countries, and gender
dispanties are generally low at primary level. The Vietnamese people place a high value on education,
and government is committed to providing universal access to basic education. However, there are
striking regional differences, and specific groups within society are not attaining Vietnam's average
pnmary educational levels. The educational disadvantages that these groups face hinder progress
towards Education For All (EFA) targets.
The policies that delivered high levels of aggregate performance served most of the people in most of the
country well. User charges (or "socialization") of education have brought new challenges. The Vietnam
Development Report 2000 identifies three key and related challenges in education -- access, quality and
relevance, and financing. A Participatory Beneficiary Assessment, as part of the design phase, strongly
confirms these findings.
Access: Despite high overall enrolments and relatively small differences between males and females,
many disadvantaged areas and groups do not have equality of access to basic education. Of the children
- 19-



that are currently not in school, 50 percent are from ethnic minorities. In Lai Chau, a poor mountainous
province, only 49 percent of adult women are literate.
Quality and relevance: Access cannot be considered separately from quality. Although overall
enrollments are high, there are large differences in the amount and quality of education that children
receive. Several factors are important. In poor and remote areas the school day tends to be shorter,
teachers harder to find and motivate, and pupils less likely to attend. Pupil achievement is lower and
dropout and repetition rates are higher. In ethnic minority areas language is a further barrier, with very
few teachers being able to speak the native language of their pupils. This further reduces teacher and
pupil performance. More broadly, the current curriculum does not equip children with the skills
necessary to succeed in the growing market based economy of Vietnam. A new curriculum has been
developed, but few teachers are yet capable of meeting the new, higher standards it sets out for subject
matter knowledge and teaching methods.
Financing, and poverty focus: The socialization of education has placed an increasing burden on poorer
families. The net effect is a highly regressive financing system. An over-reliance on household
financing of basic education places a disproportionate burden on poor families with children at primary
school. Fee exemptions for poor districts and families have only limited impact, as they do not offset
other education costs that are not well targeted. Combined with the other quality-enhancing inputs that
richer parents can afford, the net effect is poorer areas having to put up with poor schools, and having
little opportunity to improve them. The challenge for the Government is to reform the financing system
so as to give all children equal access to an adequate quality of basic education. The regressive financing
system directly affects poor people because of the disproportionate burden they bear, as well as reducing
the quality of the education their children get. Reform of the financing system would have a dual impact
on poverty. Reducing hard-to-afford pnvate expenditures would make an immediate impact by
increasing the disposable incomes for poor people. A delayed and more durable impact would be
achieved by improving the ability of their children to compete in Vietnam's emerging market economy.
Vietnam was a very early signatory of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. This project
focuses on those children, who through being disadvantaged, are most at risk. As in other countries and
despite impressive progress, problems including child trafficking, unacceptable forms of child labor, and
physical, mental or sexual abuse prevail most frequently amongst more disadvantaged children.
Increased opportunity to attend school and improve literacy should improve children's capacity to assert
their rights. In addition, the participatory mechanisms that the project attempts to develop (such as
enhanced Parents' Associations in satellite schools), and child-centered approaches to learning, should
help increase accountability over time.
Some social categones stand out as particularly disadvantaged:
Ethnic Minorities and Gender issues: The government of Vietnam has a variety of programs to address
the specific needs of minority groups who total some 13% of the population. However, a series of
factors act to perpetuate isolation and social exclusion. Education is central to tackling these factors; yet
efforts to provide quality education suffer from the same challenges of isolation and weak capacity that
poor minority people themselves face. This project aims to tackle these challenges by targeting the
poorest and most isolated schools. It also aims to address cultural and linguistic barners to improving
education provision for minorities.
There is considerable variation between and within different minority groups. Some minorities have
particularly low rates of literacy and net enrolment, and a wide disparity between girls' and boys'
- 20 -



enrolment and retainment rates. In areas where this is a critical factor, district plans will be expected to
prioritize ways of improving girls' attainment (See Annex 13: Technical Note on Girls' Education).
The indigenous people's action plan (available in the project files) explains in greater detail the
mechanisms for ensuring that language strategy, resource allocations, and other factors assist particularly
disadvantaged minonty groups.
Disability: As Vietnam approaches UPE, "disabled" children comprise an increasing proportion of those
not in school. ("Disabled" is the accepted term in Vietnam to describe a range of children with mental,
physical or other difficulties that has isolated them from the main school system.) At least 1% of
children are affected; this figure may be higher in very poor districts, and in areas suffenng from
long-term effects of war (i.e. land mines and defoliants), but concentrations are not sufficiently dense to
warrant a spatially targeted as opposed to a national approach.
Traditionally, disabled children have been officially educated in separate schools. However, only some
6000 such places exist and the majority of disabled children do not attend school. The program will
work towards internationally accepted models of integration, whereby disabled children are encouraged,
where possible, to join the mainstream education system. It will learn from existing pilots, and develop
government capacity to devise and implement realistic strategy. Given the aim of integrating disabled
children into education, the project will include training components and information dissemination on
new strategies across all districts.
Migrant, street and working children: These categories frequently have low rates of school attainment.
The project will support nationwide strategy development to build on pilots and find sustainable answers
to provision of schooling and enabling legislation for these categories.
Project social development outcomes: The project aims to tackle the supply and demand constraints on
access to education described above. Measures to achieve Fundamental School Quality levels ensure that
quality is improved across all schools. More specific measures, including teaching assistants, work to
smooth the transition to Vietnamese language, locally defined Campus Support Funds, integration of
children with disability into mainstream education, and measures to reach street and working children, all
tackle blockages to attendance and performance.
The project will aim to stop unregulated charges in target districts, as well as continuing the waiver on
formal fees in poor areas. This will be a key indicator of project success, given the financial barriers to
enrolment that otherwise exist.
Project identification work isolated specific groups, although recommended focusing investments
through geographic targeting on the poorest 189 districts. This approach covers most of the
educationally disadvantaged children in the country. In addition, specific social groups ("disabled"
children, street and working children, mrgrant children) will be targeted through further interventions.
The targeting mechanisms are also pro-poor below the district level: the most remote "satellite" school
campuses are prioritized, and auditing according to the FSQL should ensure investment is skewed
towards the most disadvantaged groups.
There are additional social development outcomes beyond the direct impacts of project interventions: an
emphasis on FSQL encourages pro-poor expenditure across government; ending unregulated charges will
improve the economic status of families in poor distncts, with positive implications for socialization
policy more broadly; community involvement and information availability will strengthen grassroots
participation and involvement in decision-making; an emphasis on girls, and on ethnic minorities, in
- 21 -



education will have positive implications for gender and ethnic equality beyond the life of the project.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Project design: In 1998 the Government of Vietnam, DFID and the World Bank conducted a stakeholder
analysis for the Primary Teacher Development Project. The analysis incorporates the views of primary
teachers, head teachers, government officials, pupils, parents, out-of-school children, PTAs, mass
organizations, and donors. This document, along with others referred to elsewhere, provided a solid
initial diagnosis for the early design phases.
Preparation for PEDC included the work of a sociologist who conducted a participatory beneficiary
assessment designed to seek input into the design of the project, choice of specific project interventions
and implementation arrangements. More broadly, her task was to ensure that social understanding and a
pro-poor approach were mainstreamed across the work of the project identification team. This work
complements a separate analysis of the incentives and capacity of primary education officials at the
district and other levels of govemment.
The design of key components, especially the annual Campus Support Fund, builds on this participatory
research.
Implementation: Community training will strengthen the parents' associations at satellite campuses.
District community development specialists employed under the project will oversee this. Head teachers
will also receive and pass on training to strengthen parents associations and to ensure that parents
understand the FSQL approach.
The Campus Support Fund will strengthen ties between the satellite campus and the local community,
and stimulate parental and community involvement. The fund will be managed by school management in
liaison with parents' associations, and supervised by the commune people's commuttee and district
education authorities. Priorities to be supported will be locally identified, thereby resulting not only in
appropriate local interventions but also in strengthened community involvement in progress towards
FSQL.
Emphasis will also be placed on ensuring that stakeholders are kept informed of the planning process,
and the benefits that the project is aiming to provide, as a key means of assurng upward accountability.
This will be a responsibility of the district community development specialist.
These steps are designed to improve local involvement and accountability, for all of the project inputs
and for the FSQL concept. They also aim to improve people's participation in education (and other
service provision) beyond the project lifetime. The participatory beneficiary analysis, as well as many
other information sources, attest to the demand and scope for such changes in Vietnam. It fits with
government policy, and best practice from other major projects.
The components for disabled children, street children and other high risk groups involve community
bodies, teachers and local government officials in raising awareness of govemment strategy over
integration of disabled children into the mainstream education system.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Consultations with donors, NGOs, and civil society organizations are ongoing in the preparation of the
Comprehensive Development Framework, the Vietnam Development Report, and the Vietnam Poverty
Reduction and Growth Strategy. This project figures prominently in those consultations because it
- 22 -



provides a unique opportunity to define a core set of common strategies to support disadvantaged
children and to develop a framework for improved government coordination of donor and NGO support.
The process of developing Provincial EFA/basic education plans will create many opportunities for
collaboration in the design of programs, and the plans should provide a powerful framework for
coordinating donor resources at the local level. Project preparation has included consultation with the
major NGOs in the education sector.
The main provision for 189 distncts will engage civil society through the mass organizations that have
grassroots representation, including the Women's Union, Commune Education Council, and Commune
People's Committee. It will also encourage the strengthening of parents' associations at the village level
for satellite schools. Additional provision for disabled children, street and working children, and other
groups will work with NGOs and research institutes that offer pilot models. These will form a key part
of strategy development in the mainstream education system.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The project mainstreams social development outcomes. The FSQL concept, and institutional
strengthening surrounding it, aims to achieve pro-poor resource allocation. Additional components (such
as the Campus Support Fund) aim to involve communities in decision-making, or target specific
vulnerable groups including disabled children and street children.
Strengthening Government capacity, including shaping national strategy and devising incentives so that
project components are implemented, is a key aspect of PEDC. Devolution of Campus Support Funds,
open auditing and monitoring, and a range of institutional measures covered elsewhere aim to ensure
funds reach schools, especially satellite campuses.
Several institutional measures to support community involvement and participation are proposed: a
national team of two national and one international experts in the Community Participation and Highly
Vulnerable Children Institutional Strengthening team who will ensure the participatory and community
aspects of the project are implemented, and improved over time; community development specialists in
each BoET, to ensure project delivery; and training for head teachers in addition to the above staff.
The employment of national level staff to cover community participation issues will ensure that specific
details of the planned interactions between actors below the district level can be finalized over the initial
implementation period.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The project plans extensive capacity building in monitoring and evaluation. The specialists in
community related aspects will need to ensure that monitoring includes analysis of community
involvement. Participatory research will be essential to find out what problems are arising, and amend
the project approach accordingly. In addition to broad quantitative survey data on project performance,
the specialists will devise ongoing in-depth qualitative and quantitative research methodology in a
number of sample distncts to monitor progress at the grassroots.
Monitorable indicators have been extracted directly from Government's strategy. These not only show
the focus and emphasis of the Government's program, but they provide quantitative targets that can be
used to assess the magnitude of the program and the resource requirements. They are disaggregated by
income, ethnic, and gender groups. They include a range of indicators to assess impact on specific
groups, and community involvement.
- 23 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Are any of the following safeguard policies triggered by the pro ect?
Policy                                   Triggered,
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)        0 Yes (3 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                (9 Yes (9 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                  9 Yes (5 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   U Yes (9No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                               (9 Yes e No
Indigenous Peoples (01D 4.20)                               (9Yes ( No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/1BP 4.12)                      ( Yes U,- No
Safety of Danis (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                          U Yes U9No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50,13P 7.50, GP 7.50)  ( Yes U3 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*      J Yes 0 No
7.2 Descnbe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
An IPAP and beneficiary assessment were completed for the project. They concluded that the project is
very well aligned with local aspirations and capacities. These analyses shaped the targeting of the
project (to satellite schools where most disadvantaged children are likely to live), the implementation
procedures (to include a participatory process in the development of FSQL proposals), the interventions
to be supported (including options for textbooks and bilingual instruction) and the specific design of
interventions (e.g. themes to be supported in the program of innovations for highly vulnerable children).
More information is available in the IPAP and the "Report on Beneficiary Participation".
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The Government's current commitment to education and training (E&T) is demonstrably strong.
Government and Party goals for the sector call for increases in the amount of public spending allocated to
the sector. In 1999, public spending on E&T reached 17.5 percent of the budget. The proportion is
currently about 18 percent, and the Ministry's Education Development Strategy for 2010 envisions a
gradual increase, to reach 20 percent within ten years.
To see whether projected budget allocations for E&T will be adequate to cover future "needs," the
simplest starting point is to assume that "unit costs" for E&T (i.e., fiscal expenditure per student per year
for every level and type of E&T) will not change but, rather, will remain the same in the future,
increasing only by the rate of inflation. Given the "constant unit cost" assumption, the only variables that
dnve the growth of expenditures in E&T are student enrollment projections. Vietnam's recent
population census led to downward adjustments in estimated population figures, especially for the
youngest cohorts. These new figures, in turn, lead to lower enrollment projections - especially for
pnmary education, where close to universal enrolment now pertains.
Combining the constant unit cost information with the new student enrollment data yields a projection of
recurrent expenditures on E&T in the future. Comparing these figures with recurrent budget projections
for the same years suggests whether or not enough government spending will be available in the future to
cover all recurrent costs -- given the base-case assumption that unit costs will remain the same. This
scenario is graphed as follows:
- 24 -



Figure 6. Projected Recurrent Government Spending and Projected Available
Budget for E&T - Base-Case Scenario
% 30
'    25
>e O
>   20
1998       2000      2002       2004      2006       2008      2010
|     Projected Spending       -_-- Projected Budget
This scenano suggests, at first blush, that there will be enough budgetary resources to cover recurrent
costs in the future. Caveats are in order, however. The assumption of constant unit costs is likely to
prove wrong - for several reasons. First, the projected decline in pupil enrollments (owing to shnnking
age cohorts) will place upward pressure on unit costs. Second, strategies to address quality issues in
education (such as those raised by Vietnam's recent national assessment of pupil learnng achievement)
will cost more money to implement, and third, new programs for increased poverty targeting of
education spending and the elimination of "socialization" charges for the children of families living in
poverty will almost certainly increase total spending, especially if the burden on parents is reduced or
eliminated.
If any (or all) of these three factors in fact materializes, the assumption of constant unit costs (the
base-case assumption) could prove false. Moreover, the "budget cushion" seen in the base-case scenario
and graphed above must be big enough to cover any recurrent costs associated with the PEDC Project (as
well as all other ODA-financed projects in education). The capacity of this "budget cushion" to finance
all such claims will require careful management of the education budget. The fiscal analysis carried out
as part of project appraisal suggests that a real (constant VND) annual increase of 5 percent just about
uses up the "budget cushion" seen in the base-case scenario. An increase in unit costs greater than 5
percent annually will not be affordable - unless either the growth of the economy or government revenue
generation turns out to be greater than now predicted, or unless E&T's share of the State Budget
continues to grow and surpasses the 20 percent now predicted, or unless significantly more ODA is
forthcoming or unless user charges are increased further, although the latter is likely to result in lower
enrolment and higher dropout.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating     "      Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
The concept of equity in education         N         FSQL standards are consistent with existing
cannot be successfully changed from one              national standards. There is widespread support
based on equity of inputs to one based on            for the FSQL at the project preparation stage
equity in terms of outcomes of teaching              and Government has already indicated that it
and learming, thus providing the basis for           would like to make it a national standard. The
recognizing the need for compensatory                project will support a FSQL task force, whose
funding for schools that serve                       role it is to periodically review FSQL standards
- 25 -



educationally disadvantaged children.               and guidelines, and promote their integration
with Ministry procedures.
Unregulated charges are not eliminated,   M         Government policy is supportive of the
and hence continue to operate as a barrier          elimination of levies in poor districts. Further,
to school access for poor children.                 elimination of charges is a condition for
eligibility for project-supported funding.
The implemented package of FSQL           N         Project implementation will be closely
interventions is not effective at                   monitored for impact appraisals of intervention
improving educational quality.                      effectiveness.
Capacity to implement the FSQL            N         Specialized technical assistance and training
program is inadequate at the national,              will be provided on a continuous basis to the
provincial, district and school levels.             district, province and central levels.
Financial management and procurement      M         A Financial Management Analysis and Action
controls do not ensure that project                 Plan will be implemented pnor to project
resources are used as intended. (Note that          effectiveness. Project funds will disburse
financial management capacity exists in            through dedicated special accounts held by the
central and provincial levels, but staff            MoET rather than the People's Committee's
need training on the computerized FMS               (which has many more demands on its
accounting system and FMR reporting                 resources). Project accounts will be audited
procedures. Financial management                    annually, and supervised semi-annually.
capacity is weaker at the district level            Procurement of goods and services will be
and staff will need training to help them           competitive. Civil works will be independently
to implement the grant contracts'                   monitored. Communities will be encouraged to
financial and procurement                           supervise the implementation of FSQL
responsibilities, even though these are             interventions in schools, in collaboration with
relatively simple.)                                 Community Development specialists at the
district level. ICB goods procurement and
hiring of major consultant services will be done
centrally under close supervision of the
International Procurement Advisor, with
assistance from resource persons from the
Primary Education Project as well as the
guidance from the Bank Team. In provinces,
the PPCUs already have civil works and
procurement of textbooks experiences using
Bank's procurement procedures from the
Primary Education Project. Grant activities
will be governed by Grants Operations
Manuals, to be agreed with IDA and
co-financiers.
Professional development does not lead    M         The training strategy for the project involves
to positive changes in classroom                   training headmasters as well as head teachers,
practices.                                          whose job it is to provide support and
reinforcement to teachers on a continuous
basis. Professional development programs
should be reviewed from time to time by the
technical support teams and adjusted if
required to make them more effective.
Inability to recruit suitable teacher     N         PTAs and local school leaders, with knowledge
-26 -



assistants and/or they are not effective in         of qualified candidates locally available, will
improving student learning.                         be responsible for recruitment.
Reports on the effectiveness of teaching
assistants, as with other interventions, will be
monitored. Adjustments may be made to the
component design if any intervention is not
successful.
Lessons from grant activities are not     N         Monitoring and evaluation systems for grant
incorporated into better policies and               activities will be put into place and carefully
improved practice.                                 tracked. Reflective exercises and
dissemination activities will be conducted.
Government does not provide sufficient    N         The Government is looking for ways to refine
human and financial resources to sustain            the targeting of their own national programs.
FSQL investments after project end.                 This project tests a new model of resource
allocation. The Bank and donors will review
the benefits associated with this new model as
implementation experience accumulates and
discuss findings with Government.
There is not effective communication and  M         An inter-ministenal project steenng committee
information sharing within MoET and                 will help to improve communication and buwld
other Government agencies, Party bodies            trust for broad information exchanges between
and other partners.                                 agencies. Within MoET the PCU will play a
coordinating role.
The PCU, PPCUs and BoETs will not be      N         Terms of reference and short lists for key
staffed by qualified employees or                   positions will be reviewed by project financiers
provided with support and training
required to carry out the job effectively.
From Components to Outputs
Financial management capacity exists in   M         A Financial Management Action Plan to
central and provincial levels, but need            improve the weakness areas has been agreed
training on the computerized FMS                    with the Government.
accounting system and FMR reporting
procedures. Weaker financial                        The project will primarily procure goods using
management capacity in distnct levels               ICB and hiring of major consultant services
and will need training to help them to              centrally under close supervision of the
implement the less complicated grant                International Procurement Advisor and
contracts' financial and procurement               resource persons from the Primary Education
responsibilities aiming at building local           Project as well as the guidance from the Bank
capacity at the district and school levels          Team. In provinces, the PPCUs already have
civil works and procurement of textbooks
expenences using Bank's procurement
procedures from the Primary Education
Project.
The Grant activities at district level and at the
central level will be governed by two different
Operational Manuals acceptable to IDA.
Overall Risk Rating                       M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
-27 -



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The project is aligned well with Government strategies for education and poverty alleviation, and with
local aspirations. The FSQL standards are seen as a "stepping stone" to established national standards
for schools, and the focus on satellite sites is widely perceived as addressing a very needy constituent
part of the education system. However, implementation of the FSQL standards will require a high degree
of cooperation and collaboration among various bodies, including the MoET, MPI, MOF, National
Assembly, and the Prime Minister's Office.
G. M'Rain Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
o   the Multi-donor Trust Fund Grant Agreement has been executed and delivered and all conditions
precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals thereunder have
been fulfilled, except the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement;
o   the Borrower has established the Project Coordination Unit and appointed thereto a Project director,
a finance officer, an accountant, an administrative officer and a procurement officer;
o   the Borrower has appointed accounting staff acceptable to the Association and under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association, for all the PPCUs and DMUs;
o   the Borrower has: (i) adopted and put into effect a financial management manual acceptable to the
Association; and (ii) provided training to the accounting staff of the PCU and the accounting staff
selected for all PPCUs and DMUs, on the application of said financial management manual and of
the financial management system software; and
o   the Borrower has adopted an FSQL Grants Operational Manual satisfactory to the Association.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
H=1. IReadiness for IMplementation
C 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
1. b) Not applicable.
D 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
qualhty.
D 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 28 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
0 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Christopher J. Thomas                    I Y. Jime               Klaus Rohland
Team Leader                      Sector Manager/Director         Country Manager/Director
- 29 -



Annex 1: Project Daslgn Summary
VOETNAM: PRIMARY EDUCATION FOR            I5SADVANTAGED CHILDREN PROJECT
'    Key Performance        Data Collection'Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives |     -Indicators'                                     Criticai Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
The goal of the Government  Improvements in student  Grade 5 student assessments in Improving the quality of
(as expressed in its 2010  achievement in Mathematics  Mathematics and Vietnamese, education leads to increased
Strategy) and the program  and Vietnamese, measured  with data disaggregated by  productivity, and therefore
financiers is to provide a high  every 4-5 years beginning in  gender and region.  increased income, and
quality basic education for all 2001.                                         ultimately to a reduction in
children                                                                      poverty. Improving the
quality of education also leads
to improvements in health,
fertility, and income
distribution, which in turn
contnbute to poverty
reduction.
Improvements in student   MoET statistics, with data
enrollment, completion,   disaggregated by gender and
repetition, and dropout rates.  province/district/ school.
Project Development       Outcome / Impact          Project reports:          (from Objectlve to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Improve access to primary  Participating schools and their Annual district FSQL audits  The concept of equity in
school and the quality of  satellite campuses in 189                          education can be successfully
education for disadvantaged  districts will achieve a                         changed from one based on
girls and boys.           "fundamental school quality                         equity of inputs to one based
level" (FSQL) by end of                             on equity in terms of outcomes
project.                                            of teaching and learning, thus
providing the basis for
recognizing the need for
compensatory funding for
schools that serve
educationally disadvantaged
children.
For participating project  EMIS data, including ethnic
districts as a whole:     and gender disaggregation.
Net enrollment rate will rise                       Unregulated charges are
from 81% (1999) to at least                         successfully elimnated, and
96%, with gender parity.                            hence do not operate as a
barrier to school access for
poor children.
Student completion will rise
from 72% (1999) to at least
86%, with gender parity.
Repetition rate will reduce
from 8% (1999) to less than
3%, with gender panty.
Dropout rate will reduce from
12% (1999) to less than 6%,
with gender parity.
- 30 -



Number of eligible disabled  MOLISA, MoET, NGO and
children in school will    other agency data.
increase.
Disabled children, street  Innovations grant program
children, minority girls, and  reports.
other very high risk groups of
children throughout the    Project surveys
country benefit from expanded
and innovative approaches to
education service delivery.
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Component I: Achieving     By the end of the project:  Annual FSQL audits and   The implemented package of
Fundamental School Quality                            distnct action plans.     FSQL interventions is
Levels (FSQL)              189 of the most educationally                        effective at improving
disadvantaged districts plan  Annual project reports, with  educational quality.
Schools serving the most  for and achieve FSQL in all  data disaggregated by gender
educationally disadvantaged  schools and their satellite  and province/ distnct.  Capacity to implement the
children in the country are  campuses.                                          FSQL program is adequate at
better prepared for success.                                                    the national, provincial,
The inputs required to achieve                        district and school levels.
these goals are:
Financial management and
Professional development                              procurement controls ensure
provided for approximately                           that project resources are used
59,000 teachers and head                             as intended.
teachers in over 4,200 core
school sites and almost 15,000                       Professional development
satellite sites (including                            leads to positive changes in
Vietnamese language                                  teaching practices.
preparedness).
25% of unqualified teachers
will advance their certification
to 9+ 3.
Approximately 15,000 teacher
assistants hired and trained for
satellite campuses (pending
results of a 2-year pilot test of
this intervention)                                    Suitable candidates are
available to perform teacher
At least 9,240 satellite                              assistant duties and they prove
campuses are rehabilitated                            effective in improving student
with permanent classrooms  Construction Manager       learming.
and upgraded facilities,   progress reports.
particularly in ways that will
make schools more attractive
to girls.
School-community linkages
are strengthened in about
15,000 school campuses.    Quarterly and annual project
reports
- 31 -



Nearly 40,000 satellite
teachers will have a full set of
teaching materials and
1,390,000 students math and
Vietnamese textbooks at the
start of each school year.
Component 1: Education   National guidelines for  National guidelines document
Initiatives for Highly   inclusive education children
Vulnerable Children       adopted and applied
effectively
New partnerships and                                Annual project reports.
innovative approaches for  40,000 educators trained to
improving access and      work with disabled children
delivering education to the  and put these new skills into
highest risk groups of children practice
are developed and
implemented.              National guidelines for highly National guidelines document
vulnerable children adopted
and applied effectively
Grants for DoETs, BoETs,  Project surveys and impact
schools (and their satellites) or evaluation study  Lessons from grant activities
NGOs succeed in expanding                           are incorporated into better
or developing innovative                           strategies and reflected in
programs that address the                          improved practice.
educational needs of very
high-risk children, including
ethnic minority girls.
Component III: National and  FSQL approach and     MoET documents            Government provides
Provincial Institutional and  procedures become                              sufficient human and financial
Technical Support for FSQL  mainstreamed into MoET and Annual project reports.  resources to sustain FSQL
its line agencies, with support                    investments after project end.
Capacity is strengthened  from Government and Party
within MoET, DoETs and    bodies.                                            Effective communication and
BoETs to identify, plan for,                                                 informnation sharing within
support, and monitor the needs District and provincial  BoETs annual district plans.  MoET, and between MoET
of educationally disadvantaged planning is attentive to the                  and other Government
children.                 needs of disadvantaged                             agencies, Party bodies and
children and is based on sound EMIS data.           other partners.
data analysis.
Effective monitoring and  Monitoring and evaluation
evaluation process, including  reports.
EMIS, is developed and
applied by MoET, DoETs and
BoETs by Year 2.
Component IV: Project     PCU and PPCUs provide    Annual project reports.   The PCU, PPCUs and BoETs
Management                intellectual leadership and                        will be staffed by qualified
project management.       Quarterly and annual Project  employees and provided with
Project implementation is                          Management Reports.       support and training required
efficient, effective, and timely Financial and procurement                   to carry out their jobs
management procedures are  Audit reports.           effectively.
operational throughout the
project.
- 32 -



3  :7     -.   < - o .<  Key Performance      Data Collection Strategy -  ,  S
Fierarchy of Objectives-.     Indicators i        -    4    -            Critical Ass umptions.
Project Components      Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:      (from Components to
Sub-components:         component)                                      Outputs)
same as above           same as above
1. Achieving Fundamental
School Quality Levels   US$227.72 million
1.1 FSQL District
Management              US$7.07 million
1.2 Instructional
Improvement and Teacher
Support for FSQL        US$44.24 million
1.3 Infrastructure
Improvement for FSQL    US$163.61 million
1.4 Community
Participation and Student
Support for FSQL and
Universal Primary       US$12.81 million
Education
2. Education Initiatives for
Highly Vulnerable       US$4.15 million
Children
2.1. Inclusive Education for
Disabled Children       US$2.26 mllion
2.2. Reaching Street and
Working Children and
Other High Risk Groups  US$1.89 million
3. National and Provincial
Institutional and Technical
Support for FSQL        US$8.17 million
3.1. National Guwdelines
for FSQL                US$0.44 million
3.2 Institutional
Strengthening           US$7.73 million
4. Project Management   US$3.62 million
- 33 -



Annen: 2: DetaIled Project Description
VIETNAM: PRIMW3AIRY EDUCATION FOR DISADVANTAGiED CHILDR?EN PROJECT
The project has four components:
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$227.73 mililon
Component 1: Achieving Fundamental School Quality Levels (FSQIL)
Schools that serve educationally disadvantaged children do not meet the pedagogical needs of this
population because these schools and their satellites are under-equipped and their teachers
under-qualified. Furthermore, appropriate pedagogical strategies are not adequately formulated or
implemented. The objective of this component is to raise all schools in the 189 most disadvantaged
targeted districts to afundamental school quality level through a two-pronged approach:
1.1 by providing necessary support to district adnministration to improve planning, management and
monitoring capabilities, in order to develop and implement plans to meet FSQL standards, and
1.2   by enhancing school capacity to provide effective instruction at poorly resourced satellite
campuses, meeting the specific needs of educationally disadvantaged children and supporting other
efforts to meet FSQL standards in these classrooms.
The FSQL standards are:
1.     Physical Infrastructure:
o Schools and campuses have solid construction (walls, floors and roofs) for classrooms and with
adequate natural lighting
o Schools and campuses have 1 blackboard per classroom, sufficient tables and benches for students, 1
teacher desk/chair per classroom, and sufficient durable and transportable storage boxes or lockers
for instructional materials.
2.    Teaching Staff:
o Teachers are minimally qualified at 9+3 level
o Teachers receive annual professional training on relevant classroom management and pedagogical
topics (e.g., crafting teaching aids, multi-grade teaching, remediation support, Vietnamese language
instruction, inclusive education, etc.)
3.     School Organization and Management:
o a school ensures that each satellite campus offers the same quality of instruction, services and
resources as the main school site
o schools and campuses offer grades based on full 175 week curriculum
o head teachers are trained in satellite campus management and support
-34 -



4.     Education Socialization:
*   schools and campuses have individual parent conmmittees
* parent committees at all schools and satellite campuses are trained in school and student support
strategies
5.     Educational Activities and Quality:
*   1 set of teaching aids/instructional matenals per grade is available to each school and campus
* 1 set of teacher supplies is available to each teacher (e.g. ruler, scissors, chalk, paper, pen) in all
schools and campuses
* 1 full set of textbooks, a teaching manual, and other guides as required per grade taught is available
to each teacher
* 1 set of supplementary reading materials appropriate to all grades taught is available to each school
and campus
* all students have Maths and Vietnamese textbooks
* all students are equipped with a sufficient (minimum) number of notebooks and pencils
*   all teachers in ethnic minority areas are trained in teaching Vietnamese to children whose native
language is not Vietnamese
*   Special Vietnamese language matenals are available in all schools and campuses with ethnic
minonty populations
6.     Expected Outcomes
* all school age children are enrolled in school
* 96% of 14-year olds complete primary education
* gender equity is achieved in primary school enrollments
Sub-Component 1.1: FSOL District Manauement (US$7.07 million):
The project will buttress the institutional capacity of targeted districts (BoET) to plan and manage
educational services and support schools and their satellites to reach fundamental quality standards.
More specifically, the project will:
*   Strengthen district school data collection systems (including an initial physical inventory of all
schools and satellite campuses to guide planning for civil works and requirements for classroom
inputs) and implement a monitoring and evaluation system to assess progress towards FSQL goals
and educational outcomes. Appropnate instruments and methodology for the physical inventory
have been developed and piloted in a small number of districts during project preparation.
*   Support the development of a consultative annual district-wide FSQL action plan that outlines the
requirements for all schools in the distnct to reach fundamental quality levels and serves as a tool
for planning and school-support purposes.
Sub-Component 1.2: Instructional Improvement and Teacher Support for FSOL (US$44.24 million):
Targeted districts will receive FSQL grants to implement their district-wide FSQL action plan. Grants to
distncts will be made by provinces on a contract basis, and managed according to guidelines to be
specified in the Operations Manual. Within the district, resources will be only be provided to teaching
- 35 -



sites that are below FSQL standards, most of which are satellite campuses. These interventions strive to
address and meet the pedagogical needs of disadvantaged children. Funds may be allocated to support a
variety of interventions, according to the specifications laid out in their district-wide FSQL plan,
including:
o   Procurement (and, only if strictly necessary, design) of teacher guide, materials and training
modules that will encourage and support instructional methods adapted to the needs of educationally
disadvantaged children, such as Vietnamese language strengthening, multi-grade education or
mainstreaming of disabled children.
O   Provision of professional development workshops to teachers and head teachers (except for where
otherwise provided by other projects such as the Primary Teacher Development Project) to support
their acquisition of new methodologies to address the pedagogical needs of educationally
disadvantaged children, with special attention to the needs of girls and minorities. A limited amount
of funds will also be available for satellite teacher certification upgrading to the minimum 9+3
FSQL standard for classroom instruction.
o   Procurement of a basic package of teaching-learning materials (classroom consumables,
instructional aids student supplies, textbooks and supplementary reading/library materials).
O   Establishment of community-based pre-primary school readiness language development programs
to strengthen children's Vietnamese competency levels in locations with a significant proportion of
ethnic minorities.
o   Placement of local community lower-secondary graduates as teacher assistants to support classroom
instructors in satellite sites to provide more individualized attention to children with special needs.
This activity will be piloted in approximately 800 schools and satellite campuses in the worst off
districts for 2 years and then expanded in the remaining districts if successful.
Sub-Component 1.3: Infrastructure Improvement for FSOL (US$163.61 million):
This intervention seeks to improve the physical environment for learning in school satellites serving
disadvantaged children. The project will upgrade the infrastructure in an estimated 8,500 existing school
sites, providing for construction of classrooms plus an office, water points (rain water collection and
above ground tank) and latrines. Standard building designs should accommodate the needs of
handicapped children.
Sub-Component 1.4: Community Participation and Student Support for FSOL and Universal Primary
Education (UPE) (US$12.81 million):
This intervention seeks to strengthen parents' associations at satellite campus locations to advocate for
universal primary education goals as well as to support and monitor FQSL standards. With the assistance
of a Community Development specialist, parents will be mobilized and trained to manage a campus
support fund that they can allocate to a variety of activities, such as school feeding programs,
extracurricular activities that promote participation of under-represented groups (girls, ethnic minorities),
or remedial education classes. The campus support fund will be budgeted and accounted for through the
District FSQL grant outlined in sub-component 1.1. above, but managed at the school level. This activity
will be piloted in the 800 schools and satellite campuses in the worst off districts for 2 years and then
expanded in the remaining districts if successful.
Schools participating in the project should exempt students from all unregulated charges, such as school
construction levies.
- 36 -



Project Component 2 - US$4.15 million
Component 2: Education Initiatives for Highly Vulnerable Children
This component seeks to address the needs of children at high risk. It consists of two streams. The first
stream presents interventions that address the educational needs of disabled children. The second stream
is designed to address the educational needs of vulnerable groups, such as street and working children,
children living in fishing communities, and others.
Sub-Component 2.1: Inclusive Education for Disabled Children (US$2.26 million):
The project will support a national Task Force to develop an integrated set of national guidelines for
inclusive education that ensure disabled children can gain access to education services. In addition, the
project will improve teachers' pedagogical capacity to meet the needs of children with disabilities in the
classroom. The activities to be included under this component are:
* Development of a comprehensive set of national guidelines addressing the needs and constraints
faced by primary schools attempting to adopt an inclusive education policy. This will include
recommendations of an organizational structure to support the needs of disabled students.
* Implementation of a survey and research that scopes the dimension and variation of the educational
issues faced by disabled children, profiles their educational needs, identifies the barriers they face in
completing primary education and recommends appropriate strategies and approaches for the
provision of inclusive primary educational services to them.
* Development of teacher guides and modules and provision of training workshops (see Component 1)
for educators that can assist in the mainstreaming of children with disabilities.
* Development of public awareness materials to mobilize parents to enroll disabled children in their
local primary school, if appropnate, and assist head teachers and district officers to mobilize
communities to provide a supportive environment for them.
* Procurement of materials and equipment to support disabled children, e.g. brail books, wheelchairs,
hearing aids, etc. Procurement of these items will be deferred until the later years of the project, and
taking into account recommendations of the Task Force on the organizational structure and the result
of the needs analyses.
Sub-Component 2.2: Reaching Street and Working Children and Other H12h Risk Groups (US$1.89
million):
The project will support a national Task Force to develop an enabling environment for the education of
vulnerable groups, such as street and working children. Furthermore, the project will finance the
implementation of innovative approaches to the education of vulnerable groups.
*      Provision of innovation grants for vulnerable groups to government agencies and NGOs who
serve at-risk children. Grants will be provided on a competitive basis to implement inventive
approaches for meeting the educational needs of vulnerable groups. For example:
o     Enrolling ethnic minority girls in school
o     Encouraging cross-sectoral work to address the educational and social needs of working
children
o      Development of innovative delivery systems for 6hildren living in very isolated
communities (children in fishing communities or remote mountainous areas)
o      Assisting new migrants to access education.
- 37 -



o      Based on lessons from the above grants and other ongoing initiatives, develop recommendations
and guidelines to improve educational services for highly vulnerable children.
Project Component 3 - US$ 8.17 million
Component 3: National and Provincial Institutional and Techical Support for FSQL
The MoET is committed to provide high quality educational services to all children. This vision is
embodied in the national school standards. This component will assist the MoET to lay down a pathway
for reaching national school standards by using FSQL as a first step. It will propose FSQL criteria and
raise awareness at all levels of the education system about how to bring every school up to FSQL levels.
Sub-Component 3.1: National Guidelines for FSOL (US$0.44 rmillion):
A National Quality Standards Task Force will develop and disseminate FSQL standards and guidelines
for implementation. The Task Force will periodically review and revise FSQL standards according to
evolving plans of the Government and actual progress in schools toward meeting current FSQL
standards. As most schools achieve FSQL, the Task Force may recommend to incrementally raise FSQL
standards until they gradually approach national standards, several years from now. Each revision of the
FSQL standard should be accompanied by a revision of the district audit instrument and implementation
guidelines.
Sub-Component 3.2: Institutional Strengthening (US$7.73 million):
Technical Assistants will support MoET and DoETs. TA will help develop instruments and processes to
achieve FSQL. A limited amount of international and national TA will be provided to MoET, to bolster
the five institutional strengthening teams responsible for:
o      Strengthening planning and monitoring of educational quality-including harmonizing
district-level school data collection efforts with the national Education Management Information
System (EMIS) and undertaking analytical studies to increase sector wide effectiveness and
efficiency.
o      Supporting teacher development activities and back-stopping of Vietnamese language
strengthening programs for non-Vietnamese speakers.
o      Procuring and distributing educational goods and materials that will address the needs of
educationally disadvantaged children.
o      Monitoring and supervision of all civil works
o      Mobilizing and supporting community participation in education for highly vulnerable children
Additional national TA will be provided to the DoETs to strengthen capacity for procurement and
financial management at that level.
The institutional strengthening teams are expected to play a coordinating role, generate new knowledge,
and provide overall leadership and direction in project implementation. However, most project activities
will be carried out by existing departments in the MoET, DoETs and BoETs. The team's role will include
maintaining a focus on the innovations introduced in the project, including those related to gender,
targeting resources to satellite schools, VSL instruction, addressing the educational needs of minonties,
and community participation.
- 38 -



Project Component 4 - US$3.62 million
Component 4: Project Management
MoET will be the executing agency for the project. Following the model of other World Bank-supported
education projects, a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be created inside the MoET, attached to the
Pnrmary Education Department. The PCU will be staffed with members from vanous departments of
MoET, domestic and international consultants. The PCU will support MoET line agencies, the
institutional strengthening teams (see Component 3) as well as the national task forces for Quality
Standards, Disabled Children and Highly Vulnerable Children. The PCU will coordinate its work with
the EFA Commission.
The PCU will take guidance from an inter-ministerial steering committee made up of members from
other related government organizations, named by the Government in accordance with established rules
and procedures. The Steering Committee's role is to ensure that the Project is coordinated with other
government initiatives.
The PCU will be responsible for overall direction, management, administration, and coordination of the
Project. It will provide leadership and project supervision. Specifically, the PCU will undertake:
*      planning for project implementation and overall coordination of project activities, including
monitoring and evaluation of progress;
*      administration, including personnel management, accounting and monitonng and reporting needs
for both government and donors; and
*      procunng goods and hiring of consultants services and all international competitive biddings
(ICB).
The DoETs in the participating provinces will be responsible for:
*      organizing and supervising the construction programs prepared by the districts;
*      undertaking large-scale procurement of texts and other instructional materials, except those
subject to ICB;
*      supporting training programs in the areas of planning, teacher professional development
(including Vietnamese language strengthening and mainstreaming of disabled children), and
community participation;
a      monitonng and evaluation of FSQL implementation and quality improvement at district level;
and
*      facilitating liaison between districts, PCU and the Institutional Strengthening Teams at MoET.
The BoETs in participating provinces will be respoisible for FSQL grant activities including the
following:
*      undertaking FSQL audits;
*      developing district FSQL plans;
a      organizing training programs;
*      undertaking small scale procurement;
a      mobilizing and supporting parents' associations at satellite campuses;
*      supervising implementation of FSQL activities in schools; and
- 39 -



o       working with PCU technical teams to field test materials and initiatives.
A general picture of project-funded positions within the management structure-from Steering
Comniittee to schools and communities-is provided in the figure below.
INTERMINISTERIAL STEERING COMMITTEE
MOET PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT (PCU)                           Vulnerable
FSQL                                            I                                      Vulnrabl
Task Force                              Project Director                                Children
&     r        _         I                    i 
Secretariat            Finance/Acet    Int'l Project Advisor  Adm/Personnel                Disabled
I                    I                   I           D        Children
3+ Assistants    I Interpreter/Asst    2 Assistants               Task Force
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING TEAMS TO COORDINATE WITH MOET LINE DEPARTMENTS
PLANNING        INSTRUCTIONAL          MATERIALS           CONSTRUCTION           COMMUNITY
IMPROVEMENT          PROCUREMENT                               PARTICIPATION
& VULNERABLE
CHILDREN
2 MOET          2 MOET               I MOET                I MOET               I MOET
2 Nat'l         3 Nat'Ub             I Nat'l               I Nat'l              5 Nat'l/d
2 Int'U/a       I Int'tUa            I Int'Uc              I Int'U/c            I Int'l/a
_  I Ass't     _j I Graphic/Editor  _I Ass't              _] I Ass't           _I Ass-t
2 Interpntrsh  _  I Interpreter   _  I Interpreter/c   _             I Interpreter/c _IIlzpee 
PROVINCIAL PCUs
(x 38 Provinces)
38 x I DOET Procurement Staff
38 x I Provincial Procurement Coordinator
DISTRICT MANAGEMENT
(X 189 Districts)
189 x Planning Coordinator
189 x I Community Development Specialist
SCHOOLS
Notes  a/ posts eliminated after Project Year 3
b/ 2 posts eliminated after Project Year 3 and assumed by MOET counterparts
c/ posts eliminated after Project Year I
d/ I post eliminated after Project Year 3 and assumed by MOET counterpart
-40 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
VIETNAM: PRIMARY EDUCATION FOR DISADVANTAGED CHILDREN PROJECT
Project Cost by Component                            US$       US$       Total
.mullion  million  US$ million
1      Achieving Fundamental School Quality  Levels
(FSQL)                                          31.58      6.15     227.73
1.1   FSQL District Management                         1.57      5.50       7.07
1.2   Instructional Improvement and Teacher Support for
FSQL                                             0.45     43.79      44.24
1.3   Infrastructure Improvement                      29.50     134.11     163.61
1.4   Community Participation and Student Support      0.06      12.75      12.81
2     Education Initiatives for Highly Vulnerable Children  1.23  2.92      4.15
2.1   Inclusive Education for Disabled Children        1.06       1.20       2.26
2.2   Reaching Street Children and Other High Risk
Groups                                           0.17      1.72       1.89
3     National and Provincial Institutional and Technical  3.42   4.75       8.17
Support for FSQL and Vulnerable Children
3.1   National FSQL Planning                           0.18       0.26       0.44
3.2   Institutional Strengthening                      3.24       4.49       7.73
4     Project Management                               1.55       2.07       3.62
Total Project Costi  37.78    205.89     243.67
Total Financing Required  37.78    205.89     243.67
'Identifiable taxes and duties are US$21.12m and the total project cost, net of taxes is US$222.55
m. Therefore, the project cost shanng ratio is 60% of total project cost net of taxes.
Project cost by Category                             US$       US$        Total
rmillion  million  US$ million
Campus Infrastructure:                                29.49     134.03     163.52
Civil Works                                     28.06     127.54     155.60
Architectural, Engineering, Adaption, and
Supervision Fees                                 0.50      2.24       2.74
School Furniture                                 0.93      4.25       5.18
Goods                                                  2.57       1.03       3.60
Instructional Matenals                                  -        12.44      12.44
Grants                                                  -        48.65      48.65
Consultants Services                                   4.98       5.22      10.20
Training                                               0.52       2.35       2.87
Incremental Operating Costs                            0.22       2.17       2.39
Total Project Costs  37.78    205.89     243.67
Total Financing Required  37.78    205.89     243.67
- 41 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
VIETNAM: PRiMARY EDUCATION FOR UDSADVANTAGED CNOLDREN PROJECT
ECONOMEC ANALYSIIS
The following analysis uses the conventional techniques of cost-benefit analysis to estimate the net
economic benefits and the internal rate of return of the PEDC project. The project will improve the
quality of education offered in pnmary schools in the targeted districts. It is assumed that this will result
in increased enrollment rates, as well as increased efficiency in the form of lower dropout and repetition
rates and, hence, a reduction in the average time it takes a child to completion primary school. As a
result, more children will enter the primary school system, those who enter will receive a better
education, and more will "graduate," i.e., complete Grade 5. Two sets of children will therefore benefit
from the project: (1) those who would have attended and completed pnmary school, even in the absence
of the project, but who now will receive a better education, and (2) those who would never have attended
or (had they attended) not have completed primary school, but will do so now.
A cost-benefit analysis (CBA) was conducted during pre-appraisal in December 2001, using an estimate
of total project costs of $365 million. The project size changed numerous times subsequent to that
pre-appraisal mission to accommodate changing and sometimes conflicting positions of different
departments and individuals in Government. The CBA was totally re-computed in May 2002, based on a
new estimate of total costs of $200 million. The results of the two CBAs were not substantially different.
The internal rate of return (calculated on the basis of assumptions detailed below) remained in the 13-15
percent range. The final estimate of total project costs depended on the amount of grant co-financing that
could be mobilized from the bilateral donors, and on the Government's final decision on project size and
scope. The final figure ($243.7 mnillion) was agreed during the short formal appraisal mission in October
2002. This figure was in the middle between the two earlier estimates. The Bank made the judgment
during the mission in May that small changes in the project costs would not substantially affect the CBA
results, and that an increase in project costs would, if anything, increase the project's internal rate of
return - because the management costs of the project in the 189 districts would not be affected, whereas
the additional financing would increase the coverage (more school campuses) and increase the number of
pupil beneficiaries. For this reason, the Bank believes that the 13.6 percent rate of return presented in
table I below is probably a conservative estimate and the actual rate of return is closer to 15 percent.
The benefits of the project are based on the projected increase in net earnings that will accrue to each
child who completes Grade 5, over his or her 40-year working life. The stream of increased earnings is
applied to 20 annual cohorts of individuals who graduate in successive years, beginning in 2007.
However, because each successive cohort will start working one year later than the cohort before, the
discounted present value of the earnings streams becomes smaller and smaller for later cohorts. A
discount rate of 10 percent is used for this analysis. The present value of the increased additional
lifetime earmings falls from $528 for an individual in the first cohort to $86 for an individual in the 20th
cohort.
The analysis incorporates a number of conservative assumptions. Benefits are assumed to accrue only to
those who actually complete primary education. Thus, no benefits are attributed to pupils who do not
complete, even though an improved partial education may enhance their lifetime earnings prospects.
Neither is any allowance made for the fact that the improvements in primary education may further
improve the earnings of children who pass through primary school and attend secondary school and
beyond. In addition, it is assumed that children now enrolled in primary school will not benefit, because
they will have completed their primary education (or dropped out) before the impact of the project is felt.
-42 -



Cost savings associated with the improved dropout and repetition rates, which should result in more
efficient use of learning resources in schools, have also been excluded from the analysis, as are possible
external benefits such as the effect of one person's education on the productivity and health of family
members and neighbors.
Benefits are calculated on the basis of existing research, using a multivariate earnings function (a la
Jacob Mincer - "Labor Supply, Family Income and Consumption," American Economic Review, May
1960, and Schooling, Experience and Earnings, New York, National Bureau of Economic Research and
Columbia University Press, 1974), in which the independent variable is the natural logarithm of income
[ln(Y)]. Using data from the 1998 Vietnam Living Standards Survey (VLSS), this research ("Vietnam:
Trends in the Education Sector during 1993-98," by Nguyen Nguyet Nga, World Bank, Hanoi, 2000)
estimated the coefficient on primary education to be 0.104, which can be interpreted as the proportionate
increase in earnings of an individual who has completed primary school, as compared with an individual
who has not. The effect of "expenence" (number of years in the labor force -- measured by an
individual's age, minus years of schooling, minus six years) enters the earnings function in quadratic
form. The coefficients on experience and experience-squared were estimated to be 0.027 and minus
0.001, respectively. As a proxy for the benefits accruing from the improvement in primary education
quality brought about by the project, we have taken the difference between the estimated earnings of an
average Vietnamese worker and a worker living in the North of the country in 1998. The coefficient on
the "northern area dummy variable" in the regression equation was estimated to be minus 0.271. The
assumption here is that the quality improvements in education brought about by the project will eliminate
this earnings deficit for the beneficianes of the project. All earnings estimates are expressed in constant
2002 prices.
To reflect the impact of the project on pupil flow-through efficiency, it is assumed that repetition and
dropout rates will both decrease over the penod of project implementation, from the current average in
the project distncts to the average in Vietnam as a whole. It is assumed that the proportion of each group
of newly enrolled pupils who complete the five-year cycle and who do so on time (that is, in just five
years) will increase from 48 percent to 69 percent. It is assumed, moreover, that the overall completion
rate (including in the numerator, that is, anyone who ever completes primary school, whether on time or
in more than five years) will also increase, from 63 percent (the current average in the targeted districts)
to 80 percent (the national average).
The number of pupils benefiting from the project is based on the projected numbers in each cohort who
enter primary school and ever complete Grade 5. Given the current demographic transition in Vietnam,
the size of successive primary school-age cohorts will decline in the project districts. For purposes of the
cost-benefit analysis (completed in May 2002, when the project size was assumed to be different), it is
estimated that the school-age population in the targeted areas in 2003 (the first year of project
implementation) will be about 252,000 - about 15 percent lower than it was in 2001. In addition, it is
assumed that the number of school-age children will stabilize by 2006 at about 240,000. As a result,
however, of an assumed 18 percent increase in enrollment rates brought about by the project (from 60
percent to 71 percent), the annual enrollment in Grade 1 is projected actually to increase slightly and to
reach a stable level of 170,400 in 2008.
The number of pupils completing Grade 5 reflects the combined effect of increased enrollment and
increased efficiency. Based on the assumptions referred to above, the number of pupils who complete
Grade 5 in 2008 (the final year of project implementation) is projected to be about 101,000, reaching a
stable level in 2016 of 136,000 - which we estimate to be about 50 percent above the "without-project"
situation. The net increase in completers is projected to stabilize at an annual level of about 45,600.
-43 -



It is assumed that the number of teachers in the covered schools will not change as a result of the project
- even though the pupil-teacher ratio in these schools is quite low as compared with the national average,
and it could become even lower as school-age cohorts get smaller in the future (as a result of declining
population growth), unless Government were to introduce a policy of not replacing all teachers who
move or retire. The project will introduce, on a pilot basis at some satellite school campuses, teaching
assistants in classrooms. Each teaching assistant will receive an annual salary of about $100. For
purposes of the cost-benefit analysis (completed in May 2002, when the project size was assumed to be
different), the additional cost of these teaching assistants has been estimated at $1.21 million annually,
beginning in the first year of the project and continuing after the project ends, assuming that the initial
pilot will be expanded to all project schools. This cost has been factored into the analysis.
As for classroom teachers, while it is assumed that the structure of teachers' salaries will remain the
same, about a third of the teachers in the satellite school campuses do not now meet minimum national
standards (twelve years of basic education plus two years of teacher training). These underqualified
teachers will be upgraded as part of the project. This will increase their earnings by about 30 percent.
The total of additional costs (assumed, for purposes of the CBA, to be about $1.18 million annually) is
also factored into the analysis.
The results of the cost-benefit analysis are summarized in table 1. Based on a project life of 25 years and
a discount rate of 10 percent, the net present value (NPV) of the benefit stream (incorporating the net
earnings benefits of primary completers from 25 successive annual cohorts of enrollees) is estimated at
$137.0 million. The internal rate of return (IRR) is estimated at 13.6 percent. Extending the project life
to 40 years (40 cohorts of enrollees) increases the NPV to $182.0 million, and increases the IRR, but only
marginally, to 14.1 percent. Given the conservative assumptions made, the project is judged to
economically viable. Sensitivity testing, which is detailed below, suggests that this conclusion is quite
robust, and that the project would remain economically viable even when costs are assumed to be
substantially greater or benefits assumed to substantially less.
Table X.     Piresent VaRues of Project, Assunmning 25-Year Piroject
Life and lDiscounting at 10 Percent
VND            US2
(billions)    (millions)
Beneficiaries increased lifetime earnings             5,491.3        366.1
less:
Construction                                          2,260.1        150.7
Instruction materials                                   320.5         21.4
Other                                                   596.3          39.8
Incremental teachers' salaries                          260.1          17.3
Total incremental costs                               3,437.0        229.1
Net Present Value (NPV)                               2,054.3        137.0
lmnternal Rate of Retuirn (IRR)                            13.6%
The first sensitivity analysis consists of changing the assumptions about the project's effects on
enrollments and/or graduation rates. Three alternative scenarios are presented in table 2. In the first,
- 44 -



enrollments in the "without-project" and "with-project" situations are assumed to be the same, but the
rate at which enrolled pupils graduate is assumed to increase as a result of the project, reaching 80
percent, as compared with 63 percent in the without-project situation. The project remains just
economically viable under this scenario (IRR = 11.1). Under the last two scenarios, however, in which
the graduation rate remains at 63 percent despite the project, the IRR falls beneath 10 percent - 9.6
percent and 6.4 percent for alternatives 2 and 3, respectively. This reflects the conservative assumption
that an individual who enrolls in pnmary education but does not graduate will not benefit at all from the
education but, rather, will earn the same in the future as another individual who has never attended
school. If the analysis attributed some benefit to a partial primary education (if we had research results
showing that dropouts earn more than those who have never attended school), all four scenarios would
show higher IRRs and alternatives 2 and 3 might be pushed above the 10 percent level.
Table 2. Sensitivity Analysis -- Changing the Enrollment and/or Graduation Rate Assumptions
25-Year A 25-Year A  Net present value, Internal rate
Enrollments Graduate rate in pupils in nunL of discounting at 10%  of return
Scenario      increase?  increases?   enrolled  graduates   ($ millions)   (percent)
Base-Case*       Yes         Yes      584,625   798,978        137           13.6
Alternative 1    No          Yes         0      443,395        38.4          11.1
Alternative 2    Yes         No       584,625   280,202       -11.1           9.6
Alternative 3    No          No          0        0           -89.3           6.4
* See table 1.
In the second sensitivity analysis, which is presented in table 3, each of the four scenarios is further
changed to reflect either an increase in the cost of one of the major project cost categories (construction
or incremental teachers' salaries) or a decrease in the benefits of the project, as compared with the values
underlying the results in table 2. The effect of a 50-percent change in each of these parameters for each
of the scenanos on the NPV of the project is shown in column (1), and on the IRR of the project in
column (2). Column (3) presents the "switching value" for each of the parameters - the change (positive
or negative) needed to produce a "break-even" IRR of 10 percent.
- 45 -



Table 3.    Sensitivity Analysis -- Increasing the Cost of Construction or the Cost of Teachers
or Decreasing the Benefits of Primary School Graduates
(1)              (2)           (3)
Net present value,  Internal rate  Switching
Scenario                                 discounting at 10%    of return      value*
Change in Cost or Benefit                ($ millions)      (percent)      (percent)
Base-Case Scenario
No change (as in table 2)                    137              13.6
Construction costs increase by 50%          31.1              10.6          +64
Teacher costs increase by 50%               128.3             13.3         +780
Benefits decrease by 50%                    40.1              11.1          -70
Alternative Scenario 1
No change (as in table 2)                   38.4              11.1
Construction costs increase by 50%         -67.5              8.4           +18
Teacher costs increase by 50%               29.7              10.8          +220
Benefits decrease by 50%                     -47              8.4           -23
Alternative Scenario 2
No change (as in table 2)                   -11.1             9.6
Construction costs increase by 50%          -117              7.1            -5
Teacher costs increase by 50%               -19.8             9.3           -65
Benefits decrease by 50%                    -90.2             6.6            +7
Alternative Scenario 3
No change (as in table 2)                   -89.3             6.4
Construction costs increase by 50%         -195.2             4.9           -42
Teacher costs increase by 50%                -98              6.2            n/a
Benefits decrease by 50%                   -159.2             2.5           +64
* The switching value indicates the percentage increase (decrease) in the cost of the cost item or the percent;
decrease (increase) in benefits that makes the project IRR just equal to 10 percent.
Summary of Benefilts and Costs:
Main Assumptions:
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
- 46 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
VIETNAM: PRIMARY EDUCATION FOR DISADVANTAGED CHILDREN PROJECT
Y Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4  I Year 5 I Year 6  Year 7  Year 8
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs        11.0     32.0     43.5     50.0     43.5    43.5   20.17      0.00
Recurrent Costs          0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs       11.0     32.0     43.5     50.0     43.5    43.5   20.17      0.00
Total Financing           11.0     32.0     43.5     50.0     43.5    43.5   20.17      0.00
Financing
IBRD/IDA                 6.0     18.0     25.0     30.0     25.0    25.0    9.76      0.00
Government               1.0     4.50      8.5      9.0      8.5     8.5    3.37      0.00
Central              0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0       0.0
Provincial           0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0       0.0
Co-financiers: AusAID,   4.0     9.50     10.0     11.0     10.0    10.0    7.04      0.00
CIDA, DflD and NORAD
User FeeslBeneficlarles    0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0       0.0
Other                      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing  11.0     32.0     43.5     50.0     43.5    43.5    20.17     0.00
- 47 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursament Arrangements
VIETNAM: PRIMARY EDUCATOON FOR DISADVANTAGED CHOLDREN PROJECT
Procurement
Countrv Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) and Legal Framework
The preparation of the CPAR started in late 1998 by the IDA and Government teams. Since then, several
follow-up activities were carried out by IDA team, including the CPAR review meeting in March, 2002.
The CPAR was finalized in October 2002 by IDA and the Government's Public Procurement Office
(PPO).
The conclusions of the CPAR are generally positive. Over the last decade, the government has made
great progress in the developing a comprehensive set of laws and procedures. There is as yet no law on
public procurement in the country, but guidelines are provided by a few decrees and ordinances and
knowledge about public procurement has substantially improved since development projects were funded
by external donor organizations, such as the World Bank and Asia Development Bank, etc. The
government is in the process of establishing a comprehensive legal framework to govern public
procurement.
Some of the challenges identified by the CPAR match the conclusion of the procurement assessment
done for this project, such as short of qualified national procurement staff and lack of delegated authonty
for approval of procurement actions and decisions. These problems were discussed with the MoET and
appropnate measures to address these weaknesses were agreed upon during preparation, among which
the most important are: (a) the hiring of an international procurement advisor to provide procurement
guidance and to develop a procurement training plan for the PCU and PPCU procurement staff, (b)
provisions for national procurement officers and provincial procurement coordinators dunng the life of
the project, and (c) a requirement of the international procurement advisor to prepare a procurement
manual to streamline and document procurement processes for the project staff.
There are some inconsistencies between the Vietnamese government NCB procurement practices and
IDA's procurement policies and procedures. IDA had already raised the issues with Government and
Government has agreed that the procedures to be followed for national competitive bidding (NCB) shall
be those set forth in its Decree No. 88/CP dated September 4, 1999, as amended and supplemented by
Decree No. 14/CP dated May 5, 2000 with the necessary detailed clarifications required to comply with
the provisions of the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits. In addition,
establishing ceilings for the rates of local consultants is inconsistent with the Guidelines on Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers. IDA has reached agreement with the
implementation agency that the local consultants' umt rates are not negotiable if cost is a selector factor
in a competitive process. Specific remedies for the remaining inconsistencies will be included in the
Development Credit Agreement and to be agreed upon during negotiations.
The eligibility of state-owned enterprises to participate in IDA-financed procurement was discussed with
the Government according to the findings and agreed actions of the November 5-8, 2000 IDA mission on
state-owned enterprises in Vietnam. With the exceptional cases that MoET dependent public university,
teachers training colleges and research institutions will be allowed to participate due the reasons
mentioned in the Consultant Services paragraph below, the applicability of paragraph 1.8 (c) of the IDA
Procurement Guidelines for Goods and Works and paragraph 1.10 of the Guidelines for Selection of
Consultants was emphasized.
- 48 -



Procurement Responsibility
The project will be implemented and managed using the structure outlined in Annex 2, component 4 of
the PAD. The Ministry of Education and Training (MoET) will assume overall responsibility for
coordination and implementation of the project, including procurement, disbursement and financial
management. The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be headed by a full time Project Director, who
will be assisted by an international Project Advisor, a Finance Officer, an Administrative Officer and
administrative assistants. A Procurement Officer and an international Procurement Advisor are provided
under the Institutional Strengthening sub-component. They will be responsible for the procurement done
by the PCU as well as the provision of procurement guidance and training to the 38 Provincial PCUs
(PPCU) under the project. Each PPCU will be staffed by existing personnel in the Department of
Education and Training (DoET) Office, with the addition of a procurement coordinator to handle the
provincial procurement activities. The 189 District Management Units (DMU) will only handle FSQL
grants activities (see Grant paragraph below) and will be assisted in this task by existing government
accounting staff and two additional local consultants, i.e. Community Development Specialist and Data
Analyst/Processor. The grant activities represent a very modest increase to the budgets already
administered by Districts.
Most of the procurement including all ICBs for goods, international shopping, hiring of international
consultants, and the selection and monitorng of competitive innovations grants will be handled by the
PCU thereby reducing the procurement burden on the PPCUs whose capacity is weaker. The PPCUs will
procure works for the regional civil works, textbooks subject to direct contracting procedures, and small
quantities of goods such as office consumables using NCB and national shopping procedures. They will
also hire local consultants and organize local training and workshops and handle their respective project
operational activities. Procurement methods under the FSQL grant will allow shopping procedures for
the purchase of small quantities of school consumables, price quotation and/or community participation
for small school renovations and hiring of national individual consultants. An Operational Manual, to be
agreed with IDA, with specify the grant activities, eligible expenditures, flow of funds and financial
reporting requirements for the district grants.
Assessment of the Capacity of Implementation Agencies
The MoET has developed project management capacity --including procurement-- under the three I)A
financed education projects. The overall procurement performance of the MoET is satisfactory, but the
present staff assigned to the project PCU have limited experience with Bank procurement procedures for
goods and services, except for procurement conducted while implementing the US$637,000 PHRD grant
for the preparation of the project. Under the PHRD, staff have managed the hring of international and
national consultant services using the individual selection method and single source selection method, as
well as some goods procurement using the shopping procedure. MoET will assign procurement resource
persons who have Bank-financed experiences under the on-going education projects to provide ad-hoc
advise to the PCU.
Approximately 67% of the total project costs will finance the renovation or rehabilitation of schools,
which consist of numerous small contract amounts, due to the wide geographical spread of construction
sites and the phasing of construction activities. Most of the provincial units have Bank-financed civil
works procurement experience using NCB procedure as well as textbooks procurement using the direct
contracting procedure under the Primary Education Project. But they would need help in the areas of
goods procurement using NCB and shopping procedures and hiring of consultants. District offices will
require simple procurement training from the provincial procurement coordinators to carry out the grant
-49 -



activities in accordance to simple procurement methods stipulated in the Operational Manual. In short,
improved procurement capacity will be needed and some procurement difficulties are likely to be
encountered during implementation, particularly in the first year of operation.
Procurement capacity assessments of the PCU and randomly selected PPCUs and District offices were
carried out during pre-appraisal and appraisal missions. Some assessments of the capacity of the PPCUs
were also conducted jointly with a Financial Management Officer of the World Bank Office in Hanoi.
The overall nsk associated with this project is rated as "high" taling into consideration the procurement
issues identified by the CPAR as well as the complexity of this decentralization project design and
the limited experience of the PCU. Therefore prior review thresholds have been set accordingly.
Nevertheless, the procurement capacity of PCU and PPCUs needs to be strengthened especially in the
areas of handling procurement of goods using national competitive bidding as well as hiring of qualified
national consultants by the PPCUs. It was agreed that the government will take the following actions: (i)
the national procurement officers from the PCU and PPCUs will take procurement training in the country
(to be provided by IDA Procurement Officers or experienced procurement staff of MoET) and the PCU
procurement officers will have additional training abroad (likely at a regional procurement training
seminar or at ILO, Turin, Italy); (ii) the services of a full-time qualified and experienced procurement
consultant will be retained to strengthen the capacity of the PCU and PPCUs for at least one year; and
(iii) the PCU will assign qualified counterpart staff to work with the procurement consultant, and these
staff will assume the procurement function after necessary training, on-the-job or abroad, prnor to the
end of the assignment of the procurement consultant. The procurement consultant will be selected and
mobilized prior to disbursement of the Credit. The selection mechanism and terms and conditions of the
contract will be subject to prior review by the IDA. The action plan (below) to strengthen the
procurement capacity of the PCU and PPCUs has agreed and finalized during negotiations. The
procurement capacity of the PCU and PPCUs will be re-assessed at the mid-term review, if needed.
Procurement Capacity Building Action Plan
Action:                 Tine-IFrame:                Carried Out by:
Conduct Basic Procurement        After Appraisal     DA Procurement Accredited Officer
Workshop
Attend Regional Procurement Training After Appraisal  Procurement Officer(s) of the PCU
Sign contract for International  Before Disbursement MoET and PCU
Procurement Advisor
Conduct Project Launch Workshop to In parallel with  IDA Task Team and Field
reinforce procurement procedures in  Effectiveness   Procurement Officers
the DCA and disbursement letter
Conduct Goods Procurement        Before the first ICB  IDA Field Procurement Officer
Workshop                         and NCB
Conduct Hiring of Consultants    Before the first QCBS IDA Field Procurement Officer
Workshop                         or SBCQ hiring
Supervision Missions             Every 6 months      IDA Task Team and Field
Procurement Officer
Post Reviews, including NCBs,    As frequently as   IDA Task Team and Field Procurement
direct contracting and hiring of  needed             Officer
consultants
The project launch workshop will be conducted immediately after the effectiveness of the credit.
- 50 -



Procurement
All procurement financed by IDA, DFID, CIDA, NORAD, and AusAID will follow Bank's Guidelines as
stipulated below:
Procurement of goods and works will be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits dated January 1995, revised in January and August
1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines). Bank's standard bidding documents and
preference for domestic manufactured goods including instructional materials will apply in accordance
with the World Bank Guidelines for ICB procurement. Model NCB bidding documents in local
language, acceptable to IDA, will be used for all goods and civil works contracts.
Procurement of consulting services will follow procedures prescribed in the Guidelines on Selection and
Employment of Consultant by World Bank Borrowers dated January 1997, revised in September 1997 and
January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines). Procurement of consultant services will use
the World Bank Standard Request for Proposal Selection of Consultants, dated July 1997 and revised
April 1998 and July 1999 and March 2002 and all consultant contracts will use the Bank's standard
Forms of Contract for Consultant Services. Large-value consultant contracts costing more than
US$200,000 each shall be advertised in both international and national newspapers and in Development
Business (UNDB). A general procurement notice will be published in the UNDB as soon as possible but
no later than effectiveness and will be updated annually thereafter, if needed.
Procurement Methods
Tables A and A.1 summarize the procurement arrangements under the project by IDA Credit and by
Donors' Grant Funds, and Table A.2 shows selection methods for Consultant Services.
Campus Infrastructure: Civil works (US$155.60 million equivalent)
Most of the civil works will be for the construction of district satellite classrooms for achieving the
fundamental school quality level (FSQL) of education. Approximately 9,240 existing school campus
sites in 189 districts of 38 provinces will be built or renovated during the five years of the six project
implementation years. Due to the small contract amounts ranging from US$12,000 to US$250,000 per
contract, and the scattered locations throughout the 38 project provinces as well as the different phasing
of the construction, calls for bidding are unlikely to attract any international contractors, but they would
not be excluded if choose to participate. Therefore, only price quotation and national competitive
bidding (NCB) procedures will be followed subject to the thresholds below:
For civil works contracts valued less than US$70,000 each, up to an aggregate amount of
US$15,560,000, price quotation procedures will be used with the comparison of price quotations from at
least three qualified contractors. For civil works contracts valued less than US$1.0 million each, up to an
aggregate amount of US$140,040,000, NCB procedures acceptable to IDA will be used.
Civil works related consultant services (US$2.74 million equivalent)
There are two consultant services line items under the campus infrastructure component which total
US$2,740,000.00 equivalent. The Quality- and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) method will be used for
the architectural and engineering and supervision services totaling US$2,720,000 equivalent, and the
Selection Based on Consultant's Qualifications (SBCQ) method will be used for the prototype
construction, selection and adaptation services totaling US$20,000 equivalent.
- 51 -



Classroom Furniture (US$5.18 million equivalent)
Classroom furniture under the campus infrastructure component which totals US$6,230,000. For
furniture contracts valued less than US$50,000 each, up to an aggregate amount of US$520,000, national
shopping procedures will be used with the comparison of at least three price quotations. For fumiture
contracts valued less than US$100,000 each, up to an aggregate amount of US$3,110,000, NCB
procedures acceptable to IDA will be used. For furniture contracts valued at greater than and equal to
US$100,000 each, up to an aggregate amount of US$1,550,000, ICB procedures will be used. IDA's
SBDs and domestic preference will apply in accordance with IDA's Guidelines for all ICB procedures.
Other Goods (US$3.60 million equivalent)
Goods excluding classroom furniture will be financed by the bilateral Donors' Grant Funds (including
DFlD, CIDA, NORAD and AusAID. The total amount is under the N.B.F. column in Table A.) Goods
needed for the project consist of equipment and consumables for the district and provincial Educational
Management Information System (EMIS), two vehicles , wheelchairs, hearng aids, brail books, and other
basic aids equipment for disabled children, small office equipment including computers and printers, and
furniture for PCU and PPCUs.
For goods contracts valued less than US$50,000 each, up to an aggregate amount of US$720,000,
international shopping procedures will be used. Comparison of three price quotations from at least two
countries will be required, or national shopping procedures will apply where the desired goods are
ordinarily available from more than one source in the country at competitive prices. Requests for price
quotations will indicate the descnption and quantity of the goods as well as the desired delivery time and
place. Some of off-the-shelf standard items, such as office equipment, vehicles, information and
educational equipment, which are permitted under the shopping procedures mentioned above, may also
be procured directly through UN agencies, for example, IAPSO or UNICEF, as appropriate.
For goods contracts valued less than US$100,000 each, up to an aggregate amount of US$1,080,000
million, NCB procedures acceptable to IDA will be used. For goods contracts valued at greater than and
equal to US$100,000 each, up to an aggregate amount of US$1,800,000, ICB procedures will be used.
IDA's SBDs and domestic preference will apply in accordance with IDA's Guidelines for all ICB
procedures.
Instructional Materials including Textbooks (US$12.44 million equivalent)
Most of the instructional materials including their delivery fees needed for the project will be textbooks,
teaching aids, library books, student workbooks, classroom student and teacher's guides, school and
student consumables, assessment/survey and field test materials, EMIS guidelines and manuals,
workshops and training manuals, and campaign poster and leaflets. Experience from the previous
Primary Education Project shows that timely delivery of instructional materials, especially textbooks and
classroom student and teacher guidelines, is crucial and will therefore be eligible for IDA financing.
The textbook lending-for-free scheme in poor communities begun by the Primary Education Project will
be continued in this project. The textbooks will be replenished, and kept in libraries during the project
implementation period. For those poor communities in the 38 provinces covered by this project, which
were not covered by the Primary Education Project, textbook lending-for-free scheme will be set up and
an initial set of textbooks will be provided and replenished as needed thereafter.
- 52 -



A total amount of approximately US$8,200,000 of lending-for-free textbooks for the poor communities
will be procured under this project. The direct contracting procedure was allowed under the Primary
Education Project because primary education textbooks and related workbooks are only available from
one source, i.e. the provincial Books and School Equipment Companies (BSECs). These are the only
enterprises designated by the Government to sell and distnbute textbooks and related workbooks. The
textbooks are produced and distributed to each responsible provincial BSECs by a state monopoly
printing company, Education Publishing House (EPH) under the MoET. Dunng Appraisal, MoET and
EPH agreed to use Bank's ICB procedures for the printing primary education textbooks. The bidding
process will subject to Bank's review. The average selling price of a set of primary education textbooks
(about 6 subjects) including delivery to schools is about VND37,600 (US$2.45). The distribution system
is well developed covenng the whole country and textbooks are delivered to districts and schools on
schedule by the provincial BSECs. This system ensures that books are delivered to the poorest and most
remote parts of Vietnam at a reasonable cost and on a reliable schedule. Under these circumstances,
there is no reason for the project to select other procurement and delivery methods. It should continue
the direct contracting with the BSECs for providing project textbooks for the poor students since the
textbook printing contracts will be awarded through a competitive process by EPH which is in line with
Bank's Guidelines. The BSECs are not SOEs that have a formal relationship with the MoET. However,
their directors are nominated by the MoET. The BSECs are SOEs under the direction of Provincial
People's Comrruttee. The textbooks contracts between the BSECs and the PPCUs under the 38 project
provinces will range about US$70,000 to US$500,000 and direct contracting with be allowed, up to an
aggregate amount of US$8,200,000.
Competitive bidding procedures are compulsory for other instructional matenals. Therefore, for
contracts other than textbooks valued less than US$50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of
US$500,000, will follow international or national shopping procedures as descnbed under the goods
paragraph above, will be used. For contracts valued less than US$100,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount of US$2,000,000, NCB procedures acceptable to IDA will be used. All other contracts
valued at greater than and equal to $100,000, up to an aggregate amount of US$1,740,000 million
equivalent, will follow ICB procedures. IDA's SBDs including the trial edition of textbook SBD, as
appropriate, and domestic preference will apply, in accordance with IDA's Guidelines for all ICB
procedures.
Grants (US$48.65 million equivalent)
There will be two kinds of grants: (a) Distnct FSQL Grants (ranging from US$20,000 - US$60,000 per
district per year) including FSQL audits, training programs community participation, small amounts of
instructional materials, school consumables, as well as the Campus Support Fund ($175 per satellite
school) and (b) Innovative Grants for Vulnerable Groups ranging from $500 to $50,000 per grant.
Grants will be awarded using agreed selection and implementation procedures documented in respective
Operational Manuals including draft grant contract models. Eligible expenditures and related
procurement methods will also be agreed and documented in the Operational Manuals acceptable to the
IDA. Grants will be financed by Donors' Grant funds.
Consultant Services (US$10.20 million equivalent)
All consultant services under the project will be financed by Donors' Grant funds except civil works
supervision consultant services. All consultants will be hired in accordance to Bank's Consultant
Guidelines. Most of the consultants needed for the project will be for institutional strengthening and
capacity building, development of national guidelines, research studies and field surveys, and assistance
in project management.
- 53 -



The consultant firm for the Vietnamese language strengthening for primary education will be selected
using the QCBS method up to an aggregate amount of US$313,000. Audit Services will be selected
using the least cost selection (LCS) method up to an aggregate amount of US$182,000. Several
consultant firms for: (i) the classroom student and teacher guides, materials and training modules, (ii) the
national survey of disabled children and high nsk groups in pnmary education, and (iii) the dimension of
disability EMIS profiling will be selected using the SBCQ method up to an aggregate amount of
US$150,000. Both international and national individual consultants will be needed for project
management, institutional strengthening and capacity building, development of national policy and
guidelines, instructional improvement and teacher support as well as community participation and
household support up to an aggregate amount of US$9,555,000. Individual consultants will be selected
on the basis of consultant qualifications consistent with Section V of the Consultant Guidelines.
Dependent institutions such as public universities, teachers training colleges, planning and research
institutes and their professional staff under the MoET are needed for providing consultant services for
the development of national policy and guidelines, school assessment and surveys, and providing training
to primary teachers. The participation of these institutions are crucial to the success of project
implementation, because of their unique knowledge and specialty areas that the private consultant
services in Vietnam are not available. Private consultant services in Vietnam are currently in a nascent
state. Therefore it was agreed during preparation, that the public universities that are dependent entities
of the MoET such as teachers training colleges and planning and research institutions and their
professional staff will be hired either directly or as sub-consultants to provide some critical local
knowledge-linked services. They would be selected through single-source selection (SSS) method or
based on their qualifications as national firms and national individual consultants.
Training (US$2.87 million equivalent)
All training expenditures will be financed by Donor's funds. Most training activities are local training
including workshops and seminars for school policy makers and administrators, primary education
teachers, teacher assistants, parents and communities, and project management personnel. Subject areas
included in the training programs are national policy framework and guidelines, teacher material and
classroom guidelines, monitoring and evaluation, EMIS, and traimng of trainers, parent and community
awareness campaign, etc. As mentioned in the above paragraph, Teachers training colleges and
institutions under the MoET, because of their unique and exceptional nature and no suitable alternative
from private sector are available in Vietnam, may be hired to provide training contractual services. A
few overseas study tours and national conferences will also be included under this category. Destinations
for overseas study tours and national conferences will be selected on the basis of relevance and quality of
programs, cost and prior experience, following applicable government and shortlisting procedures as
described in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). Training activities for each year will be approved in
the annual work plan for the project.
Incremental Operating Costs (US$2.39 million equivalent)
Incremental operating costs include travel and subsistence allowances for project management,
supervision, monitoring and evaluation, operations and maintenance, media and communication costs,
utilities, meeting rooms' rentals, small office consumables, and Special Accounts bank charges. All will
be availed of in accordance with government administrative procedures acceptable to IDA.
For the purpose of project sustainability and to cushion the effects on the national budget, Donors' Grant
fund will finance 50% of the incremental operating costs and the Government will finance the rest.
- 54 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements and Financed by IDA Credit
(US$ million equivalent)
,     -            ...................  -  ~. , -  ^.;-  * Procurement Method  ;  * 3r
2      ~     -3 
- Expenditure,Category            ICB- '        -JryNCB        Other       KN.B-F.      TotalCost
1. Campus Infrastructure
Civil Works                                       140.04         15.56                    155.60
(109.23)       (12.14)                  (121.37)
Architecture, Engineering,                                        2.74                      2.74
Adaptation & Supervision                                         (2.14)                    (2.14)
Consultant Services                                     .
Furniture                          1.55             3.11          0.52                      5.18
(1.18)          (2.36)         (0.40)                    (3.94)
2. Goods/"                                                                        3.60        3.60
(0.00)      (0.00)
b
3. Instructional Materials/           1.74            2.00          8.70                      12.44
(1.58)          (1.81)         (7.92)                   (11.31)
4. Grants/                                                                       48.65       48.65
(0.00)      (0.00)
5. Consultant Services                                                           10.20        10.20
__________________________                             (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Training                                                                       2.87        2.87
(0.00)      (0.00)
7. Incremental Operating                                                          2.39        2.39
Costs                                                                         (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                              3.29           145.15         27.52         67.71      243.67
(2.76)         (113.40)       (22.60)       (0.00)      (138.76)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2 The procurement arrangement for the items "other" are: (i) international and national shopping; (ii) pnce quotation; (ill)
UN agencies purchasing; and (iv) direct contracting.
31 N.B.F.: A total of US$ 61.54 million (see Table Al) including other goods contracts and incremental operating costs
will be co-financed by DFID, CIDA, NORAD and AusAID and the rest US$6.17 by the Government.
Equipment, office furniture and consumables, vehicles, and aids equipment for disabled children.
b/ Manual, guidebooks, reports, textbooks, student materials, teaching aids, classroom consumables, etc.
hi Campus funds US$175 each, other grants ranging from US$500 to US$60,000 each.
- 55 -



Table Al: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements and Financed by Donors Grant Funds
(US$ million equivalent)
t 9 4ei*ZXtMotOodll
Expenditure    -, --.        lIO[           NOR          OtIr2        IDA3      Total Cost
1. Campus Infrastructure
Civil Works                                                            155.60      155.60
(0.00)     (0.00)
Architecture, Engineering,                                               2.74        2.74
Adaptation & Supervision                                                 (0.00)     (0.00)
Consultant Services
Furniture                                                                5.18        5.18
(0.00)     (0.00)
2. Goods/ a                       1.80          1.08           0.72                    3.60
(1.60)        (0.97)         (0.65)                  (3.22)
3. Instructional Materials/ b                                              12.44       12.44
(0.00)     (0.00)
4. Grants/ c                                                  48.65                   48.65
(45.30)                 (45.30)
5. Consultant Services                                         10.20                   10.20
(9.27)                  (9.27)
6. Training                                                    2.87                    2.87
(2.61)                  (2.61)
7. Incremental Operating                                       2.39                    2.39
Costs                                                       (1.14)                  (1.14)
Total                          1.80          1.08           64.83       175.96     243.67
(1.60)        (0.97)         (58.97)     (0.00)     (61.54)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Donors Grant Ftplds. All costs include contingencies.
2/ The procurement arrangement for the items "other" are: (i) intemational and national shopping; (ii) UN agencies
purchasing; and (iii) government procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3/ IDA financing see Table A.
/a Equipment, office furniture and consumables, vehicles, and aids equipment for disabled children.
/b Manual, guidebooks, reports, textbooks, student materials, teaching aids, classroom consumables, etc.
/c Campus funds US$175 each, other grants ranging from US$500 to US$60,000 each.
-56 -



Table A2: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
J_ r-:- _.'                 i Selectlob,  Method' .
ConsudJant  iSerlces4. _   1" -' ;           LCSg '     -    - - '     . . :-; . 
Expendllure CategoI-- OBSf - Iq?S  ;     ,             - -   c   Other- - N.B.F.  Tolal Cos
A. Firms               3.03    0.00     0.00    0.18       0.17    0.00     0.00     3.38
(2.40)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.16)     (0.15)  (0.00)   (0.00)   (2.71)
B. Individuals         0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00       0.00    9.56     0.00     9.56
(0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)     (0.00)  (8.70)   (0.00)   (8.70)
Total   3.03    0.00    0.00     0.18       0.17    9.56    0.00     12.94
(2.40)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.16)     (0.15)  (8.70)   (0.00)  (11.41)
1\ Including contingencies
2\ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by either the IDA Credit or the Donors' Grant
Funds.
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CO = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines)
Above table includes civil works related consultant services. All consultancy services contracts excluding
civil works related consultancy services will be financed by Donors' Grant funds.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Civil works, goods, instructional materials and textbooks. Contract valued greater than and equal to
US$200,000 per contract will be subject to prior review. All other contract below the pnor review
threshold will be subject to random post review. Prior review thresholds could be adjusted dunng
Mid-term review, if needed.
Grants. Contract valued greater than and equal to US$50,000 per contract will be subject to prior review.
All other contract below the prior review threshold will be subject to random post review.
Consultant Services. Firm contracts valued greater than and equal to US$100,000 per contract and
individual contracts valued greater than and equal to US$50,000 and their terms-of-reference (TORs)
will be subject to prior review. All other consultant contracts below the pnor review threshold will be
subject to random post review. In addition, all single-source selection (SSS) contracts, if any, will be
subject to prior review regardless of value.
-57-



Table B: Thresholds for Procurevnent MIethods and Prior Review
,.   a                  k i;>- -   C/,. , ta * 0ntact Value,  .--;    i; ,-Contract-Subje   to'
Expenditure Category     *   - Threshold-I,i         Procurement       '    Prior Review/Total
'  (US$)-                   Method           Amount Subject to Prior
Reu,lew        I
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _   _  _   _  _   _                    .(                  .S $ )  
1. Works                   Less than US$70,000        Pnce quotations        >US$200,000/contract
Less than US$1.0m              NCB                    US$70.0m
2. Goods including         Less than US$50,000     International and national
school furniture                                    shopping, UN agencies'
purchases
Less than US$100,000            NCB
Greater than and equal to
US$100,000                  ICB                >US$200,000/contract
US$3.Om
3. Instructional Materials  Less than US$50,000    International and national
shopping, UN agencies'
purchases
Less than US$100,000            NCB
Greater than and equal to
US$100,000                  ICB                >US$200,000/contract
US$1.Om
4. Textbooks             Less than US$500,000 (no     Direct Contracting      >US$200,000/contract
larger contract amount is                                US$4.Om
expected)
5. Grants                   Less than US$50,000     In accordance with the
Greater than and equal to  Operational Manuals      >US$50,000/contract
US$50,000                                          US$20.Om
6. Servlces(Consultant)    Less than US$100,000         SBCQ/LCS
Firm                    Greater than and equal to                          >US$100,000/contract and
US$100,000                  QCBS               SSS, if any, regardless of
value
US$3.03m
Individual              All individual consultants     Individual          >US$50,000/contract and
regardless of value                             SSS, if any, regardless of
value
US$8.00m
7. Training              Overseas and local training       Other            Annual training programs
regardless of value                                    US$2.87
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$111.90 mnillion
Overall Procurement Rltis Assessment: High
IFrequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every six months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
One in four contracts will be reviewed by the post review procurement supervision mission.
- 58 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
The proposed Credit of US$138.76 million equivalent would be disbursed over a period of six years. The
project will be completed on and about June 30, 2009, and the closing date is December 31, 2009. The
allocation of Credit proceeds by IDA and Donors' Grant funds by DFID, CIDA, NORAD and AusAID
according to each expenditure category is shown in Tables C and C. 1 respectively. The estimated taxes and
duties are US$21.12 million, which will be financed by the Government. Retroactive financing from the
Multi-donors' Grant Funds will be allowed for eligible expenditures excluding grants incurred after May 15,
2003 of all the disbursement categories specified under the Multi-donors' Grant funds.
Table C: Allocation of IDA Credit Proceeds
. ' Ex,nditureiategory.   .. -| Ariount i>US$Aluinont_h j'.  tFInancig Percesntage..n
Campus Infrastructure: Civil Works               115.30                         78%
Architectural, engineering and Supervision        2.00          100% for international individuals, and 93%
Fees                                                                for international firms and national
consultants
Furniture                                         3.70          100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 90% of
other local expenditures for other items
procured locally
Instructional Matenals                           10.76          100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 90% of
other local expenditures for other iters
procured locally
Unallocated                                       7.00
Total Credit Proceeds                            138.76          _
Total                                            138.76
Table C. 1: Allocation of Donors' Grant Funds
Expenditure Category          Amount in US$million           Financing Percentage
3.00           100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local
Goods                                                       expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 90% of other
local expenditures for other items procured
locally
Grants:
Distnct FSQL Grants excluding Campus Funds   31.76                           100%
Campus Funds                                 10.03                           100%
Innovation Grants                             1.43                           100%
Consultant Services                           8.83                     100% for intemational
individuals, and 93% for international
firms and national consultants
Training                                      2.47                             100%
Incremental Operating Costs                    1.00                             50%
Unallocated                                    3.02
Total Donors' Grant Funds                     61.54
Total                                        61.54*
- 59 -



* Estimated equivalent in USD as of March 2003 of the aggregated amount committed by the donors for
the entire project period. The donors' contributions for the project will be deposited with the Bank Trust
Fund Office in annual installments.
Use of statements of eupenditures (SOEs):
Disbursement from the IDA Credit, and Donors' Grant Funds from DFLD, CIDA, NORAD and AusAID
will be supported by full documentation and signed contracts for: (i) contracts valued greater than and
equal to US$200,000 per contracts for both works, goods, instructional materials and textbooks; (ii) grant
contract valued greater than and equal to US$50,000 per contract; (iii) firm consultant contracts valued
greater than and equal to US$100,000 per contract; and (iv) individual consultant contracts valued
greater than and equal to US$50,000 per contract. Disbursement for all other expenditures including
training and incremental operating costs will be disbursed against SOEs with supporting documentation
retained in the PCU and responsible PPCUs, and will be made available for IDA, DFID, CIDA, NORAD
and AusAID review upon request.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursement of the Credit, the PCU will open two Special Accounts (SA) for IDA Credit
and for the co-financer Grants (Donors' Grant funds) in a commercial bank specifically designed for the
purpose of this project by the Borrower's Central Bank and on terms and conditions satisfactory to EDA.
The SAs should include appropnate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. IDA's SA, which
will cover its share of eligible expenditures in all disbursement categories as hsted in Table C, would
have an authorized maximum allocation of US$7,000,000. The initial amount of US$4,000,000. will be
withdrawn from the Credit amount and deposited into the SA. The full US$7,000,000 allocation shall be
withdrawn when the amounts disbursed total SDR36,000,000.
Donors' Grant Funds SA, which will cover its share of eligible expenditures in all disbursement
categones as listed in Table C. 1, would have an authorized maximum allocation of US$2,800,000. The
initial amount of US$1,400,000 will be withdrawn from the Grant amount and deposited into the SA.
The full US$2,800,000 allocation shall be withdrawn when the amounts disbursed total US$30,000,000.
Applications to replenish the SAs, supported by appropriate documentation, would be submitted
regularly (preferably monthly, but no less than quarterly) or when the amounts of withdrawals are equal
to 20% of each of the initial deposits. The SAs shall be audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable ]DA within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
Financial Management
Summary Project Description
The total project amount is US$243.67 rmllion, which will be co-financed with DFID, CIDA, NORAD
and AusAID on all basis. The Ministry of Education and Training (MoET) will have the overall
implementation responsibility of this project. The proposed credit of US$138.76 million will be
disbursed over a penod of six years. Additional grant funds could be added in later years. The project
focus is on pnrmary education for disadvantaged children. Activities are to be carried out at central,
provincial, district and school levels. Project implementation will be camed out as described in Annex 2,
component 4 of the PAD with procurement responsibilities described in the above. The project will cover
189 districts in 38 provinces. The two major project activities (campus infrastructure and district FSQL
grants, 67% and 19% of the total project costs respectively, will be carried out by the provincial and
district levels, while responsibility for the Special Accounts, FMS, and audit reporting will remain at the
- 60 -



central level.
Country Issues
IDA recently conducted a Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) of Vietnam, which
provides a diagnosis of the country's financial management environment. The CFAA helps the
Government and IDA to, among others, assess and manage the nsk that public funds may be used for
non-intended purposes and identify the key risks, capacity gaps and constraints to progress in this area.
An action plan to address the key findings of the CFAA has been agreed by the Government.
Among the key findings of the CFAA that are relevant to financial management aspects of the project are
the following: (a) reports from the public expenditure accounting system attempt to capture too much
detailed data and management reports for effective decision-making are not widely used; b) as the
requirements of public expenditure accounting are very comprehensive and detailed, compliance with the
requirements is challenging for all units particularly at lower levels; and (c) as accounting staff focus on
more easily accomplished requirements like mechanical verification of payments and receipts, the regular
and efficient monitoring of State budget information for effective use of public funds at times is not
camed out in a timely manner.
The CFAA also reports that the need to improve transparency in the current budget arrangement in
Vietnam. The conclusion of the assessment is that there is a certain degree of fiduciary risk in the use of
public resources, although overall, the fiduciary risk for this project is manageable for on-budget items
considenng the steps that will be taken as part of the financial management plan.
Risk Analysis
For this project, there are inherent risks due to the magnitude of the project scope with the involvement
of different implementing units from central level to provincial and to distnct levels. However,
mitigating factors exist, for instance: MoET has expenence in managing three Bank-financed project and
other projects financed by multilateral and bilateral agencies. Some expenenced personnel involved in
the Primary Education project will participate actively in the implementation of this project. The
responsibilities of PCU and PPCUs of this project are rather similar to the ones under the Primary
Education (PE) Project with some modifications. This will facilitate the project implementation,
especially at provincial level, because experienced people in provincial DoETs could still be mobilized
and camed forward their experiences gained from the Primary Education Project. At district level, an
Operational Manual, acceptable to IDA, will be developed to monitor district FSQL grant activities
(please see above procurement section under the Grants paragraph).
There is also a certain degree of control risk for PEDC project at all levels of the project. However, with
the completion of the Action Plan (covering the project financial management manual, accounting
software, staffing, training and financial reporting), the governance of the two grants operational
manuals, and close supervision and monitoring by IDA supervision team, the controls for project will be
significantly improved.
For nsk rating relating to project financial management, please refer to section F of the PAD.
Strengths and Weaknesses
As mentioned in the risk analysis, the strengths are the experiences derived from the on-going
Bank-financed project and the continuity of project staff in the MoET and provincial DoETs for this
- 61 -



project. However, potential areas of weaknesses still exist (see table below). For more details of the
resolution of these weaknesses, please refer to the Action Plan at the end of this analysis.
Significant Weaknesses                   Resolution
Lack of comprehensive guidance in the area of  A Financial Management Manual will be
accounting and financial reporting.      developed and accepted by IDA.
Lack of sufficient accounting staff at all levels  Decision to appoint adequate accounting staff
of the project.                          for this project.
Lack of capable computerized accounting  A financial management software will be
system for recording accounting transactions  installed with capacity of accounting, financial
and for management purposes.             reporting and producing FMRs as required by
IDA.
Implementation Arrangement
Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be set up within the MoET. PCU will arrange for payments
from the SAs to PPCUs after checking supporting documents submitted from PPCUs. Sub-project
Distnct FSQL Grants will be signed between PPCUs and DMUs. Therefore grant funds will be
channeled through PPCUs. The accounting transaction will therefore be recorded centrally in the system
of PCU, who has the overall responsibilities for project management, coordination of project activities
and consolidation of financial and monitoring reports.
Provincial Project Coordination Unit (PPCU)
Each province would set up a Provincial Project Coordination Unit (PPCU) under Department of
Education and Training (DoET). Other than procurement responsibilities and project implementation
responsibilities as described in the above Procurement Responsibility paragraphs as well as in Annex 2,
Component 4, PPCU will check the Payment Request from DMUs based on signed grant contracts and
adjust their underspent, if any. PPCUs could pre-finance some expenditures then asking for
reimbursement from PCU or could forward the Payment Request from contractor/suppliers to PCU
asking for payment from PCU to contractors/suppliers. PCU could transfer directly from SAs to
contractors/suppliers or could first transfer the money to project account in PPCUs, then PPCUs will
arrange payment accordingly to contractors/suppliers within 30 days.
District Management Unit (DMU)
A DMU will be formed in each distnct Bureau of Education and Training (BoET). Each DMU will
handle their annual district FSQL grant activities including procurement according to the signed FSQL
grant contracts, including the Campus Support Funds, and will be held accountable for the quahty of
their outputs (see Grants paragraph under the above Procurement Methods. The DMU will submit the
Payment Request, supported by the signed contract, according to the payment terms under their contract
(likely 33-50% of the total contract value) to receive project funds from PCU via PPCU. Subsequent
disbursement tranches will be based on presentation of proper documentation by the District to the
PPCU. The PPCU must demonstrate to the PCU that it has made payment to the districts within 30 days
of withdrawing funds from the SAs. The arrangements for payments from their project account in
district for FSQL Grant activities are described in Annex 2, Component 4.
- 62 -



An Operational Manual, acceptable to IDA, will be developed with detailed instructions on acceptable
grant activities, eligible expenditures, flows of funds and financial reporting requirements for the district
FSQL grant.
Funds Flow
IDA proceeds and grant funds from DFID, CIDA, NORAD and AusAID will be deposited into two SAs
responsible by PCU with related authonzed allocations (see the above Special Account section for
details). The PPCU w.ll have one project account opened in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA to
receive IDA and other Donors' Grant fund from the SAs for payments of provincial transactions as well
as the District FSQL Grant. One of the PPCU's responsibilities is to sign District FSQL Grant contracts
with each distnct and pay DMUs for their responsible project activities in accordance with the contract
payment terms. The PPCU submits the Payment Request to the Provincial Treasury Office (PTO) ( if
there is counterpart sharing). After PTO approved and paid counter-part fund, PPCU will send whole
pack to PCU asking for donors' shanng. The PCU checks again and could make payment either to
PPCU's project account or directly to suppliers/contractors.
The DMU will have one project account opened in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA to receive all
project funds other than IDA from PPCU for payments of distnct transactions as well as the Campus
Support Funds. One of the DMU's responsibilities is to sign Campus Support Funds contracts with local
schools and pay schools for their responsible campus activities in accordance with the payment terms in
the school contract. The distnct will submit Payment Request 2 or 3 times a year. Each time the
Payment Request will include total amount of new signed contracts and also the adjustment (if any) for
the underspent (between amount transferred last time and final amount actually spent at district) incurred
at district level during finalization. The PPCU will check in details the new signed contracts and the
adjustments for previous time then will order the PCU for fund transfer to provincial project account.
The payment from distnct project account for District FSQL Grant activities (including Campus Support
Funds for schools) will follow the detailed procedures in the District FSQL Grant Operational Manual.
That Operational Manual will strengthen the control of payment made from distnct project account for
Distnct FSQL Grant activities and will also specify the reporting arrangement at district. To strengthen
the internal control, the PPCU together with the Finance Office in district will perform periodic checking
using a sampling method to ensure that grant funds are spent for their intended purposes. The annual
independent audit will also check compliance with the OM at distnct and school levels. Districts and
schools will be selected randomly for audit.
- 63 -



F]-



NOTE:
- 1 o  Fund flow not relating to Distnct FSQL Grant
-------       Fund flow relating to District FSQL Grant
(1)           Contractors/suppliers request PPCU for payments.
(2)           PPCU approves and submit to PTO for checking
(3)           PTO approves and disburse directly to supplier/contractor the counter-part share
(4)           PTO return approved document to PPCU
(5)           PPCU submits that pack to PCU for donors'share
(6)           PCU checks and orders central commercial bank to transfer money to PPCU
(7a)          Central commercial bank transfer payment to project account in PPCU
(7b)          PPCU makes payment to suppliers/contractors
(8)           DMU submits Payment Request to PPCU for checking
(9)           PPCU checks then submits to PCU for fund tranfer
(10)          PCU order central commercial bank pay to PPCU
(11)          Central commercial transfers money to PPCU's account
(12)          PPCU transfers money to DMU's project account
(13)          DMU pays to school.supplier from project account in district.
(*)           Instead of 7(a) and 7(b), payment could be made directly to contractors/suppliers nor via project
bank account in PPCU.
(**)          Funds from PCU & PPCUs are for payments incurred and not t6'advances"
Staffing
The PCU will have a full time Finance Officer with support from an Accountant, a Cashier, and an
Assistant (see Project Management Structure Chart or Annex 2, component 4). The Finance Officer and
Accountant in PCU must have adequate skills, experiences and professional qualifications to handle all
transactions at the PCU and reporting requirements from IDA.
Each PPCU will have an Accountant and a Cashier taken from the existing personnel in the Department
of Education and Training (DoET). The Accountant will perform the checking of Payment Request
submitted from DMU, and also will do the reconciliation of project account at province with records in
PCU and DM1U. The Accountant must have adequate skills and expenences to deal with activities at
distnct level.
The DMU will have an Accountant and a Cashier taken from the existing personnel in the District
Bureau of Education and Training (BoET). The Accountant must have basic skill and experiences to
handle project account at DMU and follow the Operational Manual for District FSQL Grant activities.
Accounting Policies and Procedures
Currently, projects under the MoET using the accounting system of Public Admunistration promulgated
under Decision #999 dated November 2, 1996. With that accounting system the projects under MoET
can open sub-accounts flexibly to record project expenditures by expenditure category or by project
component. This will apply for this project. The chart of accounts will be developed to capture the
expenditure data classified by project components and expenditure categories. Physical progress reports,
which are linked to financial costs, will be available in the project management information system. The
system will facilitate reporting of financial transactions and enable the Accountant to maintain
accounting records, including receipt and disbursement of funds and commitments and accruals, in a
- 65 -



timely manner. The project will maintain a centralized financial management at PCU. The payment
system will be decentralized to PPCUs for certain expenditure including school construction and
provision of textbooks and to DMUs for one type of Grant expenditure, i.e. the District FSQL Grant.
The accounting unit of the PCU keep accounting books and control the overall aspects of the project
financial management.
The accounting unit in PPCU will maintain accounting records to facilitate the checking of Payment
Requests submitted from the DMU to the PPCU. The accounting book in the PPCU will also be used for
reconciliation of transactions in provincial project account with the PCU and DMU.
Although payments to districts against contracts signed will be recorded in the PCU accounting book, the
Accounting unit in DMU still needs to maintain basic accounting books and reporting system to keep
track of District FSQL Grant funds received and spent. DMUs will have to follow the Operational
Manual developed to control District FSQL Grant activities at district level in terms of accounting and
financial reporting. This could also be useful to facilitate the reconciliation and checking with record
maintained at the PPCU.
Internal Audit
As mentioned in the CFAA, with the current control environment in Vietnam, the country is not yet ready
for the establishment of an internal audit function in the public sector due to 3 factors: (i) weak capacity
of staff; (ii) a very low salary structure resulting in a lack of motivation of staff; and (iii) difficulty in
recruiting staff of a high caliber.
Recently, several projects in public sector have strengthened its internal control system by getting more
involvement from financial agencies under the MoF such as the Department of Finance at the provincial
level and the Finance Office at the district level.
For this project, the financial agencies will be involved to make regular checking of expenditure at PPCU
and especially at DMU level.
External Audit
There are no critical issues that arise from the audit of the current projects under the MoET. To date
there are no overdue audit reports relating to projects under the MoET. The PCU will appoint an
independent auditor acceptable to IDA. Project accounts will be audited on an annual basis in
accordance with international auditing standards and in compliance with the independent auditing
regulations of Vietnam. The auditor's report will be made available to IDA, DFID, CIDA, NORAD and
AusAID within six months of the close of the fiscal year. The audits will include a separate opinion on
the SOEs other than the Special Accounts and Project Accounts. A management letter addressing
internal control weaknesses of implementing agencies will also be provided by the auditor together with
the audit report.
A Project Accounting Manual will be developed for the project. Internal controls and division of labors
for accounting tasks as well as different levels of authorization and approval procedures will be
stipulated in the Project Accounting Manual. The first audit would include a review and commentary on
the adequacy of internal controls and a post-review of financial statements. The costs of annual audits
will be financed by the proceeds of the Credit.
-66 -



Reporting and Monitoring
Annual financial statements will be prepared following accounting system under Decision 999 from the
MoF with suitable modifications to meet IDA reporting requirements.
For periodic project monitoring purposes, the project will use the Financial Monitonng Reports (FMRs)
developed by the World Bank and will be tailored to meet practical monitoring requirement of the
project. A set of FMR formats has agreed with the Government during negotiations. The PCU will
submit quarterly FMRs to the Association not later than 60 days after each calendar quarter. The FMRs
will compnses of the following reports:
*      Sources and Uses of Funds;
Uses of Funds by Project Components;
Implementation Progress;
Procurement Process Monitonng;
Contract Monitoring Report.
Information Systems
Under the MoET, the accounting software varies from project to project. Normally a new project has to
establish a new accounting software to fit its own purpose, especially when there are multiple financiers
involved. For this project, an appropnate financial management software capable of producing financial
statements as well as the periodic Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) in accordance with IDA
requirements have already be contracted to a software company using the PHRD Grant for project
preparation. The software development together with the training will be completed before negotiation.
Some of the basic accounting records included in the computenzed accounting system are the cash
journal, bill register, contractors/consultants ledger, etc. The availability of data from the computerized
accounting system will help the PCU focus on meeting project management information needs. And
internal control system will be built into the system to clearly define and document the accounting
methodology to be followed for recording individual project related transactions.
Impact of Procurement Arrangements
The procurement arrangement mentioned in the procurement assessments was taken into consideration
when designing the project's financial management system. It is inter-related between procurement and
financial management, therefore the fund flow and accounting system have been designed to
accommodate procurement responsibilities.
Disbursement Arrangements
The project will use traditional disbursement methods. For more details on Special Accounts
Allocations, SOE limits and disbursement mechanism, please refer to the Special Account section and
the above Fund Flow paragraph.
- 67 -



Action Plan and related Conditions
Action                      Responsibility   To be completed
by
1- Accounting Staff
Appoint Finance Officer and Accountant at
PCU with TORs and selection criteria acceptable    PCU         Effectiveness
to IDA.
Appoint Accountant at each PPCU.            PPCU        Effectiveness
Appoint Accountant at each DMU.             DMU         Effectiveness
2- Accounting Software for preparation of financial
statements and FMR reporting                       PCU         Negotiation
Procure the software
*      Install the software and complete training of  PCU      Effectiveness
relevant staff
3- Financial Management Manual
Submit to IDA for review                    PCU          Negotiation
*      Finalize the FM manual                      PCU         Effectiveness
4- Training on financial management, disbursement
for accountant, especially in district             PCU         Effectiveness
*      Training for PCU, PPCUs, DMUs.
Financial Covenants
The following will be listed in the dated financial covenants in the DCA to be completed by
Effectiveness:
*      Complete FMS software training
*      Finalize the FM manual
*      Complete training on FM manual for accounting staff of PCU, PPCUs, DMUs.
Supervision Plan
The supervision will be carried out every six months covering PCU, and randomly selected PPCUs and
DMUs.
-68 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
VIETNAM: PRIMARY EDUCATION FOR DISADVANTAGED CHILDREN PROJECT
Nr6jectScheduIt- .;=. .-*              .. t.W  , Planned--  d  -  L          Actiai Y
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)             11/30/2000                  11/30/2000
Appraisal mission departure                                                 10/24/2002
Negotiations                                                                03/28/2003
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   06/30/2003
Prepared by:
Ministry of Education and Training
Preparation assistance:
Government-executed PHRD Grant of US$637,000
Bank staff who worked on the project Included:
Name                    .,              Speciality
Christopher J. Thomas             Sr. General Educator
Chnstopher Shaw                   Pnncipal Education Specialist
Peter Moock                       Principal Economist
Luis Benveniste                   Education Specialist
Carol Hau-Lai Chen Ball           Procurement Accredited Sr. Operations Officer
Binh Thanh Vu                     Education Officer
Hoi-Chan Nguyen                   Senior Counsel
Hung Kim Phung                    Sr. Disbursement Officer
Behdad Nowroozi                   Sr. Financial Management Specialist
Hung Viet Le                      Financial Management Officer
Kathy Li Tow Ngow                 Program Assistant
Hoai Linh Nguyen                  Team Assistant
Nga Quynh Nguyen                  Team Assistant
Sabrina G. Terry                  Program Assistant
Chandra Chakravarthi              Program Assistant
DFID staff and others who worked on the project included:
Name                       Speciality
Steve Passingham     Senior Education Advisor
Lindy Cameron        Governance Advisor
Peter Owen           Senior Governance Advisor
Peter Balacs         Senior Economic Advisor
Adam Burke           Social Development Advisor
- 69 -



CIDA staff and others who worked on the project included:
Name                           Speciality
Marvin Lamoureux     Educational Planning, Policy and Administration
Camille R. Baudot    First Secretary of Canadian Embassy in Vietnam
Linda Cameron        Language Specialist
Bruce Howell         Development Officer
AusAID staff and others who worked on the project included:
lName                      Speciality
John Scheding       Education Advisor
Fiona Tarpey         Program Officer
Consultants who worked on the project included:
Name                        Specfality
Brian J. Spicer     Project Advisor
Michel Welmond      Research Educational Analyst
Karen Tietjen       Education Economist/Planner
Kiri Evans          Poverty Economist
Adam Rorris         Education Economist
Ian Attfield        Pedagogical Intervention Specialist
Geoff Howse         Education Planner/Researcher
- 70 -



Annex 8: Documents In the Project File*
VIETNAM: PRIMARY EDUCATION FOR DISADVANTAGED CHILDREN PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
* Primary Education for Disadvantaged Children Project, Project Implementation Plan
* Operational Manual for the Implementation of the District Fundamental School Quality Level Grants
(DFSQL)
* Operational Manual for the Implementation of the Innovation Grants for Vulnerable Groups
* Financial Management Manual
B. Bank Staff Assessments
* Bank Mission Aide Memoires and related Back-to-Office Reports:
*   Identification Mission -          Apnl, 2001
*   Preparation Assistance Mission -  July/August, 2001
*   Preparation Assistance Mission -  December, 2001
*   Pre-appraisal -                   May/June, 2002
*   Appraisal Mission -               October, 2002
* Procurement Capacity Assessment
* Financial Management Assessment
* Detailed Project Costs Tables
C. Other
* Indigenous People's Action Plan
* MoET Feasibility Report
* Statistical Annex to the Feasibility Report
*   Distnct Audit Questionnaires
* School Architecture and Construction
* Organizational Capacity Assessment of the MoET and Provincial and District Offices
* Beneficiary Participation and Beneficiary Assessment
* Review of Education Management Information System (EMIS)
* Technical Notes on Girls' Education
* Inclusive Education for Disabled Children
* Education Development Strategy to 2010
* Improving the Budget-Norm System for Recurrent Expenditures
* Primary School National Standards
*Including electronic files
-71 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credlts
VIETNAM: PRIMARY EDUCATION FOR DlSADVANTAGED CHILDREN PROJECT
02-May-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions                         disbursements
Pronct ID    FY    Purpose                                   IBRD        IDA                       Cancel    Undisb      Orig   Fmm Revd
P051838       2002 VN-PRIMARY TEACHER DEVELOPMENT                000      1984                           000     1979       033       000
P059936       2002 Northem Mountains Poverty Reducbon            0 00    110 00                          000     110 22     0 00      0 00
P073305       2002 VN-Regional Blood Transuslon Centem           0 00     3820                          000      38 57      067       0 00
P004850       2001 VI ETNAM - POVERTY REDUC SUPPORT CREDIT       000     250 00                          000     14966      -0 64     0 00
P042927       2001 VN-Mekong Transport/Rood ProtectIon           000     11000                           000     10341     2569       000
P052037       2001 VN-HCMCENVMTLSAN1T                            000     16834                           000     15963      071      -1 12
P082748       2001 COMMUNITY BASED RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE          0 00    102 78                          000    102 80      0 00      0 00
P059864       2000 VN-RuralTransportfl                           000     10390                           000     7970      2564       000
P042568       2000 COASTAL Weti/Prot Dev                         000      3180                           000     2753      1220       000
P056452       2000 RURALENERGY                                   000     15000                           000     12050     8047       000
P004828       1999 VN-HIGHEREDUC                                 000      8330                           000     8610      3137       000
P004833       1999 VN-Urban Transport Improvement                000      4270                           000     3271      3312       000
P004845       1999 MEKONG DELTA WATER                            000     10180                           000     8657      5341       000
P051553       1999 VN-3CrITESSANtTATIONPROJECT                   000      8050                           000     7053      1550       000
P045628       1996 TRANSMISSION&DISTR                            000      19900                          000     15919     16617    11313
P004639       1998 FORESTPROT&RULDE                              000      2150                           000      1714      1128      042
P004844       1998 AGRI DIVERSIFICATION                          000      66 90                          000      3987      8 99     -4 68
P004843       1998 VN-Irland Waterways                           000      7300                           000      5535     4514       -221
P004830       1997 VN-WATERSUPPLYPROJECT                         000      9661                          2685      3103      6175      516
P004842       1997 VN-Hwy RehabII                                000      19560                          000      4930      6790      000
P004641       1996 VN-POPULATION & FAMILY HEALTH                  0 00    5000                           0 00     14 68     15 08     0 00
P036042       1996 BANKINGSYSTEMMODERNIZATION                    000      4900                           000      2936      3665     3504
P004838       1998 VN-NATIONAL HEALTH SUPPORT                    000      101 20                         000      48 72     5722      000
P004834       1995 IRRIGATION REHABIUT                           000      10000                          000      1881      2730      -424
P004835       1994 VN-PRIMARYEDUCATION                           000      7000                           000       525       796      728
Total        000    241597                         2685     163821     78368     14678
-72 -



VIETNAM
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Commfitted                      Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equwty    Quasi  Paric
2002               F-V Hospital                   8.00    0 00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998               MFL Vinh Phat                 0 30     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.15    0.00     0.00   0.00
1996               Mom.Star Cement               22 60    0.00    0.00   44.94   22.60    0.00     0.00  44.94
1997               NATL                          16 80    0.00    0 00   16.80   16.80    0 00     0.00   16.80
1995/97            Nghi Son Cement               20.18    0.00    0.00   1642    20.18    0.00     0.00   16.42
1996               SMH Glass Co.                 7.78     0.00    0.00    2 25    7.78    0.00     0.00   2.25
2002               VEIL                           0.00    0.00   12.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0 00    0.00
1996               VILC                          0.00     0 75    000     0 00    0.00    0.75     0.00    0.00
1996               Vimaflour                     3.08     0.00    0.00    0.54    3 08    0 00     0.00   0.54
Total Portfolio:        78.74    0.75    12.00   80 95   70.59    0.75     0.00   80.95
Approvals Pending Comrnmitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity    Quasi     Partic
1998               BARIA                           24.20      000      4.00     49.00
2002               Dragon Capital                   0.00      2.00      0.00     0.00
2002               F-V Hospital                     1.50      0 50      0.00     0.00
2000               Interflour                       8.00      0.00      0.00     5.00
2001               RMIT Vietnam                     7.50      0.00      0.00     0.00
Total Pending Commitment:       41.20      2.50      4.00     54.00
- 73 -



Annens 10: Counhy at a Glance
VOETNAM: PRIMARY EDUCATION FOR DOSADVANTAGED CHIILDREN PROJECT
East
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Atb &      Lr1`
VItnam     Pacitic  Inconm       OaMoi5mnt dimond'
2000
Populaiion, mid-year (olflOns)                       78 5     1,853    2459                  LHie expectancy
GNI per capita (Ats method, US$)                     390      1.060      420
GNI (Alias nrelhod, US$ bifioms)                     30.4     1.964     1,030
Average annual growth. 1994-00
Population (7%)                                       15        11       1 9
Labor torce %)                                        1.7       1 4      24      GNI                             GIOsa
per                           pnmary
Moot recent estimate (latest year ovaIlable, 1994-M0)                            capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of'populatlon beblw national poveny fIn)   37
Urban population (% oftotalpopulalon)                 20        35        32
L"eexpectancyatbirh (years)                           69        69        59
Infant mortalty (per 1,000 flve bfths)                37        35        77
Child malnutntion (% of chtlden undear5)              37        13                    Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (S6 opopulation)  56        75        76
Uliteary (% ofpopulatlon age 1.5+)                     7        14        38
Grossprimaryenrollment (%ofsChool-agepopulation)     114       119        96              Vl    t5,rr
Male                                               116       121       102                - Lno-mcorm gmup
Female                                             111       121        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TEPNi TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000
Econorrc mUoio'
GDP (US$ bliEons)                                    6 5      28 7      31 3
Gross domesic mrvestment/GDP                         13 0      254      27 4                     Trade
Expons of goods and services/GDP                     26.4
Gross domestic savings/GDP                            6 0
Gross national savings/GDP
Current account balance/GDP                         -54        4 0       1.6     Dom wc
Interest payments/GDP                                 0 7       11        15     savings                     Investment
Total debtGDP                                  .    359 6      811       498      svn
Total debt seMce/exports                      .       8 9      10 0       7 0
Present value of debt/GDP                                      75 6
Present value of debt/exports                                 153.1
Indebtedness
198D00   1990.00     1999      200    2000.04
(average annual grwth)
GDP                                 46       79       48        55        68                Vbtnarn
GDP per capita                      2.2      60       35        41        54                   Low-income group
Exports of goods and services               234      22 6      14.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     19S0      1999      2000     Grmcth of inntr cnd GDP (%)
(96 of GDP)                                                                      eo
Agncufture                                     .     37 5      25 4      24 3
Industry                                             22 7      34.5     36 6     40
ManufactuHng                                       188        176         .     Zo
Services                                             39 9      401       391 '_
Prnvate consumption                                  86 5      68 8     66 6     40      r    so    07   m     cs   co
General govemment consumption                         7.5       71        6 4               -   GDI     =5GDP
Imports of goods end servces                         33 4
1980.90  1990-00      1999     200       Grosl ot oxpoto and Inparto (%)
(average annual growh)
AgncuLture                                   4 3      4 8       5.2       4 0
Invdustry                                            12 1       7 7      101 I   O
Manutfactunng                                                             .     o  '
Services                                      .       7 8       22        5 6    20
Private consumplion                                  102          .              a
General govemment consumption                        10 9       2 5                     w5   ea w   7    so   U9   no
Gross domestic investment                            20 2      -3 0      10.9            -    BWM          inpDrts
Imports of goods and services                        294       25 5      15 3
Note 2000 data are preliminary estimates
The diamonds show tour key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with ItS income-group average It data are missing, the dnamond will
be incomplete
- 74 -



Vietnam
PRiCES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1999      2000     Insnetion(#
Domestic plces                                                                    s
(% dutnge)
Consumer pnces                                        36 4       4 3      -1.8    20
Implicit GDP deflator                                42 1        56       53       10
Governnment finance                                                                o
(% of GDP. includes cunint grants)
Current revenue                                       14 7      19 6      19 6     o
Current budget talance                                 0 0       5 9      4 8            -G    DP deflator    iCPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                         -0 8      -1 8
TRfADE
1980     1990      1999      2000      Exportand Inport levelsit (US$ ridl.)
(USS nillions)
Totel exports (fob)                                  1,731    11,540   14,448     20.o
Rice                                                 272       969      667
Fuel                                                 390     2,092     3,548     15.000
Manufactures                                                                                      * .0t0
Total imports (cif)                                  1,901    13,480   14,259                         a     *  I I
Food                                                  86                  .       00
Fuel and energy                                      356
Capital goods                                        561I                                                     u    '
94   95   go   97  uso r9a0
Expon pnce index (1995- 1f00)
Import price Index (1995=100)                                                                  irpera      *lnpol
Temts of trade (1995=100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1980     1990      1999      2000     Curent account baance to GDP(%)
(US$ iWllions)
Exportsofgoodsandservices                            1,913    14,010   17,107        .
Imports of goods and services                        1,901    13,480   17,344
Resource balance                                       12       530      -237 
Net Income                                           -412      -427      -597
Net current transfers                                  49      1,050     1,341     4I
Current account balance                              -351      1,154      507     .. 
Financing items (net)                                 510        130     -412
Changes in net feserves                               -159    -1,284      -95
Memro:
Reserves incluuding goid (US$ millions)
Convension rate (DEC, locsa,US)                    6,4828    13,944 0  14,170 0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999      2000
(USS milions)                                                                      Corposion rd 2000 det (     eVil.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                23,270    23,260    15.600
IBRD                                         0        0         0         0G                  70     8113
IDA                                          2       59       989     1,113                01,700       113
Tota det service                                      174      1,410     1,218               /,                o 1,141
IBRD                                         0        0         0         0
IDA                                          0        1         8         9       F 3,110 -
Compostion of net resource flows
Oficial grants                                       96       257                         .
Offcial creditors                                   -86       839       973
Private creditors                                     0       -781     -717
Foreign direct Investment                            16      1,609
Portfolio equity                              .       0         0                                        E 8,220
World Bank program
Commitmerits                                 0        0       318       260      A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Dlsbursements                                1        0       158       175      S - IDA  D - Orter rtrlsatera  F - Prtvsae
Pnncipal repayments                          0        1         2         2      C - IMF                    G - Shot-termn
Net flows                                    1       -1       156       173
Interest paynments                           0        0         7         7
Nettransiers                                 1       -1       156       166
EASPR                                                                                                                9/6/01
-75 -



Additional Annex I 1: Project Miuonftoring and Supervision
VIETNAM: PRIMSARY EDUCATION FOR DIOSADVANTAGED CHILDREN PROJECT
Project Monitoring
Practical guidance will be provided in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP), in the form of a framework
for monitoring and evaluation, with clearly identified responsibilities, tasks tasks, methods and
timeliness. This will include:
o   refined project framework indicators for inputs, processes and outputs. These will need to be
measurable and time-bound and to provide a means of assessing quality;
o   clear and practical explanations of what is required, who will have responsibility for monitoring
what, when and how they will do so, and with what support. As well as monitoring against project
framework indicators, this will need to include the monitoring of specific interventions and aspects
of the project. These include i) Instructional Improvement and Teacher Support for FSQL (including
Teacher Professional Training and Development, Vietnamese Language Strengthening and School
Readiness, and Teacher Assistants); ii) Infrastructure Improvement for FSQL (ie civil works); iii)
Community Participation and Student Support for FSQL and UPE (including the Campus Support
Fund); iv) Inclusive Education for Disabled Children (including Classroom Support for Disabled
Children and Community Mobilization and Support); v) Reaching Street Children and Other High
Risks Groups (including Innovation Grants for Vulnerable Groups); vi) procurement management
and vii) financial management.
o   clear and practical specification of reporting arrangements. This will include the scope and format of
i) project performance reports against project framework indicators and localized indicators that
reflect differences in particular situations; and ii) reports on specific interventions and aspects of the
project. The Project Implementation team will be responsible for producing quarterly and annual
progress reports, and other reports on specific aspects of the project, and making these available to
supervision team members before supervision missions.
Supervision
Supervision will check and validate information in quarterly and annual reports (on project progress and
financial issues) prepared by the project implementation team, as well as that available from other
sources. In addition to ongoing support in country, formal project supervision will be conducted at least
twice a year, usually in December and June. Supervision will:
o   review annual progress reports and work plans for the coming year
o ascertain whether the Government is carrying out the project with due diligence to achieve its
development objectives in conformity with the legal agreements;
o identify problems promptly as they arise during implementation and recommend to the Government
ways to resolve them;
o   recommend changes in project concept or design, as appropriate, as the project evolves or
circumstances change;
o   identify the key risks to project sustainability and recommend appropriate risk management strategies
and actions to the Government;
o   prepare a project supervision report and aide memoire for each mission; and
o prepare an Implementation Completion Report to account for the Government's use of resources, to
make a judgement of the degree of achievement of development objectives and to draw lessons to
improve the design and future projects, sector and country strategies and policies.
- 76 -



All funding agencies have committed to the principle of joint supervision, in order to maximize
coherence of supervision and lesson learning and to miinimze the burden on Government. Joint
supervision will require one supervision team working to requirements based on the Bank's operation
policies for project supervision. The team will produce one core report for each mission i.e., a project
supervision report and an aide-memoire. This report may be supplemented by other documentation
needed to meet any additional, internal requirements of individual agencies.
The supervision team will be led by the Bank task manager and will consist of other Bank staff as
required (including operations, finance and procurement specialists) and others funded by grant
financiers, as required. Core team members supported by grant financiers will complement expertise
provided by the Bank. All agencies recognize the need for consistency of team membership. Grant
financiers will manage their own funds for supervision. These may be used to fund occasional specialist
consultants with skills in areas such as language and education; community participation; teaching and
learning; education disadvantage; gender; school construction; monitoring and evaluation; EMIS; and the
management of organizational and institutional change.
All funding agencies will consult and agree on (i) mission dates and TORs, including those for mid-term
review (on and about June 2006); (ii) TORs for grant financier-funded occasional specialist consultants;
and (iii) TORs for other supervision related activities and tasks.
- 77 -



Additional Annex 12: Fiscal SusRainablihty Analysis
VIETNAM: PRIMARY EDUCATION FOR DISADVANTAGED CDHILDREN PROJECT
Background. The Government's current commitment to education and training (E&T) is demonstrably
strong. Government and Party goals for the sector call for increases in the amount of public spending
allocated to the sector, and the Ministry's strategy for E&T stipulates continued actions necessary to
achieve and sustain universal primary education (UPE) and other "education for all" (EFA) goals. The
strategy includes measures, supported by the Primary Education for Disadvantaged Children (PEDC)
Project, to address issues of access and learning outcomes for the 5-6 percent of pnmary school age
children not now in school.
In the joint World Bank/Government of Vietnam study of education financing carried out in the
mid-1990s (note 1), it was discovered that State Budget for education had fallen very much over the
period since the mid-1980s, when Doi Moi marked the liberalization of the economy and the opening up
of Vietnam to market forces. By 1994, only 11.1 percent of total State Budget was allocated to the
sector, and public spending on E&T amounted to just 2.8 percent of national income - a low figure both
by East Asian and by world standards (note 2). The Vietnam Living Standards Surveys demonstrated the
large financial contnbutions that private households make in support of E&T, and they helped to show
that public education subsidies benefit rich families in Vietnam more than poor families (note 3).
In response to these surprising findings, Vietnam's Party Congress of 1996 set new targets for both (1)
the level of public spending on E&T, and (2) how such spending should be allocated within the sector.
Specifically, a target of 15 percent of total State Budget was set, this target to be achieved by 2000. The
target was achieved well ahead of schedule, by 1997, and the 15 percent minimum has been surpassed
ever since. In 1999, public spending on E&T reached 17.5 percent of the budget. The proportion is
currently about 18 percent, and the Ministry's strategy envisions a gradual increase, to reach 20 percent
within ten years (note 4). Public spending on E&T now accounts for more than 3.5 percent of GDP. It
will surpass 4 percent by 2004 according to current projections. A major challenge ahead is to ensure
that the increases in spending are used wisely and that a higher proportion of spending is targeted for the
benefit of poor families and for "children at risk" - thereby addressing the equity concerns articulated by
the Party Congress of 1996. The Government's education strategy, which is supported by the Bank's
CAS and by this project in particular, includes measures to meet this challenge.
Budget Projections. Figure I shows recent and projected budget figures for E&T in relation to GDP
and to the total, current and capital budgets of Government. State Budget figures for future years are
based on official assumptions about the growth of the economy, about government revenue generation
(net of debt service payments and other obligatory expenditures), and about E&T's share of the total
budget (note 5).
- 78 -



Figure 1. Education and Training Budget as Percent of GDP and
as Share of Total Government Budget
25%
20%
20%-                                              Share of Total Budget
15%-                                                    -     ---Share of Current Budget
10%                                                           - 7  Share of Capital Budget
_E&Tas % of GDP
5% -
0% 
0 aa eD X    0 0   o  o  o  o   o     o 0  0  0 o    o -  Sources: PER, IMF.
V_  _   _ . _  _r _I N-e  N- CN  N3 II N  NCO  N N  N
Actual        Est.          Projected
Figure 2 shows the actual and projected State Budget figures for E&T from 1995 to 2010, at constant
2000 prices in VND. Training's share of the budget fell from 28 percent in 1995 to 24 percent in 1998.
It is assumed that this share will now remain at or around 24 percent until 2010. Given that "training"
(i.e., TVET and tertiary education) enrollments will continue to grow in relation to primary and
secondary enrollments, this implies either increased cost sharing or improved efficiency in training, as
compared with prnmary and secondary education.
Expenditure Projections. To see whether projected budget allocations for E&T will be adequate to
cover future "needs," the simplest starting point is to assume that "unit costs" for E&T (i.e., fiscal
expenditure per student per year for every level and type of E&T) will not change but, rather, will remain
the same in the future, increasing only by the rate of inflation. Figure 3 shows estimated unit costs
(recurrent costs only - capital costs are not included here, since investment in any given year affects
future students as well as current students), by level and type of E&T -- based on actual information from
1999, and expressed in pnces for the year 2000.
- 79 -



35
30 
25
,,~~ Id}                            r-i 
0
Actual         Es;t.               Projected              Sources:
Univers!ty/college    8       
Technical   -                                                       rIi
Vocational       ]    9   .   :   -    ~       -      .          lEufion
Upper secondary      9   4
Lower sacondary   0   8   8 
Primary  5   y    8
Pre-primary  >     9rX
-         1 ,000,000  2,000,000    3,000,000   4,00,000     5,000,000
Sources: PER, IMF.              V.rojete 2000 PriSue
Enrollment PErojections. Given the "constant unit cost" assumption, the only variables driving the
growth of expenditures in E&T are student enrollment projections. Vietnam's recent population census
led to downward adjustments in estimated population figures, especially for the youngest cohorts. These
new fFgures, in turn, lead to lower enrollment projections - especially for primary education, where close
to universal participation now pe,tains. Figures 4 and 5 compare enrollment projections fromearly 2000
(those used at the time of the World Bank's appraisal of the Pnmary Teacher Development Project (note
6)) with revised enrollment projections that take into account the new population census figures as well
- 80-



as MoET's updated strategy for the growth of different education sub-sectors (note 7).
Figure 4, which focuses on education enrollments, shows a sharp decline in pnmary numbers, especially
after 2000. This results eventually in a reduction in the numbers of children leaving primary education,
which leads, in turn, to falling lower and upper secondary enrollments from about 2006 onwards.
Figure 4. Education Enrollment Projections, 1994-2010,
Teacher Development PAD vs. MOET's 2010 Strategy Paper
12 
1 0
'a.
TchirDev  MOEr 2010  Tchr Dev  M OEr 201O  Tchr Dev  M OEr 201O  Tchr Dev  M OEr 201O
Project PAD  Strategy  Project PAD  Strategy  Project PAD  Strategy  Project PAD  Strategy
.  Pre-primary           Primary          Lower Secondary     Llpper Secondary  _
The numbers infigure 5, which deals with training, are driven less by changing population figures than
by the policy of MoET and Government, which seems to be a dramatic increase in the numbers of young
people enrolling in technical and vocational (TVET) programs. Simular projections were given to the
World Bank/Govemment team that conducted the joint education finance study in 1995-96. The
Ministry's expectations for growth in TVET enrollments never matenalized in the second half of the
1990s, perhaps because of lukewarm enthusiasm for such programs on the part of the families of children
who complete pnmary and lower secondary education. It may be that, once again, the Ministry's
projections will exceed actual growth over the next ten years, but the PEDC appraisal team has been
consistent and used MoET's enrollment projections for all levels and types of E&T. Since the number of
TVET students is relatively small, no more than about two mnllion by the end of the ten-year period
(even using the Ministry's bullish projections), as compared with ten million in primary, and eight
million in secondary education, an overstatement of TVET numbers will not distort the picture unduly.
-81 -



Figure 5. Treining EnrolO   nt Pvcjcons, 194=201O, Teacher
Developmunt PAD vs. NOET's 2010 Strategy Pspsir
1.8
1.6
: 1.2
o   10                                           - ___ 
0   0.8              - _ _                 ____     ___   ^--  b, gi .................'__| ___
- 0.6l<S1F1 
0.4- -                                      ------
0.2           -
Tchr D2v  | MOE 2010        Tchr Dav  | MOElT2010      Tchr Dav     MOET2010
Project PAD    Strategy     Project PAD    Strategy    Project PAD     Strategy
Vocational                  Technical               Unlvereity/Colleges
Base-case expenditure projections. Combining the unit cost information infigure 3 with MoET's
student enrollment data infigures 4 and 5 yields a projection of recurrent expenditures on E&T in the
future. Comparing these figures with recurrent budget projections for the same years suggests whether or
not enough government spending will be available in the future to cover all recurrent costs - given the
base-case assumption that unit costs will remain the same. This scenario is graphed in figure 6.
Figure 6. Projiected Recurrent Gov rnmn'ni Spending and Projected
Available IB3udget for E&T -  ase-Case ScenarIo
30
X 25
C.20.2
O IL 20_
N 15 -
0 C
C 10
Z a 5
05
0
1998        2000         2002         2004        2036         2CO8        2010
P==   rojected Spending           =E- Projected Budget
- 82 -



Assessment of base-case scenario. The base-case scenario suggests, at first blush, that there will be
enough budgetary resources to cover recurrent costs in the future. Caveats are in order, however. The
assumption of constant unit costs is likely to prove wrong - for several reasons.
First, the projected decline in pupil enrollments (owing to shrinking age cohorts) will place upward
pressure on unit costs. If we could be confident that the Ministry's pupil-teacher "norms" would be
strictly enforced in the future, as pupil numbers fall, then we would know that the number of teachers
employed in education would fall as quickly as the number of pupils, and unit costs might stay the same.
If, however, political and labor union constraints make it difficult quickly to reduce the size of the
teaching force (and if, in fact, pupil-teacher norms are now exceeded in some urban areas, implying that
there is currently a shortage of teachers), then reductions in pupil numbers will almost certainly result in
higher pupil-teacher ratios, which will force unit costs up.
Second, there is growing evidence that, despite Vietnam's relative success in achieving its quantitative
targets for E&T, senous problems persist (especially in some parts of the country, and for some groups of
children) when it comes to meeting the qualitative targets, such as the achievement of acceptable
learnig standards, or reductions in pupil repetition or dropout. Vietnam's recent national assessment of
pupil learnig achievement, which sampled Grade 5 pupils in all provinces and tested them in both
mathematics and Vietnamese language, raises concerns about average achievement levels and, in
particular, about learning in the poorest income bands of the country. To address quality concerns,
enhance learning outcomes, improve flow-through efficiency and raise completion rates in primary and
secondary education, various strategies have been discussed. Nearly all such strategies will, however,
cost money (i.e., raise unit costs).
For example, a strategy that has been discussed at length is to increase the time in school (hours per day
and/or days per year) that Vietnamese children spend, which is now quite low by international standards.
In order to enhance education quality, the short (3-4 hour) school day should be turned into a full (5-6
hour) day, everywhere in the country, or the short school year (165 days, according to the official
calendar, which is probably optimistic) turned into one that approximates international norns (about 180
days) - by reducing the amount of "down time" (both scheduled and unscheduled) now built into the
system. In order to induce teachers to work more hours, however, teachers would almost certainly need
to be paid more, especially given that what teachers now eam (in their primary job at least) is less than a
"living wage". Salanes today account for more than 80 percent of what Government spends on primary
and secondary education (note 8). If hours worked were to be raised by 25 percent, and salaries raised by
the same amount, this would imply a 20 percent increase in government spending on primary and
secondary education.
A third reason for unit costs in education to go up would be if Government decided to introduce greater
poverty targeting of its education spending. Given that, for political reasons, Government is unlikely
actually to cut per student allocations anywhere in the country, more targeting is likely to mean that total
spending will go up, thereby pushing up the average unit cost. The PEDC Project, in fact, represents a
set of targeted interventions aimed at increasing access and enhancing learning outcomes for children in
Vietnam's 189 most educationally disadvantaged districts. A decision, however, to extend this principle
of targeted support to other "children at nsk" in other areas of the country (and also to support the gains
achieved by the project in the 189 distncts, by continuing to channel additional resources needed to
maintain the investments produced under the project) is a separate decision. It is hoped and expected
that the Government of Vietnam will decide to increase targeting in education, since this is what will be
needed to satisfy the Government's own quantitative and qualitative EFA goals. Such targeting,
however, is likely to increase the average cost of education across the country - to increase, that is, unit
- 83 -



costs.
During the PEDC Project, schools and communes receiving targeted project support will not be allowed
to levy informal education charges (the so-called "socialization" charges, or supposedly voluntary
contributions that schools ask from parents to support, for example, the school building fund, or to buy
classroom materials and library acquisitions). For parents in the districts targeted by PEDC, the costs of
all needed school inputs will be financed out of the project. In this way, the project will try to address
one of the major factors barring poor children from enrolling in school, or causing them to drop out
prematurely, which is the financial burden on their families. The difficult burden on poor families is a
negative consequence of the Government's socialization policy (which, more generally, has enabled
Vietnam to achieve its education goals more quickly than it could have done otherwise). A mrtigating
policy, to ensure education access for all children, would be to exempt all poor families (not just those in
districts targeted under the PEDC Project) from having to pay any of the "voluntary" contributions for
education.
The VLSS studies demonstrated that the total of family expenditures on education is nearly as much in
Vietnam as the budgetary allocations for education. If Government were to exempt all families in the
poorest two income quintiles from having to pay any of these informal charges, as well as a number of
school-related expenditures that families now bear (e.g., uniforms and textbooks), and if these costs were
then incorporated into the education budget, a recent estimation of the impact of this policy on the
education budget is in the neighborhood of 10 percent - about 6 percent for primary education and 4
percent for secondary education (note 9). This policy is in line with and builds upon the Government's
current plans for exempting very poor families from socialization charges and phasing in a program of
free textbooks.
IEn conclusion, if any (or all) of the three factors outlined above in fact maternalizes, the assumption of
constant unit costs (the base-case assumption) could prove false. Moreover, the "budget cushion" seen in
the base-case scenario and graphed infigure 6, above, must be big enough to cover any recurrent costs
associated with the PEDC Project (as well as all other ODA-financed projects in education). The
Government's minimum contribution to total project costs during project implementation, as required by
IDA and the bilateral grant donors, consists of two elements: (1) 10% of total project costs "before any
Govemment taxes", plus (2) any government taxes. The MoET and technical assistance team that
assembled the Feasibility Report for the PEDC Project (which was submitted to the Project Steerng
Commuttee and Government for their review and approval) estimated that the Government financing
requirements dunnr implementation will amount to approximately $1.2 in 2003 (Year 1 of the project)
and then would vary between $8.0 and $8.9 in each of the remaining five years of the project
(2004-2008). The TA team further estimated that the "post-project" recurrent cost requirements flowing
from the Project would be about $14.7 million per year, beginning in 2009. and for every year thereafter.
These obligations seem affordable in light of figure 6, which implies an education "budget cushion"
ranging from VND 3.7 trillion ($246 million) in 2004 to VND 11.1 trillion ($738 million) in 2010, all at
constant 2000 prices.
Rising unit cost expenditure projections. The capacity of the "budget cushion" to finance all such
claims will, however, require careful management of the education budget. Figure 7 shows a second
budget scenario, referred to here as the "rising unit cost scenario." According to this scenario, unit costs
in education (at constant 2000 prices) will go up 5 percent every year - reflecting a combination of those
factors discussed above (and perhaps some other factors, not discussed, as well). Figure 7 suggests that
an annual increase of 5 percent just about uses up the "budget cushion" seen in the base-case scenario.
An increase in unit costs greater than 5 percent annually will not be affordable - unless either the growth
-84-



of the economy or government revenue generation turns out to be greater than now predicted, or unless
E&T' s share of the State Budget continues to grow and surpasses the 20 percent now predicted.
Figure 7. Projected Recurrent Government Spending and
Projected Available Budget for E&T - Rising Unit Cost Scenario
(unit costs rise 5 percent per year in real terms)
30
25
CL 20
15
10
ze
>      5
5
0       ,
1998        2000         2002        2004         2006        2008        2010
| a+  Projected Spending            - Projected Budget
Notes:
1.     World Bank, Vietnam Education Financing. World Bank Country Study, Washington, DC, 1997
(ISSN: 0253-2123).
2.     In 1997, in East Asia as a whole, education spending was 3.5 percent of GNP; in all low-income
countries, 3.7 percent; and in OECD countries, 5.0 percent. In Vietnam, as in many other transition
economies, pre-schooling and primary and secondary schooling are counted as "education," whereas
tertiary education is put with technical and vocational education and training (TVET) and referred to as
"training." In Vietnam, "State Budget" refers to the sum of all spending by central and local
governments (central ministries, provinces, districts and communes).
3.     Government of Vietnam, Government Statistics Office, Vietnam Living Standards Survey,
1992-93, and Vietnam Living Standards Survey, 1997-98, Hanoi, Vietnam.
4.     Government of Vietnam, Ministry of Education and Training, Education Development Strategy
for 2010, Hanoi, Vietnam, May 2001.
5.     The assumptions in table 1 come from the public expenditure review (Government of Vietnam
and Donor Working Group on Public Expenditure Review, Vietnam: Managing Public Resources Better,
Public Expenditure Review 2000, Volumes 1 and 2, Hanoi, Vietnam, December 2000), with some
assumptions updated on the basis of more recent projections from the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the
International Monetary Fund (IMW).
- 85 -



6.     World Bank, Project Appraisal Document, Vietnam Primary Teacher Development Project,
Project Number P051838, Washington, D.C., April 2000.
7.     Ministry of Education and Training, Education Development Strategy for 2010, op cit.
8.     The proportion was a bit lower than this (about 70 percent) before 2000, when teachers were
given a substantial pay increase.
9.     Menno Pradhan, "How much does it cost to relieve the poor from private contributions for basic
education and health?" Hanoi, Vietnam, The World Bank, July 2002.
- 86 -



Additional Annex 13: Technical Note on Girls Education
VIETNAM: PRIMARY EDUCATION FOR DISADVANTAGED CHILDREN PROJECT
On balance, there is a high degree of gender equality in Vietnam at the primary school level. Evidence of
gender disparnty in primary school participation emerges only in the most educationally disadvantaged
districts, and there it is most apparent among the smaller ethnic minorities. The PEDC project addresses
factors that constrain girls' educational participation, supports interventions that will benefit girls, and
weights some of its interventions more strongly in favor of girls in the geographic areas where there is
disparity. It also incorporates gender dimensions in its district, school director, teacher and community
training and support program. In short, the PEDC Project "mainstreams" girls' education into a
comprehensive primary education program that also supports boys.
1. Gender equality issues in primary education in Vietnam
Vietnam offers a marked contrast to many developing countries with similar levels of GDP in that it has a
relatively high proportion of girls enrolled in primary school (see Note 1). The ACER census of 1999
revealed that more than 47% of Grade 5 students were female. This picture was reinforced by the
population census of 1999 through which it was shown that 89.5% of females aged 6 - 10 were in
primary school as compared to 90.1 % of boys. In the more than 400 districts not selected as initial
targets by the PEDC program there was no difference in the enrolment rates of boys and girls, and in the
most educationally advantaged districts the participation of both boys and girls was 95.0% and above.
This picture changes somewhat when the focus is shifted to the 189 most educationally disadvantaged
districts selected as the PEDC initial target group of districts. In these districts female enrolment slips to
about 80% (compared to about 87% for boys). Furthermore, in those districts characterized by a very
high proportion of the poorest communes and by a high percentage of the smaller ethnic minonty groups,
the gender gap is more pronounced, with enrolment barely exceeding 60% for girls (compared to about
70% for boys). The proportion of 11 - 15 year olds out of school is much higher among females from
the poorest or most disadvantaged communes than for boys and for children from the non-disadvantaged
communes.
In the case of ethnic minorities other than Hoa, Tay and Muong, female enrolment drops as low as 48.1%
in some districts (compared to boys at about 62%). For the Hoa, Tay and Muong, on the other hand, girl
child enrolment rate is above 90% nationwide, including the most disadvantaged districts. Prelimunary
statistical evidence, strongly supported by field observation and other research studies, indicates that in
the most disadvantaged districts girls-especially those from these ethnic minority groups-- commence
primary schooling a year or so later than boys and are more likely to drop out after only two or three
years of schooling before they reach the upper primary grades.
This lower level of school participation is reflected in the significantly lower rates of literacy for girls
from the ethnic minority groups (other than Hoa, Tay and Muong) residing within the targeted
disadvantaged districts (see note 2). The literacy rate, especially in the most disadvantaged districts for
girls of 10 years of age or more, is about 71% as compared to about 80% for boys from the same ethnic
groups and the 90%+ rates recorded for other groups nationwide.
-87 -



Nevertheless, the initial analysis of the World Bank/MoET Student Assessment Program indicates that
while children in disadvantaged districts perform at levels below the national average, there is little
difference between boys' and girls' academic performance in either the most advantaged or
disadvantaged districts (including ethnic minorities). In combination with student flow data, this
suggests that access and persistence (i.e. fewer years of schooling) are greater problems for girls than
boys in the poorest and ethnic minority groups other than Hoa, Tay and Muong. Once in school, on a
grade-by -grade basis, girls appear to achieve at the same level as boys.
The factors that disproportionately (see note 3) constrain girls' educational participation in Vietnam are
comparatively few and straightforward. The local research literature on education, gender and ethnic
minorities-strongly supported by the PEDC preparation team field observations--identifies three main
causes that interact to negatively affect girls' access, attainment and achievement in primary school.
They are (i) poverty, (ii) distance from school, and (iii) early marriage.
Poverty: Extremely poor families are generally unable to afford the costs associated with
primary schooling without assistance. Government policy emphasizing cost recovery, user fees
or 'voluntary" contributions for primary education can place primary school beyond the reach of
vulnerable groups. When households must ration their resources in order to cover the direct costs
of schooling (e.g. books, supplies, etc.), boys are given preference over girls as their enhanced
economic productivity is more likely to benefit the family. The opportunity costs of schooling for
girls is higher, as they bear a greater burden of domestic labor, including child-care. Among the
ethnic minorities, particularly the Hmong, girls' labor is more valued than boys.
Distance from school: Children in remote and rural areas frequently must travel long and/or
arduous distances (more than one hour) to school, along dangerous pathways. Parents,
concerned for their safety, often enroll them in school late when they are stronger and better able
to cope. Parents are even more reluctant for their daughters to undertake the walk, and delay
their age of entry into primary school even further. Additionally, the longer travel time reduces
the amount of time for domestic labor.
Early marriage: Among many ethnic minorities, girls are expected to marry as young as age
thirteen, and become uncomfortable in male company thereafter, causing them to truncate their
schooling. This, coupled with a late start in primary school, narrows the "window of
opportunity" that girls have to advance through and complete their primary education.
The problem of female dropout is exacerbated by the need to transfer from a nearby satellite campus to a
more distant main school at upper prnmary grades. In such cases, the increased direct and opportunity
costs of schooling, as well as concern for safety, work more strongly against girls than boys for
continuing their primary education.
2. PEDC Project and measures to address gender equality issues
On balance, there is a high degree of gender equality in Vietnam at the primary school level. Evidence of
gender disparity in primary school participation emerges only in the most educationally disadvantaged
districts, and there it is most apparent among the smaller ethnic minorities. In that respect, girls of
primary school age group in disadvantaged districts, and especially those belonging to the ethnic minority
groups other than Hoa, Tay and Muong, constitute a distinct sub-group of the more general
"disadvantaged" category. It is critical that these disadvantaged girls enroll in and complete primary
schooling both to meet government goals but more importantly, to realize the social and economic
benefits so strongly associated with girls' schooling and female literacy.
- 88 -



The PEDC Project addresses gender equality issues in education through four measures:
First, it has selected for inclusion in the project those distncts where there is evidence of gender
disparity. The targeting methodology used measures of gross enrollment, repetition, completion and
overage enrollment to identify educational disadvantage, capturng low educational participation of girls.
Moreover, the PEDC Project focus on satellite schools ensures that not only do the poorest and most
remote communities receive assistance, but also the schools-namely the satellites--that are closest to
non-participating girls are strengthened, and made more attractive and accessible.
Secon(isocial analysis shows that even in areas where girls' educational outcomes are less than that of
boys, factors that negatively affect educational participation are the same for boys and girls. Boys and
girls both suffer from inadequate school environment, poor quality instruction, lack of matenals,
language barriers, and high direct and opportunity costs. The relatively high participation rate of girls in
the targeted districts (47% of total primary student enrollment in the targeted districts) ensures that a
substantial-although not sufficient-number of girls will benefit from project interventions in these
areas.
Third, many of the project interventions address constraints that generally tend to affect girls
disproportionately, exerting a stronger negative influence on their chances of enrolling, remaining and
succeeding in school. Consequently, the overall FSQL strategy addresses these issues-such as costs,
correct age of school entry, and access to upper primary grades-but weights some of its interventions
more strongly in favor of girls in the geographic areas where girls are most disadvantaged. Some of the
project interventions that should especially benefit girls are:
*      Reduction of direct costs of schooling through the elimination of voluntary fee/contnbutions and
the provision of textbooks and school supplies for all children in satellite schools.
*      Provision of a clean and safe ("girl-friendly') physical environment at the satellite schools
through the replacement of unsound or temporary classrooms, construction of latrines and
provision of water points (i.e. storage containers) at these sites.
*      Creation of an effective and child-friendly learming environment through school director and
teacher training, provision of teaching aids and instructional materials, and hiring teacher aides
to strengthen classroom management and support.
*      Creation of Vietnamese Language Strengthening pre-schools at satellite schools in ethnic
minority areas to improve school readiness and correct-age entry. This will also help lighten the
sibling care burden.
*      School Support Funds, that parents around satellite schools will direct at priority education
needs, including those of girls, depending on context.
*      Support to children in satellite schools in the poorest communes to make the transition from
Grade 2 or 3 to the higher grades, either through the hinng of an additional teacher to allow
completion at the satellite campus or scholarships to the main school (with a greater number
given to girls than boys).
Fourth, the PEDC Project will specifically and directly address girls' education by incorporating gender
equality into its support and training programs (including manuals and guwdes) for distnct personnel,
school directors, teachers and satellite school parents/communities. Specifically:
*      District Education Offices (BoETs) will be encouraged to give preference to qualified female
candidates for any additional BoET staff financed by the Project (currently two positions are
- 89 -



envisaged).
o      BoETs, schools and communities will be encouraged to give preference to qualified female
candidates for satellite school teacher aide positions (approximately 15,000 posts).
O      BoET training in planning for and supporting FSQL will include the collection of
gender-disaggregated data, training for gender-disaggregated data analysis and incorporating
gender equality considerations into development plans.
o      School director training will include elaborating supporting methodologies for schools and
campuses on how (i) to identify girls who run the risk of not completing schooling, (ii) to support
these girls and their parents, thereby reducing girls' drop out from school, and (iii) to raise
awareness on gender equality issues in education through activities organized by the school and
campus, the Parents' Association and other representatives for the local community.
o      Teacher training will include measures to create a favorable school environment for girls by
identification of problems, techniques/practices for meeting girls' specific needs, and measures
to address pedagogical and cultural disparities.
O      Community training and support will include raising awareness and sensitizing the community
and parents about the importance of girls' education, helping them identify barriers and prioritize
solutions, including the strategic use of the School Support Fund.
The PEDC Project will aim to ensure that:
o      Both girls and boys benefit form project interventions,
o      Girls get priority consideration where resources may be limited,
o      Gender equality issues are incorporated into planning, training and materials
In short, the PEDC Project will use a "gender mainstreaming" approach for a comprehensive primary
education program that will benefit girls and boys.
Tables 1 and 2 on the following page summarize PEDC Project intervention and compare them with
other interventions that address girls' education.
Table l: Popular interventions to su poirt girls' education
Intervention                         Status
Latnnes                              PEDC provides
Clean, safe environment              PEDC
Fee waviers                          PEDC
Free students books                  PEDC
Free student supplies                PEDC
Free uniforms                        Not required at satellite schools
Health, sanitary supplies            PEDC School Support Fund, if required (not reported to be a
problem)
Labor-saving devices (wells, mills)  NO (beyond Project scope and budget)
Household income supplements         NO (see books/supplies as transfer payments, additional
supplements too costly)
Proximity of school to home          PEDC improve satellites, School Completion Fund
Flexible schedule                    PEDC improve satellites (all half-day)
Female teachers                      Predominate (not an issue)
Non-punitive pregnancy policy        Primary school girls too young (not reported to be an issue)
No-harassment policies enforced      Exist already
- 90 -



Publicity campaigns                   PEDC School Director, Teacher and Community training
Girl-friendly classrooms              PEDC School Director and Teacher training and matenals
Remediation/tutoring                  PEDC School Support Fund, Teacher Aide
Stereotype free textbooks             Addressed by MoET (not reported to be an issue)
Negative view or low expectation of girls  PEDC School Director and Teacher training and materials
Table 2: Girls' Education and PEDC Interventions
Girls' Education Problem                         PEDC Project Intervention
ACCESS
*     Not Enrolled                              District, School Director, Community Training
Free Books and Supplies; Fee Waivers
*   Enrolled Late                      School Director, Community Training
Free Books and Supplies; Fee Waivers
*   Distance to School                 FSQL Quality Improvement at Satellite Schools
PERSISTENCE
*      Incomplete Schools/Campuses              Primary School Completion Fund
*   Schools are too costly             Alleviate Direct Costs (books, supplies, fee
waivers)
*   Girl friendly environment (Physical)  Latrines, Water Points, Better Infrastructure
.   Sibling care in ethnic minority areas  Language Pre-schools
*   Non-supportive HH environment      Community Training
PERFORMANCE
*      Non-supportive instructional environment  Teacher Guides, Teacher Training, School
Director Training, Teacher Aides
*      Lack of instructional materials          Free Student Books/Supplies, Teacher
Books/Supplies, Instructional Materials
Notes:
1. Lower secondary school enrollment is lower, with girls at 59% and boys at 60%.
2. Population Census 1999.
3. While many factors negatively impact both girls' and boys' educational participation, these factors
emerge as having a stronger negative impact on girls than boys.
- 91 -



