Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3752 VN 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Primary Education for Disadvantaged Children Project) 
 
between 
 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated  July 14, 2003 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3752 VN 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated July 14, 2003, between SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF 
VIETNAM (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B) 
the Borrower expects to receive assistance in the financing of the Project 
(a) from Australia, through the Australian Agency for International Development 
(AusAID), in an aggregate principal amount of one million eight hundred thirty-one 
thousand five hundred Australian Dollars (A$1,831,500); (b) from Canada, through the 
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), in an aggregate principal amount 
of up to fourteen million three hundred fifty-five thousand Canadian Dollars 
(C$14,355,000); (c) from the Kingdom of Norway, through the Norwegian Agency for 
Development Cooperation (NORAD), in an aggregate principal amount of up to one 
hundred thirteen million eight hundred thousand Norwegian Kroner (NOK113,800,000); 
and (d) from the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, through the 
Department for International Development (DFID), in an aggregate principal amount of 
up to twenty-
four million seven hundred thousand Pounds Sterling (£24,700,000); all to 
be provided to the Borrower in one jointly financed grant (the Multi-donor Trust Fund 
Grant), on the terms and conditions set forth in the agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and the Association as administrator of those grant funds received from 
AusAID, CIDA, NORAD and DFID (the Multi-donor Trust Fund Grant Agreement); and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.  
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“BoET” means a Bureau of Education and Training at the district level. 
(b) 
“Campus Support Fund Grant” means a grant made by the Borrower to a 
Project District under Part A.4 of the Project for the benefit of an eligible school 
including its satellite sites, within said District, and to be administered by said school and 
its parents’ associations for the purpose of improving the activities of such school and its 
satellite sites and supporting the participation of more disadvantaged children in such  
school and satellite sites, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 7 and 9 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(c) 
“Category” means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1
of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
(d) 
“District” means an administrative sub-division of a Province. 
(e) 
“District Management Unit” and the acronym “DMU” means the unit to 
be established and maintained by each Project District in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2(c) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(f) 
“DoET” means a Department of Education and Training at the provincial 
level. 
(g) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” and the acronym “FMR” mean each 
report prepared in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agreement. 
(h) 
“FSQL” means fundamental school quality level which defines the 
minimum institutional capacity, instructional materials and teacher support, physical 
infrastructure and school-community linkages necessary to maintain a healthy and 
productive learning environment.   
(i) 
“FSQL Grants” means grants made by the Borrower to Project Districts 
under Part A.2 of the Project to assist said Districts in the implementation of their 
Page  4
-
3
-
respective district-wide FSQL action plans, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 7 and 9 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(j) 
“FSQL Grants Operational Manual” means a manual satisfactory to the 
Association to be adopted by the Borrower to establish the guidelines and procedures for 
the implementation of Parts A.2 and A.4 of the Project and the administration of FSQL 
Grants and Campus Support Fund Grants, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
7(a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.  
(k) 
“Indigenous Peoples Action Plan” and the acronym “IPAP” mean the 
action plan dated July, 2002, adopted by the Borrower through the Prime Minister’s 
Decision No.244/QD-TTg, dated March 5, 2003 and Decision No. 1303/QD-BGD & DT-
TH of the Vice Minister of Education and Training, dated March 24, 2003, and referred 
to in paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said Plan may be amended from 
time to time with the prior agreement of the Association.  
(l) 
“Innovation Grants” means grants provided by the Borrower under Part 
B.2 of the Project to eligible entities, including government agencies and non-
governmental organizations, to finance innovative approaches in the delivery of 
educational services for at-risk children, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
10 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(m) 
“Innovation Grants Operational Manual” means a manual satisfactory to 
the Association to be adopted by the Borrower to establish guidelines and procedures for 
the implementation of Part B.2 of the Project and the administration of Innovation 
Grants, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 10(a) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
(n) 
“MoET” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education and Training, and 
any successor thereto. 
(o) 
“Operational Manuals” means, collectively, the FSQL Grants 
Operational Manual and the Innovation Grants Operational Manual; and “Operation 
Manual” means either of said Manuals. 
(p) 
“Project Coordination Unit” and the acronym “PCU” mean the unit to be 
established and maintained by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2(a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(q) 
“Project Provinces” means those Provinces participating in the Project, 
and listed in the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as such list may be amended 
from time to time with the prior concurrence of the Association.  
(r) 
“Project Districts” means the 189 districts within the Project Provinces 
with the highest number of disadvantaged children who do not have access to primary 
Page  5
-
4
-
education or who are at risk of receiving an inadequate primary education, which have 
been selected in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Association, as the list of such 
districts may be modified from time to time with the prior concurrence of the 
Association.  
(s) 
“Provincial Project Coordination Unit” and the acronym “PPCU” mean 
the unit to be established and maintained by each Project Province in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(t) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement. 
(u) 
“Steering Committee” means the inter-ministerial committee established 
and maintained by the Borrower in accordance with the  provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to one hundred and one million four hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR101,400,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain a 
special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2009 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
Page  6
-
5
-
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
April 15 and October 15 commencing October 15, 2013 and ending April 15, 2043.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on April 15, 2023 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.  
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
Page  7
-
6
-
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of          
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned      
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project, through its Ministry of Education and Training, with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and education practices and 
sound social and environmental standards, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
Page  8
-
7
-
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project and its 
sustainability; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof. 
(b)  
The Borrower shall: 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
Page  9
-
8
-
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 13 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish  to the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i)  
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit and under the Multi-
donor Trust Fund Grant, and explains variances between the 
actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 60 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 60 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter. 
Page  10
-
9
-
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that:  
(a) 
Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section 5.01, (i) the right of the Borrower 
to withdraw the proceeds of the Multi-donor Trust Fund Grant, or any other grant or loan 
made to the Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been suspended, 
canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the Multi-donor Trust 
Fund Grant Agreement, or any agreement providing for such other grant or loan; or (ii) 
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof. 
(b) 
Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the Borrower establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (i) such suspension, cancellation, termination 
or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are available to 
the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations 
of the Borrower under this Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely the event specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) of that 
Section.
 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a) 
the Multi-donor Trust Fund Grant Agreement has been executed and 
delivered and all conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Borrower 
to make withdrawals thereunder have been fulfilled, except the effectiveness of the 
Development Credit Agreement; 
(b) 
the Borrower has established the Project Coordination Unit and 
appointed thereto a Project director, a finance officer, an accountant, an administrative 
officer and a procurement officer, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2(a) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
Page  11
-
10
-
(c) 
the Borrower has appointed accounting staff acceptable to the 
Association and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, for all the 
PPCUs and DMUs;  
(d) 
the Borrower has: (i) adopted and put into effect a financial management 
manual acceptable to the Association; and (ii) provided training to the accounting staff of 
the PCU and the accounting staff selected for all PPCUs and DMUs, on the application of 
said financial management manual and of the financial management system software; all 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
(e) 
the Borrower has adopted an FSQL Grants Operational Manual 
satisfactory to the Association, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 7(a) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.   
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Indigenous Peoples Action 
Plan has been duly authorized by the Borrower’s Prime Minister and its Vice Minister of 
Education and Training, and is legally binding on the Borrower in accordance with its 
terms.  
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Governor or any Deputy Governor of the State Bank of 
Vietnam is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 
of the General Conditions. 
Page  12
-
11
-
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower
:
State Bank of Vietnam 
 
49
Ly Thai To Street 
 
Hanoi 
 
Socialist Republic of Vietnam 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
VIETBANK 
 
 412248 
  (84-4) 
825 
0612 
 
Hanoi 
  NHTWVT 
   
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 (1-202) 
477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
or 64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Hanoi, Socialist Republic of Vietnam, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
 
By 
/s/ Le Duc Thuy 
Authorized Representative
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ 
Jemal-ud-din 
Kassum 
Authorized Representative
 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent
)
to be Financed
(1) Upgrading school  
 
infrastructure under 
 
Part A.3 of the Project:   
 
 
 
(a) Works                                       
84,220,000 
 
   78% 
 
(b)  Consultants’services                       1,460,000 
 
   100% for services of    
 
for architectural and engineer- 
 
 
   individual consultants  
 
ing design and construction   
 
     
 
   domiciled outside of 
 
supervision                
 
     
 
 
   Vietnam, and 93%  
 
for all other  
 
consultants’ services  
 
(c)  School furniture                               2,710,000                       100% of foreign 
 expenditures, 
100% 
of local expenditures 
(ex-factory cost) and 
 
90% of local  
 
expenditures for     
other items  
 procured 
locally 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
Category
SDR Equivalent
)
to be Financed
(2) Instructional materials                           7,900,000
 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 100% 
 
of local expenditures 
 
(ex factory cost) and 
 
90% of local  
 
expenditures for other 
items procured locally                                                                                                               
(3) Unallocated                                          5,110,000 
 
__________ 
 
TOTAL   
 
           101,400,000 
 
========== 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.  
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: 
(a) 
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and 
(b) 
prior to the engagement by the PCU of a procurement advisor with 
qualifications, international experience and under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.  
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) works or goods (including 
instructional materials and textbooks) under contracts costing less than $200,000 
equivalent each; and (b) consultants’ services under contracts with firms costing less than 
Page  16
-
15
-
$100,000 equivalent each; all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
 
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower to improve the access to 
primary school and the quality of education for educationally disadvantaged children.  
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Fundamental School Quality Level
Carrying out a program to enable primary schools in approximately 189 selected 
districts in the Project Provinces to achieve a fundamental school quality level, said 
program consisting of: 
1. 
(a) Developing the institutional capacity of the Project Districts to plan and 
manage educational services and to support their primary schools and satellites to reach 
fundamental quality standards, including strengthening their school data collection 
systems as a guide to planning, and their monitoring and evaluation systems; and (b) 
supporting the development of district-wide annual action plans for schools within said 
Districts to reach fundamental quality levels. 
2. 
Provision of grants to the Project Districts to support the implementation of their 
district-wide fundamental school quality level action plans, including for the procurement 
of teacher guides, materials and training modules; provision of professional development 
workshops for teachers; procurement of basic instructional materials; establishment of 
language development programs for children of ethnic minorities; and employment of 
teaching assistants. 
3. 
Upgrading the infrastructure in approximately 14,902 existing school sites within 
the Project Districts. 
4. 
Provision of grants to the Project Districts for the benefit of selected satellite 
campus schools to promote community participation in and support for universal primary 
education and for the achievement of fundamental school quality levels at said schools 
through the mobilization of the parents of school children. 
Part B
:
Education Initiatives for Highly Vulnerable Children
1. 
Carrying out a program to promote inclusive education for disabled children, 
including developing national guidelines for primary schools to adopt an inclusive 
educational policy; evaluating the needs and impediments of disabled children with a 
view to formulating appropriate strategies to provide them with inclusive educational 
services; developing teacher guides and modules and providing training to assist teachers 
Page  18
-
17
-
in bringing disabled children into the education mainstream; and promoting public 
awareness and community support for the enrollment of disabled children in local 
primary schools. 
2. 
Carrying out a program to develop an enabling environment for the education of 
other groups of vulnerable children such as street children, working children, children of 
migrant families or children in very isolated communities, including (a) providing grants 
to eligible institutions and agencies to support innovative approaches in addressing the 
educational needs of such children, and (b) developing recommendations and guidelines 
to improve educational services for such children. 
Part C
:
Institutional Development and Project Implementation Support
1. 
Formulating, disseminating and refining fundamental school quality level 
standards and implementation guidelines. 
2. 
Carrying out a program to strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of Education 
and Training and the provincial Departments of Education and Training, including 
strengthening their capacity to plan and monitor educational quality; undertake studies to 
promote sector-wide effectiveness and efficiency; support teacher development activities 
and language development programs for ethnic minorities children; procure and distribute 
educational goods and materials for disadvantaged children; monitor and supervise 
school construction and upgrading; and promote community participation in education 
for disadvantaged children. 
3. 
Strengthening the capacity of the central, provincial and district agencies of the 
Borrower to implement the Project, and to manage, coordinate and monitor all Project 
activities, including audit, and, in respect of the District Bureaus of Education and 
Training, strengthening the capacity to undertake FSQL audits, develop district-wide 
FSQL plans and monitor their implementation, organize training programs, undertake 
small-scale procurement and, in coordination with technical teams from the PCU, field 
test educational materials and initiatives.
 
*** 
The Project is expected to be completed by  June 30, 2009. 
Page  19
-
18
-
Annex to Schedule 2 
List of Project Provinces 
 
1. An 
Giang 
2. Bac 
Kan 
3. Bac 
Lieu 
4. Binh 
Dinh 
5. Binh 
Phuoc 
6. Binh 
Thuan 
7. Ca 
Mau 
8. Can 
Tho 
9. Cao 
Bang 
10. Dak 
Lak 
11. Dong 
Nai 
12. Dong 
Thap 
13. Gia 
Lai 
14. Ha 
Giang 
15. Kien 
Giang 
16. Khanh 
Hoa 
17. Kon 
Tum 
18. Lai 
Chau 
19. Lam 
Dong 
20. Lang 
Son 
21. Lao 
Cai 
22. Long 
An 
23. Nghe 
An 
24. Ninh 
Thuan 
25. Phu 
Yen 
26. Quang 
Binh 
27. Quang 
Nam 
28. Quang 
Ninh 
29. Quang 
Ngai 
30. Quang 
Tri 
31. Tay 
Ninh 
32. Thanh 
Hoa 
33. 
Thua Thien - Hue 
34. Tra 
Vinh 
35. Tuyen 
Quang 
36. Soc 
Trang 
37. Son 
La 
38. Yen 
Bai 
 
Page  20
-
19
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods (including 
instructional materials other than textbooks for the lending-for-free program) and works 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II 
of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a)  
(i) Works under Part A.3 of the Project estimated to cost less than 
$1,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$140,040,000 equivalent; (ii) classroom furniture under Part A.3 of the Project estimated 
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $3,110,000; (iii) instructional materials other than textbooks for the lending-for-
free program, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, and (iv) other goods estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,080,000, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(b) 
The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding under 
this Paragraph 1, Part C, Section I, shall be those set forth in Decree No. 88/1999/ND-CP 
dated September 1, 1999, of the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, as 
Page  21
-
20
-
amended and supplemented by Decree No. 14/2000/ND-CP dated May 5, 2000 (Decree 
No. 88/1999/ND-CP and Decree No. 14/2000/ND-
CP, together “the Regulations”), with 
the clarifications set forth in the Annex to this Schedule 3 required to comply with the 
provisions of the Guidelines. 
2. 
International or National Shopping
(a) 
Classroom furniture under Part A.3 of the Project estimated to cost less 
than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $520,000 
equivalent; (b) instructional materials other than textbooks for the lending-for-free 
program, estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent; and (c) other goods estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $720,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international 
shopping procedures, or national shopping procedures in the event that such goods are 
readily available from more than one source within the territory of the Borrower at 
competitive prices, all in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines. 
3. Direct 
Contracting
Textbooks for the lending-for-free program under Part A of the Project, costing 
$8,200,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate amount, may, with the Association's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines. 
4. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
Off-the-shelf standard items such as office equipment, vehicles, and information 
and educational equipment, may be procured from UNICEF or the Inter-Agency 
Procurement Services Office (IAPSO) in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 
of the Guidelines. 
5. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works under Part A.3 of the Project estimated to cost less than $70,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $15,560,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the 
Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the 
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
Page  22
-
21
-
6. 
Procurement of goods and works under FSQL Grants and Innovation Grants
(a) 
(i) Goods costing less than $12,500 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines; and (ii) off-
the-shelf items may be procured from IAPSO in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
 
(b) 
Works may be procured: (i) under community participation procedures 
acceptable to the Association in accordance with paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines, 
including with in-kind  contribution from the local community or paid local labor; or (ii) 
under lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from 
three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation giving a 
detailed description of the works, required completion date and a basic form of agreement 
acceptable to the Association; the award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work and who has the experience and resources to 
complete the contract successfully. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to each contract for works or goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part D, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  23
-
22
-
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 t hereto and the following provisions of this Section 
II. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
Part C
:
Other Procedure for the Selection of Consultants
1.
 Least-cost 
Selection
Services for the audit of Project accounts up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $182,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
(a) Services for the prototype construction, selection and adaptation services, 
estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount of $20,000 equivalent; and (b) services for 
(i) the preparation of classroom student and teacher guides, teaching and learning 
materials and training modules, (ii) the national survey of disabled children and high risk 
groups, and (iii) the establishment of the dimension of disability in the EMIS profiles, 
estimated to cost up to  an aggregate amount of $150,000 equivalent, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of 
the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Single Source Selection
Services of public universities, teachers training colleges and planning and 
research institutes, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
Page  24
-
23
-
4
.
Individual Consultants
(a) 
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines, including tasks under the FSQL 
Grants or the Innovative Grants, shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines; and 
(b)  
Services of professional staff of public universities, teachers training 
colleges and planning and research institutes may be selected on a sole-source basis in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.3 and 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, 
subject to prior approval of the Association. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association
of
the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to 
c
onsultants of any requests for proposals. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) shall 
have been approved by the Association.  
2. Prior 
Review
(
a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b) 
(i) With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, terms of reference and 
terms of employment of the consultants; and (ii) with respect to each contract for the 
employment of individual consultants to be selected on a sole source basis, the 
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the 
consultants, shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The 
contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. The 
provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to 
such contracts. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  25
-
24
-
Annex to Schedule 3 
NATIONAL COMPETITIVE BIDDING
I. 
Eligibility
1. 
The definition of “National Competitive Bidding” in Article 3, Section 2 of the 
Regulations is hereby revised to read “National Competitive Bidding” is a procurement 
process where it is envisaged that foreign entities would not be interested in participating. 
However foreign bidders are allowed to participate under National Competitive Bidding 
procedures without association with domestic firms.  
 
2. 
Article 10 of the Regulations relate to International Competitive Bidding 
procedures and, pursuant to Section 3.02 of the Development Credit Agreement, are 
superseded by the provisions of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank on January 1995 and revised in January and August 
1996, September 1997 and January 1999.  Therefore provisions in the Regulations 
relating to International Competitive Bidding shall not apply. 
 
3. 
Paragraph 2 of Article 10, as amended, shall not apply. 
 
4. 
The provisions of Article 23 of the Regulations are hereby clarified to mean that 
all pre-qualified bidders will be invited to bid. 
 
II. 
Bidding Documents
1. 
The following sub-paragraph shall be added to paragraph 3 of Article 24: 
 
“
If  bidders are invited to bid on the basis of post-qualification, then the bidding 
documents shall specify the post-qualification criteria, i.e. the minimum level of 
experience in similar contracts, technical capability and financial resources to effectively 
carry out the contract  as offered  in the bid.” 
 
2. 
The following sub-paragraph shall be added to paragraph 8 of Article 24: 
 
“
Bidding documents will also specify the relevant factors in addition to price to 
be considered in bid evaluation and the manner in which they will be applied for the 
purpose of determining the lowest evaluated bid. For goods and equipment, other factors 
which may be taken into consideration include, among others, costs of inland transport 
and insurance to the specified site, payment schedule, delivery time, operating costs, 
efficiency and compatibility of the equipment, availability of service and spare parts, and 
related  training, safety, and environmental benefits. The factors other than price to be 
used for determining the lowest evaluated bid will, to the extent practicable, be expressed 
in monetary terms.”  
Page  26
-
25
-
III. 
Advertising
1. 
The second sentence of the first paragraph of the Article 4 of the Regulations is 
hereby modified to read that “
Procuring entity shall advertise Invitation for Bids for 
participation at least 10 days before issuing bidding documents in a newspaper of 
national circulation. Advertising should indicate that fore
ign bidders are eligible.” 
The 
first and third sentences of this paragraph remain valid.  
 
IV. 
Time for Bid Preparation
1. 
The first paragraph of the Article 12 is hereby modified to read that 
“time 
allowed for bid preparation shall be at least 30 days for National Competitive Bidding 
from the availability of the bidding documents.” 
 
V. 
Bid Opening
1. 
The first paragraph of the Article 13 is hereby modified to read that 
“Bids shall 
be opened immediately or promptly  after the deadline for submission of bids, as 
specified in the Invitation for Bids.” 
 
2. 
The following sub-paragraph shall be added to the first paragraph of the Article 
13: 
 
“All bids shall be opened at the same time. Bids received after the time stipulated in the 
Invitation for Bids as well as those not opened and read out at the bid opening including 
any discounts, shall not be considered.” 
 
VI. 
Bid Evaluation
1. 
In lieu of the provisions of Articles 13, 29, 30, 31, 40, 41 and 55 of the 
Regulations, bid evaluation shall be carried out in accordance with the following 
provisions: 
 
“(a)  The purpose of bid evaluation is to determine the cost to the Borrower of 
each bid in a manner that permits a comparison on the basis of their evaluated cost.  
 
(b)  If bidders have been invited to bid on the basis of having been pre-qualified, 
then the bid with the lowest evaluated cost shall be selected for award.  
 
(c)  If bidders have been invited to bid on the basis of post-qualification, then the 
Borrower shall determine whether the bidder whose bid has been determined to offer the 
lowest evaluated cost has the capability and resources to effectively carry out the 
contract as offered in the bid. The minimum criteria to be met shall be set forth in the 
bidding documents, and if the bidder does not meet them, the bid shall be rejected. In 
such case the Borrower shall make a similar determination for the next lowest evaluated 
Page  27
-
26
-
bidder. Bidders’ technical and financial capacity shall be judged separately from the 
evaluation of bids and shall be conducted exclusively under a pass/fail basis. Experience, 
technical and financial capacity of the bidder to execute the contract shall not be 
considered for purposes of comparison of bids. 
 
(d) The Borrower shall ascertain whether the bids: (i) have been properly 
signed; (ii) are accompanied by the required securities as specified in the bidding 
documents; (iii) are substantially responsive to the bidding documents; and (iv) are 
otherwise generally in order.  If a bid is not substantially responsive, that is, it contains 
material deviations from or reservations to the terms, conditions, and specifications in 
the bidding documents, it shall not be considered further. The bidder shall not be 
permitted to correct or withdraw material deviations or reservations once bids have been 
opened. 
 
(e)  In the comparison of bids among bidders, no domestic or regional 
preferences to bidders shall apply and bids shall be compared on delivered price 
inclusive of any prevailing duties. 
 
(f)  The bid price and any discounts read out at the bid opening shall be adjusted 
to correct any arithmetical errors.  
 
(g)  Under works contracts, Contractors are responsible for all duties, taxes, and 
other levies, and bidders shall take these factors into account in preparing their bids. The 
evaluation and comparison of bids shall be on this basis. Bid evaluation for works shall 
be strictly in monetary terms. If time is a critical factor, the value of early completion to 
the Borrower may be taken into account according to criteria presented in the bidding 
documents, only if the conditions of contract provide for  commensurate penalties for 
noncompliance. 
 
(h)  Award of the contract shall be to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder. 
Price negotiation with bidders shall not be  undertaken before award except as provided 
for below. 
 
(i)  Bids may not be rejected for the sole purpose of obtaining lower prices. All 
bids shall not be rejected and new bids invited on the same specifications solely for the 
purposes of obtaining lower prices, except in cases where the lowest evaluated bid 
exceeds the cost estimates by a substantial amount. In such cases  the Borrower may, as 
an alternative to re-bidding, negotiate with the lowest evaluated bidder to try to obtain a 
satisfactory contract, and failing a satisfactory response, with the next lowest evaluated 
bidder. Rejection of all bids may be permissible when bids are not substantially 
responsive or there is lack of effective competition.  
 
(j)  A bid evaluation report shall be prepared by the Borrower's department or 
agency requesting the bids setting out a record of all bids submitted, the reasons for 
disqualification of any bids, the criteria, weighting and evaluation of all responsive bids, 
Page  28
-
27
-
the recommended award, and, if the recommended award is to other than the lowest price 
bidder, the reasons therefore.” 
 
VII. 
Award of Contract
1. 
Article 31 and Article 42 are hereby modified to read as follow: 
 
“Eligible bidder having bid substantially responsive to the bidding documents and 
determined as lowest evaluated shall be recommended for award provided that the bidder 
has been determined to be qualified in accordance with pre-qualification or post-
qualification criteria.”
 
VIII  
Bid Security
1. 
Article 28 3(c) shall not apply. 
 
2. 
The following sub-paragraph shall be added to paragraph 2 of Article 28: 
 
“
Bid Security shall be valid 30 days longer than bid validity
.”
IX 
Procurement of Smaller Contracts
Chapter V is not applicable
.
X. 
Right to Inspect and Audit
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Credit shall provide that the 
suppliers and contractors shall permit the Association, at its request, to inspect their 
accounts and records relating to the performance of the contract and to have said accounts 
and records audited by auditors appointed by the Association. 
 
Page  29
-
28
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
Project Management
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain the inter-ministerial steering committee with 
representation from relevant ministries and central agencies, responsible for ensuring that 
Project activities are coordinated with other national initiatives in respect of universal 
education and of educationally disadvantaged children. 
2. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
establish and, thereafter throughout the period of Project implementation, 
maintain a Project Coordinating Unit within the Primary Education Department of its 
Ministry of Education and Training, to be responsible for overall direction, management, 
coordination, monitoring and evaluation of Project activities; said Unit to be under the 
direction of experienced managers, provided with sufficient resources, and staffed with 
competent personnel in adequate numbers, including without limitation, a Project director 
assisted by a Project advisor, a finance officer, an accountant, an administrative officer 
and a procurement officer assisted by a procurement advisor, five institutional 
strengthening teams in the areas of planning, instructional improvement, materials 
procurement, construction management, and community participation and vulnerable 
children, and three task forces on FSQL, vulnerable children and disabled children; all 
under terms of reference acceptable to the Association; 
 
(b) 
cause each Project Province to establish and, thereafter throughout the 
period of Project implementation, maintain a Provincial Project Coordination Unit within 
the provincial Department of Education and Training, to be responsible for the 
management of Project activities within said Province, including supervising the program 
of school infrastructure upgrading; undertaking large-scale procurement of textbooks and 
other instructional materials; supporting training programs in planning, teacher 
professional development and community participation; monitoring and evaluating the 
implementation of district-level fundamental school quality level action plans and quality 
improvement at the district level; and facilitating liaison between the Project Districts and 
the central Project Coordinating Unit; said PPCU to be under the direction of experienced 
managers, provided with sufficient resources, and staffed with competent personnel in 
adequate numbers, including a provincial procurement coordinator and an accountant, all 
under terms of reference acceptable to the Association; and 
(c) 
cause each Project District to establish and, thereafter throughout the 
period of Project implementation, maintain a District Management Unit within the 
District Bureau of Education and Training, to manage the implementation of Project 
activities within said District, including undertaking audits of schools to evaluate their 
status in respect of the fundamental school quality level; developing a district-wide 
Page  30
-
29
-
fundamental school quality level action plan; organizing training programs for teacher 
professional development; undertaking small-scale procurement; mobiliz
ing parents’ 
associations at satellite campuses; and supervising the implementation of the district 
FSQL activities in schools; said DMU to be under the direction of qualified managers, 
provided with sufficient resources, and staffed with competent personnel in adequate 
numbers, including a community development specialist, a planning coordinator and an 
accountant, all under terms of reference acceptable to the Association. 
3. 
The Borrower shall cause the PCU, by no later than December 1, 2003, to engage 
the services of a Project advisor with qualifications, international experience and under 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, to assist the Project director in (a) the 
establishment and operation of the five institutional strengthening teams and the three 
task forces within the PCU, and (b) the coordination between the PCU on the one hand 
and, on the other hand, the PPCUs and the DMUs. 
4. 
The Borrower shall cause the PCU to engage the services of a procurement 
advisor with qualifications, international experience and under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association, to assist the procurement officer of the PCU to provide 
guidance and training to PPCUs in the procurement of goods and services for the Project 
activities within their respective Provinces. 
5. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
prepare and adopt a financial management manual satisfactory to the 
Association, to serve as reference and training manual to project staff at all levels who are 
responsible for the financial management aspects of the Project or any part thereof; said 
manual shall set forth, inter alia, the organizational structure and responsibilities in regard 
to financial management, fund flow arrangements, staffing and training requirements, 
financial accounting systems, internal control mechanisms, financial reporting 
requirements and procedures, auditing arrangements, and samples and forms; and 
(b) 
provide training in the application of: (i) the financial management 
manual, and (ii) a financial management system software acceptable to the Association, 
to the accounting staff of the PCU and of all PPCUs and DMUs, in a manner satisfactory 
to the Association.  
Project Implementation
6. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
carry out, and shall cause to be carried out, the Indigenous Peoples 
Action Plan in a manner satisfactory to the Association, to ensure that the language 
strategy, resource allocation and formulation of fundamental school quality level action 
plans in the primary schools in the Project Provinces adequately address the needs, 
cultural practices and preferences of ethnic minority groups and their children; and 
Page  31
-
30
-
(b) 
shall not amend, waive or modify the provisions of said Plan without the 
prior concurrence of the Association. 
7. 
For purposes of Parts A.2 and A.4 of the Project, the Borrower shall provide 
grants, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association, to Project Districts to 
support the implementation of their respective district-wide FSQL action plans and, 
through the Campus Support Fund grants, to mobilize parent
s’ associations at eligible 
schools in support of universal primary education goals.  To this end, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare and adopt an FSQL Grants Operational Manual satisfactory to 
the Association, setting forth: (i) the consultative process necessary for the formulation of 
the district-wide FSQL action plans; (ii) the eligibility criteria of schools within a Project 
District for said FSQL Grants; (iii) within the FSQL Grant program, the purpose and 
structure of the program for Campus Support Fund Grants; the eligibility criteria of 
satellite campuses within a Project District for said Campus Support Fund Grants; and the 
administrative responsibility of parents’ associations at the relevant satellite campuses  in 
regard to such Campus Support Fund Grants; (iv) the application and review procedures 
for said FSQL Grants and Campus Support Fund Grants; (v) procurement procedures 
under such Grants consistent with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; (vi) 
form of FSQL contracts between each provincial Department of Education and Training 
and the respective district Bureaus of Education and Training in respect of the FSQL 
Grants for such Districts; (vii) the flow of funds under said Grants; and (viii) the 
monitoring and evaluation process to measure the impacts of said Grants;  
(b) 
implement, and cause the Project Provinces, to implement Parts A.2 and 
A.4 of the Project in accordance with the provisions of said FSQL Grants Operational 
Manual; and 
(c) 
not amend or revise the provisions of said Manual without the prior 
concurrence of the Association. 
8. 
The Borrower shall not provide financing to any Project Province until said 
Project Province has established its respective Provincial Project Coordination Unit in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2(b) of this Schedule. 
9. 
The Borrower shall not provide financing to any Project District under the FSQL 
Grant program, including any Campus Support Fund Grants, unless: 
 
(a) 
said Project District has established its respective District Management 
Unit in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 (c) of this Schedule;  
 
(b) 
said Project District has prepared a district-wide FSQL action plan 
satisfactory to the relevant Project Province, the Borrower and the Association;  
Page  32
-
31
-
(c) 
the respective Provincial Department of Education and Training and 
District Bureau of Education and Training have entered into an FSQL contract 
satisfactory to the Association for the implementation of said Project District’s district-
wide FSQL action plan; such FSQL contract to provide that the Project District 
undertakes, inter alia: (i) to carry out, and cause to be carried out, its FSQL action plan 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial and education practices, and sound social and environment standards; (ii) to use 
the proceeds of the FSQL Grants only for the purpose of implementing at the eligible 
schools the FSQL action plan as approved by the Provincial Department of Education 
and Training, the Borrower and the Association; (iii) to procure goods, works and 
services to be financed from the proceeds of such FSQL Grants in accordance with the 
FSQL Grants Operational Manual and the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
and (iv) to make the proceeds of any Campus Support Fund Grant available to a satellite 
campus only after the execution of a memorandum of understanding between said Project 
District’s Bureau of Education and Training and the relevant school regarding the 
participation of the school’s parents’ association in the administration of such Grant and 
the application of its proceeds for the purpose of improving the activities of such satellite 
campus and supporting the participation of more disadvantaged children; and  
 
(d) 
the relevant Provincial Department of Education and Training 
undertakes: (i) to exercise its rights under such FSQL contract in such manner as to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit and to protect the interests of the Project Province, 
the Borrower and the Association; and (ii) except as the Association may otherwise 
agree, not to amend, waive or abrogate such FSQL contract or any provision thereof.  
10. 
For purposes of Part B.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall provide grants to 
eligible entities, including government agencies and non-governmental organizations, to 
support the implementation of innovative concepts for improving the delivery of 
educational services to children who are at risk educationally.  To this end, the Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare and, by no later than December 31, 2003, adopt an Innovation 
Grants Operational Manual satisfactory to the Association, setting forth: (i) the eligibility 
criteria for Innovation Grants; and (ii) the guidelines and procedures for the 
administration of said Grants; and 
 
(b) 
implement Part B.2 of the Project and administer the Innovation Grants 
in accordance with the provisions of said Manual, and shall not amend the provisions of 
said Manual without the prior concurrence of the Association. 
11. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain its policy of exempting children attending the beneficiary 
schools under the Project from all school fees and charges, and monitor the 
implementation of said policy by the Project Provinces and Project Districts; and  
Page  33
-
32
-
(b) 
undertake a study on approaches designed to eliminate the financial 
burden of education for poor families, and by no later than December 31, 2005 provide 
the results of such study to the Association for its review and comments.  
12. 
By no later than November 30 of each year, commencing in 2004, the Borrower 
shall provide to the Association for its review and comments, an annual work program, 
incorporating the annual work programs submitted by the Project Districts as part of their 
respective FSQL action plans, including budget therefor, for the subsequent calendar 
year, and thereafter, implement said work program in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association.  
Monitoring and Reporting
13. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about May 31 and November 30 of each year, 
commencing on May 31, 2004, a semi-annual report, integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of this 
paragraph 13, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
preceding semesters ending March 31 and, in the case of the report to be furnished on 
November 30 during the preceding twelve months starting October 1 and ending 
September 30, and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following the date of each such report;  
(c) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association on or about November 30, 2006 a mid-term report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-
paragraph (a) of this paragraph 13, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report, and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(d) 
Promptly, but not later than 30 days after the date of the report, review 
with the Association, each such report referred to in sub-paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
paragraph 13 and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
Page  34
-
33
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;  
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equal to  $7,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equal to $4,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR36,000,000.   
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
Page  35
-
34
-
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
Page  36
-
35
-
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.
 
Page  37
-
36
-
