                                Document of
                         The World Bank




                                              Report No: ICR00001564



     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                   (IDA-37520 TF-51873)

                                  ON A

                                CREDIT

             IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 101.4 MILLION


                (US$138.76 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                 TO THE

                SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

                                 FOR A

PRIMARY EDUCATION FOR DISADVANTAGED CHILDREN PROJECT




                           June 29, 2011




Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective June 2011)

                   Currency Unit = Viet Nam Dong (VND)
                         1.00 VND = US$0.000048
                        US$ 1.00 = 20,713.62 VND

                           FISCAL YEAR
                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AusAID   Australian Agency for International Development
BoET     Bureaus of Education and Training
CIDA     Canadian International Development Agency
CPRGS    Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy
CSF      Campus Support Fund
DCDS     District Community Development Specialist
DEE      Department of Ethnic Education of the MOET
DFA      District FSQLAudit
DFID     Department for International Development
DoET     Departments of Education and Training
DPF      Department of Planning and Finance of the MOET
ECEDC    Early Childhood Education for Disadvantaged Children Project
         (proposed)
EFA      Education for All
EIESI    Exemplary Inclusive Education Services Initiative
EMIS     Education Management Information System
EC       European Commission
FII      FSQL Input Index
FMS      Financial Management System
FSQL     Fundamental School Quality Level
IE       Inclusive Education
IPAP     Indigenous Peoples’ Action Plan
IST      Institutional Strengthening Team
IT       InformationTechnology
JICA     Japan International Cooperation Agency
MDG      Millenium Development Agency
MDTF     Multi-Donor Trust Fund
MOET     Ministry of Education and Training
MOH      Ministry of Health
MPI      Ministry of Planning and Investment
MTR      Mid-Term Review
NGO      Non Governmental Agency
NORAD    Norwegian Agency for Development
NTP-E    National Targeted Program for Education
ODA      Official Development Assistance
PC       Peoples’ Committee
PCU      Project Coordination Unit
PED       Primary Education Department of the MOET
PEDC      Primary Education for Disadvantaged Children
PEP       Primary Education Project
PIP       Project Implementation Plan
PMR       Project Management Report
PPCU      Provincial Project Coordination Unit
PTA       Parent-Teachers’ Associations
SCF       Save the Children Fund
SDP       School Development Plan
SEQAP     School Education Quality Assurance Project
SR        School Readiness Programs
TA        Teaching assistant
TBS-EFA   Total Budget Support for Education for All Project
TVET      Technical and Vocational Programs
UNICEF    United Nations Childrens’ Fund
UPE       Universal Primary Education
USAID     United States Agency for International Development
VLSS      Vietnam Living Standards Survey
VND       Viet Nam Dong



           Vice President:        James W. Adams
           Country Director:      Victoria Kwakwa
           Sector Director:       Emmanuel Y. Jimenez
           Sector Manager:        Eduardo Velez Bustillo
           Project Team Leader: Binh Thanh Vu
           ICR Primary Author: Suzana de Campos Abbott
                                           VIETNAM
                       Primary Education for Disadvantaged Children Project


                                                        CONTENTS
Data Sheet ............................................................................................................................ i
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 7
3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 17
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 23
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 24
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 27
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 29
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 30
Annex 2(a). Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 31
Annex 2(b): FSQL Indicators ........................................................................................... 41
Annex 3. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 43
Annex 4. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ....................................................... 45
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 50
Annex 6. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .......................... 52
Annex 7. Executive Summary .......................................................................................... 54
Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 63
Annex 9. Fundamental School Quality Level (FSQL) Standards.................................... 64
Annex 10. List of Project Provinces & Districts.............................................................. 65
MAP .................................................................................................................................. 66
                                        Data Sheet

A. Basic Information
                                                                          Primary Education for
Country:                Vietnam                 Project Name:             Disadvantaged Children
                                                                          Project
                                                                          IDA-37520,TF-
Project ID:             P044803                 L/C/TF Number(s):         51873,TF-52939,TF-
                                                                          93411
ICR Date:               06/29/2011              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          Socialist Republic of
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          Vietnam
Original Total
                        USD 138.8M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 151.4M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 133.8M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Education and Training
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 Department for International Development UK (DFID)
 Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
 Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA)
 Australian Agency for International Development

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       11/30/2000     Effectiveness:             10/10/2003        10/10/2003
Appraisal:            10/11/2002     Restructuring(s):                            12/28/2009
Approval:             05/06/2003     Mid-term Review:           12/31/2006        12/04/2006
                                     Closing:                   12/31/2009        12/31/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory




                                                i
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings           Borrower             Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory        Government:        Satisfactory
                                            Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Highly Satisfactory                    Satisfactory
                                            Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                                Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                      1                   1
Pre-primary education                                                  2                   2
Primary education                                                     97                  97


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for all                                                     33                  33
Other social development                                              17                  17
Rural services and infrastructure                                     17                  17
Social risk mitigation                                                33                  33

E. Bank Staff
       Positions                          At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            James W. Adams                       Jemal ud-din Kassum
Country Director:          Victoria Kwakwa                      Klaus Rohland
Sector Director            Emmanuel Y. Jimenez                  Emmanuel Y. Jimenez
Sector Manager:            Eduardo Velez Bustillo               Christopher J. Thomas
Project Team Leader:       Binh Thanh Vu                        Christopher J. Thomas
ICR Team Leader:           Binh Thanh Vu
ICR Primary Author:        Suzana N. de Campos Abbott


                                               ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the Project is to improve access to primary school and the quality of education
for disadvantaged girls and boys. Disadvantaged children are broadly defined as school-aged
children who are not enrolled or are at risk of not completing their primary education; children
who attend schools that do not meet fundamental quality standards; and disabled children or
children from other highly vulnerable groups, such as street children, migrant children or girls in
certain ethnic minority areas.
Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
N/A

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target   Formally            Actual Value
                                           Values (from      Revised             Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                              approval       Target             Completion or
                                            documents)       Values             Target Years
Indicator 1 : Increase in number of PEDC schools reaching FSQL.
Value                                    participating
quantitative or 54%                      school achieve   N/A                 68,3%
Qualitative)                             FSQL
Date achieved 11/30/2004                 06/05/2003       11/30/2006          11/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %        the PDO achieved
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Increase net enrollment rate
Value
quantitative or 81%                      96%              N/A                 98,7%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/30/1999                 06/05/2003       11/30/2006          12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %        the PDO achieved
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Improve primary student completion.
Value
quantitative or 72%                      86%              N/A                 94,1%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/30/1999                 06/05/2003       11/30/2006          12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %        the PDO achieved
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Reduce Grade 1 repetition rate.
Value
quantitative or 8%                       3%               N/A                 5,2%
Qualitative)

Date achieved 12/30/1999                   06/05/2003          11/30/2006     12/31/2010

                                                iii
                This indicator fell short of its target due to a new campaign launched by the
Comments
                MOET two years ago to address a problem where teachers apparently passed all
(incl. %
                of their students to higher grades. (primary repetition rates stood at 2% for
achievement)
                PEDC)
Indicator 5 :   Reduce dropout rate.
Value
quantitative or 12%                       4%                 N/A             2,5%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/30/1999                  06/05/2003         11/30/2006      12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %        The DPO achieved
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                              Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                 approval                       Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                               documents)                        Target Years
                Schools serving the most educationally disadvantaged children in the country are
Indicator 1 :
                better prepared for success
                                           189 of the most                   All systems for data
                                           educationally                     collection, analysis
Value                                      disadvantaged                     and planning are in
(quantitative   N/A                        districts plan for N/A            place and operative
or Qualitative)                            and achieve FSQL                  not only for PEDC
                                           in all schools and                districts but
                                           satellite campuses.               nationwide
Date achieved 12/30/1999                   06/05/2003          11/30/2006    12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %        the IO is overachieved
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Professional development provided to teachers, head teachers.
                                                                             63,680 teachers
                                                                             have received
                                                                             subject-based
                                           4,200 core school                 training. 95,000
Value
                59,000 teachers and head sites and almost                    teachers received 5
(quantitative                                                  N/A
                teachers in over           15,000 satellite                  days of training in
or Qualitative)
                                           sites                             Vietnamese
                                                                             Language
                                                                             Strengthening for
                                                                             Ethnic Minorities
Date achieved 12/30/1999                   06/05/2003          11/30/2006    12/31/2010

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


                                               iv
Indicator 3 :   Teaching assisttants hired and trained
                                                                             7,500 teaching
                                          Approximately
Value                                                                        assistants and 7,500
                                          15,000 teaching
(quantitative   N/A                                           N/A            Grade 1 teachers
                                          assistants hired
or Qualitative)                                                              trained
                                          and trained
Date achieved 11/30/2004                10/30/2003            11/30/2006     12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 : School infrastructure improved
                                                                             13,141 new
                                          At least 9,240                     classrooms were
                                          satellite campuses                 built at satellite
Value
                                          are rehabilitated                  campuses and 6,720
(quantitative   N/A                                            N/A
                                          with permanent                     classrooms were
or Qualitative)
                                          classrooms and                     renovated at both
                                          upgraded facilities,               satellite campuses
                                                                             and main schools
Date achieved 11/30/2004              06/05/2003         11/30/2006          12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 : School-community linkages are strengthened
                                                                             Parent Teacher
                                          School-community                   Associations have
Value                                     linkages are                       been established at
(quantitative   N/A                       strengthened in  N/A               all schools/satellite
or Qualitative)                           about 15,000                       campuses and
                                          school campuses.                   functioning in 99%
                                                                             of the locations
Date achieved 11/30/2004                 06/05/2003           11/30/2006     12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Textbooks provided to students and full set of training materials provided to
Indicator 6 :
                teachers
                                         Nearly 40,000
                                         satellite teachers
                                                                              259,062 teacher
                                         will have a full set
                                                                              textbooks, manuals
                                         of teaching
                                                                              or guides have been
                                         materials and
Value                                                                         provided to
                                         1,390,000 students
(quantitative   N/A                                           N/A             teachers, and
                                         Math and
or Qualitative)                                                               3,397,429
                                         Vietnamese
                                                                              textbooks were
                                         textbooks at the
                                                                              provided to
                                         start of each
                                                                              students.
                                         school year.


                                                v
Date achieved 11/30/2004                06/05/2003              11/30/2006      12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
        Date ISR
No.                            DO                              IP                Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                                 (USD millions)
  1    06/27/2003         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                       0.00
  2    12/3/2003          Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                       0.00
  3    06/15/2004         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                       4.00
  4    12/16/2004         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                       4.11
  5    06/09/2005         Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory                6.82
  6    01/09/2006         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                       8.13
  7    07/06/2006         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     12.12
  8    03/27/2007     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              26.63
  9    06/21/2007         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     30.84
 10    01/11/2008         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     46.87
 11    07/29/2008         Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory              66.27
 12    01/23/2009     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory              80.01
 13    06/18/2009         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     87.37
 14    01/08/2010         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                    111.55
 15    01/01/2011         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                    150.76

H. Restructuring (if any)

                  Board
                           ISR Rating at                Amount Disbursed         Reason for
  Restructuring  Approved
                           Restructuring                at Restructuring in restructuring & key
     Date(s)    DPO Change
                                                           USD millions        changes made
                            DO       IP
                                                                                  Closing Date
   12/28/2009                       S       S                 109.84             Extension and
                                                                               Partial Cancellation




                                                vi
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vii
viii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
At the time of Appraisal of the Primary Education for Disadvantaged Children Project (the PEDC, the
Project), Vietnam had made excellent progress in the development of its education system. In the
previous ten years, it had met ambitious targets set through its Education for All (EFA) program, raising
net enrollment rates at the primary level from about 80-86% in 1990/91 to nearly 94% in 1999/2000. It
had also shown good improvement in a number of its internal efficiency indicators, such as repetition
and dropout rates.
Despite this progress, Vietnam continued to face important challenges in its education system.
Approximately 7% of the primary school aged population had never attended school and many more
dropped out before completing primary. A large number of minority children repeated grades or were
unable to pass the entry exam for lower secondary, reflecting a lower than acceptable level of academic
performance for these children. There were major differences between progress in urban areas and in
rural and remote areas. The national criteria for universal primary education (UPE) was such that only
70% of 14 year-old students were required to have completed primary education in the most
disadvantaged areas, compared to the more than 80% required in advantaged areas. Many of the
children in the most disadvantaged areas were provided a shorter primary school curriculum over a five-
year period. The situation was complicated by a financing system that did not fully acknowledge the
needs of disadvantaged children: annual per pupil expenditure on education for children in Hanoi was
more than twice as high as expenditure for children in the poor province of Soc Trang. Per capita
expenditures for children in the wealthiest income quintile were two and one half times the expenditures
for children in the poorest income quintile. Finally, a reliance on user charges favored children of richer
households.
The Government of Vietnam had acknowledged and made a commitment to universal, high quality basic
education for all in its education law, poverty alleviation programs, 2010 Education Strategy, and
Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy. The Government had set, and largely achieved,
a target of allocating 20% of the national budget to education, and had channeled significant funds from
the education budget to nationally targeted programs in poor areas. The National Targeted Program on
Education (NTP-E), one of eleven National Targeted Programs 1 , was intended to support the
achievement of Vietnam’s 2010 Education Strategy and its EFA goals and targets for improved access,
quality and efficiency in education services. Support for the education of ethnic minorities and in
disadvantaged regions was one of the subcomponents (Subcomponent 5) of the NTP-E. Yet, a serious
financing gap still existed in disadvantaged areas, and there was an identified need to meet the physical,
instructional material and training needs in more than 4,000 schools and 14,000 teaching sites that were
below basic standards and received little or no investment support. While the country had met its initial
UPE goals of 80% net enrollment in 90% of communes, two large challenges remained: the problems of
reaching outstanding communes and the un-reached children needed to be addressed, and the educational
quality of the overall system needed improvement to allow it to progressively approach and ultimately
meet national and international quality standards. At the ten-year review of its EFA program, Vietnam
recognized that there were still many children left behind by the primary system, and that failing to
educate all children and failing to educate them to an adequate level of quality would put the
Government’s plans for UPE, economic growth and poverty reduction at risk.



1
  National Targeted Programs are a state budget facility that provide sector-specific frameworks for planning and
implementing strategic interventions, and act as focus points to attract community participation and NGO and
official donor contributions.



                                                       1
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The objective of the PEDC was to improve access to primary school and the quality of education for
disadvantaged girls and boys. Disadvantaged children were broadly defined as school-aged children
who were not enrolled or were at risk of not completing primary education; children who attended
schools that did not meet fundamental quality standards; and disabled children or children from other
highly vulnerable groups, such as street children, migrant children or girls in certain ethnic minority
areas.
The majority of PEDC resources were to be targeted to 189 districts, where approximately 70% of
Vietnam’s educationally disadvantaged children resided. In those districts, by the end of the Project
(originally estimated for 2009), the following targets were to be met:
    o   4,272 core primary school sites and 14,902 satellite sites would have achieved “fundamental
        school quality level? (FSQL);
    o   Primary net enrollment would have improved from 81% in 1999 to 96%;
    o   Primary student completion (as measured by the G5/G1 ratio) would have increased from 72%
        in 1999 to 86%;
    o   Primary repetition would have fallen from 8% in 1999 to less than 3%;
    o   Primary school dropout would have been reduced from 12% in 1999 to less than 4%; and
    o   Student achievement, as measured by Grade 5 tests in Mathematics and Vietnamese, would
        show an upward trend.
In addition, by project completion:
    o   National guidelines would have been developed and applied effectively to provide education to
        children with disabilities and highly vulnerable children, and for using FSQL as a first step in
        achieving national standards;
    o   The number of children with disabilities in school would have increased;
    o   Children with disabilities, street children, minority girls and other very high risk groups of
        children throughout the country would have benefited from expanded and innovative approaches
        to education service delivery; and
    o   MOET, and participating DoETs and BoETs, would have regularly demonstrated strengthened
        capacity to identify, plan for, support, and monitor the needs of educationally disadvantaged
        children.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
The Project’s Development Objectives were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The Project’s target population comprised two groups of disadvantaged children:
    o   Primary school-aged children from the 189 most educationally disadvantaged districts; and
    o   Disabled children of primary school age and other highly vulnerable groups, such as street and
        working children, children living in fishing communities, etc.
The disadvantaged children targeted by the Project included those who still did not have access to
primary education or who were at risk of receiving an inadequate primary education, including: (a)
school aged children who did not attend primary school; (b) children at school who were at risk of
repeating or dropping out; and (c) children at school who were not able to achieve the level of learning to
ensure a solid foundation of basic skills and to successfully access secondary education. The absolute
number of children in these categories was estimated to exceed two million, and possibly even three
million.



                                                    2
Approximately 70% of economically disadvantaged children lived in the 189 districts included under the
Project (out of 615 total districts in Vietnam). The 189 districts were in remote or underdeveloped
regions, and comprised: (a) a total of 2.7 million students, or 27% of all students in Vietnam; (b) one
million ethnic minority students; (c) 1.1 million poor students; and (d) 1.2 million students enrolled in
satellite sites or multi-grade classes.
In addition, the Project’s beneficiaries were to include disabled school-aged children (there were an
estimated one million in Vietnam, over 70% of which did not have access to school), and children who
lived in difficult social conditions, such as street children, working children, children of migrants,
children from fishing communities, girls from certain ethnic minority groups, and those from broken
homes, all of which were considered less likely to access, participate and perform well in primary school.
The Project was also expected to yield significant long-term benefits to the education system as a whole,
including: (a) the adoption of a minimum service standard that, together with periodic evaluations of
learning achievement, could serve as a measure of educational progress for all campuses across the
nation; (b) the development of national guidelines for targeting resources and delivering services to
disabled and other vulnerable children; and (c) community-based and decentralized implementation.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
The Project comprised four components, as described below.
Component 1: Achieving Fundamental School Quality Levels (FSQL) (US$227.73 million)
This component sought to raise all schools in the 189 most disadvantaged targeted districts to a
fundamental school quality level through a two-pronged approach: (a) by providing necessary support to
district administration to improve planning, management and monitoring capabilities, in order to develop
and implement plans to meet FSQL standards; and (b) by enhancing school capacity to provide effective
instruction at poorly resources satellite campuses, meeting the specific needs of educationally
disadvantaged children and supporting other efforts to meet FSQL standards in those classrooms.
Sub-Component 1.1: FSQL District Management (US$7.07 million) supported the institutional capacity
of targeted districts (BoET) to plan and manage educational services and support schools and their
satellites to reach FSQL standards by: (a) strengthening district school data collection systems
(including an initial physical inventory of all schools and satellite campuses to guide planning for civil
works and requirements for classroom inputs) and implement a monitoring and evaluation system to
assess progress towards FSQL goals and educational outcomes; and (b) support the development of a
consultative annual district-wide FSQL action plan that outlines the requirements for all schools in the
district to reach fundamental quality levels and serves as a tool for planning and school-support purposes.
Sub-Component 1.2: Instructional Improvement and Teacher Support for FSQL (US$44.24 million)
provided targeted districts with FSQL grants to implement their district-wide FSQL action plan. Grants
to districts would be made by provinces on a contract basis, and managed according to guidelines that
were specified in the Project’s Operations Manual. Within the district, resources would only be provided
to teaching sites that were below FSQL standards, most of which were satellite campuses. These
interventions strived to address and meet the pedagogical needs of disadvantaged children. Funds could
be allocated to support the procurement or provision of a variety of interventions, according to
specifications laid out in their district-wide FSQL plan, including: (a) teacher guides, materials and
training modules that would encourage and support instructional methods adapted to the needs of
educationally disadvantaged children, such as Vietnamese language strengthening, multi-grade education
or mainstreaming of disabled children; (b) professional development workshops to support teachers in
acquiring new methodologies to address the pedagogical needs of educationally disadvantaged children,
as well as satellite teacher certification upgrading to the minimum 9+3 FSQL standard for classroom
instruction; (c) a basic package of teaching-learning materials; (d) establishment of community-based
pre-primary school readiness language development programs to strengthen children’s Vietnamese
competency levels in locations with a significant proportion of ethnic minorities; and (e) placement of


                                                    3
local community lower-secondary graduates as teaching assistants to support classroom instructors in
satellite sites to provide more individualized attention to children with special needs (initially, on a pilot
basis).
Sub-Component 1.3: Infrastructure Development for FSQL (US$163.61 million) sought to improve the
physical environment for learning in school satellites serving disadvantaged children. The Project was to
upgrade the infrastructure in an estimated 8,500 existing schools sites, providing for construction of
classrooms plus an office, water points and latrines. Standard building designs were to accommodate the
needs of handicapped children.
Sub-Component 1.4: Community Participation and Student Support for FSQL and Universal Primary
Education (US$12.81 million) sought to strengthen parents’ associations at satellite campus locations to
advocate for universal primary education goals as well as to support and monitor FSQL standards. With
the assistance of a District Community Development Specialist (DCDS), parents would be mobilized
and trained to manage a Campus Support Fund (CSF, budgeted and accounted for through the District
FSQL grant, but managed at the school level) that could be allocated to a variety of activities, such as
school feeding programs, extracurricular activities that promote participation of under-represented
groups or remedial education classes. This activity was to be piloted in the 800 schools and satellite
campuses in the worst off districts for two years and then expanded if successful.
Component 2: Education Initiatives for Highly Vulnerable Children (US$4.15 million)
This Component sought to address the needs of children at high risk through two streams of
interventions that addressed the education needs of: (a) disabled children; and (b) vulnerable groups,
such as street and working children, children living in fishing communities, and others.
Sub-Component 2.1: Inclusive Education for Disabled Children (US$2.26 million) was designed to
support a national Task Force to develop an integrated set of national guidelines for inclusive education
that ensured disabled children could gain access to educational services and to improve teachers’
pedagogical capacity to meet the needs of children with disabilities in the classroom. Activities
included: (a) development of a comprehensive set of national guidelines addressing the needs and
constraints faced by primary schools attempting to adopt an inclusive education policy, including
recommendations of an organizational structure to support the needs of disabled students; (b)
implementation of a survey and research that scoped the dimension and variation of the educational
issues faced by disabled children, profiled their educational needs, identified the barriers they faced in
completing primary education and recommended appropriate strategies and approaches for the provision
of inclusive primary educational services to them; (c) development of teacher guides and modules and
provision of training workshops for educators that could assist in the mainstreaming of children with
disabilities; (d) development of public awareness materials to mobilize parents to enroll disabled
children in their local primary school, if appropriate, and assist head teachers and district officers to
mobilize communities to provide a supportive environment for them; and (e) procurement of materials
and equipment to support disabled children, based on the recommendations of the Task Force on the
organizational structure and the result of the needs analyses.
Sub-Component 2.2: Reaching Street and Working Children and Other High-Risk Groups (US$1.89
million) was designed to support a national Task Force to develop and enabling environment for the
education of vulnerable groups and the implementation of innovative approaches to the education of
these groups, through provision of innovation grants for vulnerable groups, on a competitive basis, to
government agencies and NGOs that served at-risk children. Based on lessons from these grants,
recommendations and guidelines would be developed to improve educational services for highly
vulnerable children.




                                                      4
Component 3: National and Provincial Institutional and Technical Support for FSQL (US$8.17
million)
This Component sought to assist the MOET to lay down a pathway for reaching national school
standards using FSQL as a first step, proposing FSQL criteria and raising awareness at all levels of the
education system about how to bring every school up to FSQL levels.
Sub-Component 3.1: National Guidelines for FSQL (US$0.44 million) was designed to support a
National Quality Standards Task Force to develop and disseminate FSQL standards and guidelines for
implementation. The Task Force would periodically review and revise FSQL standards according to
evolving Government plans and actual progress towards meeting FSQL. As schools achieved FSQL, the
Task Force could recommend raising incrementally FSQL standards until they gradually approached
national standards.
Sub-Component 3.2: Institutional Strengthening (US$7.73 million) was designed to provide technical
assistance to support MOET and provincial Departments of Education and Training (DoETs) to develop
instruments and processes to achieve FSQL. Assistance would also be provided to MOET to bolster the
five institutional strengthening teams responsible for: (a) strengthening planning and monitoring of
educational quality—including harmonizing district-level school data collection efforts with the national
Education Management Information System (EMIS) and carrying out analytical studies to increase
sector wide effectiveness and efficiency; (b) supporting teacher development activities and back-
stopping of Vietnamese language strengthening programs for non-Vietnamese speakers; (c) procuring
and distributing educational goods and materials that would address the need of educationally
disadvantaged children; (d) monitoring and supervision of all civil works; and (e) mobilizing and
supporting community participation in education for highly vulnerable children. Technical assistance
was also to be provided to the DoETs to strengthen capacity for procurement and financial management
at that level.
The institutional strengthening teams were expected to play a coordinating role, generate new knowledge,
and provide overall leadership and direction in project implementation. However, most activities were
to be carried out by existing departments in the MOET, DoETs and district-level Bureaus of Education
and Training (BoETs). The teams’ role would include maintaining a focus on the innovations introduced
in the Project, including those related to gender, targeting resources to satellite schools, Vietnamese
language instruction, addressing the educational needs of minorities, and community participation.
Component 4: Project Management (US$3.62 million)
This Component was designed to support the establishment of a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) inside
the MOET, attached to the Primary Education Department (PED). The PCU would be staffed with
members from various departments of the MOET, domestic and international consultants, and would
support MOET line agencies, the institutional strengthening teams (Component 3) and the National Task
Forces for Quality Standards, Disabled Children and Highly Vulnerable Children.

1.6 Revised Components
The Components were not revised, especially since the Project’s design was flexible, and encouraged
creativity at all levels as a means of achieving FSQL. During the Mid-Term Review (MTR) the Bank
agreed to the following:
    o   Development and implementation of School Development Plans (SDP), in addition to the
        contemplated district and consolidated provincial plans that had been contemplated since a need
        had been identified for a development/planning function at the school level;
    o   Completion of several activities such as data analysis, report writing and follow up analysis of
        findings of the Study in Grade 5 Student Achievement in Mathematics and Vietnamese Language




                                                   5
        in the 2006-2007 School Year that had been initiated under the Bank-financed Primary Teacher
        Development Project2.
    o   Development and implementation of the Exemplary Inclusive Education Services Initiative
        (EIESI), putting into practice a demonstrative element of the IE policy;
    o   The carrying out of several evaluations of initiatives that had been carried out under the Project;
    o   Integration of the Child Development Record with the District Financial Audit (DFA); and
    o   Consolidation of separate policies for IE and highly vulnerable children in a single policy
        document, strategy and national action plan for IE, including provision for highly vulnerable
        children.

The number of districts that benefited from the Project varied due to internal administrative changes that
resulted in an increased number of districts in the 40 provinces that were targeted and not from an
increase in the Project’s scope.

1.7 Other significant changes
As planned during Appraisal, the Project was co-financed by US$51.5 million equivalent Multi-Donor
Trust Fund (MDTF) (TF051873) dated July 14, 2003 between Vietnam and IDA, acting as
Administrator of grant funds provided by the Governments of Australia (A$1,485,000), Canada
(C$14,355,000), the Kingdom of Norway (NOK113,800,000)3 and the United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland (£24,700,000). A reallocation of funds from the MDTF was approved in June 2008,
and the MDTF was amended in May 2009 to reflect a smaller than originally expected contribution from
Norway and the addition of the income accrued to such contribution from time to time. The full
financial contribution amounted to US$70.35 million equivalent. The MDTF closed on December 31,
2009.
The IDA Credit Agreement was amended in May 2009 to reflect a change in the disbursement
percentage for works and remove the limitation of the aggregate amount for procurement for small
works by obtaining three quotations. The change in disbursement percentage allowed the Bank to
disburse 100 percent against selected civil works contracts while others would be financed 100 percent
under the Government’s ongoing School Concretization Program, thereby facilitating disbursements.
Finally, in December 2009, a third order project restructuring was approved to extend the Credit’s
Closing Date by one year to December 31, 2010, to reallocate part of the proceeds across expenditure
categories under the Credits, and to cancel a portion of the Credit (US$5 million, or SDR 3,121,645
million equivalent). The restructuring reduced the Project’s infrastructure component, allowing
initiatives to meet school building needs to be met through the Government’s School Concretization
Program. It also provided continued funding for selected activities financed under the MDTF, thereby
providing bridging mechanisms for the successful innovative interventions (e.g., FSQL Grants, including
the DFA, training programs for community participation, small amounts for instructional materials,
school consumables, in-service teacher training, Teaching Assistants (TA) and Inclusive Education (IE))
to be fully integrated into the Government’s systems. In addition, an undisbursed amount of US$43,219
was cancelled after the grace period for disbursements lapsed. Neither the Project’s design, nor the PDO
were modified.




2
 Primary Teacher Development Project, Project Appraisal Document No. 20276-VN dated 11/14/2001.
3
 The total contribution to PEDC from the Kingdom of Norway at the end was less than the original commitment of
approx. US$ 3 million equivalent due to their budget limitations.


                                                      6
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
Bank Engagement in Education. Beginning with the Primary Education Project (PEP) in 1993, the Bank
had adopted a comprehensive strategy of support for basic education through progressive engagement.
At the time of the Project’s approval, three education projects were under implementation, including the
PEP, the Higher Education Project and the Primary Teachers Development Project, a co-financed
operation that the Bank was leading. In addition, the Bank and other donors were building a cross-
sectoral knowledge base that aimed to help the Government achieve its goals for basic education,
including: (a) Government-Bank-Donor work on poverty reduction and development strategies; (b) a
Public Expenditure Review that served to bring insight to public finance issues in education; (c)
Government-Bank collaboration in assessment, curriculum, primary education development, and teacher
development that served to create a strong foundation on which to build EFA/basic education strategies;
and (d) Vietnam Living Standards Survey (VLSS)/LSMS and other surveys that would assist the MOET
to better target resources and monitor progress.
Alignment with Government and Bank priorities. The Government had acknowledged and made a
commitment to universal, high quality basic education for all in several Government plans and strategies
described in Section 1.1, including its National EFA Action Plan, Socio-Economic Development
Strategy (SEDS) 2001-2010, Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy (CPRGS),
Education Development Strategic Plan 2001-2010 and targets for the Millennium Development Goals.
In all of these plans and strategies the Government recognized investment in primary education as the
means to develop the fundamental skills and competencies necessary for economic growth and social
development. The Government’s 1999 Education Law provided that all children, regardless of area of
residence, gender, socioeconomic background or ethnicity, were entitled to a full primary education.
The Project was also fully aligned with the then current Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal of
“making basic social services accessible and affordable for the poor?.
Lessons Learned. The Project’s design incorporated several lessons from extensive in-country
experience related to the pedagogical and language needs of ethnic minority, disadvantage and disabled
children under activities supported by donors as well as under the Ethnic Minority Education Component
of the PEP. These lessons influenced the Project’s focus on: (a) strengthening children’s readiness for
primary schooling; (b) supporting teachers in acquiring pedagogical skills suitable for instructional
environments in isolated areas; (c) enhancing teachers’ abilities to teach Vietnamese as a second
language; and (d) boosting community and parental participating in schooling. The Project’s school
building activities were designed to follow the prototype models and decentralized management
arrangements under the PEP and a Primary School Construction Project sponsored by the Japan
International Cooperation Agency (JICA). Other activities under the Project such as the method for
targeting resources and the community participation and CSF were designed to address specific issues
that had been identified under analytical work on Vietnam’s education sector that had identified a high
degree of inequity in resources spent on education across the country, and as a result, high variation in
student enrollment and achievement.
Participatory Process. The Project’s design benefitted from a stakeholder analysis carried out under the
PEP, incorporating views of primary teachers, head teachers, government officials, students, parents,
out-of-school students, and donors. A participatory beneficiary assessment carried out during
preparation was designed to provide input into the Project’s design, the choice of specific interventions
and implementation arrangements, to ensure that a pro-poor approach would be mainstreamed
throughout the preparation process. The design of the Project’s components, especially the CSF that
aimed to strengthen ties between the satellite campus and the local community, and stimulate parental
and community involvement, benefitted from inputs from the participatory beneficiary assessment.
Project Design. The Project was designed as a traditional investment project that provided incremental
finance to a new program. It was to be implemented by the MOET, the DoETs and BoETs, and through


                                                   7
a Project Coordination Unit established in MOET. It was ambitious in design, especially since it would
be implemented in and by 2274 of the most educationally disadvantaged districts in 40 provinces; in
most cases those with the most limited capacity. The Project’s design envisaged activities to develop
new programs and initiatives, and their subsequent implementation at the district/school level, but also
an important program of capacity building so that provinces, districts and schools could plan, implement
and monitor those activities appropriately, and promote institutional strengthening at all levels
throughout the process.
The Project introduced the concept of FSQL that defined minimum institutional capacity, instructional
materials and teacher support, physical infrastructure, and school-community linkages required to
maintain a healthy and productive learning environment. FSQL was designed to be an “achievable?
standard that schools in disadvantaged districts could aspire to achieve, as opposed to the national
standards that were often considered excessively ambitious given their capacity and realities. The
Project’s design also encouraged innovation, and the piloting of selected activities before eventual roll
out to all project districts. The CSF encouraged parent and community engagement, while ensuring that
funds would be allocated to particular schools’ and students’ needs. The CSF, and the TAs were
designed for piloting for two years, and only expanded to remaining districts, if they were proven to be
successful.
Risk Analysis. The Project’s risk analysis included an extensive list of factors that could come to affect
the achievement of its objectives and expected outputs. While recognizing several risks relating to
potential lack of institutional capacity to implement the Project at all levels, the risk analysis in
retrospect perhaps underestimated the risks that the Government’s complex procurement requirements
with respect to civil works would come to present a particular challenge with respect to keeping an
integrated project, that required concurrent delivery of an series of inputs, on schedule, and, also, that the
Project presupposed a decentralized planning model which required a different role for the MOET than
that it traditionally played. Likewise, the risk analysis may have underestimated the potential risk of
sustainability of the Government maintaining FSQL investments, especially since the financing provided
to provinces, districts and schools under the Project was incremental to that allocated to them under the
NTP-E

2.2 Implementation
The SDR 101.4 million Credit for the Project was approved by the Bank’s Board on May 6,
2003, and became effective on October 10, 2003. Its original December 31, 2009 Closing Date
was extended by one year. Overall, implementation proceeded well, and the Project was never
considered at-risk. The main factors that influenced its implementation are described below.
Project Management. The Project’s implementation arrangements counted on a separate PCU
set up in a separate geographical location from MOET and with a Director at the same level as
the Director of Primary Education (although the Project Appraisal Document had specified that
the PCU would be attached to the Primary Education Department). The PCU was to be staffed
with members from various departments of the MOET, in addition to national and international
consultants, and would support MOET line agencies, five institutional strengthening teams
(ISTs) 5 and national task forces for Quality Standards, Disabled Children and Highly


4
  The number of targeted provinces and districts was 38 and 189 but later becomes 40 and 227 respectively. This
was because some provinces and districts were divided administratively.
5
  The five ISTs were: (1) Strengthening planning and monitoring of educational quality—including harmonizing
district-level school data collection efforts with the EMIS and undertaking analytical studies to increase sector wide
effectiveness and efficiency; (2) Supporting teacher development activities and back-stopping of Vietnamese
language strengthening programs for non-Vietnamese speakers; (3) Procuring and distributing educational goods
and materials that will address the needs of educationally disadvantaged children; (4) Monitoring and supervision


                                                          8
Vulnerable Children. As it turned out, the arrangement created difficulties in the PCU’s
interactions with the established structure of the MOET that often led to delays in obtaining
routine approvals for activities such as training programs and materials. Ideally, the PCU would
have been within the Department of Primary Education, as envisaged, and played the
“coordination? role and each technical department of MOET would have led the sub-
component/activity that concerned their function, thereby ensuring greater capacity building and
sustainability. In addition, staffing of the PCU, including issues of professional capacity and
turnover affected the Project almost throughout its implementation.
Decentralization. Consistent with the Government’s decentralization agenda, PEDC was designed to
decentralize and shift decision making to local levels in the education system (notably districts, schools
and their satellite campuses). The PCU set up provincial PCUs (PPCUs) in the 40 target provinces,
usually in the same building and under the auspices of the DoETs that coordinated implementation
through the many district BoETs’ PCUs called District Management Units (DMUs). Although capacity
and expertise varied widely among the DoETs and BoETs, this aspect of the design was based on strong
evidence that such decentralized planning and service delivery would be far more effective in meeting
local needs than centralized strategies for allocating resources. The MOET and its line departments at
the central, provincial and district levels developed guidelines for reaching FSQL, providing necessary
technical support to districts to improve administrative planning and management—thus enhancing their
capacity to bring all schools up to acceptable educational levels and forge close linkages to their
communities. The communities were to have active involvement, often for the first time, through
working with District Community Development Specialists (DCDSs) to set up Parent Teacher
Associations (PTAs) and administering the CSF.
At the time of the Mid-Term Review (MTR), however, the majority of the Project’s innovations,
including this model of decentralization, were not being implemented fully as envisaged. Specifically:
(a) the central authorities were not devolving responsibility for planning and implementation to the local
level, and were trying to retain the power and decision-making; (b) authorities at the local level were not
being encouraged to act independently, and still asked for decisions to be made by the center; (c)
resources were not being provided to the local levels in a timely manner; (d) there were many redundant
approval procedures required, particularly prior reviews before implementation; (e) post review
procedures with timely feedback to local level authorities were not in place; and (f) assistance to
improve local skills and capacity was not being provided in a timely manner.
Infrastructure. The main difficulties encountered under the Project related to the “hard? components, in
particular school construction and procurement of school furniture. This was especially worrisome since
the construction sub-component focused on the replacement of temporary structures at existing sites with
solid, new classrooms, represented almost 70 percent of the Project and was critical towards the
achievement of FSQL, and consequently to the achievement of the Project’s objectives. Several factors
contributed to the issues with infrastructure starting from the Project’s design to operational issues in
implementation. While the Project’s decentralized implementation arrangements were supportive of the
Government’s commitment to decentralization, they involved trade-offs with respect to the infrastructure
sub-component. A key issue involved the use of Government procedures. While the Project provided for
direct contracting for infrastructure, the Government was reluctant to follow this procedure during the
first three years of implementation, and opted to use national competitive bidding procedures that
complied with both Government and Bank requirements—a process that delayed the contracting process
greatly. On top of this, contractors showed little interest in working in difficult to reach, isolated areas,
where their costs were often above a ceiling price that the Government had established for what they


of civil works; and (5) Mobilizing and supporting community participation in education for highly vulnerable
children. The ISTs were expected to play a coordinating role, generate new knowledge, and provide overall
leadership and direction in project implementation. However, most project activities were to be carried out by
existing departments in the MOET, DoETs and BoETs.


                                                      9
considered MOET’s strict design standards for small works. Further, the DoETs and BoETs were not
particularly experienced with construction management and required training for capacity building along
with technical and advisory support throughout the construction process.
The Construction Manual, completed almost two years after implementation began, revealed 24 steps
that had to be followed to contract school construction. According to the Government’s Construction
Law, three separate firms, and other individual consultants are required for each construction package to
carry out: (a) design; (b) building; and (c) supervision. Compliance with both the Government’s
Construction Regulations and the Bank’s Guidelines for contracting of consultants proved to be overly
complex and time-consuming, and many local architectural firms were simply not interested in
participating in the process, especially for small construction contracts for which Government
procurement procedures allowed direct contracting.
As a result, school construction progressed very slowly; at the time of the MTR in December 2006
(halfway through the Project’s originally planned implementation period), only 13 percent of the planned
satellite classrooms had been rehabilitated. The main obstacles identified at the time were: (a) the
approval processes were not in compliance with the Project’s original design and the Operational
Manual; (b) the long planning and approval processes required for preparing provincial construction
budget, appointing architectural and engineering consultants and producing economic and technical
reports; (c) the over-elaborate designs for the new facilities; (d) the imposition of one, often
inappropriate, construction method in every province; (e) the high unit cost of the construction of
facilities; and (f) the long rainy season that occurred in most parts of the country during which transport
of materials in the more remote areas and construction, particularly of foundations, was very difficult.
However, after the third year of implementation, the Government began following direct contracting
procedures, the Credit Agreement was amended in May 2009 to increase the aggregate ceiling of works
that could be contracted on this basis, and the Government took concrete steps to address issues that had
been delaying school construction. As a result, construction accelerated at the later years of the project
implementation.
In addition to delays in obtaining counterpart funding from the Government through MOET that created
bottlenecks for the funding of school construction, a major risk situation developed in 2007-2008. The
general instability in the Vietnamese economy (mirroring the instability in the global economy) and the
specific instability in the construction sector led to high fluctuations and inflation in the prices of inputs
for contracts that resulted in increased costs of materials and transportation and to a lesser extent labor
costs. As many contracts were short-term fixed price contracts without price adjustment clauses,
contractors reduced the pace of work or in some instances stopped work. For works still being
contracted, this uncertainty resulted in the contractors’ need to adjust prices. Two overall effects
resulted from this situation: (a) an approximate nine-month delay was incurred for construction
activities; and (b) though economic stability returned, the effects of inflation remained, so the cost of
construction increased significantly in local currency.
Counterpart Funding. Provision of counterpart funds was an issue especially in the early years of the
Project and caused delays especially for the infrastructure sub-component. The Government
subsequently addressed this issue, and fulfilled their commitment to provide adequate funds for
implementation. The Bank and the Government also agreed that it would be more efficient to separate
the two sources of funding for school construction, providing 100 percent IDA funding for some schools,
and for the Government to provide 100 percent funding by recognizing as counterpart PEDC schools
built and funded under the Government’s School Concretization Program. This was reflected in an
amendment to the Credit Agreement in December 2009. Counterpart contributions in kind, in terms of
completed schools built under the School Concretization Program, were to be included in the Project’s
financial statements.
Delays in Procurement. By the time of the MTR, there were delays in providing basic equipment,
furniture and basic teaching and learning resources, and implementing training programs. The delays for
equipment and materials procurement were the result of long lead times—often almost one year—


                                                     10
between the period of Bank clearance of bidding documents for contracts under International
Competitive Bidding and contract award by the PCU. They also reflected poor planning by the PCU,
long and cumbersome approval processes in the MOET, and on specific issues with certain contracts,
such as a issues with awarding a school furniture contract to the lowest evaluated bidder. Similarly,
progress with the Project’s Master Training Plan (covering eight training programs that directly and
indirectly improved the quality of teaching and learning) was delayed by the MTR, in part because the
PCU had expanded the training program beyond the scope of the Project’s design and objectives.
Delays in the approval and printing of training materials also resulted in delays in the implementation
training programs, particularly training in delivering child-centered and inclusive education; overcoming
barriers to learning and catering for children with special needs through use of the Child Development
Record; and acquiring educational management skills through use of the School Development Plan.
Mid-Term Review. The MTR in December, 2006 represented a “turning point? in the Project’s
implementation. While reconfirming the validity of the Project’s Development Objectives, Components
and basic design and acknowledging some successes, the MTR team was concerned about the
implementation progress of the PEDC Project. At the start of implementation, the managers and staff in
the PCU had no previous experience in working with the Bank, and required continuous, hands-on
support by the Bank’s team. The Bank’s MTR Supervision team realized that the Project was falling
behind its original schedule, and that the institutional model that was required for effective
implementation was not materializing. Some activities had expanded beyond the mandate of the Project
while other areas had received little attention and/or were subject to delays. Many opportunities had not
been seized, and Government decisions tended to be delayed by bureaucratic processes. During the
MTR, the team examined five areas: (a) implementing the training program; (b) accelerating
construction/infrastructure; (c) achieving decentralization; (d) achieving FSQL nationally; and (e)
improving project management to achieve the other four. On the positive side, by the time of the MTR
capacity had improved significantly in the PCU. In light of this, and of the issues facing implementation,
the MTR mission adopted a different approach to project supervision in order to reduce dependency on
the Bank and donors and build the Government’s ownership for project implementation. The MTR team
concluded that commenting on the processes and providing specific actions, suggestions, solutions and
recommendations was not as productive as setting targets that would be the responsibility of the MOET
as the executing agency and the PCU as the implementing agency to achieve. The team felt that the
PCU needed to assume leadership, take responsibility, focus on results and implement effectively and
efficiently those activities for which it had authority. The MTR developed ten clear, concrete and time-
bound targets to be met by March 31, 2007 in discussions with project management, PCU staff, the
MOET and donors. The Government provided very high level support at the MTR—the Deputy Prime
Minister and Minister of MOET attended the meetings—and not only supported the approach taken by
the MTR team, but requested continuous inputs from the PCU to ensure timely progress towards
accomplishing the agreed targets. Project supervision by the Bank took on a very defined, results-based
focus aimed to keep implementation on track, while clearly assigning responsibility for implementation
to the PCU and the Government.
Preparation of the Project. While the Project was designed to introduce FSQL in disadvantaged districts,
the Government’s Decision No. 48/2003/QD-BGD&DT dated 24/10/2003 by the Minister of MOET,
based on the version of FSQL in the PAD did not contain a procedure for determining whether schools
had achieved FSQL standards. To fill the void of having no procedure so as to ascertain whether schools
had achieved FSQL, the PCU with Bank agreement developed the FSQL Input Index (FII). The FII is a
group of items derived from the FSQL of Decision 48, some content in areas in National School
Standards, and a small number of related items. All items have a designated weight based on the
perceived importance of the item to describing quality standards at schools. Weights total to 100;
therefore the FII is “the metric out of a hundred?. Throughout implementation, the Government and the
Bank teams developed a system for measuring annual “achievement?, the District FSQL Audit (Section
2.3), and a school was considered to have reached FSQL if the FII totaled 60 points or more. At the
same time, during implementation, the concept of SDPs, whereby schools would analyze, on an annual



                                                   11
basis, their progress and present future needs and challenges, was introduced, thereby feeding into the
district FSQL plans and prioritizing project activities and resource flows.
Quality Assessment of Lending Portfolio. The Project was reviewed twice as part of the Quality
Assessment of Lending Portfolio (QALP) in starting in December 2008. After meetings and
communications exchanged with the Bank’s supervision team, the QALP rated the Likelihood of
Achieving DOs as Moderately Unlikely, the Quality of Design and Quality of Bank Supervision as
Moderately Unsatisfactory and the Quality of Implementation by the Borrower as Unsatisfactory.
While recommending areas in which to strengthen implementation and supervision, the QALP found the
Project’s strategy sound, its Development Objectives relevant and appropriate, its technical, economic,
and financial aspects well addressed in a clear results framework, with quantitative KPIs clearly stated,
good borrower commitment, a good institutional framework, a design sensitive to educational attainment
challenges of poor and disadvantaged children and made available necessary resources and
infrastructure, to bridge investment and achievement gaps. However, it also highlighted that the
Project’s design appeared too complex relative to the country's absorptive capacity, that it
underestimated difficulty of reaching ethnic minorities, disabled children, migrant and street children,
each of which required focused and dedicated strategy and plan of action, and found the estimates of risk
in the PAD as unduly optimistic. Unfortunately, the QALP assessment came at a time that the many
outputs relating to new policies, systems and initiatives designed, developed and disseminated under the
Project in its early phase had just been developed and finalized, and implementation based on those very
Project outputs was just beginning; hence, it may have been difficult at the time to see that the Project
would ultimately be successful in applying the policies, systems and initiatives that had by then been
developed (Section 3.4).

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
M&E Design. The PAD presented a very detailed results framework for the Project, with detailed
outcome/impact and output indicators by objective and components, respectively. Several sources were
to be used to monitor the Project’s progress towards expected outputs and outcomes, including the
Annual District FSQL Audits (DFA), for which capacity was to be developed under the Project’s sub-
components 1.1, FSQL District Management, and 3.1, National Guidelines for FSQL. Under sub-
component 1.1, BoETs in targeted districts were to be responsible for carrying out FSQL audits and
developing district FSQL plans. They were to receive support to: (a) strengthen district school data
collection systems (including an initial physical inventory of all schools and satellite campuses to guide
planning for civil works and requirements for classroom inputs) and implement a monitoring and
evaluation system to assess progress towards FSQL goals and educational outcomes; and (b) develop a
consultative annual district-wide FSQL action plan that outlined the requirements for all schools in their
district to reach fundamental quality levels and served as a tool for planning and school-support purposes.
The DoETs at the provincial level were to be responsible for monitoring and evaluation of FSQL
implementation and quality improvements at the district level. The PCU was to be responsible for
monitoring and evaluation of the Project’s progress overall. Under Sub-component 3.1, a National
Quality Standards Task Force was to develop and disseminate FSQL standards and guidelines for
implementation, and periodically review and revise standards according to evolving Government plans
and progress towards FSQL.
M&E Implementation. The IST for Planning and Monitoring of Educational Quality (Section 2.2) was
responsible for coordinating district level FSQL planning, training and monitoring. A District FSQL
Development Planning Manual and an Operational Manual for the Implementation of District FSQL
Grants and Campus Support Funds were prepared as training materials and planning guidelines.
Training followed a cascade approach with key DoET trainers trained at the central level, and they then
organized seminars in of April each year for the BoETs who then trained Head Teachers and Deputy
Head Teachers in DFA survey methods, as well as in the preparation of School Development Plans that
were introduced during implementation (Section 2.2). All school managers (Head Teachers and Deputy



                                                   12
Head Teachers) and BoETs participated in annual 5-day professional training programs for school
development planning and the FSQL audit. As a result, they know how to use annual DFA results and
are becoming familiar with analytical skills appropriate to the data. They have recognized the value of
standards-based school planning and of integrating FSQL data into annual school plans. School
development planning was not part of the Project’s original design but was developed and implemented
as a complement to district FSQL planning and has become an important aspect of the FSQL process and
a principle means of capacity development within schools and a key source of monitoring data.
The Project developed an effective approach for annual district FSQL planning to include activities and
grants to support achievement of FSQL by district schools. BoETs in each district collected data for the
DFA based on school self-assessment data, and verified results through school inspections. FSQL data
is collated into annual district FSQL plans and some BoETs also use the data to produce medium-terms
plans for their districts. IT Planners are responsible for collating and updating the DFA is the main
responsibility of the IT Planner for their district.
Under the Project, procedures were developed for measuring and verifying progress towards FSQL,
based on the DFA and the FII (see Section 2.2, Preparation of the Project). Yet, at mid-term, the
concept of a fundamental school quality level was being compromised since the number of indicators
had increased from 17 to 35, and FSQL was being seen as a middle order standard somewhere between
the 2003 intentions (Decision 48/2003) and the NSS, rather than a minimum standard and fundamental
level. This was making measurement difficult and achievement of FSQL even more so, not only for the
poor and disadvantaged but nationally. The Government subsequently increased further the number of
indicators for “achieving? FSQL under its Decision 55 in 2005. To ensure that the Project followed its
original intent of having FSQL defined as a minimum, for monitoring purposes under the Project it was
agreed that when a PEDC school achieved 60 percent compliance with the indicators under Decision 54
it was equivalent to having achieved FSQL as originally defined.
M&E Utilization. The annual DFA provides year on year performance indicators of school performance
against FSQL standards and allows for annual monitoring of a school’s, a district’s and a province’s
progress towards achieving FSQL. The DFA has become a highly effective tool for planning and
targeting financing and moving towards results-based delivery. With PEDC support, the DFA has been
implemented in all districts nationally, over and above the districts included under the Project. This
provides Viet Nam with data on school quality down to the remotest schools and villages and is a unique
resource for tracking trends, determining gaps, planning and targeting financing. The Project was
successful in introducing decentralized data systems at district levels and has built capacity and raised
awareness on the use and application of information to monitor changes and make FSQL and operational
concept. Funding for implementation of the Project at the district and provincial levels was made
available based on the annual FSQL district plans. Although the Project originally aimed for data from
FSQL/DFA to be integrated into the Government’s EMIS, that system is still under development, with
the result that the DFA is today the single most important source of educational data nationwide in Viet
Nam.
The Project’s planned M&E output (a comprehensive plan) was both resourced and developed but was
not utilized by the PCU. Instead, M&E remained an informal activity, addressed by various external
evaluations, joint-donor review missions, and reports by the ISTs. A more formal form of M&E could
have improved project coordination between ISTs and strengthened PCU management capacities in
planning and reporting. It could also have been useful in transferring financial and technical
responsibilities from the PCU and the ISTs to the MOET upon completion. Although M&E capacity in
the DoETs and BoETs improved under the Project, there was less sustainable progress in building
capacity at the level of MOET.
Throughout implementation, the Project was the subject of intensive evaluation that, inter alia, guided
the roll-out of activities that had been introduced as pilots under the Project, as well as provided useful
data and analysis to inform both implementation and this ICR. Eight external evaluation studies were
completed under the Project: (a) CSF and District Grants (December 2006); (b) Pilot School Readiness


                                                    13
(December 2007); (c) Pilot Teaching Assistant and School Readiness Programs (April 2007); (d)
Training Review and Need Analysis (December 2008); (e) Evaluation of PEDC Investment in Non-
Infrastructure Activities (April 2009); (f) Evaluation of PEDC Investment in Infrastructure Activities
(April 2009); (g) Longitudinal Study on Teaching Assistant Program (December 2009); and (h) End of
Project Evaluation (October 2010).

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Procurement. The Project’s decentralized implementation involved procurement at the central,
provincial and district levels, depending on the item being procured and the respective amount. Under
the Project, procurement manuals were prepared for all of these levels and for the school level as well.
A full-time procurement adviser was contracted at the first few years of the implementation to provide
technical assistance, organize procurement training as well as conducting internal post reviews semi-
annually and addressing issues as they arose. As could be expected, capacity for handling procurement
at the local levels was limited, and the procurement adviser worked closely with staff at these levels,
organizing training events to slowly build capacity. Two issues arose with respect to procurement. First,
there were long delays, especially in the procurement of furniture and teaching aids using ICB
procedures due to long internal approval procedures for issuance of bidding documents and contract
award. Second, the procurement and approval procedures for small school construction contracts
involved the contracting of three separate firms for design, construction and supervision, and the same
over twenty steps that would have been required for larger contracts.
Financial Management. By and large there were strong financial controls for resources under the Project.
The design of the financial management systems and their adoption under the Project enabled the PCU
and the Bank to monitor and track the use of funds. Like procurement, financial management of project
funds was a shared responsibility among the school, district, provincial and central (PCU) levels. In
view of the initially limited capacity among all of these levels, early implementation faced considerable
challenges with financial management, and faced delays in compiling of financial information by the
local levels and consequently consolidating this information by the PCU and submitting financial
management reports to the Bank in a timely fashion. Two financial management review specialists
worked with the PCU to address these challenges, especially to update financial transactions and records
in the PEDC accounting systems and provide training to staff handling accounting and budgeting
systems at the local levels. Particular challenges involved preparing financial plans, and cash flow
projections based on the outputs needed in each period to achieve the targets set for the complete project
period, together with realistic budgets connected to the output activities. The Project established an
internal audit system although it was not a requirement by the time of the project preparation. Gradually,
planning, accounting and system issues were addressed as capacity for financial management improved
at all levels. There were no qualified audits for the Project and fiduciary risks were well contained.
Safeguards. The Project was rated Environmental Assessment Category C; hence, and Environmental
Assessment was not prepared. An Indigenous Peoples Action Plan was prepared, and together with a
beneficiary assessment completed during preparation, fed into the Project’s design, including the
targeting of schools where most disadvantaged children lived, the implementation of participatory
procedures for the development of FSQL proposals, the provision for textbooks and instruction in native
language, and the incorporation of programs directed at highly vulnerable children. During
implementation, all of these activities were carried out as designed.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
A specific follow-up operation is not contemplated. The PCU is expected to be in place until June 30,
2011 and most of the PPCUs were to be dismantled by the Closing Date. MOET has issued a letter to
PPCUs and DoETs to instruct on a clear mechanism for handing over responsibility from the PPCUs to
DoETs and relevant DoET management.




                                                   14
However, the Government and the Bank began addressing the issue of post-completion operation of the
Project’s investments and programs over two years before completion, especially since as a project,
PEDC provided funding incremental to the budget and was implemented by a separate PCU through the
MOET and provincial, district and school levels. The Government in 2009 established eight Sub-
Committees to identify institutional and financial arrangements that would provide continuity for
activities supported by the Project, as follows:
    o   Sub-committee # 1: Issuing Inclusive Education Policy, Strategy and Action Plans;
    o   Sub-committee # 2: Provision of Exemplary Inclusive Education Services (EIES) at the District
        Level;
    o   Sub-committee # 3: Integration of PEDC Training Programs for teachers and managers;
    o   Sub-committee # 4: Implementing and integrating FSQL baseline data with the proposed Viet
        Nam Education Management Information System (EMIS);
    o   Sub-committee # 5: Provision of Teaching assistants and School Readiness for schools with
        children of different ethnic groups;
    o   Sub-committee # 6: Budget and Community Support for schools with Disadvantaged Children;
    o   Sub-committee # 7: Education Initiatives (funding for innovative approaches to disadvantaged
        communities);
    o   Sub-committee # 8: Maintenance of school buildings by communities.
The recommendations of the sustainability sub-committees represent the principle mechanism through
which PEDC outcomes are to be integrated into MOET systems and procedures.
The PCU worked closely with MOET’s Primary Education Department (PED), Department of Ethnic
Education (DEE), Department for Education Managers and Teachers, and Department of Planning and
Finance (DPF) to prepare a letter signed by the Vice Minister to all provinces with respect to the
importance of sustaining the Project’s investments. The circular provides guidance to the provinces
about the value of TAs, SR, the CSF, DCDSs and District Planners and shows that they are an effective
investment, particularly for the access, attendance and achievement of ethnic minority students.
The MOET has also explained to the provinces how they can sustain successful initiatives supported by
the Project through the Government’s existing institutional and financing arrangements under the
framework of the NTP-E 2011-2015. TBS-EFA has successfully developed a transparent and equitable
funding formula for the allocation of the NTP-E. The NTP-E, approved by the National Assembly,
includes the following five projects that will be managed by MOET through the provinces and districts
normal channels:
    o   Project 1: Supporting the universalization of preschool for 5 year old children, illiteracy
        elimination and anti re-illiteracy, maintenance of primary education universalization,
        implementation of lower secondary education universalization at the right age and secondary
        education universalization
    o   Project 2: Training of IT human resource and application of IT into education
    o   Project 3: Strengthening teaching and learning foreign language in national education system
    o   Project 4: Supporting education in mountainous, ethnic minority and difficult areas
    o   Project 5: Enhancing training capacity of education and training institutions, including: (a)
        renewal of curriculum, textbooks and teaching materials; (b) training, retraining teachers,
        lecturers and educational administrators; and (c) enhancing, building education
        infrastructure/facilities
In addition, some of the important initiatives under the Project will also receive continued funding under
projects that are currently ongoing or under preparation for eventual Bank financing: the School
Education Quality Assurance Project (SEQAP) and the proposed School Readiness Promotion Project
(SRPP).
Specifically, funding for DFA is expected to continue under SEQAP. Under that project, the Primary
Education Department is expected to continue the collection of a single data set from a modified DFA



                                                   15
that can serve to: (a) continue to measure and monitor the national FSQL policy (and provinces, districts
and schools can continue to develop annual reports); (b) monitor the implementation of SEQAP; (c)
monitor Universal Primary Education; (d) provide a data base for future integration into the V.EMIS; (e)
serve the purpose of research and studies for policy reform; and (f) provide data bases for planning,
budgeting and prioritizing investments.
Some funding for TAs and SRs would be provided under SEQAP and SRPP, in addition to what
provinces can allocate under NTP-E. Funding for the CSF will be covered through the NTP-E tuition
fees exemption integrated in a Governmental Decree issued in 2010 on free tuition, tuition cost reduction,
learning costs assistance from the school year 2010/11 to the school year 2014/156. Children targeted by
this decree include those targeted under the PEDC that will receive direct learning cost support to buy
books, notebooks and other learning aids. SEQAP would also continue to support school-based
management by directly building on the experience of the CSF in giving autonomy to schools (through
principals and even pupil-teacher associations) in the management of funds for school operation and
maintenance, additional Teaching assistants and lunches. Part of the SR program would be integrated
under the ECEDC, supporting 5-year olds to have lunch at school. The premise is that children will be
mobilized to attend school where Vietnamese language learning may take place.
The Project’s training programs and materials have been assumed by the MOET’s Department of
Teacher Management that is currently developing a strategic plan for in-service primary teacher
education and plans to issue guidance to provinces in the use of these training materials. Several
provinces, at both DoET and BoET levels, have made plans for continuing to organize teacher training,
using the PEDC training programs. PEDC has built provincial training-of-trainer capacity and this can
be developed and extended. Although some provinces may be in a position to extend the training
programs beyond the life of the Project, most will require an integration of the programs into MOET and
DoET systems of in-service teacher training and support from the general budget.
The Project addressed the important issue of infrastructure maintenance three years before completion
and helped to set up systems for local communities to ensure continued school maintenance, thereby
protecting the Project’s investments. School maintenance is to be carried out with assistance from the
community (participatory school maintenance). For this to work, the Project developed a manual on
school maintenance, organized a workshop for the draft manuals development and provided training to
head teachers and communities. About 43,000 manuals have been printed and distributed to 18,000
schools in the 222 districts of the 40 PEDC provinces. The other 23 non-PEDC provinces have also
been provided with the manual. However, communities are likely to face difficulties in financing
maintenance since resources will depend on budget allocations from the NTP-E
A system for sustaining community participation has been established and is operative as follows: (a)
each of the 40 DoETs has appointed staff in charge of primary education to take part in the system; (b)
each of the BoETs has appointed the Head/Deputy Head of Primary Education Function and staff
responsible for primary education to take part in the system; and (c) 4,500 trained head teachers/deputy
head teachers are responsible for instructions and reports on community participation.
A workshop was held in 2010 to revise the Manual for Innovation Grants and to draft instructional
documents for managing innovation grants. The funds for future innovation grants are expected to be
provided by provincial educational budgets from NTP-E and the Department of Science, Technology
and Environment of MOET has drafted a correspondence to be issues in 2011 instructing DoETs to use
the provincial state budget for implementing Education Innovation Grants.



6
 Decision No. 239/Q-TTg dated February 9, 2010 by the Prime Minister on approving the Project of Early
Childhood Education Universalization for 5-year old children in the period of 2010-2015 and Decree No.
49/2010/N-CP dated May 14, 2010 by the GOV on regulation tuition exemption and reduction.



                                                     16
Child-centered and inclusive education is established quite recently and in PEDC districts represents a
very new approach. Although teachers and schools are responsive to the training programs and are seen
to apply principles of IE and child-based teaching in lesson planning and classroom activities, the impact
on teaching culture remains tentative. For results to become embedded in their operations continued
levels of support are required form central (MOET), DoET and BoET authorities.
PEDC has funded contract staff salaries for DCDS, IT Planner and TA positions. It is expected that
many BoET will be able to integrate IT management skills within their institutional structures and be
able to continue data input to some degree of quality.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The objectives of the PEDC continue to be relevant to Vietnam’s current development priorities.
Vietnam has consistently expressed strong commitment to achieving universal basic education as a
foundation to social development and economic growth, and there have been notable improvements in
enrollment and educational attainment since the early 1990s. Rural and lower income populations have
benefited the most from increase educational attainment. Despite these improvements, however, the
country is still facing two notable educational challenges: (a) increasing inequities in educational
attainment beyond primary driven by higher performance of the most advantaged groups; and (b) still
insufficient quality of the education system, in particular for disadvantaged groups. While access to
primary and lower secondary education have become more equitable, the rural population, and even
more so ethnic minorities and the lowest income quintiles have not yet been able to go beyond lower
secondary generating increasing inequities, fueled by persistent inequities in primary completion. The
quality of primary education, although improving, still appears to be an issue, overall and more
particularly for poor, rural and ethnic minority populations, according to the latest test results. Although
schools’ input and processes have improved over time, there are still significant gaps in the level and
distribution of these, and poor school management and insufficient community participation are still an
issue in primary education, despite strong efforts to strengthen these under the Project.
As a result, the Project, its objectives and the activities is financed are fully consistent with the
Government’s Education Development Strategic Plan for 2011-2020 which is currently in the process of
consultation and its NTP-E which both continue to emphasize the objectives supported by the Project
(Section 2.5). It is also consistent with Vietnam’s Poverty Reduction Strategy 2006-2010, that
emphasizes measure to tackle poverty among ethnic minorities, issues related to the quality and
efficiency of investment and tackling the persistent poverty of ethnic minorities while developing strong
systems and institutions for transparent management of public funds. The Project’s objectives are also
consistent with the Pillar 2, Strengthening Social Inclusion, of Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy for
the period 2007-2011 that puts emphasis on: (a) supporting universal, quality basic education through
investing in education infrastructure improvements and implementing education initiatives that target
vulnerable group, including ethnic minorities, girls, and children with disabilities; (b) improving ethnic
minorities’ voice and participation in the development processes that affect them by decentralizing
control over public expenditures to communities, and expanding their access to basic services; and (c)
including people with disabilities in the development process.
The Project’s objectives were clear, succinct, and responded to the Borrower’s development priorities;
its design and components, while ambitious and demanding on the existing institutional capacity,
especially given the Project’s decentralized implementation, responded directly to the Borrower’s
decentralization goals and sector priorities of reaching disadvantaged groups. In effect, the Project
provided compensatory financing incremental to the normal budget and provided finance for designing
and establishing new systems and innovations at the district and school level to best address the needs of
its target population, and hence meet its objectives. In this sense, the Project’s components comprised an
integrated set of activities that needed to be designed, adopted and implemented almost concurrently for



                                                    17
maximum benefit, while at the same time providing capacity building to the very institutions, staff and
groups that were to be directly involved in its implementation. As a compensatory mechanism, the
Project has been completed, and the challenge of continuing to respond to the needs of disadvantaged
groups will depend on the Government’s ability to internalize the many successful innovations and
lessons from its implementation. This will require not only adopting and mainstreaming monitoring
systems, training programs, community initiatives, etc., but also ensuring that the funding provided
under the NTP-E to provinces and districts responds to their needs and the results of their efforts, and
that they are sufficiently supported in providing continuity to the successful initiatives supported by the
Project.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
The PEDC was a very successful investment project that provided incremental finance to a new,
compensatory program that aimed to improve access to primary school and the quality of education for
disadvantaged girls and boys. Progress towards the Project’s Key Indicators is provided in Annex 2 and
summarized below:
    o   Increase in number of PEDC schools reaching FSQL. In 2004 54% of schools in PEDC
        districts had achieved FSQL, as originally defined by the Project. By 2010, 68.3% of schools
        had reached FSQL as defined by the Government’s Decision 55. 7 Overall, PEDC schools
        improved more quickly than the national average and more than the non-PEDC schools in the
        same provinces. Also, the range was great with some provinces reaching and exceeding the
        targets, e.g., 99.24% in An Giang and some not. More importantly, several of the schools that
        had achieved FSQL reported that they now feel energized and empowered to continue their
        efforts, striving towards the achievement of national standards.
    o   Increase net enrollment rate. The net enrollment rate in PEDC districts reached 98.7% in 2010,
        with gender equity, against the target of 96% set at Appraisal.
    o   Improve primary student completion. Primary student completion in PEDC districts reached
        94.1% in 2010, with gender equity, against the target of 86 % set at Appraisal. (In 2009, female
        completion rates in PEDC districts were 93.9%, compared to a national rate of 95.9%.)
    o   Reduce Grade 1 repetition rate. The Grade 1 repetition rate in PEDC districts was 5.2% in
        2010 against a target of less than 3% set at Appraisal. Although this represented an
        improvement over the 8% rate before the Project, this indicator likely fell short of its target due
        to a new campaign launched by the MOET two years ago to address a problem where teachers
        apparently passed automatically all of their students to higher grades. (Overall primary
        repetition rates stood at 2% for project districts in 2010 and 1.4% nationwide.)
    o   Reduce dropout rate. The dropout rate in PEDC districts declined to 2.5% in 2010 against a
        target of less than 4% set at Appraisal. In PEDC districts, the dropout rate in Grades 1 to 5 was
        1.8%. Respondents attributed reduced dropouts to the impact of related PEDC activities,
        specifically, TA support and mobilizing campaigns, participation by PTAs, the CSF, provision
        of books and notebooks for disadvantaged children and the overall raised attractiveness of
        schools. Reduced language barriers are also supposed to have contributed to consistent
        improvements for this indicator.


7
  The Project introduced the concept of FSQL as an achievable standard to which all schools, even those for
disadvantaged children in remote areas could aspire to achieve. FSQL was based on five simple criteria, as set out
in the PAD. The Government regulated these standards in its Decision 48 (increasing the standards a bit), and then
increased the standards for FSQL even more through its Decision 55 (to a point that these were no longer minimum
standards). In order to maintain the concept of an “achievable?, minimum standard, the Project adopted a “proxy?
that compliance with at least 60% of the requirements in accordance with Decision 55 would represent
achievement of FSQL for the Project. On that basis, 80% of the PEDC schools had achieved FSQL by project
completion.



                                                       18
    o   Increase the number of eligible disabled children in school. This has remained at about 2% of
        children throughout the Project. There have been definitional issues as “eligible? was not
        defined and work with the Child Development Record (CDR) showed that teachers have
        difficulty recognizing, identifying and recording children with special needs. (DFA data on
        disability is limited, does not provide for classification of disabilities and probably under-reports
        numbers of disabled children who are out of school). The Analysis of 2007/08 CDR-sourced
        data recommended the 2009 DFA include specific sources of data relating to children with
        disabilities. This has not yet occurred.
    o   Improve completion rate for disabled children. In 2006 the completion rate for disabled
        children was 45.6%; by 2009, the completion rate reached 71.5 %.
    o   Improve “independent learner? status in Mathematics and Vietnamese. The results for this
        will come from the Grade 5 study in 2011 that is the first time that participants in the PEDC will
        reach the age where they will be in Grade 5 and be assessed in the achievement study. The
        results from the Grade 5 2006/2007 study for PEDC schools showed that although students
        reaching “independent learner? status in Mathematics remained the same, in Reading they
        increased from 51.4% in 2001 to 64.5% in 2006/20078. The Quality of EFA Report9 reviews
        the most significant predictors of student achievement based on sample results for 2001 and
        2007 Grade Five surveys. Some of its findings that are relevant to the Project’s outcomes
        include: (a) the FII is a significant and positive predictor of student achievement in the 2007
        studies; (b) teacher education and training (included in the FII) was a very significant predictor
        of mathematics achievement; (c) the availability of classroom materials/learning tools is a
        significant predictors of achievement, and the most important variable is the FII as the indicator
        of overall school inputs (the FII effect on learning achievement in the 2007 study is substantial);
        (d) for schools in remote areas, school averages for teacher feedback is the strongest predictor of
        achievement, possibly since these students have less access to learning aids and feedback outside
        the school; (e) for ethnic populations, the FII and teacher excellence are especially important
        predictors of outcomes, since these students are less likely to receive help in the home, and are
        exposed to fewer non-school sources of learning. These findings all point to probably strong
        improvements in learning outcomes as a result of the initiatives supported by the Project.
The Project’s most notable achievement was the development and introduction of the FSQL as a first
step towards helping disadvantaged districts to plan, monitor and report progress in achieving defined
educational standards and the collection of DFA data since 2004. The Project played a catalytic role in
designing and implementing this mechanism to measure quality levels across schools and to allocate
resources according to need to raise schools and their satellites up to minimum FSQL standards which
were below national standards and therefore seen as “achievable? by disadvantaged districts as a first-
step towards eventually achieving national standards. FSQL procedures were piloted in the 40 PEDC
provinces from 2004 to 2006, regulated by MOET Decision 48. Together these contributed directly to
improving educational opportunities and results in its targeted, disadvantaged districts. The FSQL and
the DFA have proven to be successful initiatives that have been expanded to the national level, allowing
the Government to allocate need-based funding at the national, provincial, district and school levels.
FSQL/DFA was expanded in 2005 under MOET Decision Number 55 and is now adopted nationally at
primary school level (see Component 3 below). FSQL now applies in all districts in all 63 provinces of
Vietnam. FSQL/DFA permit comparisons over time for the implementation of Government policies
such as reaching FSQL; improving attendance; reducing repetition and dropout rates.
FSQL and the provision of quality learning environments to achieve equity for all has been accepted and
the original PEDC program targeting on disadvantaged districts has now been expanded nation-wide.


8
  Report Study in Grade 5 Student Achievement in Mathematics and Vietnamese Language in the 2006-2007
School Year, Hanoi, 2008.
9
  Vietnam Quality of All Report (draft) World Bank. The Report, Chapter 7 of the Report analyzes “The Variable
That Matter: Determinants of Student Achievement.


                                                      19
The importance of education management and how to structure what is happening in schools and
classrooms to achieve a better quality of education and improve students’ learning achievements is now
more widely understood. All DoETs and BoETs have mastered the data-collection skills and they
skillfully use data to identify FSQL gaps, create School Development Plans, allocate funds, target those
who need it most, support communities and monitor progress.
By completion in 2010, through activities financed in each of the Project’s four components in an
integrated manner, 68% of schools in targeted provinces had reached FSQL (on the basis of Decision 55)
and 80% on the basis of the “proxy? described in Footnote 7 on page 18 against a baseline of 54% in
2004. The range among targeted provinces was large, with some provinces reaching and exceeding
targets, e.g., 99.24% of schools in the An Giang province reaching FSQL. More importantly, schools
supported under the Project improved more quickly than the national average, and more than non-Project
schools in the same provinces. Table (b) in Annex 2 presents annual progress in FSQL Indicators
nationally and for the 227 districts targeted by the Project, and the results towards FSQL are summarized
below.


       80.00              62.10    65.00   67.80    68.90     69.60      70.90     72.34
       70.00
                     54.00   57.60    60.70     62.40       63.40      67.20      67.65
       60.00
        50.00
        40.00
                   2003/4 2004/05
                                  2005/06
                                              2006/07
                                                        2007/08
                                                                      2008/09
                PEDC              National                                       2009/10


The Project directly supported the implementation of a process that enabled provinces, districts and
schools progress towards FSQL, including the provision of inputs needed for schools and districts to
reach FSQL that have been shown to produce a quality education and an environment for learning and to
help increase the number of children attending school and the likelihood of their staying until completion.
These include: a safe, appropriate building with inside-outside flow and activities, trained teachers,
basic equipment and furniture, basic textbooks, a rich range of supplementary resources in local
languages where needed, and a committed participating community ensuring healthy motivated children
attend school.
The End of Project Evaluation (EOPE) 10 mentions that “In all surveyed provinces, enrollment and
completion rates have increased, with reduced drop-out and repetition rates, and have reached 96% or
higher. A number of provinces have reached over 99% (Lang Son, Kon Tum, Dien Bien) in 2010,
compared to net enrollment rates of less than 96% in 2004/05. Survey respondents attributed these
results to PEDC’s impact and cited the following activities: (a) school infrastructure and facilities are
more spacious, attracting students and parents; (b) the quality of teaching has improved through training
programs; (c) the work of Teaching Assistants has contributed to mobilizing and maintaining number of
students to school; and (d) the role of PTAs and the CSF have helped support disadvantaged students in
going to school.?




10
  Primary Education for Disadvantaged Children Project (PEDC), End of Project Evaluation, Final Report,
September 21, 2010, Consia Consultants.



                                                     20
The Project achieved these outcomes through the implementation of its many successful activities, and
the outputs described in detail in Annex 2.

3.3 Efficiency
An economic analysis of the Project was not prepared for the ICR. The Project’s economic analysis in
the PAD had projected the project’s benefits based on the projected increase in net earnings that would
accrue to each child who completed Grade 5 under the Project (it excluded children then already enrolled
since it assumed that they would have completed their primary education before the Project’s impact was
felt). The Project improved student completion from 72% in 1999 to 97.1% in 2010 (these figures
include all students). Moreover, completion rates for disabled children increased at a significantly
higher rate, from 45.6% in 2006 to 71.5% in 2010. Cost savings associated with improved dropout and
retention rates, that would provide an indicator of more efficient use of learning resources in schools,
were not included in the Project’s economic analysis. Nevertheless, the Project made significant
progress impacting each of these in targeted districts, decreasing repetition rates from 8% in 1999 to
5.2% in 2010 and dropout rates from 12% in 1999 to 2.5% in 2010, thereby impacting pupil flow-
through efficiency and promoting much improved efficiency at the primary level.
The Project also had another, perhaps equally if not more important impact on sectoral efficiency:
developing and implementing a functional system whereby allocation of resources is determined on the
basis of needs and capacities as determined by local schools and districts—moving from input-equity to
output-equity through a system of evidence-based funding. The development and implementation of
FSQL, that defined the minimum package of inputs necessary for providing a quality education at a
school together with the basic outcomes that were expected of schools, was an efficiency-enhancing
concept.
A comparison of actual project costs against appraisal estimates is provided in the table below.
Project Cost by Component, estimated and actual, US$ million

     Component                                                        Estimated at       Actual
                                                                       Appraisal
     1. Achieving FSQL                                                     227.73             233.97
     1.1 FSQL District Management                                             7.07              7.58
     1.2 Instructional Improvement and Teacher Support for FSQL              44.24             49.92
     1.3 Infrastructure Improvement                                        163.61             161.11
     1.4 Community Participation and Student Support                         12.81             15.36
     2. Education Initiatives for Highly Vulnerable Children                  4.15              5.05
     2.1 Inclusive Education for Disabled Children                            2.26               2.6
     2.2 Reaching Street Children and Other High Risk Groups                  1.89              2.45
     3. National and Provincial Institutional and Technical Support           8.17             12.61
     for FSQL and Vulnerable Children
     3.1 National FSQL Planning                                              0.44               0.88
     3.2 Institutional Strengthening                                         7.73              11.73
     4. Project Management                                                   3.62               7.02
     TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                                   243.67             258.64

The actual costs of construction and rehabilitation, per square meter, varied considerably across the
country reflecting the difficulties of works in different areas. Construction costs averaged from
US$208.14 equivalent per square meter in provinces in the North, US$189.67 equivalent per square
meter in provinces in the South, US$181.56 equivalent per square meter in provinces in the Central
Highlands, to US$171.04 equivalent per square meter in provinces in the Central region of the country
during the 2007-2009 periods.




                                                    21
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
The Project’s Outcome Rating is considered Satisfactory in view of its continued relevance, the
substantial achievement of its Development Objectives as measured by its Key Development Indicators
and the successful introduction of new and effective initiatives such as SR, VLS, TAs among others that
contributed to their achievement, and the efficiency with which it was implemented and, more
importantly, that it is expected to promote in the delivery of primary education, especially to
disadvantaged groups.
Although the QALP rated the Likelihood of Achieving DOs as Moderately Unlikely, the Quality of
Design and Quality of Bank Supervision as Moderately Unsatisfactory and the Quality of
Implementation by the Borrower as Unsatisfactory (Section 2.2), with the benefit of hindsight, these
ratings do not appear to have been justified, especially in view of the Project’s progress towards the
achievement of its Development Objectives described in Section 3.2, and the evaluation of the Bank’s
and the Borrower’s Performance in Sections 5.1 and 5.2, respectively. In retrospect, the QALP
assessment was carried out at a time when the Project’s implementation had accelerated in earnest, in
part reflecting the previous delays in early implementation that had by then been addressed in the MTR,
but also reflecting the very nature of the Project’s design that incorporated in its implementation (as
opposed to during preparation) the actual design, development, dissemination and putting-in place of
new policies, monitoring systems, budget formulation and allocation procedures and educational
initiatives that very much depended on the participation and active involvement of the national,
provincial, district, school, teacher and community levels and actors for ownership and eventual success.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
By design, through its focus on disadvantaged groups, the Project was targeted on the poor, although
immediate poverty alleviation was not an objective, per se. Its activities were all targeted at districts and
schools that served disadvantaged groups, including ethnic minorities. Its effects on these groups, and a
comparison of the progress of schools under the Project against schools nationwide are presented in
Section 3.2. The Project’s Key Performance Indicators were defined to promote gender equity
specifically for each of the targets to be achieved. The Project succeeded in achieving gender equity
(Annex 2).

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The Project’s ring-fenced design incremental to education sector’s normal budget and activities together
with its implementation arrangements through a parallel structure at the central MOET level (Section
2.2), while ultimately effective for implementing the Project, were not the most conducive to
institutional change and strengthening. In fact, the PAD mentioned specifically that the Project would
include “two broad types of capacity building interventions: one aimed at ensuring that the
Government—at all levels—has the capacity to implement the changes supported by the Project, and the
other aimed at enhancing the quality of general management in the district bureaus of education and the
provincial departments of education?. The Project was successful in achieving both of those broad types
of capacity building.
Still, the Project produced notable successes that, if internalized and sustained, could result in extremely
important institutional tools for the planning, implementing and financing of primary education. The
decentralization of resources and responsibilities to the local levels required that the Project strengthen
capacity at every level of the system, thereby creating a firm foundation that can be built upon. With
Project support, the DFA has been implemented in all districts nationally, providing the Government




                                                     22
with data on school quality down to the remotest schools and villages—an important resource for
tracking trends, determining gaps, planning and targeting financing.
However, the EOPE 11 notes: “PEDC has demonstrated an effective approach to planning for
development of primary education, based on decentralized data collection systems. Currently, neither
annual district FSQL plans nor SDPs are incorporated into MOET systems or approved as a process at
the provincial level. Rather, they function as constructs of PEDC and as mechanisms for disbursement
of funds. A decision or resolution is required from MOET to provide a strengthened institutional
framework for BoET annual district FSQL plans and SDPs…. DoET plans for province-wide attainment
of FSQL by primary schools are outside the PEDC funding structure and are not a MOET requirement.
More regular and coherent planning for FSQL at DoET levels should be required by MOET and
incorporated into future funding mechanisms.?
However, significant progress was made at the local levels to build capacity among DoETs and BoET, at
the schools level, in IT management and data collection systems, and in promoting community
involvements in schools’ activities. The SDP process as a means of collecting data and promoting
managerial effectiveness at school and district level have been developed in all project schools and are
widely produced and implemented nationally.
Although most of the successful initiatives have not yet been internalized in the MOET’s mainstream
operations, the institutional capacity has been strengthened at all levels of the education system, from the
MOET down to the schools in the remotest villages. The challenge now is for the Government to move
forward with the sustainability agenda, through the Sustainability Subcommittees described in Section
2.5, and to allocate funding in sufficient amounts to ensure that the Project’s successful systems and
initiatives are provided continuity at all levels.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate
The Risk to Development Outcome is very much related to prospects for sustainability discussed in
Section 2.5, Post-completion Operation/Next Phase. The Government has devoted significant priority to
the work of the Sustainability Committees (Section 2.5), and several mechanisms exist whereby
continuity can be provided for the Project’s successful initiatives, including SEQAP and the proposed
Project (SRPP), in addition to through normal government funding channels under its NTP-E. The NTP-
E is a centrally sponsored scheme in which the MOET indicates to the provinces the expected allocations
of central State budget funds to NTP-E sub-components. However, provincial authorities have full
discretion over planning, investment and resource allocation. Schools and districts, and more
importantly children and their parents and teachers, have witnessed the Project’s activities and impact,
and will undoubtedly become important advocates vis-à-vis the provinces for continuity of activities
such as SDPs, TAs, SR programs through sustained allocations through their NTP-E budget.
Nevertheless, the Government’s EMIS is still not in place, and as a result the substantial information in
the DFA could not be integrated in that system and will require a continued “bridging? to maintain it up-
to-date and relevant as a policy and planning tool. Legal, policy frameworks are not in place for TA and


11
  Primary Education for Disadvantaged Children Project (PEDC), End of Project Evaluation, Final Report,
September 21, 2010, Consia Consultants.



                                                     23
SR programs, with the result that these also will depend on alternative project funding, or requests—or
community demands--from the schools/districts for continuity of these programs. Still, to the extent that
provinces decide to continue implementation of theses programs, funding will need to be provided either
under SEQAP or SRPP, or framed within the overall provincial/district budget allocations under NTP-E.
In some cases, this is already happening as a number of provinces and districts are already implementing
FSQL plans from their own budget.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
The Bank’s Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry is rated Satisfactory. The Project and its design
was strategically relevant in that it responded to the Government’s commitment to Education for All and
especially to the challenges of providing education to disadvantaged groups. With very clear objectives,
the Project had a focused design with components that addressed real problems—provision of inclusive
education for ethnic minority, poor, rural communities (i.e., the last 15% of children out of school,
including those with special needs). Yet, its design was also very relevant in that it allowed for
flexibility, creativity and adjustment during implementation, as would be necessary given its
decentralized, bottom-up implementation of new initiatives. While the Project was ambitious and a
“stretch? on the Government’s capacity to implement it, it was the very institutional set-up for delivering
education services at the various levels of Government, and the in retrospect correct effort to engage
schools, local communities, parents, etc. that necessarily brought complexity.
To ensure “ownership?, the Project financed the preparation and establishment of the instruments it
needed for implementation, such as the National Guidelines for FSQL during implementation, and to
ensure results, its design contemplated the piloting of activities, such as the CSF and TAs, and then
evaluating their effectiveness before continuing with these programs. This proved to be a very
successful strategy for introducing innovative mechanisms to address difficult challenges. Finally, the
Project was innovative in that it introduced the FSQL as a first step to achieving Vietnam’s National
School Standards. FSQL was a simple, straight-forward concept, based on the existing National School
Standards, but through definition of the minimum package of inputs necessary for providing quality
education at the school level together with outcomes expected of the schools, established standards that
were seen to be achievable by all. In hindsight, it would not have been possible to achieve the Project’s
results without its ambitious design. More importantly, and mostly due to its design features described
above (clear objectives while incorporating flexibility, piloting, evaluation, etc.) the Project’s objectives,
components and basic design were unchanged throughout implementation, remain relevant to this day,
and in fact, have resulted in its many innovations being internalized in Vietnam.
Recognizing the challenges that could be faced during implementation, the Bank’s preparation team
worked closely with the Government during preparation to address possible issues that could come to
affect implementation. The Project’s design defined roles, responsibilities and accountabilities expected
at each level of government, and detailed manuals were prepared to guide implementation. Also, its
design included activities required to establish a comprehensive system of monitoring progress towards
FSQL, and provide training and support to provinces, districts and schools to utilize this system for
information-based planning of activities and inputs, a critical part of budgeting and planning for
targeting disadvantaged schools.
Perhaps the one issue that came to affect implementation and that could have been addressed better
during preparation was that relating to the construction start-up processes, and the detailed Government
requirements and procedures for contracting school construction and rehabilitation that had not been
identified. In the end, however, this issue was addressed during supervision, and although it led to minor


                                                     24
implementation delays early during implementation, it in no way affected the achievement of the
Project’s objectives.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Highly Satisfactory
The Bank’s Quality of Supervision is rated Highly Satisfactory. The Bank’s supervision team, led by
one Task Manager from the start of implementation until completion, remained focused on supporting
the Government and the PCU to implement the Project effectively, and provided strong and consistent
leadership. Supervision was hands-on, and timely; supervision reporting was timely and candid. The
Bank coordinated closely with all of the Project’s donors that routinely participated in and contributed to
all supervision with expert staff.
The MTR was critical to set the Project’s implementation on back on track, especially in view of initial
delays and minor divergences from the Project’s decentralized design. The MTR focused on five areas:
(a) implementing the training program; (b) accelerating construction/infrastructure; (c) achieving
decentralization; (d) achieving FSQL nationally; and (e) improving project management to achieve the
other four. While acknowledging some important accomplishments, the MTR team was seriously
concerned about the Project’s implementation progress: some activities had expanded beyond the
Project’s mandate while other activities had received little attention and/or were seriously delayed. A
very detailed Aide Memoire of the MTR provided a thorough analysis of implementation and
recommendations for improvement and reported that “many opportunities had not been seized, and
management decisions tend to be bogged down by bureaucratic decision making?. It reported that
implementing the Project required a departure from “business as usual?, and reiterated that the Bank’s
supervision would not micro-manage through providing specific recommendations, suggestions, actions
and solution to issues, challenges and problems. In light of the serious shortcomings in implementation
at the time of the MTR, the mission developed ten clear and concrete targets in discussions with project
management, PCU staff, the MOET and donors that were expected to be met by March 31, 2007, and
assessed in April 2007. The mission requested revised implementation, procurement and disbursement
plans, and from then onwards supervision took on a very results focus, based on the ten major targets.
At the same time, the Bank’s supervision team adopted a flexible approach to problems and difficulties
and was willing to recommend adjustments as needed to facilitate implementation, e.g., changing
systems for counterpart funding, funding 100% school furniture (originally it had been expected that
only 70% would be financed, expansion of the training program as surveys and feedback established
teachers’ wants and needs, expansion of the CSF to the host schools, etc.). Another noteworthy aspect of
the Bank’s supervision was that of insisting on the carrying out of timely, external evaluations of
Project-financed initiatives. In all, eight external evaluations were carried out under the Project (Section
2.3).
Although the Project was designed as a traditional investment project that would come to closure upon
completion, it succeeded in introducing and implementing some notable innovations in the
Government’s efforts to provide improved educational opportunities to disadvantaged groups.
Recognizing that these important programs (FSQL, TAs, VLS, SR, etc.) should be continued, the Bank’s
supervision team began discussing transition arrangements with the Government over two years before
completion, and worked together with the Government and the Sustainability Teams in developing
proposals to provide continuity to these important initiatives with Government or alternative sources of
funding.
Finally, the integrated and sustained nature of the Bank’s assistance to Vietnam’s education sector has
meant that there were several other operations under preparation and implementation concurrently with
the Project’s implementation. The portfolio under implementation and preparation included several
complementary investment projects as well as the TBS for EFA Program. Throughout, the Bank’s
supervision effort and the Government counterparts worked as a team, sharing information and programs
that benefited the entire program. For example, the TBS for EFA program benefited from the system for


                                                    25
data collection and data from the Annual DFA, while continuity to this successful system and data are
expected to be provided under the SEQAP Project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The Overall Bank Performance is rated Satisfactory. While Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at
Entry is rated Satisfactory, and the preparation effort and project design considered appropriate, the
Bank’s Supervision had to devote an extraordinary effort to keep the Project on track.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The Government’s Performance (i.e., the MOET and the MOF) is rated Satisfactory. The Government
remained fully committed to the Project’s objectives throughout, and despite some delays in counterpart
funding during early implementation, provided continued financial, staffing and other support to ensure
that it would achieve its objectives. The Project counted on high-level support from the Government
throughout. The Deputy Prime Minister participated throughout the MTR, and provided strong support
and follow-up to ensure that agreed actions were taken by the PCU in a timely manner. The Government
embraced the concept of FSQL, but it changed over the period of the Project’s implementation, to the
point where a revised criteria was needed to monitor performance of PEDC schools towards FSQL (see
Footnote 7 on Page 18). Despite this, the Government has shown strong commitment to sustainability
and enthusiasm for ensuring that project innovations that have been shown to improve children’s
learning and achievement will continue after completion. Significant progress towards internalizing the
Project’s accomplishments was made through the work of the eight sub-committees led by the
appropriate technical departments in the MOET. However, incremental funding under the Project will
cease and continued financing will need to be absorbed through normal funding channels.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The Implementing Agencies’ (the PCU, and the provincial DoETs (PPCUs), and the BoETs (DMUs)
Performance is rated Satisfactory. The Project required implementation at several levels of government,
in addition to at the school level. These arrangements required strong efforts by the PCU to not only
implement certain activities, in part through the ISTs, but also to coordinate, supervise and provide
assistance and training to implementing agencies at the provincial, district and school level. Some initial
issues with project management were identified and addressed at the time of the MTR, namely: (a)
delays in project outputs; (b) monitoring of output progress; (c) central PCU organization; (d) forward
production and financial planning; (e) decentralization through delegation to the appropriate level, and
(f) strategic thinking on sustainability. From the time of the MTR, the PCU management began to
assume leadership, took responsibility for implementation at the appropriate level, focused on results,
and began to facilitate and implement project activities in a forward-looking timely manner. The PCU
followed the Project’s Operational Manual, and began to follow the description of roles and
responsibilities assigned to each of the Project’s implementing agencies, providing technical support and
guidance where needed. Throughout, the PCU was committed to the concept of FSQL, the DFA, and to
ensuring the collection and recording of data, and the use of the system as a needs-based system for
resource allocation.
The PCU also developed flexible approaches that helped the communities and schools to plan, budget
and use their funds to meet their own needs, within their own capacity. The PCU developed a “menu?
approach and the SDP and district FSQL plan comprised three “soft? menus: (a) mandatory, where


                                                    26
funds could not be used for other purposes, e.g. students’ stationery, CSF, learning materials, etc.; (b)
teacher training; and (c) school-based teacher training where schools could implement schemes meeting
their own requirements for teachers’ development. In a decentralized project and across a diverse range
of provinces/districts this proved a useful approach.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The Overall Borrower Performance is rated Satisfactory, based on the Government’s and the
Implementing Agencies’ continued commitment to the Project, its design and implementation
arrangements throughout, and their commitment to seek and design processes to identify options for
ensuring sustainability of the Project’s accomplishments.

6. Lessons Learned
The Project provides several lessons related to education policy, instrument design and institutional
arrangements.

Education Policy:
The concept of quality of education is a dynamic concept that evolves over time. The evolution and
development of education quality should be defined and formed to respond to a specific country or
socio-economic and cultural context at a certain period of time. Therefore, setting up an FSQL that
matches the education system’s implementation and financial capacity was critical to ensure its
relevance and usefulness. The FSQL was a successful innovation that provided a “ladder? to national
standards by setting a realistic and attainable target for disadvantaged schools and has since become
national policy and implemented in all provinces. Most importantly, it provides standards for a needs-
based targeted allocation of funds and real data to schools on what to spend it on in order to reach the
standards. In terms of setting standards, the Project set FSQL as the minimum standards that a school
should have in place to provide a basic learning environment. Many schools that have attained FSQL
feel successful and empowered, and as a result, are setting new, higher, targets to eventually achieve
national standards. Caution, however, should be taken when seeing progress towards initial minimum
standards, and using this as an opportunity to increase standards (as was done by the Government’s
Decision 55). The value of fundamental quality standards, as originally defined in simple, easy to follow
and monitor terms, is that they were seen as achievable by the provinces, districts and schools targeted
by the Project.
Of all the standards, schools were most challenged by FSQL requirements for physical infrastructure.
Where these targets are unrealistic and difficult to achieve, provision should be made for FSQL
certification based on other more manageable criteria, specifically including the quality of teaching and
learning, as is currently provided for by the FII.
Initiatives that strengthened the ties between schools and communities proved to be very successful in
improving educational outcomes. These included the SR initiative a community-based, pre-primary
school development program introduced to strengthen Vietnamese language competencies in districts
with significant ethnic minority populations, where Vietnamese is spoken as a second language and
support transition from pre-school to Grade 1, and the introduction of TA. TAs, bi-lingual members of
local communities had primary responsibility for implementation of SR programs, under the
coordination of satellite school and Grade 1 teachers. The initial pilot and later expansion of the TA
initiative was successful in creating a link between Grade 1 teachers at satellite campuses, to support
delivery of the SR program, and their work with families and communities to mobilize children in
coming to school and to help ensure attendance. In disadvantaged areas without ethnic minority teachers,
or without ethnic language speaking teachers, TAs also played a pivotal role in enabling schools and
satellite campuses to meet minimal quality standards. TAs not only helped teachers, but played an



                                                   27
important role as a language and culture bridges between school, family, and community and helped
change local people’s awareness about their children’s learning, with consequent positive outcomes. As
mentioned in Section 2.5, funding for several of these initiatives is expected to be sustained by provinces
with funding under the framework of the NTP-E 2011-2015.

Instrument Design:
The Project was designed as a traditional investment project, providing incremental finance to a project
with specific time-bound objectives that were expected to be achieved in targeted districts by completion.
Its institutional arrangements were designed to facilitate and ensure the Project’s effective
implementation, but institutional strengthening on a national scale over and above that which would be
required for successful implementation was not an explicit objective of the Project (although there was
an indicator that expected the MOET, and participating DoETs and BoETs to have regularly
demonstrated strengthened capacity to identify, plan for, support and monitor the needs of educationally
disadvantage children). Nevertheless, the Project’s positive outcomes brought a critical challenge: how
to ensure that the initiatives introduced under the Project are not only maintained upon completion (e.g.,
the schools constructed maintained, the learning materials utilized, etc.), but also expanded, internalized
and adopted as national policies more broadly. As a quasi-compensatory project, aimed at leveling
outcomes in disadvantaged districts, the Project’s design was contained, and it achieved mostly its
expected objectives. But, given that, despite progress, there are still important differences in educational
outcomes across schools, should this “compensatory? financing terminate now that the Project has been
completed? The Bank’s supervision team worked closely with the Government well in advance of
completion to ensure sustainability of the Project’s initiatives, with the objective of ensuring continued
implementation of proven initiatives thereby further reducing the gaps in outcomes between schools in
disadvantaged districts and other schools. Still, in retrospect, the question remains as to whether support
for an ongoing program coordinated directly by the MOET through its technical departments (as
opposed to through the PCU), and directly through the DoETs (as opposed to through the provincial
PCUs) would not have provided greater sustainability and internalization of the very capacity that the
Project helped develop.
Several other aspects of the Project’s and instrument’s design were effective, especially, the piloting of
innovative activities and their evaluation before expansion, as well as building into the Project’s design
activities that were central to the Project’s objectives such as the development and dissemination of
FSQL standards and guidelines. In addition, the Project’s design was such that its was well-defined, but
still sufficiently flexible to allow creativity and minor adjustments based on provincial, district and
school needs, that were all so important to ensure that its outputs and results responded to local realities.
At the same time, this mix between up-front design and definition versus flexibility resulted in the
continued relevance of the Project’s objectives, components and activities throughout implementation
without the need for their restructuring.

Institutional Arrangements:
Given that the Project’s implementation was coordinated by a Project Coordination Unit, with the
consequent issues that structure entailed for sustainability of institutional capacity that was developed, its
structure was effective for implementing project activities. The establishment of ISTs for planning and
monitoring, teacher development activities, educational goods and materials, civil works and community
participation, ensured effective leadership, coordination, technical support and knowledge sharing
between the MOET, the PCU, the DoETs and the BoETs. The involvement of schools, communities and
parents in the Project’s activities ensured “bottom-up? engagement and support for the initiatives and
activities financed, and bode well for continued demand for its successful programs and initiatives.




                                                     28
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The Government provided comments on a draft of this report through a letter to the Bank dated June 15,
2011 (Annex 7). Overall, the Government’s comments on the Project and its implementation were very
positive, and highlighted the important role that the Project played in developing and implementing a
successful model for improving the accessibility to quality education for disadvantaged students in some
of the country’s most remote areas. The Government’s comments (translated) are provided in Annex 7
and have been incorporated in the final version of this report.
The Government also submitted comments from 15 of the provinces that benefitted from assistance
under the Project. These provinces, both in their written comments and through participation of their
staff in a final project wrap-up ceremony in November 2010 (where issues of sustainability were very
much on the agenda) unanimously cited the importance of the several innovative activities supported in
their provinces and the positive impacts that these have had on providing more accessible and better
quality education for their students in ways that address effectively the constraints that these students
faced. These comments are provided in Annex 6.

(b) Cofinanciers
 A draft of this report was sent to all of the Project’s co-financiers (Section 1.7). Minor written
comments were received from CIDA (Canada), UK DFID and NORAD (Norway). Again, co-financiers
were unanimously positive about the Project’s successes and about the notable achievements towards its
development objectives, both of which were important accomplishments given that it addressed complex
and interrelated issues in Vietnam’s most disadvantaged areas. The written comments are provided in
Annex 8.

The co-financiers of PEDC requested to have an executive summary for the report; the executive
summary is presented in the Annex 9.

c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                                   29
      Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

      (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                                    Actual/Latest Estimate (USD millions)
                                                Appraisal                                                          Percentage
              Components                      Estimate (USD         Credit and                                         of
                                                 millions)                       GOV’s                             Appraisal
                                                                     MDTF                            Total
                                                                               contribution
                                                                    Amended
Achieving FSQL                                       227.73             207.09         26.88            233.97       103%
Education Initiatives for Highly                                           4.77            0.28
                                                        4.15                                                5.05     122%
Vulnerable Children
National and Provincial Institutional and
                                                          8.17           11.22             1.39            12.61     154%
Technical Support for FSQL
Project Management                                     3.62                3.55            3.46           7.02       194%
                    Total Baseline Cost              243.67             226.63            32.01         258.64       106%
Physical Contingencies
                                                        0.00                                                0.00      0.00
Price Contingencies
                                                        0.00                                                0.00      0.00
                      Total Project Costs            243.67             226.63            32.01         258.64       106%
Front-end fee PPF                                       0.00                                                0.00      .00
Front-end fee IBRD                                      0.00                                                0.00      .00
            Total Financing Required                    0.00


      (b) Financing12
                                                                      Appraisal
                                                                                   Actual/Latest
                                                       Type of        Estimate                     Percentage of
                 Source of Funds                                                     Estimate
                                                     Cofinancing       (USD                         Appraisal
                                                                                  (USD millions)
                                                                      millions)
   Borrower                                                                 43.37            32.01          74%
  IDA                                                                     138.76            151.38         109%
  Australian Agency for International
                                                                              1.00                 0.994               99%
  Development
  Canadian International Development Agency
                                                                              8.38                12.469              148%
  (CIDA)
  British Department for International
                                                                            38.69                 44.124              114%
  Development (DFID)
  Norwegian Agency for Development
                                                                            13.47                 14.360              106%
  Cooperation




      12
        Part of the change of donor contribution in percentage term is because the change of exchange rate between
      donor’s currency (donors’ commitment) and USD over time.



                                                               30
Annex 2(a). Outputs by Component

The Project made progress towards its Development Objectives through the implementation of
activities, and through outputs for each of its components and sub-components, as described
below and presented in the Results Framework Matrix in this Annex.

Subcomponent 1.1: District Management

PEDC inputs have focused on: (a) strengthening school data collection systems, and (b) development of
annual district FSQL plans by BoETs (see also Section 2.3, M&E Implementation). Annual District
FSQL plans were developed and reviewed by BoETs at the end of each year (August 15), and presented
for approval to DoETs. The plans were based on data collected during DFA surveys and compiled in the
DFA database by IT planners. SDPs, verified by BoET inspection teams, provided primary sources of
DFA. The District FSQL plans were subsequently submitted to the PCU as the basis for grant
applications that presented items to be procured and activities to be carried out in support of FSQL
achievement. The DFA allows data to be tracked by school year and is intended to result in realistic
targets as the basis for activity planning at district level and for the grant application.
Annual District FSQL plans, as set out in PEDC procedures, addressed four generic objectives: (a) all
schools and satellite campuses achieve FSQL targets; (b) all school-age children are enrolled in school;
(c) 96% of age 14 children graduate from primary school; and (d) gender equity targets are achieved.
These objectives provide the context in which the five criteria or “chapters? of FSQL are laid out: (a)
physical infrastructure, teaching/learning equipment and aids; (b) teaching staff; (c) school organization
and management; (d) education socialization; and (e) educational activities and quality.
The EOPE reports: “PEDC has successfully introduced a quantifiable system for primary education data
collection, based on the district FSQL audit (DFA). Data collection systems are in place and annual
district plans for FSQL achievement are being developed and implemented by BoETs. Schools are
producing SDPs and principles of planning for FSQL are widely understood and adopted at school levels.
The DFA enables school quality levels to be ranked and monitored and improvements in school quality
standards have been demonstrated over time. Achievement of National School Standards has become a
realistic objective for a significant proportion of PEDC schools?. The EOPE also reports that capacities
have been built at the level of DoETs, BoETs and schools to support standard-based planning, and that
initiatives are under way to several provinces to sustain management training initiatives after completion,
and to integrate the Project’s model of FSQL planning into provincial and district systems and
procedures in the medium to long term. Challenges reported include improving data collection
procedures and reliability of data that vary among districts and provinces, further strengthening BoET
capabilities through integration of IT planning responsibilities, and integrating FSQL monitoring and
assessment procedures into provincial and district systems. More importantly, district and school
planning through FSQL and SDPs operate outside the MOETs normal sector planning processes, with
approval of annual plans by the PCU and funding under the Project, both of which will terminate.

Subcomponent 1.2: Instructional Improvement and Teacher Support for FSQL
The Project financed teacher training and professional development and upgrading the quality of
teachers at satellite campuses. Activities included the design of training programs and modules, and
training of Teachers and Head Teachers through a “needs-based? strategy to professional development of
teachers, seeking to address the pedagogical needs of disadvantaged children. Teachers were supported
through training in child-centered teaching and learning methodologies to help children to learn
according to their abilities and potential. A summary of training and professional development under the
Project is provided below:




                                                   31
      Type of Program         Program                        Target                 Result
                              Child-based teaching           130,000                112,626 teachers in 40 provinces
                                                                                    63,680 teachers for Grades 1 and 2 (provinces
                              Subject-based teaching         60,000
      BASIC (3 Programs)                                                            trained more using needs-based funding)
                              Vietnamese Language
                                                             120,000                95,000 teachers in 40 provinces
                              Strengthening
                                                             7,500 TA and 7,500 7,500 TAs and 7,500 Grade 1 teachers trained.
                              Teaching Assistants
                                                             teachers           annually starting in 2006-2010
                              Overcoming Barriers to                                39,480 teachers in 40 provinces (provinces trained
                                                             30% of all teachers
      TARGETED (4             Learning                                              more using needs-based funding)
      programs)               Specialized Teaching Skills
                                                          30,000                    38,000
                              in the Inclusive Classroom
                              EIES support teacher
                                                             150                    153 support teachers and 456 classroom teachers
                              training

      EDUCATION               School Development Plan        10,500                 10,461 head teachers and deputies ,
      MANAGEMENT
                              Education Management           10,500                  10,586 head teachers and deputies ,
      (2 programs)
                                                                                    45,620 personnel trained (now integrated into DFA
                              Child Development Record 43,000
                                                                                    training)
                              PTAs and Campus Support
                                                      270,000                       270,350 people trained
                              Funds
      COMMUNITY (4                                                                  54,000 community people trained by 283 DCDSs.
      programs)               School maintenance             7,000 main schools     Also 120 provincial trainers, 4,800 Head teachers,
                              package training               and satellites         4,800 PTA reps, 40 DoET officers and 4,500 school
                                                                                    managers trained.
                                                                                    11,289 reported from 22 provinces (number is larger
                              Needs-based training           20,000
                                                                                    as not all provinces reported)
        Source: The Ministry’s Progress Report November 2010.
        General notes: Head teachers, and Deputy Head teachers and teachers may attend more than one course; needs-based training has been used
        locally in a flexible way to cover gaps in training and provide school based training on specific needs.


District level respondents to the EOPE were invariably positive about the training programs under the
Project and felt the programs had made a significant difference to the way teachers teach and resulted in
improvements to learning outcomes. Teachers have increased confidence in using new teaching
methods and are able to apply a variety of teaching new aids, including adaptation of training materials
to different subjects and becoming interested in making their own materials. The training programs have
contributed to a change of attitude among school staff, particularly concerning inclusive education but
more generally about the roles of teachers and the function of district schools. Combined with the
impact of other Project initiatives, parents and communities also have increased interest in the schools
and are more confident in the quality of education being received.
While all of the programs, and the materials provided undoubtedly had a direct impact on the Project’s
outcomes, several were particularly relevant to its focus on disadvantaged groups, ethnic populations and
the disabled: Child-based Teaching, Overcoming Barriers to Learning (intended for teachers working
with children with specific disabilities), Vietnamese Language Strengthening, School Readiness and
Teaching assistants.
The EOPE evaluated the Child-based Teaching, Overcoming Barriers to Learning and Vietnamese
Language Strengthening programs. These programs addressed issues of access to education, enrolment
and retention, particularly among ethnic minorities. The EOPE evaluated these programs positively,
with “teachers reporting adoption of new teaching methods resulting in improved learning outcomes?. It
also concludes that “barriers to learning have been reduced in PEDC districts and positive attitudes
towards inclusive education have been introduced, a conclusion supported by DFA data, that the overall
attractiveness of schools has been raised through training program implementation with schools viewed
as being more relevant and accessible by parents and communities.?


                                                                       32
These training programs have been innovative, distinct from MOET pre-service programs, and have
provided teachers with important skills and competencies for child-based and inclusive education,
thereby contributing to improved learning outcomes, including for children with language barriers or
other learning difficulties. Responses from Teachers and Head Teachers were positive, and classroom
observation in the context of the EOPE found that teachers had understood and sought to apply concepts
learned through training, and used visual aids, including learning cards, in addition to materials they had
developed at their own initiative.
Another external evaluation confirms these findings.13 It describes teachers as being better equipped in
terms of teaching skills and being able to establish a conducive learning environment for children with
disabilities with the quality of teaching and learning being much improved, after participating in the
Overcoming Barriers to Learning training program. It notes significantly changed attitudes and
perceptions of teachers towards working with disabled children with teachers more accepting and
welcoming and more attentive to individual learning needs, such as by setting individual goals in class
and tailoring homework to students’ ability. As a result, students are more motivated and attendance by
disabled children has increased (although DFA data is weak on disability, and data is compiled through
the CDR).
The EOPE team observed that: (a) teachers’ attitudes of teachers in favor of inclusive education have
been changed as a result of the training; (b) teachers feel better prepared to work with disabled children
and have a heightened awareness of special needs; (c) teachers had individual educational planning
record books for disabled children (CDR); and (d) previously, special education has been provided only
in specialized schools at provincial level.
Vietnamese Language Strengthening (VLS), a program targeted at ethnic minority children for whom
Vietnamese is not a first language, was included under the Project as a key activity aimed at expanding
access to primary, reducing dropout and repetition rates, and increasing completion rates. A five-day
training program for teachers was carried out in all targeted provinces under a cascade training approach.
The Project provided a full set of VLS teaching material for satellite campuses, including: (a) VLS
materials for teachers (teachers guide); (b) Teaching Assistant guidebook; (c) VLS children’s materials;
(d) VLS children’s workbook/coloring books; (e) VLS cards; (f) VLS/SR Language Corner (established
in all Grade 1 classes; (g) SR materials; (h) SR materials; (i) SR language guides; (j) SR full-color
picture book; (k) supplementary reading books; (l) TA Learning Aids (for Learning Corners); (m) Audio
tapes and cassette player; and (n) Big Books. Student supplies were procured under annual district
FSQL plans/grants, together with additional supplies for the TA and SR programs. MOET approved
Teacher Guides were procured centrally. PEDC materials were in use in many schools, materials and
textbooks are fully provided, and in sufficient time for schools to distribute them for students at the
beginning of the school year.
Other very successful initiatives supported by the Project were the School Readiness (SR) initiative, a
community-based, pre-primary school development program introduced to strengthen Vietnamese
language competencies in districts with significant ethnic minority populations, where Vietnamese is
spoken as a second language and support transition from pre-school to Grade 1, and the introduction of
Teaching assistants (TA). The Project supported development of the programs and distribution of
materials, and training. Under SR programs new Grade 1 students can learn Vietnamese; existing Grade
1 students can revise Vietnamese in three summer months. TAs, bi-lingual members of local
communities trained under the Project and provided with teaching aids, have primary responsibility for
implementation of SR programs, under the coordination of senior satellite school and Grade 1 teachers.
The TAs’ terms of reference are to support Grade 1 teachers at satellite campuses, to support delivery of
the SR program, and to work with families and communities to mobilize children in coming to school



13
     PEDC Investment: Non-infrastructure (July 2009)



                                                       33
and to help ensure attendance. The TAs are contracted by BoETs on an annual basis and paid a salary.
Training of TAs training followed a cascade approach with training delivered directly by Head Teachers
and Deputy Head Teachers.
An external evaluation the TA and SR initiatives carried out under the Project, The Longitudinal Study
on Teaching Assistants (TAs) and School Readiness (SR) programs shows very promising findings and
the value of this intervention14. The study evaluated the effectiveness of TA utilization on progress and
learning results of students in Grade 1 (and compared satellites with SR and TA and satellites with the
same conditions but without SR and TA). The evaluation’s main findings corroborate earlier evidence
that students in classes with a TA attend more regularly and achieve better results in mathematics and
Vietnamese language than those students in similar classes without a TA. The study found that “In
surveyed districts, the TA program has made significant contributions in preparing children for school
through Vietnamese language acquisition under the SR program. In disadvantaged areas without ethnic
minority teachers, or without ethnic language speaking teachers, TAs also play a pivotal role in enabling
schools and satellite campuses to meet minimal quality standards.
The Longitudinal Study qualitatively assessed communication skills (listening/speaking), vocabulary,
ability to follow teaching instructions, reading, writing and mathematics abilities, and found clear
correlations in each area showing better results in satellite schools with TAs than in schools without
them. It concluded that 83.3% of satellite schools with TAs achieved “good? results at Grade 1, versus a
rate of 50% in schools without them - a gain of 33.3%. While it is still about 13% below the national
average, these findings point to important gains attributable to the TA and SR programs. BoETs and
teachers were also consistent in reporting to the evaluators the improvements to learning outcomes at
Grade 1, and describing the SR program as providing a “big leap? in improving ethnic minority students’
Vietnamese capacity and in making them more confident when starting school. SR clearly has a positive
effect on the learning of ethnic minority students in Grade 1. For example, the two charts below on
reading skills and mathematics show that ethnic students attending SR class (yellow bar) do better than
students not attending SR classes (black bar) when assessed at the end of the first semester of Grade 1,
2008.
            100,00%                                                              90,00%
             90,00%                                                              80,00%
             80,00%                                                              70,00%
             70,00%
                                                                                 60,00%
             60,00%
                                                                § · häc CBTV     50,00%                                           § · häc CBTV
             50,00%
                                                                Ch- a häc CBTV   40,00%                                           Ch- a häc CBTV
             40,00%
             30,00%                                                              30,00%
             20,00%                                                              20,00%
             10,00%                                                              10,00%
              0,00%                                                              0,00%
                      § äc ®óng § äc ® óng § äc ®óng § äc PB                               NB h× khèi
                                                                                               nh        NB ch÷ sè,   Lµm t?nh
                         vÇn        tõ        c©u    dÊ thanh
                                                       u                                                      u
                                                                                                        SL, dÊ > ;<   céng, trõ

                       Ethnic students’ reading skills                                    Ethnic students mathematics skills

The TA program has contributed to: (a) increasing enrollment rates; (b) mobilizing school-aged children
to attend class and maintain regular attendance; and (d) thereby decreasing repetition and drop out rates.
TAs have not only helped teachers, but have played an important role as a language and culture bridges
between school, family, and community and helped change local people’s awareness about their
children’s learning. TAs spend about two thirds of their time supporting teachers and students in the
class, and the remaining time cooperating with the students’ families. The TAs helped students attend
class more regularly, they have helped the children with homework and to understand lessons in the class



14
     Mid-term Report “Longitudinal Study on Teaching Assistants and School Readiness? April 2009




                                                                                 34
and follow teachers’ instructions. Moreover, TAs have created friendly learning environments so the
children are more interested to attend class and learn better. Parents have been assured when their
children get good learning results so they encourage their children to go to school regularly. Some TAs
take children to school and bring them home, which make parents feel satisfied and sate. Parents and
community members have developed trust in TAs and schools. TAs have also supported individuals
with special needs and children with disabilities.
The TA and SR initiatives have proven positively effective: (a) having great impacts on access to the
primary schools of the ethnic minority students, children with disabilities and the most disadvantaged
children; (b) playing an important role in accessing the inclusive education; and (c) creating the close
relation between school, students’ families and supporting individual students.
The Project has also recognized opportunities to strengthen teaching capacities through inter-school
cooperation and exchange of teaching experience. The Exemplary Inclusive Education Services
Initiative and introduction of “cluster-based training?, modeled on Colombia’s Escuela Nueva 15 ,
represent a promising direction for district level planning and an alternative approach to the “cascade?
training model.

Subcomponent 1.3: Infrastructure Improvement for FSQL
Infrastructure, including civil works, provision of furniture and related technical services accounted for
the Project’s largest component. By project completion, 6,126 had benefited from the Project, 12,383
new classrooms had been constructed, and 6,720 had classrooms had been renovated or upgraded.
Additional sites and classrooms benefited from assistance from the Government’s School Concretization
Program (see Section 1.7), as presented below:
                       Type               Plan at         Total     PEDC       School Concretization
                                          MTR                                    Program (all new
                                                                                   classrooms)
               New classrooms             14,535          13,141    12,383     758
               Upgraded/renovated         3,338           6,720     6,720      N/A
               classrooms
               Teacher rooms              5,607           5,101     4,834      267
               Water points               5,075           4,909     4,694      215
               Latrines                   5,690           5,321     5,072      249
                    Source: Developed from Ministry’s Progress Report November 2010 and Construction IST
                    PEDC teacher rooms, water points and latrines include new and repaired/renovated

While on the whole the quality of construction has met standards, an external evaluation of the
infrastructure investment (VICA) reported some concerns about the finishing and the quality of
construction in about 5% of buildings, creating the need for extraordinary maintenance.16 Despite this,
the same report highlights that the beneficiaries’ (teachers, parents and commune leaders’) perception
about the PEDC schools is overwhelmingly positive. More than 97% agreed that the upgraded campus
was more beautiful and attractive, encouraged children to attend school, more child-friendly and
conducive to learning. There was a strong sense of ownership and they are willing to share in the
maintenance of the building. Overall, more than 96% of beneficiaries agreed they are happy with the
Project.




15
   The Government is under the process of application for an FTI funds to scaling up this model – called Vietnam
New School Model project (VNEN)
16
   Evaluation of the Infrastructure Investment (School Construction) VICA Consultants International, Hanoi,
March 2009.


                                                          35
The PCU developed plans (involving no new construction) for repairing main school and satellite sites in
23 needy provinces in 2010. PEDC was the first project to provide investment for school construction at
satellite sites of primary schools. The program was completed as planned, carried out efficiently and
completely implemented through decentralization to DoETs and primary schools.

Subcomponent 1.4: Community Participation
Initiatives to seek community participation were a highly successful aspect of the Project. The focus of
these activities was on strengthening PTAs to support and monitor FSQL, and, more recently, to support
school maintenance training in order to ensure sustainability of the many gains made over the last five
years. In July 2010, 20 provinces shared experiences and recorded lessons learned on community
participation under PEDC and the results were printed and distributed to districts and provinces in
Achievements of Community Participation.
DCDS in the BoETs have played a key role in mobilizing communities in: (a) conducting surveys to
identify teachers’ needs, needs for Vietnamese language strengthening for preschool children; (b)
organizing training courses for teachers in the satellites and Head Teachers of main schools, training for
communities and parents on CSF management (see below); (c) mobilizing community participation in
the inclusive education for children with disabilities by distributing inclusive education materials; and
(d) participating in monitoring the TA pilot program, supporting Head Teachers of main schools and
teachers in the satellites in implementing the CSF, supervising and taking part in PTAs. District
Planners, also in BoETs, were responsible: (a) participating and supervising the implementation of the
DFA, attending training sessions, supervising staff in charge of conducting DFA, analyzing the DFA
data, and developing DFA reports; and (b) assisting project units in the districts to develop overall
district FSQL plans and annual operation plans and support different types of reports.
The CSF was another highly successful innovation under the Project. The objectives of the CSF were to:
(a) provide flexibility for schools to deal with locally specific issues that impact the enrolment, the
retention, or quality of education that children receive, and (b) strengthen the relationship between
schools and communities by encouraging greater community participation in the decision making at the
main and satellite campus over the long term. Under the CSF, annual grants provided to schools and
satellite schools to help with small purchases, support some educational activities as well an enhance
community participation in school activities, based on the schools determination of needs. For example,
the CSF provided support for: (a) disadvantaged children to go to school through such activities as
buying clothes, learning aids, physical education equipment; (b) overcoming difficulties in the class such
as buying water bottles, water pots, glasses, medicine boxes; (c) activities related to the SR program such
as teaching and learning materials and aids; and (d) extracurricular educational activities with
community participation such as buying teaching, learning aids, materials to enhance awareness of
students in the ethnic minority languages and Vietnamese, encouraging active involvement of different
types of students (such as girls, groups of ethnic minority students).
The CSF for the disadvantaged primary students produced many benefits, including (a) supporting
children to go to school and attend class regularly, which contributed to decreasing repetition and
dropout rates; (b) supporting schools and satellites to reach FSQL; and (c) strengthening community
participation through activities and planning and using CSF.

Subcomponent 2.1: Inclusive Education for Disabled Children
A draft National Inclusive Education Policy, Strategy and Action Plan on IE was developed and is
pending approval as part of the Government’s Strategy for Education and Training 2009-2020. As part
of the training program, 240 key teachers in 40 provinces were trained on Inclusive Education using the
revised Education of Children with Learning Difficulties materials and Exemplary Inclusive Education
Series Initiative (EIES).




                                                    36
Final activities on the EIES pilots were as follows: (a) a DVD is being developed to support training of
teachers of children with learning difficulties; (b) a DVD was developed to support surveys on
disadvantaged children; (c) EIES were monitored and evaluated in two provinces; and (d) a conference
on summarizing, evaluating EIES was held to collect feedback, comments for material and sustainability
of EIES at the district level.

Subcomponent 2.2: Reaching Street and Working Children and Other High Risk Groups
The Project supported activities aimed at reaching street children and working children and other high-
risk groups, in a decentralized manner, and knowledge sharing of these activities. A program of
Innovation Grants provided local solutions to local problems by local people in innovative ways. The
objectives of the Innovation Grants were to: (a) develop and implement new and innovative approaches
to meeting the educational needs of vulnerable children of primary school age; (b) encourage and
facilitate the participation of government, non-government and other stakeholder groups in serving the
needs of at-risk and highly vulnerable children; and (c) try-out quality interventions that could be applied
widely, potentially nationally, to reduce the number of at-risk and highly vulnerable children who were
not accessing and/or completing primary education. Grants were selected on the basis of a competition-
based process that operated on annual cycle. Projects/programs, i.e., expenditure of grant funds, were to
be implemented within a 12-month period and the amount of each grant was limited to a maximum of
US$ 10,000 for any given 12-month period.
Under the Project, a total of 123 grants were awarded in three cycles. By January 2010, 122 projects
under the program of Innovation Grants had been completed, reviewed and summarized. Examples of
grants include the following: (a) Support for Repeaters of First Grade, a project targeted at children
who were repeating first grade at ten satellite campuses by providing support that was targeted to their
school/classroom work and their environmentally-based psycho-social needs; (b) Children Helping
Children, a project targeted at school-age children, aged 5 to 11, that were not attending school because
they were working with their family or in situations arranged/accepted by their families in the satellite
campuses in Kien Giang, that aimed to develop functional literacy skills for children who remained
outside the school; and (c) Involving and Caring for All, a project targeted at school-age children, aged 5
to 11, not attending school due to multiple disabilities (with one of the main areas being
orthopedic/ambulatory) either by placing these children in schools with adequate support services or
serving the needs of those children whose disabilities were too severe for them to benefit from the school
environment. The summarized information was compiled in a document, Innovation Grants: Results
and Lessons Learned.

Subcomponent 3.1: National Guidelines for FSQL
FSQL was initiated by PEDC under MOET Decision 48 in 2003 as a pilot for PEDC provinces and
districts. Although the regulation introduced five categories of assessment criteria, DFA and
implementation guidelines were minimal and it did not enable procedures by which to assess schools’
attainment of FSQL. As implementation progressed, procedures by which progress towards FSQL were
developed and implemented (Section 2.3, M&E Implementation).
In September 2007, MOET Decision No. 55 introduced assessment criteria that was rolled-out nationally
(not just to schools under the Project) that included specifications for school inspection, DFA
verification and resource planning for investment to achieve FSQL. Each of the five categories
contained a number of primarily quantitative indicators, based on “yes? or “no? answers. PEDC
guidelines on implementing FSQL, however, are based on both quantitative and qualitative indicators or
variables (the FII), which are recorded in DFA survey forms. A total of 81 variables are quantified into a
score out of 100 and schools assessed as achieving FSQL on the basis of 60 points or more.
Decision No. 55 is being implemented by MOET in coordination between the PED of the MOET and the
Examination and General Department of Education and Accreditation. However, guidelines to develop
and implement procedures for districts to approve FSQL achievement by schools are not yet published.


                                                    37
District mechanisms for FSQL approval vary between provinces, some based on PEDC FII, some on
Decision 55 and some a combination of the two. FSQL will continue to be implemented by MOET,
based on Decision 55 and with support from SEQAP for a modified DFA.

Subcomponent 3.2: Institutional Strengthening
The Project provided technical support to MOET and the DoETs in developing the processes and
securing the inputs under the Project’s first two components through which FSQL could be achieved,
sustained and incorporated within relevant institutional frameworks.
The five ISTs established under the Project’s management structure (see Section 2.2), played an
important role in working with DoETs in strengthening planning and monitoring, supporting teacher
development and VLS programs, procurement of goods and materials, monitoring and supervising civil
works and mobilizing community participation. The ISTs were coordinated by MOET-appointed
representatives, complemented by national and international consultants to build capacity and achieve
planned results across the various areas of Project’s intervention. For example, the IST responsible for
strengthening and monitoring of education quality was responsible for local (province and district) and
central level capacity building under Subcomponent 1.1 (FSQL District Management); activities
includes the development of planning templates (District FSQL Plans, SDPs), data collection
instruments, and programs for training the trainers. Another IST supported activities under
Subcomponent 1.2 (Instructional Improvement and Teacher Support for FSQL) by focusing on teacher
training and improvements to teaching and learning through development of materials and teachers’
guides and the TA, VLS and SR programs. The ISTs played an important role in recording project
innovations through manuals, reviews and compilations of experiences, with a view to generating
knowledge and providing a vehicle for an exchange of experiences among provinces and districts.

Component 4: Project Management
The Project financed activities of the PCU, including the Project Coordinator and several national and
international consultants, as well as operating expenses required for overall project management,
administration and supervision, as well as the support the unit provided to ISTs under Subcomponent 3.2
and to the National Task Forces for Quality Standards, Disabled Children and Highly Vulnerable
Children.




                                                  38
Hierarchy of Objectives                  Key Performance Indicators                                     Status at Project Completion
Sector-related CAS Goal                  Sector Indicators
The goal of the Government (as           Improvements in student achievement in Mathematics and         Results from the Grade 5 2006/2007 study for PEDC schools showed that students
expressed in its 2010 Strategy) and      Vietnamese, measured every 4-5 years beginning in 2001         achieving “independent learner? status in Mathematics remained the same while in
the program financiers is to provide                                                                    reading they increased from 51.4% in 2001 to 64.5% in 2006/2007.17
a high quality basic education for all
children
                                         Improvements in student enrollment, completion, repetition     See status at completion under Project Development Objective below
                                         and dropout rates
Project Development Objective            Outcome/Impact Indicators
Improve access to primary school         Participating schools and their satellite campuses in 189      Partially achieved. According to the DFA, 68% had been reached by 2010.
and the quality of education for         districts will achieve a “fundamental school quality level?    Overall, PEDC schools improved more quickly than the national average and more
disadvantaged girls and boys             (FSQL) by the end of the Project                               than the non-PEDC schools in the same provinces. The range was great with some
                                                                                                        provinces reaching and exceeding targets.
                                       For participating project districts as a whole:
                                           Net enrollment rate will rise from 81% (1999) to at            Net enrollment rate reached 98.7% in 2010 with gender equity (99.6%)
                                            least 96%, with gender parity                                  Student completion reached 94.1% in 2010 with gender equity (93.9%)
                                           Student completion will rise from 72% (1999) to at             Repetition rate dropped to 5.2% in 2010, with gender equity (2.5%
                                            least 86%, with gender parity.                                 Dropout rate reached 2.5% in 2010 (1.8%)
                                           Repetition rate will reduce from 8% (1999) to less than        Disabled children in school has remained at about 2% throughout18
                                            3%, with gender parity                                         Through various project-supported initiatives (see text), completion rate for
                                           Dropout rate will reduce from 12% (1999) to less than           disabled children increased from 45.6% in 2006 to 71.5% in 2009
                                            6%, with gender parity.
                                           Number of eligible disabled children in school will
                                            increase.
                                           Disabled children, street children, minority girls and
                                            other very high-risk groups of children throughout the
                                            country benefit from expanded and innovative
                                            approaches to education service delivery.
Output from each Component:            Output Indicators:
Component 1: Achieving Fundamental School Quality Level (FSQL)
Schools serving the most               By the end of the Project:
educationally disadvantaged children  189 of the most educationally disadvantaged districts               All systems for data collection, analysis and planning are in place and
in the country are better prepared for      plan for and achieve FSQL in all schools and satellite          operative not only for PEDC districts but nationwide
success                                     campuses.
                                       The inputs required to achieve these goals are:                     63,680 teachers have received subject-based training for Grades 1 and 2 in
                                        Professional development provided for approximately                Vietnamese and Mathematics; 95,000 teachers received 5 days of training in
                                            59,000 teachers and head teachers in over 4,200 core            Vietnamese Language Strengthening for Ethnic Minorities
                                            school sites and almost 15,000 satellite sites (including      MOET reports that this target was achieved through Government programs



    17
       The final results for this will only become available from the Grade 5 study in 2011 which is the first time that participants in the PEDC will reach the age
    where they will be in Grade 5 and be assessed in the Achievement Study.
    18
       There were definitional issues with this indicator as “eligible? was not defined in advance, and often teachers have difficulty recognizing, identifying and
    recording children with special needs.
                                                                                            39
                                           Vietnamese language preparedness).                            and attrition
                                          25% of unqualified teachers will advance their
                                           certification to 9+3.
                                        Approximately 15,000 teaching assistants hired and             7,500 teaching assistants and 7,500 Grade 1 teachers trained
                                           trained for satellite campuses (pending results of a 2-
                                           year pilot test of this intervention).
                                        At least 9,240 satellite campuses are rehabilitated with       13,141 new classrooms were built at satellite campuses and 6,720 classrooms
                                           permanent classrooms and upgraded facilities,                 were renovated at both satellite campuses and main schools
                                           particularly in ways that will make schools more
                                           attractive to girls.                                         Parent Teacher Associations have been established at all schools/satellite
                                        School-community linkages are strengthened in about             campuses and functioning in 99% of the locations
                                           15,000 school campuses.                                      259,062 teacher textbooks, manuals or guides have been provided to teachers,
                                        Nearly 40,000 satellite teachers will have a full set of        and 3,397,429 textbooks were provided to students.
                                           teaching materials and 1,390,000 students Math and
                                           Vietnamese textbooks at the start of each school year.
Component 2: Education Initiatives for Highly Vulnerable Children
New partnerships and innovative         National guidelines for inclusive education children           Circular was approved December 29, 2009 and distributed according to
approaches for improving access and        adopted and applied effectively.                              MOET procedures.
delivering education to the highest     40,000 educators trained to work with disabled                 112,626 teachers in all provinces completed 8 days of training in Child
risk groups of children are developed      children and put these new skills into practice.              Centered and Inclusive Teaching and Learning; 38,930 teachers in all
and implemented.                        National guidelines for highly vulnerable children              provinces completed 5 days of training in Overcoming Barriers to Learning;
                                           adopted and applied effectively.                              36,000 teachers completed training in Specialized Skills to Support Inclusive
                                        Grants for DoETs, BoETs, schools (and their satellites)         Education.
                                           or NGOs succeed in expanding or developing                   Circular was approved December 29, 2009 and distributed according to
                                           innovative programs that address the educational needs        MOET procedures.
                                           of very high-risk children, including ethnic minority        122 innovation grants were awarded and implemented to address the needs of
                                           girls.                                                        disabled children, street children, minority girls and other high-risk groups of
                                                                                                         children.
Component 3: National and Provincial Institutional and Technical Support for FSQL
Capacity is strengthened within        FSQL approach and procedures become mainstreamed                All systems for data collection, analysis and planning are in place and
MOET, DoETs and BoETs to                   into MOET and its line agencies, with support from            operative not only for PEDC districts but nationwide through Government
identify, plan for, support, and           Government and Party bodies.                                  Decision 55 (September 2007)
monitor the needs of educationally     District and provincial planning is attentive to the            21,047 Head and Deputy Teachers have received at least 5 days of training on
disadvantaged children.                    needs of disadvantaged children and is based on sound         School Development Planning and other key management tasks; Child
                                           data analysis.                                                Development Record training for personnel is integrated with DFA training
                                                                                                         on an annual basis; 11,289 teachers received decentralized, district based and
                                                                                                         needs-based training
                                                                                                        The Department of Planning and Finance at MOET is responsible for
                                           Effective monitoring and evaluation process, including       DFA/EMIS integration. EMIS is still under development, but MOET decided
                                            EMIS, is developed and applied by MOET, DoETs and            that SEQAP will continue with the DFA until the EMIS is functional
                                            BoETs by Year 2.
Component 4: Project Management
Project Implementation is efficient,       PCU and PPCUs provide intellectual leadership and           PCU and PPCUs coordinated project activities
effective and timely                        project management.
                                           Financial and procurement management procedures are         Despite some bureaucratic issues, financial management and procurement
                                            operational throughout the Project                           procedures were operational throughout



                                                                                         40
      Annex 2(b): FSQL Indicators
Combined National Results & for the PEDC Supported Districts                                                       National                                                                  PEDC


FSQL Requirement Description                              2004 Data Label          2003-2004 2004-2005 2005-2006 2006-2007 2007-2008 2008-2009 2009-2010     2003-2004 2004-2005 2005-2006   2006-2007 2007-2008 2008-2009 2009-2010
School Sites and Overall FII Composite Index
Number of Schools                                         Schools                     15 298     15531     15551       15603    15610     15747     15786        4 751     4817      4874        4916      4978       5050      5104
Number of School Sites                                    Sites                       41 150     40283     39467       38839    38250     37796     37034       18 546    18055     17919       17819     17742      17587     17246
Composite FSQL Input Index (FII) to compare overall                                     62,1     65,0                                                             54,0     57,6
                                                          FII                                               67,8        68,9     69,6      70,9      71,4                            60,7         62,4      63,4      67,2      68,3
progress towards achieving FSQL            (note *)
A: School Organization and Management: Principals         and deputy principals
All principals and deputy principals should be trained    Total PVP                    33670     34528     34013       34294    33078     34273     33747       10113     10423     10426       10630     10299      10961    10923
in school management skills; have a good
understanding of the basic content of state               PVP_Train >=5 days           24210      2918      2676        3174     4012      5855      6664        5998       787       817        1240      1568       2644     2004
management activities in education and training,          % PVP_Train                 71,9%      8,5%      7,9%        9,3%    12,1%     17,1%     19,0%       59,3%      7,6%      7,8%       11,7%     15,2%     24,1%     18,3%
primary education objectives and plans, and subject-      PVP Under 9+3                  757       497       292         229      173       137        63         402       256       165         143       109         77       61
related matter, syllabus and planning. FSQL-48 only:      PVP 9+3                       5130      4602      3635        3042     2437      2002      1640        3253      3011      2467        2130      1753       1498     1239
Principals and Vice-P. should meet the minimum
training qualification standard of 12+2                   % 12+2 or higher            82,5%    85,2%      88,5%      90,5%     92,1%     93,8%     95,0%       63,9%     68,7%     74,8%       78,6%     81,9%     85,6%     89,0%

B: School Organization and Management: Management implementation and effectiveness
Each school must have a school development plan
                                                      Schools with SDP                            8511      7626        6937     8756      7230      8710                  2557      2244        1966      2528       2691     3198
and measures to implement the plan and monitor
progress.                                             %Schools with SDP                        54,8%      49,0%      44,5%     56,1%     45,9%     54,0%                 53,1%     46,0%       40,0%     50,8%     53,3%     60,0%
All principals and deputy principals ensure that the  Satellites receiving 3 or
quality of teaching, educational services and         more                         21192         22114     21475       20887    20441     20201     19437       10353     11411     11253       11153     11181      11244    10893
resources in satellite campuses is the same as in the % Satellites receiving 3 or
main campus                                           more                        82,0%        89,3%      89,8%      89,9%     90,3%     91,6%     92,0%       75,0%     86,2%     86,3%       86,5%     87,6%     89,7%     92,0%

C: Teaching Staff: Training qualification standard
All teachers meet the minimum training qualification      Total teacher               361032    359833    347166      342807   323351    345629    337439      113610    111672    108913      107443     96003     109485   104736
standard (9+3) and have basic training in working with
children from diverse backgrounds, including disabled     Under 9+3                    17620    10986       6375       4717      3310      2689      1951        9030      5184      3202        2367      1641      1457       997
children. FSQL-48 only: Teachers should meet the          % 9+3 or over               95,1%    96,9%      98,2%      98,6%     99,0%     99,2%     99,4%       92,1%     95,4%     97,1%       97,8%     98,3%     98,7%     99,0%
minimum training qualification standard of 12+2           9+3 qualified                83719    78025      67195      58759     46874     43360     35938       52388     50695     46072       40856     32598     31144     25957
                                                          % 12+2 or over              71,9%    75,3%      78,8%      81,5%     84,5%     86,7%     88,4%       45,9%     50,0%     54,8%       59,8%     64,3%     70,2%     76,6%

D: Teaching Staff: Continuing and theme-based in-service training
All teachers in schools and their campuses should     Total teacher                   361032    359833    347166      342807   323351    345629    337439      113610    111672    108913      107443     96003     109485   104736
receive at least 5 days of professional training each Received 5 or more days
year on relevant classroom management &               in-service training             231868    154585    161859      142083    79914     89040     82048       76992     57556     55823       48389     26814      31102    25951
                                                      % Received 5 or more
pedagogical topics (developing teaching aids, multi-
                                                      days in-service training
                                                      Received 9 or more days         64,2%    43,0%      46,6%      41,4%     24,7%     25,8%     24,3%       67,8%     51,5%     51,3%       45,0%     27,9%     28,4%     24,8%
grade teaching, extra remediation, Viet. language
strengthening, inclusive education, school-           in-service training
                                                      % Received 9 or more                       83153     94833      104122    86322    133263    105675                 19395     20945       31522     22073      57806    30044
community coordination, etc.).                        days in-service training                 23,1%      27,3%      30,4%     26,7%     38,6%     31,3%                 17,4%     19,2%       29,3%     23,0%     52,8%     28,7%

E: Physical Infrastructure: Schools and Classrooms
The classroom for all main schools and their              Total CR                    216910    223890    221148      222121   222790    225300    230815       70813     70950     69450       69800     70859      72052    73869
campuses should be of solid construction (walls,          CR OK                       140226    136909    143526      150711   155996    163501    158614       35541     34353     36663       39568     43223      46614    46714
floors and roofs) and with adequate natural lighting.
Schools and classrooms must be accessible to              %CR OK                      64,7%    61,2%      64,9%      67,9%     70,0%     72,6%     68,7%       50,2%     48,4%     52,8%       56,7%     61,0%     64,7%     63,2%
All schools and their campuses should be located in       Sites with WW                11262     16910     17580       18442    19424     20956     21388        2559      4623      5068        5679      6606       7845     8087
places that are quiet, dry and accessible to all
students. Schools must have no houses and shops           % Sites with WW             27,4%    42,0%      44,5%      47,5%     50,8%     55,5%     63,2%       13,8%     25,6%     28,3%       31,9%     37,2%     44,6%     50,9%
inside the precinct area. Schools must have wells or      Sites with WD                 9351     11248     12118       13710    16308     18129     18095        1034      1327      1712        2974      5182       6448     6062
other clean water sources and latrines
                                                          % Sites with WD             22,7%    27,9%      30,7%      35,3%     42,6%     48,0%     54,9%        5,6%      7,3%      9,6%       16,7%     29,2%     36,7%     36,8%
                                                          Sites with Toilets           14223    15645      16562      17388     18670     20654     21802        3186      3757      4372        5092      6146      7661      8611
                                                          % Sites with Toilets        34,6%    38,8%      42,0%      44,8%     48,8%     54,7%     63,4%       17,2%     20,8%     24,4%       28,6%     34,6%     43,6%     54,1%
FSQL-48 only: All schools and their campuses              Sites with TT                 9079     10379     11391       12370    13529     14910     16076        1628      1968      2372        2860      3695       4730     5358
should separate teacher toilets and a playground
                                                          % Sites with TT             22,1%    25,8%      28,9%      31,9%     35,4%     39,5%     48,7%        8,8%     10,9%     13,2%       16,1%     20,8%     26,9%     34,9%
                                                          Sites with PG                30539     36370     33993       33679    33336     33220     32856       11408     15593     14355       14375     14507      14613    14472
                                                          % Sites with PG             74,2%    90,3%      86,1%      86,7%     87,2%     87,9%     90,6%       61,5%     86,4%     80,1%       80,7%     81,8%     83,1%     85,6%
F: Physical Infrastructure: Classrooms Equipment
All classrooms should be equipped with the                Total CR                    216910    223890    221148      222121   222790    225300    230815       70814     70950     69450       69800     70859      72052    73869
following: one blackboard, teacher’s desk and chair,      CR with BB Good              74334    110137    127849      202689   210161    217113    222926        8011     17433     21423       56910     61801      32862    68528
sufficient desk and chair for students, a
(transportable) storage box or locker for instructional   % CR with BB Good           34,3%    49,2%      57,8%      91,2%     94,3%     96,4%     91,2%       11,3%     24,6%     30,8%       81,6%     87,2%     90,7%     92,8%
materials and teaching aids.                              CR with TD Good              81529    102901    108982      123529   138014    150590    164939       10979     16757     18417       22522     29976      35738    42669
                                                          % CR with TD Good           37,6%    46,0%      49,3%      55,6%     61,9%     66,8%     71,5%       15,5%     23,6%     26,5%       32,3%     42,3%     49,6%     57,8%
                                                          Standard Student Desks               2838641   3337990     3811258   4195474   4513594   5033211               468538    562118      639836    785732     906183   1114667
                                                          % standard Student
                                                          Desks                                42,3%      50,3%      57,2%     62,8%     66,8%     62,8%                 22,0%     27,0%       30,6%     37,0%     42,1%     50,7%
                                                          CR with BS Good              71230     67573     90048      125634   140023    149276    140023        6653      5613     10487       20665     27393      32862    35284

                                                          % CR with BS Good           32,8%    30,2%      40,7%      56,6%     62,8%     66,3%     62,8%        9,4%      7,9%     15,1%       29,6%     38,7%     45,8%     46,5%




                                                                                                              41
G: Basic te aching e quipme nt and aids
Each school and campus has at the minimum             T otal Classes           166282      157521   277377   275594   268409   268507   268093    72822    67601     93843    95334    92212    92979    92312
one set of teaching aids and instructional
materials per grade (class)                           Classes with R_aids      124290      127095   230515   239584   238146   235739   238625    46005    49766     75839    80151    80245    80825    80533
                                                      % Classes with R_aids     74.7%      80.7%    83.1%    86.9%    88.7%    87.8%    89.0%    63.2%     73.6%    80.8%    84.1%    87.0%    86.9%    87.2%
                                                      Classes with M_aids      124743      126457   232411   241738   240739   237054   240166    46109    49347     76793    81311    81587    81381    81400
                                                      % Classes with M_aids     75.0%      80.3%    83.8%    87.7%    89.7%    88.3%    89.6%    63.3%     73.0%    81.8%    85.3%    88.5%    87.5%    88.2%
Each school and campus has 1 set of                   Classes with R_Supp       73170       72754   149925   145810   149098   158854   162830    15331    17405     35918    34723    37763    46685    47383
supplementary reading materials (SRM)                 % Classes with R_Supp     44.0%      46.2%    54.1%    52.9%    55.6%    59.2%    60.7%    21.1%     25.7%    38.3%    36.4%    41.0%    50.2%    51.3%
       i t t      h    d t    ht
Each teacher in every school and campus has 1          T otal T eacher         312678      359833   347166   342807   323351   345629   337439   100223   111672    108913   107443    96003   109485   104736
set of teacher supplies (ruler, scissors, chalk,      T eacher have T _supp    257579      288977   295378   286279   268030   285317   285377    82858    90842     92967    93688    82276    95848    90348
paper, pen) at all schools and their campuses.        % T eacher have
                                                      T _supp                   82.4%      80.3%    85.1%    83.5%    82.9%    82.6%    84.6%    82.7%     81.3%    85.4%    87.2%    85.7%    87.5%    86.3%
Each teacher at every school campus has 1 full  T eacher have T _Guid          291165      274670   291136   279055   262603   279687   277640    91365    87183     93248    92934    80648    92940    86592
set of textbooks, teaching manuals and teacher
                                               T _Guid                          93.1%      76.3%    83.9%    81.4%    81.2%    80.9%    82.3%    91.2%     78.1%    85.6%    86.5%    84.0%    84.9%    82.7%
g ides per grade ta ght
H: Basic le arning mate rials and aids for stude nts
Each student has one set of textbooks          T otal Student                  8102085 7738947 7278187 7019807 6800991 6724886 6866687 2403994 2249428 2120518 2032722 1957430 1926406 1937738
(mathematics and Vietnamese).
                                               Student no Sbook                187567      270101   184640   144491   121876    87712    88675   132763   170741    132459   111791    83273    59701    55747
                                                      % Student have Sbook      97.7%      96.5%    97.5%    97.9%    98.2%    98.7%    98.7%    94.5%     92.4%    93.8%    94.5%    95.7%    96.9%    97.1%
All students in schools and campuses should be        Student no SStat          97540      163276   112786   120486    79254    75271    58500    74841   115799     87561   101526    62333    58364    36692
equipped with a minimum set of learning
                                                      % Student have SStat      98.8%      97.9%    98.5%    98.3%    98.8%    98.9%    99.1%    96.9%     94.9%    95.9%    95.0%    96.8%    97.0%    98.1%
supplies including notebooks and pencils
All ethnic minority students will be provided         T otal Ethnic Student             1438956 1365489 1296646 1244712 1220144 1221032                   953147    911626   867649   827303   811298   751502
with Vietnamese language strengthening (VLS)          EVLS                                84371   79728   64679   61271   88772   88942                    54159     58336    47238    43029    70042    67560
materials.                                            % Ethnic Student have
                                                      EVLS                                  5.9%     5.8%     5.0%     4.9%     7.3%     7.3%               5.7%     6.4%     5.4%     5.2%     8.6%     9.0%

I: Imple me ntation of Education Socializ ation Policy: Stre ngthe ning organization
All school campuses establish individual parent Sites with PT A         33407   14451                33872    35549    35345    35321    34833    13656     5267     16435    17141    17042    17079    16748
associations. (2004 definition Y/N only, 2005
                                                 % Sites with PT A     81.2%    35.9%               85.8%    91.5%    92.4%    93.5%    93.4%    73.6%     29.2%    91.7%    96.2%    96.1%    97.1%    96.6%
definition site specific PT A)
PA at all schools and campuses carry out regular Sites with..                   30712               33419     33676    33625    33984    33693             12682     15624    15809    15963    16322    16109
and efficient activities in terms of cooperating % Sites with..                 76.2%               84.7%    86.7%    87.9%    89.9%    96.7%              70.2%    87.2%    88.7%    90.0%    92.8%    96.2%
  ith h l t        propaganda t
Schools organize d t t d activities in           Sites with..                   15716               16943     17254    18053    19131    19249               4253     4992    5158      5747     6506     6479
various forms to raise the community awareness % Sites with..                   39.0%               42.9%    44.4%    47.2%    50.6%    57.8%              23.6%    27.9%    29.0%    32.4%    37.0%    41.3%
J: Education O utcome s: Ge ne ral Re gulations
T he National primary school curriculum should Number of Classes                            2217     3432      4401      897    6911      1394              1041      1376    1457       427     2522      366
be used for teaching and learning in school    % Classes                                    1.4%     2.3%     2.9%     0.6%     4.6%     0.9%               1.5%     2.1%     2.2%     0.7%     3.8%     0.5%
Ensure the implementation of the universal            Number of site                       30529    31382     30837   30991     31848   31675              13455     14123    13973   14310     15019    14982
primary completion and illiteracy eradication         % site                               75.8%    79.5%    79.4%    81.0%    84.3%    85.7%              74.5%    78.8%    78.4%    80.7%    85.4%    87.0%
tasks in localities; develop a plan for right age
  h l       ll                 h      bl     f
K: Education O utcome s Statistics
Universal Enrolment and Gender Equity,                Rate (NER)                82.9%      102.9%   100.4%   100.2%    99.8%   100.2%   100.7%   84.7%    101.9%    98.2%    97.4%    97.4%    97.9%     98.7%
Enrolment of Ethnic Minority Children                 2 Female NER                         103.9%   101.4%   101.3%   100.9%   101.3%   101.8%            102.4%    99.0%    98.5%    98.7%    99.2%     99.6%
                                                      3 Ethnic Min. NER                     98.2%    95.9%    95.8%    95.5%    96.3%    94.9%             97.0%    95.1%    94.7%    94.4%    94.2%    102.3%
                                                      4 Gr 5 Survival Rate
System efficency: measures that students pass
                                                      (cohort analysis)         93.3%      89.2%    92.5%    89.8%    92.2%    93.3%    93.5%    82.4%     79.6%    83.0%    80.5%    81.7%    85.6%    88.0%
through the primary school system with the
                                                      5 Gr 1 Repetition rate     2.7%       2.3%     1.8%     2.0%     3.4%     3.6%     3.1%     5.4%      5.1%     3.9%     4.3%     6.6%     6.7%     5.2%
minimum of repetition or dropout
                                                      rate (flow rate)           1.1%       0.8%     0.7%     0.9%     2.0%     1.8%     1.4%     2.5%      2.0%     1.7%     1.9%     3.8%     3.4%     2.5%
                                                      7 T otal Gr1-5 in-year
Within academic year' dropout, comparing
                                                      dropout                               1.9%     0.6%      0.9%    0.7%     0.5%     0.5%               4.5%     1.2%     2.0%     1.4%     1.0%     2.5%
enrolment at the beginning and end of the
                                                      8 Female Gr1-5 'in-                   1.8%     0.5%     0.7%     0.6%     0.4%     0.4%               4.0%     1.0%     1.6%     1.1%     0.8%     1.8%
academic year
Percentage of Child Population Completing             Primary Grads.                                96.8%    94.8%    97.1%    98.2%    96.0%                       92.7%    92.2%    94.8%    96.3%    94.1%
                                                      10 Fem % 14 Year old
Primary Cycle of Education
                                                      Prim.Grads.                                   96.4%    94.6%    95.4%    98.0%    95.9%                       91.8%    91.9%    93.6%    95.7%    93.9%

L: Comple te or C lose By School Site s: (not         ye t include d in FSQ L standards)
All school sites offer all five grades of primary
education at each site through either single or       Complete                  24081       26941    25254    24733    24482    24304    24114     9634    10984     10282    10014    10009     9916    14183
multi-grade tuition.                                  Comp_per                  58.5%      66.9%    64.0%    63.7%    64.0%    64.3%    68.7%    51.9%     60.8%    57.4%    56.2%    56.4%    56.4%    60.6%
All school offer all five grades of primary
                                                      Site                                   2576     2615     2676     2634     2616     2563              2176      2152     2216     2154     2145     2095
education at all sites, except if daily travel is
                                                      % Site                                6.4%     6.6%     6.9%     6.9%     6.9%     5.3%              12.1%    12.0%    12.4%    12.1%    12.2%     9.2%
possible to a nearby complete campus
T ransition of primary curriculum from 175            T otal Student                    7728342 7276464 7017394 6800991 6724886 6870935                   2242040 2120017 2032639 1957430 1926406 1937738
week with 5 'half -day' sessions/week to 'full day'   Full-day schooling                 24.7%    29.5%  34.1%    36.5%  38.5%    36.8%                      7.2%   9.2%   11.9%    15.0%  15.9%   19.1%
schooling with 10 'half -day' sessions/week           6-9 per week                       19.3%    18.9%  19.1%    19.1%  21.0%    24.3%                      5.8%   6.4%    8.7%     9.9%  14.1%   20.2%
(above FSQ L-48 standard, long term policy of         5 per weeak (half-day)             55.9%    51.4%  46.8%    44.3%  40.6%    38.8%                     86.9%  84.3%   79.5%    75.2%  70.1%   60.7%




                                                                                                      42
Annex 3. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

                                                                               Responsibility/
               Names                          Title                  Unit
                                                                                 Specialty
Lending
Christopher J. Thomas     Sr. General Educator                     EASHD    Task team leader
Christopher Shaw          Principal Education Specialist           EACVF
Binh Thanh Vu             Education Officer                        EACVF
Carol Hau-Lai Chen Ball   Proc Accredited Sr. Operations Off       EASHD
Hoi-Chan Nguyen           Senior Counsel                           LEGES
Luis Benveniste           Education Specialist                     EASHD
Peter Moock               Principal Economist                      EASHD
Behdad Nowroozi           Sr. Financial Management Specialist      EASHD
Hung Kim Phung            Sr. Disbursement Officer                 EAPCO
Hung Viet Le              Financial Management Officer             EACVF
Kathy Li Tow Ngow         Program Assistant                        EASHD
Hoai Linh Nguyen Team     Assistant                                EACVF
Chandra Chakravarthi      Team Assistant                           EASHD
Nga Quynh Nguyen          Team Assistant                           EACVF
Sabrina G. Terry          Program Assistant                        EASHD
DFID staff
Steve Passingham          Senior Education Advisor
Lindy Cameron             Governance Advisor
Peter Owen                Senior Governance Advisor
Peter Balacs              Senior Economic Advisor
Adam Burke                Sociologist
CIDA
Marvin Lamoureux          Ed. Planning, Policy &Adm.
Bruce Howell              Development Officer
Camille R. Baudot         First Secretary of Canadian Embassy in
                          Vietnam
AusAID
John Scheding             Education Advisor
Fiona Tarpey              Program Officer
Supervision/ICR
Bank Staff
Binh Thanh Vu             Sr. Education Specialist                 EASHD    Task Team Leader
Sylvester Kofi Awanyo     Lead Procurement Specialist              EAPPR    Procurement
Nguyet Minh Nguyen        Program Assistant                        EACVF    Team Assistance
Cesar Palma Banzon        Program Assistant                        GSDDR    Team Assistance
Quynh Xuan Thi Phan       Financial Officer                        GEF      FM
An Thi My Tran            Education Spec.                          EASHE    Education
Robert J. Gilfoyle        Sr Financial Management Specialist       EAPFM    FM
Hoai Van Nguyen           Procurement Specialist                   EAPPR    Procurement
Carol Chen Ball           Consultant                               EASHD    Proc. and operation
Ha Thuy Tran              Financial Management Specialist          EAPFM    FM
John Malmborg             Consultant                               ECSHD    School construction
Jennifer K. Thomson       Manager, Financial Management            SARFM    FM


                                               43
Luis Benveniste               Lead Education Specialist            DECWD     Education
Daniel M. Mont                Senior Poverty Specialist            EASPR     Poverty and equity
Charlotte Vuyiswa McClain-
                              Senior Operations Officer            HDNSP     Inclusive education
Nhlapo
Jeffrey Waite                 Lead Education Specialist            MNSHE     Education
Rie Kijima                    Consultant                           EASHD     M&E
Thong Quang Tran              Financial Management Specialist                FM
Niel L Baumgart               Consultant                                     Education
Linh Van Nguyen               Program Assistant                    EAPCO     Team Assistance
Le Viet Hung                  Financial Specialist                 EAPCO     FM
Non-Bank Staff
Bridget Crumpton              Education Advisor                    DFID
Maris ORouke                  International Consultant             DFID
Brian Allemekinders           First secretary - Development        CIDA
Dang Mai Dung                 Development Advisor                  Norway Embassy- Hanoi
Le Anh Thao                   Education and Social Sector Co       CIDA
Steve Passingham              Sr. Education Advisor                DFID
Vo Thanh Son                  Sr. Program Officer                  DFID
Marvin Lamoureux              Consultant                           CIDA
Nguyen Hong Giang             Program Advisor                      NORAD
Hildegunn Olsen               Program Officer                      NORAD
Nora Fyles                    Education Specialist                 CIDA
Camille Baudot                Staff                                CIDA
Marianne Karlsen              Staff                                NORAD
Bruce Howell                  Sr. Development Officer              CIDA

(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
     Stage of Project Cycle                              Total USD (including travel and
                              No. of staff weeks
                                                                consultant costs)

     Lending                                 158,31                                 488 698,3

     Supervision/ICR                         198,26                                 778 912,8

             Total:                          356,57                               1 267 611,1




                                                 44
Annex 4. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

              EVALUATION OF PEOPLE’S COMMITTEES OF PROVINCES
                       BENEFITING FROM THE PROJECT

     1. ?ồng Tháp province
    “ The project meets important objectives of mobilizing students to school, maintaining regular
attendace, decreasing drop-out rate; contributing to enhance management capacity of education managers
and renovating teaching methods towards active and individualized teaching for teachers of primary
schools; especially helping disadvantaged students, disabled students of satellite campuses in isolated,
remote and border areas attend class, to ensure rights and duties of children in accordance with
International Convention, and strengthening and mobilizing power, role and responsibility of community
in taking care of education development career in local areas.
... ?ồng Tháp People’s Committee requests the PCU to consult, propose MOET to continue investing,
expanding the project, supporting primary schools in ?ồng Tháp (not only 3 districts of the project) to
participate in other projects to enhance quality of primary education and develop education development
career of the province.?
                                       Trần Thị Thái – Deputy Manager of province People’s Committee

2. Bạc Liêu province
   “The project achieved the set targets, including supporting schools to take care of, encourage, help
disadvantaged students, poor students, homeless students, ethnic minority students, especially disabled
children go to school and complete the primary curriculum; improve infrastructure, enhance teaching and
learning quality; support primary schools to achieve FSQL in accordance with Decision No. 55/2007/
Q?- BGD?T dated 28/9/2007 of the Minister of Education and Training. And the project contributes
much to Bạc Liêu province’s result of achieving universalization of school-aged primary education and
maintain, consolidate results of universal primary education- anti-illiteracy.
         Bạc Liêu People’s Committee expects MOET and donors to continue implementing other new
  projects in disadvantaged provinces.?
                                         Vũ Văn H?a - Deputy Manager of province People’s Committee

 3. Phú Yên
    “The project is implemented in Phú Yên in a timely and considerate manner and achieved good
results. Based on monitoring results, quality of teaching and management in the two districts participating
the project is enhanced remarkably. Staff and people of the two mountainous areas of Sơn Hòa, Sông
Hinh districts are very happy and in favor of activities of the project implemented following guidance of
MOET.?
                                         Lê Kim Anh - Deputy Manager of province People’s Committee
    4. Quảng Bình province
   “Despite many difficulties during the implementation period, effectiveness brough about by the project
is very practical in creating conditions and opportunities for development of primary education in the
disadvantaged areas, gradually decrease gap in education quality among different areas in the province,
contribute to implement equality in education for children, especially disadvantaged areas, which really
creates considerable changes in primary education quality in the ethnic minority area of Minh Hóa district,
Quảng Bình province.
   The province proposes MOET to continue developing other programs, projects to support
disadvantaged areas in increasingly approaching general education quality nationwide, meeting
requirements for intellectual enhancement, human training for the country’s industrialization and
modernization.?
                                    Nguyễn ?ảng – Deputy Manager of province People’s Committee


                                                    45
5. Khánh Hoà Province
    “We appreciate the effectiveness of the project implemented in Khanh Hoa province. Through the
criteria achieved in terms of the quality of the two districts, education of Khanh Hoa district is improved
and enhanced. With support funding of more than 7 billion of the project, the whole province constructed
48 classrooms, 20 teachers, 19 toilets, and 20 water tanks for 20/64 schools, newly-constructed schools.
Especially, Khanh Vinh district was selected as one of three provinces conducting pilot of Exemplary
Inclusive Education Service – the mode helps underprivileged children have opportunities to study and
benefit from quality learning. The project has facilitated more than 6,000 ethnic minority children in the
two mountainous districts of Khanh Son, Khanh Vinh of Khanh Hoa to have opportunities to go to school
and benefit from quality learning, minimize the number of drop-out students at the primary cycle. The
project conducted training for 100% of primary education managers and teachers of the two project’s
districts about pedagogic skills and enhanced awareness of community about education, children are
direct beneficiaries, parents and communities aslo indirectly benefit from the project in terms of physical
and emotional aspects.
    In the period to come, we will use the local budget to continue maintaining sustainability and
effectiveness of the project such as enhancing construction of infrastructure of satellite campuses,
developing policies on maintaining Teaching Assistants, implementing well school maintenance,
strengthening quality of teachers, maintaining exemplary inclusive education service to increasingly
increase primary education quality of the province.?
                                       Lê Xuân Thân – Deputy Manager of province People’s Committee

6. Hà Giang province
“ The project is one of projects implemented in the province with a long-time implementation, most strict
and effective management mechanism.
Infrastructure of satellite sites of the province is improved remarkably, classrooms were built solidly and
beautifully.
 The project contributed to enhancing management capacity, developing primary school plans for
education managers, strengthening teaching capacity and methods for teachers, improving primary
education quality; especially quality of Vietnamese teaching and learning, decreasing rate of children with
poor learning results, contributing to establish friendly school and active students. The project helps
change basically community’s awareness about letting their children to attend class.
After the project ends, the province proposes MOET to continue supporting budget to maintain Teaching
Assistant of the satellite sites and equip teaching and learning aids, equipments for students to learn and
enhance Vietnamese communication skills for next grades.?
                                     Nguyễn Văn Sơn – Deputy Manager of province People’s Committee

7. Bình ?ịnh province
“The project’s activities bring about positive effectiveness: most of primary teachers are provided with
materials, training, implementation and application of advanced teaching and learning methods. Campus
Support Fund supports pysically (not by money) for poor and disadvantaged students....contributes to
enhancing learning quality, mobilizing students to go to school, consolidating results of school-aged
universal primary education. Teaching Assistants cooperate well with teachers in the satellite sites to
conduct the School Readiness program for pre-school children; through this program, ethnic minority
students have good preparation before entering Grade 1; Teaching Assistants help maintain regular
attendance , mobilize students to go to school. With investment scope of 16,5 BVND (103 classrooms
were renovated, 58 classrooms, 27 teacher’s rooms, 25 toilets and 27 clean water works were newly built),
PEDC contributed much to improving learning environment in the two districts benefiting from the
Project. Based on DFA results in 2010, Vĩnh Thạnh district had 10/10 schools achieving FSQL, Vân
Canh district had 9/9 schools achieving FSQL – important foundations to help schools develop towards
national standard schools.



                                                    46
In spite of many difficulties during the implementation period, effectivess of the project is very significant.
The project contributes to gradually decreasing gap in primary education quality among different areas.
And for a central province like Bình ?ịnh, the project creates a leverage in enhancing primary education
quality in the disadvantaged areas in particular and the education quality of the province in general.?
                             Nguyễn Thị Thanh Bình – Deputy Manager of province People’s Committee

8. Quảng Ninh Province
    “Investment results of the project help 100% of satellite sites of 4 disadvantaged districts achieve
FSQL fundamentally, creating favorable conditions for teachers and students to enhance teaching and
learning quality. The project contributes much to enhancing awareness of community and parents and
school-aged universal primary education.
   Quảng Ninh province People’s Committee highly appreciates investment effectiveness of the project
and continues guiding Department of Education and Training, People’s Committees of disadvantaged
districts and cities participating in the project to take advantage of the project’s results to enhance
education quality, especially for disadvantaged children.
The province People’s Committee would like to express gratitude to MOET, WB and the PCU for
concerning and supporting resources for Quảng Ninh and provide guidance for the province to make use
of invested resources, and the province proposes MOET, WB and related agencies to continue creating
resources for Quảng Ninh in the coming period.?
                                      ?ặng Huy Hậu – Deputy Manager of province People’s Committee

9. Cao Bằng Province
   “The PEDC Project is a big project of MOET. Thanks to borrowing, donation capital and counter-part
fund, the project invested directly into addressing most difficult issues relating to development and
renovation of education of Cao Bằng, especially the primary education in the mountainous, isolated and
remote areas of the province.
   The project’s traning activities contribute to strengthening capacity of education mangers and teachers,
changing awareness about education for different types of students; developing professional development
activities for managers and teachers, then gradually improve education quality. Training contents for
community help develop community’s awareness, and create opportunities for political and social
organizations in the local area to pay more attention to the primary education for disadvantaged children,
and education socialization have more practical activities and enhance the primary education.
   Provision of equipments, text-books and teaching, learning aids, support of clothes and food for
students annually helps decrease difficulties faced by schools and students of satellite sites; increase the
number of students attending class, decrease drop-out rate, enhance quality of the primary education.
 Teaching Assistant working in the satellite sites is a positive activity to mobilize students to go to school,
maintain regular attendance and enhance teaching and learning quality.
In conclusion, all activities of the project relating to construction, training, support of satellite sites,
classrooms, students help satellite sites in the disadvantaged areas achieve FSQL, create more friendly
and favorable learning environment and conditions, then gradually strengthen quality of the primary
education in Cao Bằng.?
                                       ?àm Văn Eng – Deputy Manager of province People’s Committee

10. Kiên Giang province
    “Support of the project for the past years brings about noticeable changes in education quality and
school infrastructure of Kien Giang. Along with concern and efforts to take care of education of
authorities,communities and teachers, up to now, education sector of Kiên Giang has been changed
positively. Mobilization of children to go to school exceed the set target; rate of 6 year-old children
attending class increases year by year; repetition and drop-out rates decrease and the number of students
learning 2 sessions per day and 5 sessions per week increases satisfactorily.




                                                     47
   Kiên Giang People’s Committee expresses sincere gratitude for the project’s support and will continue
directing the provincial education sector to uphold achievements of the project.?
                                   ?ặng Công Huân – Deputy Manager of province People’s Committee

11. Yên Bái province
    “ After 7 years of implementing the project, the achievements gained through the project’s programs
has good impacts on education and training effectiveness. Specifically, infrastructure, especially
enhancement of satellite sites, managers and teachers are trained about teaching theory and methods that
are suitable for disadvantaged children. That disabled children attending inclusive classes has good
influences on the society, contribute to conducting the learning right of children; education quality of
primary schools has been improved considerably.
    We propose MOET to continue directing and providing specific guidance on maintaing Teaching
Assistant and VLS programs in the primary schools of the mountainous border areas where have a lot of
ethnic minority students after the project ends?.
                                Phạm Thị Thanh Trà – Deputy Manager of province People’s Committee

12. Sơn La Province
         “After 7 years of implementing the project in Sơn La, accompanying with other programs and
projects that invest into education, the project has positive impacts, education quality and effectiveness
are increased gradually, and more sustainably.
   Access ability to the primary education of families and communities is enhanced; quality of the
primary education of the province is increasingly improved and strengthened, contributing to universal
lower secondary education. Sơn La was recognized to achieve universal school – aged primary education
standard in 2008. Infrastructure to achieve FSQL has been improved, the number of concretized
classrooms increases. And equipments for teaching and learning are basically ensured?.
                                 Nguyễn Ng?c Toa - Deputy Manager of province People’s Committee

13. Bình Thuận Province
        “After 7 years of implementing the project in the province, Bình Thuận People’s Committee
would like to have some comments as follows:
  1. Focus on investment into satellite sites and disadvantaged children of the project is completely
proper, contributing much to decrease gap in education development among different regions, and create
equal learning among different students.
  2.Contents, forms and methods of mobilization of communities in setting up and developing education
in the local area contribute much to establishing friendly, safe and healthy learning environment,
especially thorugh CSF and continue learning until completion of the primary education cycle.
 3. Initiative of recruiting TA who supports Grade 1 teachers to teach ethnic minority students is good,
which helps the local area partially address Grade 1 learning quality for ethnic minority students.
  Bình Thuận People’s Committee proposes the PCU to submit proposal to MOET for scaling-up of
some activities after the project ends:
        - Recruit TAs for satellite sites that have at least 10 Grade 1 ethnic minority students.
        - Maintain “Campus Support Fund? in the disadvantaged areas.?
                                        Hồ Dũng Nhật - Deputy Manager of province People’s Committee

14. An Giang Province
        “After 7 years of implementing the project in the province, effectiveness of the project is good:
training activities about DFA, TA, professional development activities for managers-teachers and



                                                   48
PTA...help enhance management capacity for education management levels in planning and
implementing plans, increase knowledge and skills for teachers in the disadvantaged areas and take
advantage of role of PTA in supporting inclusive education, school maintenance and beautify teaching
and learning environment, support disadvantaged students...
        To sum up, investment effectiveness of the project to An Giang is very significant, contributing to
strengthening teaching and learning quality of the primary education in the province?.
                                       Lê Minh Tùng - Deputy Manager of province People’s Committee

15. Long An Province
     After 7 years of implementing the project in the province, the project helps enhance mobilization rate
with high results: rate of 6-14 year old enrolled for attending class is 99,2% (increase 2,08%), rate of 6-14
year old attending class is 99,7% (increase 2,585%). Rate of disabled children in the inclusive educations
is 72,8% (increase 24,15%). Rate if children with good and excellent performance increases, repetition
and drop-out rates decrease, completion rate is rather high (98,6%, increase 2,33% compared to 5 years
ago), helping the province achieve completion rate of more than 99%. Disadvantaged districts have 28
schools achieving FSQL (increase 46,6% compared to 5 years ago).
     The province People’s Committee would like to express sincere thanks to the PCU, MOET for their
valuable, meaning and practical support for the primary education of Long An in general and of 4 districts
in particular.
    In the coming period, the province People’s Committee proposes MOET to allow the province to
continue participating in other education projects of MOET, to help education and training sector of the
province have more conditions for development, and contribute to implementing successfully targets of
socio-development for the period of 2011-2015 of the province in accordance with the Communist Party’s
Resolution.
                                    Trần Hữu Phước- Deputy Manager of province People’s Committee




                                                     49
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

COMMENTS ON ICR AND RESULTS OF CREDIT AGREEMENT FOR THE PEDC PROJECT
We agree and highly appreciate the draft report prepared by the World Bank. The report evaluates the
implementation and results of the project logically and reasonably.
The PEDC Project is a big project of Government of Vietnam in the education sector in terms of scope,
time, budget and beneficiary of the project. The Project helps consolidate achievement of Universal
Primary Education – anti-illiteracy as well as enhance quality of universalization, especially ethnic
minority students, poor students in the mountainous, isolated areas of Vietnam. The objective of the
project is to strengthen access and quality of primary education for disadvantaged children, which create
favorable conditions and support Vietnam in implementing targets included in the plan for Education for
All of GOV.
MOET received positive evaluation opinions from People’s Committees of provinces benefiting from the
Project (attached with summary of evaluation opinions of managers of some People’s Committees
benefiting from the Project). This shows success and high feasibility of investment into the project at
local areas.
The Project development objectives are considered strong foundations for enhancing and renovating
education quality equally for different types of students, local areas nationwide. MOET will continue
sustaining the PEDC Project’s initiatives to make them become integrated into policies and mechanisms
of the education sector.
We agree with specific performance rating of the World Bank and the borrower at the satisfactory level.
Specific, detailed comments and feedback to supplement and adjust the report is attached.
                                                           Nguyễn Vinh Hiển, Vice Minister of MOET,
                                                                           The project National Director

  A- The project implementation

    1- Infrastructure

    - The initial construction phase of the project needed from 18 to 22 months to be completed and
    handed-over. However, due to changes in civil works procedures and processes in the last period, it
    took only after from 6 to 8 months to lidiquate construction contracts. Basic reasons are as follows:
    - Replace National competitive bidding with 3 quotation method and increase ceiling level of
        procurement package value.
    - Each civil work contract was paid by 100% of borrowing capital or counter-part fund.
    - Contracts of civil work service are voluntarily paid through school concretization program fund
        by local areas.

    - In the period of 2007-2008, because Vietnam was influenced by global economic regression, value
of construction works was escalated, which caused many difficulties to contractors. Construction works
using GOV capital are compensated for price escalation, but the project’s construction work contracts’s
values were not changed, therefore, thousands of classroom were constructed incompletely, which
couldn’t meet demands for enough classrooms of schools.




                                                   50
    2- Counter-part fund

    Lack of counter-part fund only happened in the initial period of the project. However, in 2011,
Government arranged more than 2 million USD at the same time to pay for contractors in a timely manner.
Moreover, the Project refunded 18 billion VND to Ministry of Planning and Investment due to not being
used up.

  B- Implementation of New School Model (VNEN)

 - Although it is the new activity added at the end of 2009, VNEN has been paid due attention to by
many entities from education research agencies to local areas conducting the pilot.

- VNEN model is not only adaptive in areas lacking resources and having children who face difficulties in
accessing primary education but also paves a new way for reforming education and enhancing quality of
school after 2015.




                                                   51
Annex 6. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

From DFID
 John has asked me to provide comments on the draft ICR report. I was involved in the PEDC project
design at the beginning but my job was changed and I did not know anything about this project until later
last year when I joined a review mission to Cao Bang and was very impressive with the changes this
project had brought to primary education in remote and mountainous areas. Congratulations! I have a few
comments below:
 1. The draft report is very comprehensive. It covers project objectives, what have been achieved and
how to make the project achievements sustainable. I however think it would be useful to
have an Executive Summary of key achievements and what have not been achieved so a quick skim
would give people some flavours of the project because the report is quite long. However I understand
this is the World Bank set format and you can not do so but is it possible to make a separate Executive
Summary as an additional part?
 2. I would like to see the lesson learned part (point 6) to be extended to cover key lessons of the project.
The report mentions lots of lessons under the key factors affecting Implementation and Outcomes (point
2) but I would have thought that these lessons (good or bad) should be captured under the final lessons
learned session. I also think we need to go deeper here to learn lesson for future: what were the issues and
what could have been done to avoid them. For example slow progress at the beginning: was this
because of unrealistic targets or because of management issues, if this is the later then what and where i.e.
at what level and what could have been done. The problem of slow fund transfer is because of central
level, provincial level or district level etc. There might be other bad lessons as well. I remember visited
some schools in my trip to Cao Bang where they built toilets but there is no water so it can't be used. They
should have built other type of toilets etc.
 Point 2.5 on post -completed operation/next steps: Should there be clearer responsibilities and time
bound for example funding for DFA under SEQAP: what the project will fund and when it should be
done and how to make it sustainable in the long run after SEQAP etc? or the use of training materials or
resources developed under PEDC what are MOET/DOET/BOET roles in this process. I remember in my
trip to Cao Bang in one district people mentioned about two trainers that were recruited and worked under
PEDC and a number of Training Assistants. They did not think at that time that they will be able to use
them in future because they don't have money to pay them. If they really want it they surely will find fund
somewhere. This is a matter of prioritizing and BOET/DOET could surely do something about that.
Best regards, Hue.
                                                  Nguyen Thi Hue - HR/Office Manager, DFID Vietnam
From CIDA
Thank you for the opportunity to comment on the PEDC-ICR. Overall, I find the report to be strong.
Some comments on how the report could be improved:
 a) include an Executive Summary (highlighting key results achieved, lessons learned,
and recommendation for the GoV for ensuring sustainability of results in terms of access to education for
disadvantaged children)
b) under section 6. Lessons Learned - add any relevant lessons learned during the implementation phase
(e.g. how to ensure coordination/cooperation within MOET, between other line relevant Ministries)
c) under section 3.2 Achievement of Outcomes - highlight any significant variance between expected and
actual results
d) Government of Vietnam financial/in-kind contributions - add information on GoV/MOET performance
in this area during project implementation



                                                     52
e) It would be also useful for the ICR to make some links with the key points/recommendations in the
December Aide Memoire, possibly under the Sustainability section of the ICR
We look forward to the revised ICR. Thank you. Regards, Graham.
                                           Graham Dattels - Senior Development Officer, CIDA Vietnam
From NORAD
Thank you for sharing with us the draft final report of this important project. Congratulations to the good
work of the project team. In line with NORAD’s reporting guidelines, it would be useful if the final report
could also provide brief description of
    ?   The expected sustainability of the achieved results;
    ?   The risk factors identified before and during project implementation and management, including
        financial irregularities, corruption, etc. and how these were handled;
    ?   The follow-up of the project, if relevant;
    ?   The project’s effects on gender equality;
    ?   If relevant, to what extend the project has collaborated with other relevant educational
        programmes in the project sites (if any) to maximize the project’s impact. For instance, Inclusive
        Education (for Children With Disabilities) and Mother Tongue-based Bilingual Education (for
        Ethnic Minority Children) Programmes in Vietnam.
And, Executive Summary with main Findings, Lessons Learnt, and Recommendations would also be very
useful.
Thank you very much. Best regards,
 Le T.Thuy Huong - Programme Officer/Development Adviser, Royal Norwegian Embassy in Vietnam




                                                     53
Annex 7. Executive Summary

From May 2003 until end 2010, the Government of Vietnam implemented the Primary Education for
Disadvantaged Children Project (PEDC, the Project) under the coordination of the Ministry of Education
and Training (MoET). The Government counted on financing from the International Development
Association (the World Bank, the Bank) in the amount of SDR 101.4 million (equivalent to
approximately US$138.8 million) and from a Multi-Donor Trust Fund between Vietnam and IDA, acting
as Administrator of Grant funds provided by the Governments of Australia (A$1.485 million), Canada
(C$14.355 million), the Kingdom of Norway (NOK113.8 million) and the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland (£24.7 million) to complement its own financing. Bank policies require that
an Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) be prepared for each lending operation it
finances This Executive Summary presents the highlights of the ICR. It is not an exhaustive summary of
each of the sections of the ICR, but a short summary highlighting the main aspects of the PEDC and its
implementation to appreciate and understand those factors that influenced the Project’s many
achievements, and to learn from them.
Background
At the time the Project was prepared, Vietnam had made excellent progress in the development of its
education system. In the previous ten years, it had met ambitious targets set through its Education for all
(EFA) program, raising net enrollment rates at the primary level from about 80-86% in 1990/91 to nearly
94% in 1999/2000. It had also shown good improvement in a number of its internal efficiency indicators,
such as repetition and dropout rates. The Government had acknowledged and made a commitment to
universal, high quality basic education and had set, and largely achieved, a target of allocating 20% of the
national budget to education, and had channeled significant funds from the education budget to nationally
targeted programs in poor areas. The National Targeted Program on Education (NTP-E), one of eleven
National Targeted Programs19, was intended to support the achievement of Vietnam’s 2010 Education
Strategy and its EFA goals and targets for improved access, quality and efficiency in education services.
Support for the education of ethnic minorities and in disadvantaged regions was one of the
subcomponents of the NTP-E. Yet, a serious financing gap still existed in disadvantaged areas, and there
was an identified need to meet the physical, instructional material and training needs in more than 4,000
schools and 14,000 teaching sites that were below basic standards and received little or no investment
support. While the country had met its initial UPE goals of 80% net enrollment in 90% of communes,
two large challenges remained: the problems of reaching outstanding communes and the un-reached
children needed to be addressed, and the educational quality of the overall system needed improvement to
allow it to progressively approach and ultimately meet national and international quality standards. At the
ten-year review of its EFA program, Vietnam recognized that there were still many children left behind
by the primary system, and that failing to educate all children and failing to educate them to an adequate
level of quality would put the Government’s plans for UPE, economic growth and poverty reduction at
risk.
World Bank Engagement in Education. Beginning with the Primary Education Project (PEP) in 1993, the
Bank had adopted a comprehensive strategy of support for basic education through progressive
engagement. At the time of the Project’s approval, three education projects were under implementation,
including the PEP, the Higher Education Project and the Primary Teachers Development Project. The
Project’s design incorporated several lessons from extensive in-country experience related to the
pedagogical and language needs of ethnic minority, disadvantage and disabled children under activities
supported by donors as well as under the PEP.



19
   National Targeted Programs are a state budget facility that provide sector-specific frameworks for planning and
implementing strategic interventions, and act as focus points to attract community participation and NGO and
official donor contributions.


                                                       54
    Project Development Objectives
    The objective of the PEDC was to improve access to primary school and the quality of education for
    disadvantaged girls and boys. Disadvantaged children were broadly defined as school-aged children who
    were not enrolled or were at risk of not completing primary education; children who attended schools that
    did not meet fundamental quality standards; and disabled children or children from other highly
    vulnerable groups, such as street children, migrant children or girls in certain ethnic minority areas. The
    majority of PEDC resources were to be targeted to 189 districts, where approximately 70% of Vietnam’s
    educationally disadvantaged children resided.
    Target Population
    The Project’s target population comprised two groups of disadvantaged children:
o   Primary school-aged children from the 189 Project (out of 615 total districts in Vietnam) most
    educationally disadvantaged districts20; and
o   Disabled children of primary school age and other highly vulnerable groups, such as street and working
    children, children living in fishing communities, etc.
    The absolute number of children in these categories was estimated to exceed two million, and possibly
    even three million. In addition, the Project’s beneficiaries were to include disabled school-aged children
    (there were an estimated one million in Vietnam, over 70% of which did not have access to school), and
    children who lived in difficult social conditions, all of which were considered less likely to access,
    participate and perform well in primary school.

    Project Description
    The Project comprised four components, as described below. Component 1: Achieving Fundamental
    School Quality Levels (FSQL) sought to raise all schools in the 189 most disadvantaged targeted
    districts to a fundamental school quality level through a two-pronged approach: (a) by providing
    necessary support to district administration to improve planning, management and monitoring capabilities,
    in order to develop and implement plans to meet FSQL standards; and (b) by enhancing school capacity
    to provide effective instruction at poorly resourced satellite campuses, meeting the specific needs of
    educationally disadvantaged children and supporting other efforts to meet FSQL standards in those
    classrooms. Component 2: Education Initiatives for Highly Vulnerable Children sought to address
    the needs of children at high risk through two streams of interventions that addressed the education needs
    of: (a) disabled children; and (b) vulnerable groups, such as street and working children, children living
    in fishing communities, and others. Component 3: National and Provincial Institutional and
    Technical Support for FSQL sought to assist the MOET to lay down a pathway for reaching national
    school standards using FSQL as a first step, proposing FSQL criteria and raising awareness at all levels of
    the education system about how to bring every school up to FSQL levels. Finally, Component 4:
    Project Management was designed to support the establishment of a Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
    inside the MOET, that would be staffed with members from various departments of the MOET, domestic
    and international consultants, and would support MOET line agencies, the institutional strengthening
    teams and the National Task Forces for Quality Standards, Disabled Children and Highly Vulnerable
    Children.




    20
      The number of districts that benefited from the PEDCt varied due to internal administrative changes that resulted
    in an increased number of districts in the 40 provinces that were targeted and not from an increase in the Project’s
    scope. By completion, the PEDC has financed activities in 227 districts in the initial 40 provinces.

     



                                                            55
Project Design
Instrument. PEDC was designed as a traditional investment project that provided incremental finance to
a new program. It was ambitious in design, especially since it would be implemented in and by the most
educationally disadvantaged districts, in most cases those with the most limited capacity. The Project’s
design envisaged both the development new programs and initiatives, and their subsequent
implementation at the district/school level, together with a program of capacity building so that provinces,
districts and schools could plan, implement and monitor those activities appropriately. The Project’s
design encouraged innovation and the piloting of selected activities before eventual roll out to all project
districts if they were proven to be successful.
Implementation Arrangments. The Project was implemented by the MoET, the DoET, and the Bureaus
of BoET. A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) established in MoET and staffed with members from
various departments of the MOET, in addition to national and international consultants, supported MOET
line agencies, five institutional strengthening teams (ISTs) and national task forces for Quality Standards,
Disabled Children and Highly Vulnerable Children with implementation. In line with the Government’s
decentralization agenda, PEDC was designed to decentralize and shift decision making to local levels
(notably districts, schools and their satellite campuses). Although capacity and expertise varied widely
among the DoETs and BoETs, this aspect of the design was based on strong evidence that such
decentralized planning and service delivery would be far more effective in meeting local needs than
centralized strategies for allocating resources. Communities were to have active involvement, often for
the first time, by working with District Community Development Specialists (DCDSs).
Monitoring and Evaluation. Monitoring progress towards FSQL was an integral objective and focus of
the Project’s design (see below). Throughout implementation, the PEDC was the subject of intensive
evaluation that, inter alia, guided the roll-out of activities that had been introduced as pilots, provided
useful data and analysis to inform implementation and served to confirm PEDC’s results. Eight external
evaluation studies were completed under the Project.

Project Innovations—Outputs Financed
National Guidelines for FSQL. The Project introduced the concept of FSQL by defining minimum
institutional capacity, instructional materials and teacher support, physical infrastructure, and school-
community linkages required to maintain a healthy and productive learning environment. FSQL was
designed to be an “achievable? standard to which schools in disadvantaged districts could aspire to
achieve, as opposed to the national standards that were often considered excessively ambitious given their
capacity and realities. PEDC developed procedures and capacity for measuring and verifying progress
towards FSQL, based on the District FSQL Audit (DFA). The annual DFA provides year on year
performance indicators of school performance against FSQL standards and allows for annual monitoring
of a school’s, a district’s and a province’s progress towards achieving FSQL. The DFA has become a
highly effective tool for planning and targeting financing and moving towards results-based delivery.
With PEDC support, the DFA has been implemented in all districts nationally. This provides Viet Nam
with data on school quality down to the remotest schools and villages and is a unique resource for
tracking trends, determining gaps, planning and targeting financing. PEDC was successful in introducing
decentralized data systems at district levels and has built capacity and raised awareness on the use and
application of information to monitor changes and make FSQL and operational concept (see below).
Although the Project originally aimed for data from FSQL/DFA to be integrated into the Government’s
EMIS, that system is still under development, with the result that the DFA is today the single most
important source of educational data nationwide in Viet Nam.
Annual District FSQL Plans. Funding for PEDC implementation at the district and provincial levels
was made available based on the annual FSQL district plans. A District FSQL Development Planning
Manual, an Operational Manual for the Implementation of District FSQL Grants and Campus Support
Funds and professional training programs were provided to key staff of DoETs BoETs, Head Teachers



                                                    56
and Deputy Head Teachers to guide school development planning, and the FSQL audit. These
professionals now know how to use annual DFA results, have become familiar with analytical skills
appropriate to the data, and have recognized the value of standards-based school planning and of
integrating FSQL data into annual school plans. School development planning was not part of PEDC’s
original design but was developed and implemented as a complement to district FSQL planning. It has
become an important aspect of the FSQL process and a principle means of capacity development within
schools and a key source of monitoring data. Annual District FSQL plans, based on data collected during
DFA surveys were developed by BoETs at the end of each year and presented for approval to DoETs,
who were responsible for monitoring and evaluation of FSQL implementation and quality improvements
at the district level. BoETs in each district collected data for the DFA based on school self-assessment
data, and verified results through school inspections. School Development Plans, verified by BoET
inspection teams, provided primary sources of data for the DFA.
The End of the Project Evaluation (EOPE) reports: “PEDC has successfully introduced a quantifiable
system for primary education data collection, based on the DFA. Data collection systems are in place and
annual district plans for FSQL achievement are being developed and implemented by BoETs. Schools
are producing SDPs and principles of planning for FSQL are widely understood and adopted at school
levels. The DFA enables school quality levels to be ranked and monitored and improvements in school
quality standards have been demonstrated over time. Achievement of National School Standards has
become a realistic objective for a significant proportion of PEDC schools?.
Instructional Improvement and Teacher Support for FSQL. District level respondents to the EOPE were
invariably positive about PEDC’s training programs and felt the programs had made a significant
difference to the way teachers teach and resulted in improvements to learning outcomes. Teachers have
increased confidence in using new teaching methods and are able to apply a variety of teaching new aids,
including adaptation of training materials to different subjects and becoming interested in making their
own materials. The training programs have contributed to a change of attitude among school staff,
particularly concerning inclusive education but more generally about the roles of teachers and the
function of district schools. Combined with the impact of other Project initiatives, parents and
communities also have increased interest in the schools and are more confident in the quality of education
being received. The EOPE evaluated the Child-based Teaching, Overcoming Barriers to Learning and
Vietnamese Language Strengthening programs and confirmed that they addressed well issues of access to
education, enrolment and retention, particularly among ethnic minorities. The EOPE evaluated these
programs positively, with “teachers reporting adoption of new teaching methods resulting in improved
learning outcomes?.
Vietnamese Language Strengthening (VLS), School Readiness (SR) and Teaching Assistants (TA). The
external evaluation of the VLS, TA and SR programs shows very promising findings and the value of
these interventions21. The evaluation’s main findings corroborate that students in classes with a TA
attend more regularly and achieve better results in mathematics and Vietnamese language than those
students in similar classes without a TA. The study found that “In surveyed districts, the TA program has
made significant contributions in preparing children for school through Vietnamese language acquisition
under the SR program. In disadvantaged areas without ethnic minority teachers, or without ethnic
language speaking teachers, TAs also play a pivotal role in enabling schools and satellite campuses to
meet minimal quality standards. BoETs and teachers were also consistent in reporting to the evaluators
the improvements to learning outcomes at Grade 1, and describing the SR program as providing a “big
leap? in improving ethnic minority students’ Vietnamese capacity and in making them more confident
when starting school. SR clearly has a positive effect on the learning of ethnic minority students in Grade


21
     Mid-term Report “Longitudinal Study on Teaching Assistants and School Readiness? April 2009




                                                       57
1. The TA program has contributed to increasing enrollment rates, mobilizing school-aged children to
attend class and maintain regular attendance and, as a result, decreasing repetition and drop out rates.
TAs have not only helped teachers, but have played an important role as a language and culture bridges
between school, family, and community and helped change local people’s awareness about their
children’s learning. Parents and community members have developed trust in TAs and schools. TAs have
also supported individuals with special needs and children with disabilities.
Infrastructure Improvement for FSQL. Infrastructure, including civil works, provision of furniture and
related technical services accounted for the PEDC’s largest component. By completion, 6,126 schools
had benefited from the PEDC, 12,383 new classrooms had been constructed, and 6,720 had classrooms
had been renovated or upgraded. Additional sites and classrooms benefited from assistance from the
Government’s School Concretization Program. PEDC was the first project to provide investment for
school construction at satellite sites of primary schools. The infrastructure program was completed as
planned, carried out efficiently and completely implemented through decentralization to DoETs and
primary schools. Teachers’, parents’ and commune leaders’ perceptions about the PEDC schools is
overwhelmingly positive. More than 97% agreed that the upgraded campus was more beautiful and
attractive, encouraged children to attend school, more child-friendly and conducive to learning. There
was a strong sense of ownership and they are willing to share in the maintenance of the building. Overall,
more than 96% of beneficiaries agreed they are happy with the Project.
Community Participation. The CSF was another highly successful innovation. The CSF encouraged
parent and community engagement while ensuring that funds would be allocated to particular schools’
and students’ needs. Annual CSF grants were provided to schools and satellite schools to help with small
purchases, support some educational activities as well as enhance community participation in school
activities, based on the schools determination of needs. CSF grants provided support for helping
disadvantaged children to go to school, overcoming difficulties in the class, activities related to the SR
program such as teaching and learning materials and aids and extracurricular educational activities with
community participation. The CSF produced many benefits, including supporting children to go to
school and attend class regularly, supporting schools and satellites to reach FSQL, and strengthening
community participation through activities and planning and using CSF.
Inclusive Education for Disabled Children. A draft National Inclusive Education (IE) Policy, Strategy
and Action Plan on IE was developed and is pending approval as part of the Government’s Strategy for
Education and Training 2009-2020. As part of the training program, 240 key teachers in 40 provinces
were trained on Inclusive Education using the revised Education of Children with Learning Difficulties
materials and Exemplary Inclusive Education Series Initiative (EIES).
Reaching Street and Working Children and Other High Risk Groups. The PEDC supported activities
aimed at reaching street children and working children and other high-risk groups, in a decentralized
manner, and knowledge sharing of these activities. Innovation Grants provided local solutions to local
problems by local people in innovative way to: (a) develop and implement new and innovative
approaches to meeting the educational needs of vulnerable children of primary school age; (b) encourage
and facilitate the participation of government, non-government and other stakeholder groups in serving
the needs of at-risk and highly vulnerable children; and (c) try-out quality interventions that could be
applied widely, potentially nationally, to reduce the number of at-risk and highly vulnerable children who
were not accessing and/or completing primary education.
Project Results
The PEDC’s most notable achievement was the development and introduction of the FSQL as a first step
towards helping disadvantaged districts to plan, monitor and report progress in achieving defined
educational standards and the collection of DFA data since 2004. FSQL has been successfully utilized as
a mechanism to measure quality levels across schools and to allocate resources according to need to raise
schools and their satellites up to minimum FSQL standards. The FSQL and the DFA have proven to be
successful initiatives that have been expanded to the national level, allowing the Government to allocate
need-based funding at the national, provincial, district and school levels. The importance of education


                                                   58
    management and how to structure what is happening in schools and classrooms to achieve a better quality
    of education and improve students’ learning achievements is now more widely understood. All DoETs
    and BoETs have mastered the data-collection skills and they skillfully use data to identify FSQL gaps,
    create School Development Plans, allocate funds, target those who need it most, support communities and
    monitor progress.
    The Project directly supported the provision of the inputs needed for schools and districts to reach FSQL
    that have been shown to produce a quality education and an environment for learning and to help increase
    the number of children attending school and the likelihood of their staying until completion. These
    include: a safe, appropriate building with inside-outside flow and activities, trained teachers, basic
    equipment and furniture, basic textbooks, a rich range of supplementary resources in local languages
    where needed, and a committed participating community ensuring healthy motivated children attend
    school.
    The PEDC produced important results, in many cases exceeding original expectations.
o   Increase in number of PEDC schools reaching FSQL. In 2004 54% of schools in PEDC districts had
    achieved FSQL, as originally defined. By 2010, 68.3% of schools had reached FSQL as defined by the
    Government’s Decision 55. Overall, PEDC schools improved more quickly than the national average and
    more than the non-PEDC schools in the same provinces. More importantly, several of the schools that
    had achieved FSQL reported that they now feel energized and empowered to continue their efforts,
    striving towards the achievement of national standards.
o   Increase net enrollment rate. The net enrollment rate in PEDC districts reached 98.7% in 2010, with
    gender equity, against the target of 96%.
o   Improve primary student completion. Primary student completion in PEDC districts reached 94.1% in
    2010, with gender equity, against the target of 86%. (In 2009, female completion rates in PEDC districts
    were 93.9%, compared to a national rate of 95.9%.)
o   Reduce Grade 1 repetition rate. The Grade 1 repetition rate in PEDC districts was 5.2% in 2010 against
    a target of less than 3%. Although this represented an improvement over the 8% rate before the Project,
    this indicator likely fell short of its target due to a new campaign launched by the MOET two years ago to
    address a problem where teachers apparently passed automatically all of their students to higher grades.
    (Overall primary repetition rates stood at 2% for PEDC districts in 2010 and 1.4% nationwide.)
o   Reduce dropout rate. The dropout rate in PEDC districts declined to 2.5% in 2010 against a target of less
    than 4%. In PEDC districts, the dropout rate in Grades 1 to 5 was 1.8%. Respondents attributed reduced
    dropouts to the impact of related PEDC activities, specifically, TA support and mobilizing campaigns,
    participation by PTAs, the CSF, and provision of books and notebooks for disadvantaged children and the
    overall raised attractiveness of schools. Reduced language barriers are also supposed to have contributed
    to consistent improvements for this indicator.
o   Increase the number of eligible disabled children in school. This has remained at about 2% of children
    throughout. There have been definitional issues as “eligible? was not defined and work with the Child
    Development Record (CDR) showed that teachers have difficulty recognizing, identifying and recording
    children with special needs. (DFA data on disability is limited, does not provide for classification of
    disabilities and probably under-reports numbers of disabled children who are out of school). The
    Analysis of 2007/08 CDR-sourced data recommended the 2009 DFA include specific sources of data
    relating to children with disabilities. This has not yet occurred.
o   Improve completion rate for disabled children. In 2006 the completion rate for disabled children was
    45.6%; by 2009, the completion rate reached 71.5 %.
o   Improve “independent learner? status in Mathematics and Vietnamese. The results for this will come
    from the Grade 5 study in 2011 that is the first time that participants in the PEDC will reach the age
    where they will be in Grade 5 and be assessed in the achievement study. The results from the Grade 5
    2006/2007 study for PEDC schools showed that although students reaching “independent learner? status
    in Mathematics remained the same, in Reading they increased from 51.4% in 2001 to 64.5% in




                                                       59
2006/2007 22 . The Quality of EFA Report 23 reviews the most significant predictors of student
achievement based on sample results for 2001 and 2007 Grade Five surveys. Some of its findings that are
relevant to the Project’s outcomes include: (a) the FII is a significant and positive predictor of student
achievement in the 2007 studies; (b) teacher education and training (included in the FII) was a very
significant predictor of mathematics achievement; (c) the availability of classroom materials/learning
tools is a significant predictors of achievement, and the most important variable is the FII as the indicator
of overall school inputs (the FII effect on learning achievement in the 2007 study is substantial); (d) for
schools in remote areas, school averages for teacher feedback is the strongest predictor of achievement,
possibly since these students have less access to learning aids and feedback outside the school; and (e) for
ethnic populations, the FII and teacher excellence are especially important predictors of outcomes, since
these students are less likely to receive help in the home, and are exposed to fewer non-school sources of
learning. These findings all point to probably strong improvements in learning outcomes as a result of the
initiatives supported by the Project.
The Project also had impact at the sector level. By decreasing repetition rates dropout rates in PEDC
province, the Project had an important impact on pupil flow-through efficiency, promoting much
improved efficiency at the primary level. The Project had another, perhaps equally if not more important
impact on sector efficiency: developing and implementing a functional system whereby allocation of
resources is determined on the basis of needs and capacities as determined by local schools and districts—
moving from input-equity to output-equity through a system of evidence-based funding. The
development and implementation of FSQL, that defined the minimum package of inputs necessary for
providing a quality education at a school together with the basic outcomes that were expected of schools,
was an efficiency-enhancing concept.
Project Sustainability
The Project, its objectives and the activities is financed are fully consistent with the Government’s
Education Development Strategic Plan for 2011-2020 which is currently in the process of consultation
and its NTP-E which both continue to emphasize the objectives supported by the Project. Recognizing
that these important programs (FSQL, TAs, VLS, SR, etc.) should be continued, the Government and the
Bank began discussing transition arrangements over two years before completion and developing
proposals to provide continuity to PEDC’s successful initiatives with Government or alternative sources
of funding. As a compensatory mechanism, the Project has been completed, and the challenge of
continuing to respond to the needs of disadvantaged groups will depend on the Government’s ability to
internalize the many successful innovations and lessons from its implementation. This will require not
only adopting and mainstreaming monitoring systems, training programs, community initiatives, etc., but
also ensuring that the funding provided under the NTP-E to provinces and districts responds to their needs
and the results of their efforts, and that they are sufficiently supported in providing continuity to the
successful initiatives supported by PEDC.
Several mechanisms exist whereby continuity can be provided for PEDC’s successful initiatives,
including under projects that are currently ongoing or under preparation for eventual Bank financing: the
School Education Quality Assurance Project (SEQAP) and the proposed School Readiness Promotion
Project (SRPP), in addition to through normal government funding channels under NTP-E, a centrally
sponsored scheme in which the MOET indicates to the provinces the expected allocations of central State
budget funds to NTP-E sub-components. However, provincial authorities have full discretion over
planning, investment and resource allocation. Schools and districts, and more importantly children and
their parents and teachers, have witnessed the Project’s activities and impact, and will undoubtedly
become important advocates vis-à-vis the provinces for continuity of activities such as SDPs, TAs, SR


22
   Report Study in Grade 5 Student Achievement in Mathematics and Vietnamese Language in the 2006-2007
School Year, Hanoi, 2008.
23
   Vietnam Quality of All Report (draft) World Bank. The Report, Chapter 7 of the Report analyzes “The Variable
That Matter: Determinants of Student Achievement.


                                                       60
programs through sustained allocations through their NTP-E budget. Nevertheless, the Government’s
EMIS is still not in place, and as a result the substantial information in the DFA could not be integrated in
that system and will require a continued “bridging? under the SEQAP to maintain it up-to-date and
relevant as a policy and planning tool. Legal, policy frameworks are not in place for TA and SR
programs, with the result that these also will depend on alternative project funding, or requests—or
community demands--from the schools/districts for continuity of these programs. Still, to the extent that
provinces decide to continue implementation of theses programs, funding will need to be provided either
under SEQAP or SRPP, or framed within the overall provincial/district budget allocations under NTP-E.
In some cases, this is already happening as a number of provinces and districts are already implementing
FSQL plans from their own budget.
Project Lessons
The Project provides several lessons related to education policy, instrument design and institutional
arrangements.

Education Policy:
The concept of quality of education is a dynamic concept that evolves over time. The evolution and
development of education quality should be defined and formed to respond to a specific country or socio-
economic and cultural context at a certain period of time. Therefore, setting up an FSQL that matches the
education system’s implementation and financial capacity was critical to ensure its relevance and
usefulness. The FSQL was a successful innovation that provided a “ladder? to national standards by
setting a realistic and attainable target for disadvantaged schools and has since become national policy
and implemented in all provinces. Most importantly, it provides standards for a needs-based targeted
allocation of funds and real data to schools on what to spend it on in order to reach the standards. In
terms of setting standards, the Project set FSQL as the minimum standards that a school should have in
place to provide a basic learning environment. Many schools that have attained FSQL feel successful and
empowered, and as a result, are setting new, higher, targets to eventually achieve national standards.
Caution, however, should be taken when seeing progress towards initial minimum standards, and using
this as an opportunity to increase standards (as was done by the Government’s Decision 55). The value of
fundamental quality standards, as originally defined in simple, easy to follow and monitor terms, is that
they were seen as achievable by the provinces, districts and schools targeted by the Project.
Of all the standards, schools were most challenged by FSQL requirements for physical infrastructure.
Where these targets are unrealistic and difficult to achieve, provision should be made for FSQL
certification based on other more manageable criteria, specifically including the quality of teaching and
learning, as is currently provided for by the FII.
Initiatives that strengthened the ties between schools and communities proved to be very successful in
improving educational outcomes. These included the SR initiative a community-based, pre-primary
school development program introduced to strengthen Vietnamese language competencies in districts
with significant ethnic minority populations, where Vietnamese is spoken as a second language and
support transition from pre-school to Grade 1, and the introduction of TA. TAs, bi-lingual members of
local communities had primary responsibility for implementation of SR programs, under the coordination
of satellite school and Grade 1 teachers. The initial pilot and later expansion of the TA initiative was
successful in creating a link between Grade 1 teachers at satellite campuses, to support delivery of the SR
program, and their work with families and communities to mobilize children in coming to school and to
help ensure attendance. In disadvantaged areas without ethnic minority teachers, or without ethnic
language speaking teachers, TAs also played a pivotal role in enabling schools and satellite campuses to
meet minimal quality standards. TAs not only helped teachers, but played an important role as a language
and culture bridges between school, family, and community and helped change local people’s awareness
about their children’s learning, with consequent positive outcomes. As mentioned in Section 2.5, funding
for several of these initiatives is expected to be sustained by provinces with funding under the framework
of the NTP-E 2011-2015.


                                                     61
Instrument Design:
The Project was designed as a traditional investment project, providing incremental finance to a project
with specific time-bound objectives that were expected to be achieved in targeted districts by completion.
Its institutional arrangements were designed to facilitate and ensure the Project’s effective implementation,
but institutional strengthening on a national scale over and above that which would be required for
successful implementation was not an explicit objective of the Project (although there was an indicator
that expected the MOET, and participating DoETs and BoETs to have regularly demonstrated
strengthened capacity to identify, plan for, support and monitor the needs of educationally disadvantage
children). Nevertheless, the Project’s positive outcomes brought a critical challenge: how to ensure that
the initiatives introduced under the Project are not only maintained upon completion (e.g., the schools
constructed maintained, the learning materials utilized, etc.), but also expanded, internalized and adopted
as national policies more broadly. As a quasi-compensatory project, aimed at leveling outcomes in
disadvantaged districts, the Project’s design was contained, and it achieved mostly its expected objectives.
But, given that, despite progress, there are still important differences in educational outcomes across
schools, should this “compensatory? financing terminate now that the Project has been completed? The
Bank’s supervision team worked closely with the Government well in advance of completion to ensure
sustainability of the Project’s initiatives, with the objective of ensuring continued implementation of
proven initiatives thereby further reducing the gaps in outcomes between schools in disadvantaged
districts and other schools. Still, in retrospect, the question remains as to whether support for an ongoing
program coordinated directly by the MOET through its technical departments (as opposed to through the
PCU), and directly through the DoETs (as opposed to through the provincial PCUs) would not have
provided greater sustainability and internalization of the very capacity that the Project helped develop.
Several other aspects of the Project’s and instrument’s design were effective, especially, the piloting of
innovative activities and their evaluation before expansion, as well as building into the Project’s design
activities that were central to the Project’s objectives such as the development and dissemination of FSQL
standards and guidelines. In addition, the Project’s design was such that its was well-defined, but still
sufficiently flexible to allow creativity and minor adjustments based on provincial, district and school
needs, that were all so important to ensure that its outputs and results responded to local realities. At the
same time, this mix between up-front design and definition versus flexibility resulted in the continued
relevance of the Project’s objectives, components and activities throughout implementation without the
need for their restructuring.

Institutional Arrangements:
Given that the Project’s implementation was coordinated by a Project Coordination Unit, with the
consequent issues that structure entailed for sustainability of institutional capacity that was developed, its
structure was effective for implementing project activities. The establishment of ISTs for planning and
monitoring, teacher development activities, educational goods and materials, civil works and community
participation, ensured effective leadership, coordination, technical support and knowledge sharing
between the MOET, the PCU, the DoETs and the BoETs. The involvement of schools, communities and
parents in the Project’s activities ensured “bottom-up? engagement and support for the initiatives and
activities financed, and bode well for continued demand for its successful programs and initiatives.




                                                     62
Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents

   2. Project Appraisal Document, Primary Education for Disadvantaged Children Project, Report No.
      23846-VN, dated April 3, 2003
   3. Implementation Status Reports and Mission Aide-Memoires
   4. Report of the Joint World Bank-Donors Mid-Term Review (MTR) with Australia (AusAID),
      Canada (CIDA), Norway (NORAD) and United Kingdon (DFID), December 4-20, 2006
   5. Primary Education for Disadvantaged Children Project, End of Project Evaluation, Final Report,
      September 2010, Consia Consultants
   6. External Evaluation Completed under the Project:
   7. CSF and District Grants (December 2006)
   8. Pilot School Readiness (December 2007)
   9. Pilot Teaching Assistant and School Readiness Programs (April 2007)
   10. Training Review and Need Analysis (December 2008)
   11. Evaluation of PEDC Investment in Non-Infrastructure Activities (April 2009)
   12. Longitudinal Study on Teaching Assistant Program (December 2009)
   13. Vietnam Quality for All Report (draft) World Bank, chapter 7 of the report analyzes “The
       variable that matter: determinants of student achievement.




                                                 63
Annex 9. Fundamental School Quality Level (FSQL) Standards
The FSQL standards, as described in the Project’s Appraisal Document, are:

Physical Infrastructure:
     Schools and campuses have solid construction (walls, floors and roofs) for classrooms and with
      adequate natural lighting
     Schools and campuses have 1 blackboard per classroom, sufficient tables and benches for
      students, 1 teacher desk/chair per classroom, and sufficient durable and transportable storage
      boxes or lockers for instructional materials

Teaching Staff:
     Teachers are minimally qualified at 9+3 level
     Teachers receive annual professional training on relevant classroom management and
      pedagogical topics (e.g., crafting teaching aids, multi-grade teaching, remediation support,
      Vietnamese language instruction, inclusive education, etc.)

School Organization and Management:
     A school ensures that each satellite campus offers the same quality of instruction, services and
      resources as the main school site
     Schools and campuses offer grades based on full 175 week curriculum
     Head Teachers are trained in satellite campus management and support

Education Socialization:
     Schools and campuses have individual parent committees
     Parent committees at all schools and satellite campuses are trained in school and student support
      strategies

Educational Activities and Quality:
     1 set of teaching aids/instructional materials per grade is available to each school and campus
     1 set of teacher supplies is available to each teacher (e.g., ruler, scissors, chalk, paper, pen) in all
      schools and campuses
     1 full set of textbooks, a teaching manual, and other guides as required per grade taught is
      available to each teacher
     1 set of supplementary reading materials appropriate to all grades taught is available to each
      school and campus
     All students have Math and Vietnamese textbooks
     All students are equipped with a sufficient (minimum) number of notebooks and pencils
     All teachers in ethnic minority areas are trained in teaching Vietnamese to children whose native
      language is not Vietnamese
     Special Vietnamese language materials are available in all schools and campuses with ethnic
      minority populations

Expected Outcomes
     All school age children are enrolled in school
     96% of 14-year olds complete primary education
     Gender equity is achieved in primary school enrollments



                                                      64
Annex 10. List of Project Provinces & Districts
      Province        District         Province         District             Province          District         Province           District
  1              Hà Giang Town    61              Mư?ng Chà            114                  Ea H'leo      172               Tân Hồng




                                                                                                                 ?ồng
                                                                                                                         Tháp
  2              ?ồng Văn         62              Tủa Chùa             115                  Ea Súp        173               Tam Nông




                                            ?iện Biên
  3              Mèo Vạc          63              Tuần Giáo            116                  Krông Năng    174               Thanh Bình
  4              Yên Minh         64              ?iện Biên            117                  Krông Búk                Total: 3 district
          Hà Giang




                                                                                ?ắk Lắk
  5              Quản Bạ          65              ?iện Biên ?ông       118                  Buôn ?ôn      175               An Phú
  6              Bắc Mê           66              Mư?ng Nhé            119                  M'?rắk        176               Châu Phú




                                                                                                                   An Giang
  7              Hoàng Su Phì     67              Mư?ng Ẳng            120                  Krông Pắc     177               Tịnh Biên
  8              Vị Xuyên                 Total: 7 district            121                  Cư Kui        178               Tri Tôn
  9              Xín Mần          68              Mư?ng Lát            122                  Krông A Na    179               Châu Thành




                                         Thanh
 10              Bắc Quang        69              Ng?c Lặc             123                  Krông Bông    180               Thoại Sơn




                                                  Hóa
 11              Quang Bình       70              Thư?ng Xuân          124                  Lắk                      Total: 6 district
          Total: 11 District      71              Như Xuân                           Total: 11 district   181               Rạch Giá
 12              Bảo Lạc                   Total: 4 district           125                  Cư Jút        182               Kiên Lương
 13              Hà Quảng         72              Quế Phong            126                  ?ắk Mil       183               Hòn ?ất
                                       Nghệ An
 14              Thông Nông       73              Tương Dương          127                  Krông Nô      184               Tân Hiệp




                                                                                ?ắk Nông
 15              Trà Lĩnh                  Total: 2 district           128                  ?ắk R'Lấp     185               Châu Thành
          Cao Bằng




                                        Quảng




                                                                                                                   Kiên Giang
 16              Trùng Khánh      74     Bình     Minh Hóa             129               ?ắk GLong        186             Giồng Gi?ng
 17              Nguyên Bình              Total: 1 district            130               TX Gia Nghiã     187             Gò Quao
 18              Hạ Lang          75              Hướng Hóa            131               ?ắk Song         188             An Biên
                                       Quảng Trị
 19              Thạch An         76              ?a Krông             132               Tuy ?ức          189             An Minh
 20              Bảo Lâm                  Total: 2 district                       Total: 8 district       190             Vĩnh Thuận
          Total: 9 district       77     Thừa     Phú Lộc              133               Lạc Dương        191             Phú Quốc




                                                                                Lâm ?ồng
 21              Lào Cai          78    Thiên -   Nam ?ông             134               Lâm Hà           192             Kiên Hải
 22              Mư?ng Khương             Total: 2 district            135               Bảo Lâm          193             U Minh Thượng
 23              Bát Xát          79              ?ông Giang           136               Di Linh          194             Thị xã Hà Tiên
          Lào Cai




 24              Bắc Hà           80              Nam Giang            137               ?am Rông                  Total: 14 district
                                            Quảng Nam




 25              Sa Pa            81              Phước Sơn                       Total: 5 district       195             Thốt Nốt
                                                                                                                Cần Thơ
                                                                                         Phan Rang-
                                                                                                                  City
 26           Bảo Yên             82                     Bắc Trà My    138               Tháp Chàm
                                                                                Ninh Thuận                196             Vĩnh Thạnh
 27           Xi Ma Cai           83                     Nam Trà My    139               Ninh Sơn                  Total: 2 district
       Total: 7 district          84                     Tây Giang     140               Ninh Hải         197             Châu Thành
 28           Ba Bể                           Total:     6 district    141               Ninh Phước       198             Cầu Kè




                                                                                                                   Trà Vinh
               Kạn
       Bắc




 29           Ngân Sơn            85                     Trà Bồng      142               Bác Aí           199             Tiểu Cần
                                            Quảng Ngãi




 30           Pác Nặm             86                     Sơn Tây       143               Thuận Bắc        200             Cầu Ngang
       Total: 3 district          87                     Sơn Hà                   Total: 6 district       201             Trà Cú
 31           Tràng ?ịnh          88                     Ba Tơ         144               ?ồng Xoài        202             Duyên Hải
 32           Văn Lãng            89                     Tây Trà       145               Phước Long                Total: 6 district
          Lạng Sơn




 33           Bình Gia                   Total:          5 district    146               Lộc Ninh         203             Sóc Trăng
                                                                                Bình Phước




 34           Cao Lộc             90                     Vĩnh Thạnh    147               Bù ?ăng          204             Kế Sách
                                     Bình ?ịnh
 35           Lộc Bình            91                     Vân Canh      148               Bình Long        205             Long Phú


                                                                                                                   Sóc Trăng
 36           ?ình Lập                   Total:          2 district    149               ?ồng Phù         206             Mỹ Tú
       Total: 6 district          92                     Sơn Hòa       150               Chơn Thành       207             Mỹ Xuyên
      Tuyên                           Phú Yên
 37   Quang Nà Hang               93                     Sông Hinh     151               Bù ?ốp       208                       Thạnh Trị
       Total: 1 district                 Total:          2 district               Total: 8 district   209                       Vĩnh Châu
 38           Lục Yên             94   Khánh             Khánh Vĩnh    152               Tân Biên     210                       Cù Lao Dung
                                                                                      Ninh
       Yên




                                                                              Tây
               Bái




 39           Mù Căng Chải        95    Hòa              Khánh Sơn     153               Tân Châu     211                       Ngã Năm
 40           Trạm Tấu                   Total:          2 district    154               Bến Cầu                Total           9 district
       Total: 3 district          96                     ?ắk Glei                 Total: 3 district   212                       Bạc Liêu
 41           Bình Liêu           97                     Ng?c Hồi      155               Tân Phú      213                       Hồng Dân
       Quảng




                                                                                ?ồng Nai
               Ninh




                                                                                                                   Bạc Liêu




 42           Móng Cái            98                     ?ắk Tô        156               ?ịnh Quán    214                       Vĩnh Lợi
                                            Kon Tum




 43           Tiên Yên            99                     Kon Plông     157               Xuân Lộc     215                       Giá Rai
 44           Ba Chẽ             100                     ?ak Hà        158               Cẩm Mỹ       216                       ?ông Hải
       Total: 4 district         101                     Sa Thầy                  Total: 4 district   217                       Phước Long
 45           Tam ?ư?ng          102                     Kon Rẫy       159               Tuy Phong    218                       Hòa Bình
 46           Than Uyên          103                     Tu Mơ Rông    160               Bắc Bình              Total:           7 district
          Lai Châu




 47           Mư?ng Tè                   Total:          8 district    161               Hàm Thuận Bắ 219                       Cà Mau
                                                                                Bình Thuận




 48           Phong Thổ          104                     KBang         162               Hàm Thuận Na 220                       Thới Bình
 49           Sìn Hồ             105                     Chư Păh       163               Tánh Linh    221                       U Minh
                                                                                                                   Cà Mau




 50           TX Lai Châu        106                     Ia Grai       164               Hàm Tân      222                       Trần Văn Th?i
       Total: 6 district         107                     ?ức Cơ        165               ?ức Linh     223                       Cái Nước
                                            Gia Lai




 51           Quỳnh Nhai         108                     Chư Prông     166               Phú Quí      224                       ?ầm Dơi
 52           Mư?ng La           109                     Chư Sê        167               Thị Xã La Gi 225                       Ng?c Hiển
 53           Thuận Châu         110                     Phú Thiện                Total: 9 district   226                       Năm Căn
 54           Bắc Yên            111                     TX Ayun Pa    168               Tân Hưng     227                       Phú Tân
                                                                                Long An
          Sơn La




 55           Phù Yên            112                     Krông Pa      169               Vĩnh Hưng             Total:           9 district
 56           Mai Sơn            113                     La Pa         170               Tân Thạnh
 57           Sông Mã                    Total:          10 district   171               Thạnh Hóa    Grand Total               227 district
 58           Yên Châu                                                            Total: 4 district
 59           Mộc Châu
 60           Sốp Cộp
       Total: 10 district




                                                                       65
MAP




66
The original had problem with text extraction. pdftotext Unable to extract text.
