Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15734
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
SECOND SANTIAGO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN-2651-CH)
June 17, 1996
Infrastructure and Urban Development Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit = Peso (CH$)
US$1.00 = CH$ 128 (year end, 1984)
LIS$1.00 - CH$ 205 (year end, 1986)
US$1.00 = CH$ 407 (year end. 1995)
WEIGHTS AND MAEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOT          Build-Operate-Transfer
CORFO        Corporacior, de Fomnento de la Producci6n
EMOS         Ernpresa Nietiopolitana de Obras Sanitarias
ESVA1..      Empresa de O(bras Sanitarias de Valparaiso
FY           Fiscal Year
GoCH         Govei nrne,l, of' Chile
ICB          Internationial Competitive Bidding
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
LCB          Local Competitive Bidding
MOP          Mlinisterio (Ie Obras Publicas
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SENDOS       Servicio Nacionial de Obras Sanitarias
SMR          Santiago Meti-opolitan Region
SSS          Superintendencia de Seivicios Sanitar-ios
!FW          l Unaccounted-for-Water



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
SECOND SANTIAGO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(Loan 2651-CH)
Table of Contents
Preface             ................i
Evaluation Summary ............... ii
Part I       Implementation Assessment from Bank's Perspective
A. Project Identity .1
B. Background .1
C.    Project Objectives and Description          .3
D. Project Design                       .4
E.  Project Implementation                   .5
F. Project Results                       .8
G.  Project Sustainability .10
H  Bank Performance .11
1.  EMOS Performance .11
J.  Bank-Borrower Relationship .12
K. Consulting Services .12
L   Project Documentation and Data .13
Part II      Statistical Annexes
Table 1    Summary of Assessments .14
Table 2.   Related Bank Loans .16
Table 3.   Project Timetable .17
Table 4.  Project Scope .18
Table 5.     Implementation Schedule and Procurement Methodl9
Table 6.  Project Costs .21
Table 7.   Project Financing .22
Table 8.   Loan Disbursements .23
Table 9.     Allocation of Loan Proceeds .24
Table 10.    Incidence of Typhoid Fever.                      25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiihout World Bank authorization.



Table 11.          Financial S tatements .......................                      26
Table 12.          Monitoring Indicators .......................                      29
Table 13.    Rate of Return .......................                                   30
Table 14.          Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ............              ........... 32
Table 15.          Bank Resources: Missions .........                 .............. 33
Table 16.          Studies Included in the Project .......................             34
Table 17.          Status of Legal Covenants .........                .............. 35
Appendixes:                A. Borrower's Comments to ICR ........................                       36
B. Map



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
SECOND SANTIAGO WATER AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 2651-CH)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Santiago Water and
Sewerage Project in Chile, for which Loan 2651 -CH in the amount of US$60 million
equivalent was approved on February 11, 1986, and became effective on July 3, 1986.
After extension of the closing date by three years and two reductions of the loan amount
at the Borrower's request totaling US$6.32 million, the Loan was closed on December 31,
1995, three years behind schedule, with US$53.68 million disbursed.
The ICR was prepared by the Infrastructure and Urban Development Division, Country
Department I of the Latin America and Caribbean Region. The Borrower provided
comments to this ICR that are included as Appendix A.
Preparation of this ICR started during the Bank's completion mission in November 1995.
It is based on progress reports and materials in the project files. The Borrower contributed
to the preparation of the ICR by submitting as its final progress report its own evaluation
of the project preparation and execution.






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
SECOND SANTIAGO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 2651-CH)
Evaluation Summary
Project Objectives
i.    Loan 265 1-CH was the second loan to support water supply and sewerage
investments in the Santiago Metropolitan Region (SMR). The sewerage component of the
project was based on the Santiago sewerage master plan prepared under the first loan. The
project had three objectives: a) to support the first phase of a plan to alleviate the sewage
disposal and reuse problems with a view to reducing the incidence of typhoid fever and
other enteric diseases; b) to upgrade potable water quality and increase available water
quantity by improving operation and maintenance and reducing water losses in the water
distribution system; and c) to strengthen the management and cost control system of the
Empresa Metropolitana de Obras Sanitarias (EMOS) (para. 6).
Project Implementation
ii.    The project, appraised in February 1985, was approved by the Board in February
1986 and became effective in July 1986. Significant delays occurred during the first three
years of implementation because of a) an emergency situation in August 1986 caused by
the cresting of the Maipo River above its flood level, causing major damage to EMOS'
facilities; b) the lack of bidding documents acceptable to the Bank; c) weakened project
coordination after the dissolution of the Coordination Unit of the first project in 1985, and
the dispersion of its members and functions within EMOS, without clearly establishing the
new functional responsibilities, d) the lack of sufficiently detailed designs for bidding of
major civil works; e) a shortage of qualified professionals to review and approve the
designs prepared by consultants, which was overcome only in 1990; f) difficulties in
expropriations and land acquisition; and g) the budgetary restrictions and reductions
imposed by the Ministry of Finance in 1986, which were not anticipated during the
preparation of the project (para. 12-14).
iii.    As early as 1989, EMOS decided to reduce the sewerage component of the project
and shift priorities to water supply, in accordance with its new 5-year investment program
of US$131 million. After numerous changes and repeated delays in the design and bidding
process of one of the two major sewage interceptors (Mapocho), EMOS eventually
removed it from its investment program. According to the new master plan for sewage
treatment, the Mapocho interceptor should be built by 2009. Moreover, 12 out of 13
stabilization ponds for provincial centers have not been constructed (para. 15).



iii
iv.    After initial delays, the overall implementation of the project was satisfactory. The
procurement of services did not present any unusual problems. Most bid calls were
answered by an adequate number of qualified bidders and there was no significant problem
in the selection of the most qualified contractors. As a result of the above mentioned
delays in the initial phase, disbursements lagged behind appraisal estimates. The bulk of
the loan was disbursed after FY90, with the peak in FY93. The closing date was extended
to December 31, 1995 (para. 15-16).
Project Results
v.    Although not formally discussed and formalized in an amendment, the project
scope shifted from an emphasis on sewerage to water supply works. However, partly with
loan proceeds and largely with EMOS' own funds, the objectives stated in the SAR were
to a large extent met. EMOS has managed to achieve or surpass most of the targets set in
the SAR for operational and financial performance (para. 24 and 27).
vi.   The cost of the original project at appraisal was estimated at US$121.2 million.
The cost of the revised project reached US$201.1 million. It was initially estimated that
the Bank would finance all foreign costs involved in the original project works. During
implementation, the modifications that took place with regard to the project components
ultimately led to the financing of about US$44 million of local costs by the Bank. As a
result of the cost increases and change of scope, Bank participation in project financing
was reduced from 50%, as envisaged at appraisal, to about 27%. Nevertheless, this did
not affect project completion, since EMOS was able to finance the additional costs from
internally-generated funds as a result of the improvement in its financial position (para. 19-
20).
vii.   From the operational point of view, EMOS' performance has been satisfactory.
Water production increased steadily during the project. However, average sales per
connection have declined from 35.8 m3 per month in 1987 to 31.6 m3 per month in 1994.
This was due primarily to rate increases in real terms that took place over this period. The
residential consumption per connection in the same period declined from 24.3 m3 per
month to 21.0 m3 per month. At the same time, unaccounted-for-water (UFW), measured
as the ratio of metered consumption over volume produced (at plant exit), was lowered
from 43% in 1985 to 26%, as forecast in the SAR. It is expected that after completion of
macrometering and rehabilitation of the distribution network, the UFW level will continue
to fall and remain low (para. 24).
viii.   During project implementation, a significant reduction of typhoid fever incidence
was observed. This reduction was most marked after the cholera threat in the summer of
1991, when the GoCH introduced a number of measures to prevent the use of sewage-
contaminated water for irrigation of food crops that are consumed uncooked. Moreover,
intensive health education campaigns contributed to a remarkable decline in all water-
related diseases (para. 25).



iv
intensive health education campaigns contributed to a remarkable decline in all water-
related diseases (para. 25).
ix.    The financial position of EMOS is fully in accordance with targets. The operating
ratio has improved significantly from 77% in 1990 to 59% in 1995. The working ratio
was lowered from 52% in 1990 to 45% in 1995. The accounts receivable position as
expressed in average daily sales equivalent reached 75 days at the end of 1995, which was
equal to the appraisal estimate for the end of the project. The minimum 55% covenanted
self-financing investment indicator was surpassed in all the years and averaged about 70%.
The debt service coverage ratio exceeded the appraisal targets (3.6 for 1993) in all years,
except in 1991, when it dropped to 1.0, and reached 8.1 in 1995. The rate of return has
increased from 6.1% in 1990 to 14.2% in 1995 due mainly to rate adjustments (para. 26).
x.    While the economic evaluation made at appraisal was based on costs and benefits
of the Bank-assisted project, the reevaluation is based on all investments during the time
slice 1986-95. The revised rate of return has been calculated at 4.4%. This relatively low
rate, compared to the discount rate (11%) and the rate estimated at appraisal (16%), is
due to the low water rates charged by EMOS during most years of the investment period,
the lower-than-expected water sales, and higher investment and operating costs than
estimated at appraisal. The revised long-run costs is US$-cents 22.1 per m3 for water
supply and US$-cents 9.4 per m3 for sewage, both somehow below the rates presently
being charged (para. 28).
Project Sustainability
xi.   It is expected that EMOS will adequately operate and maintain the new facilities,
given its track record. However, it will require assistance in carrying out field research for
determining the optimal operation and management of the Santiago Poniente pilot
wastewater treatment plant -- if there should be renewed interest in the non-conventional
and innovative processes incorporated in this plant -- either for Santiago or other cities.
At present, EMOS has discontinued such investigation because it has opted for more
conventional processes for the future Santiago wastewater treatment plants, which will be
contracted with the private sector through a BOT arrangement. From the institutional and
operational points of view, the existing legal and regulatory framework guarantees the
sustainability of the new facilities. Moreover, the tariff and income support laws provide
the best guarantee that EMOS will be able to maintain its financial performance (para. 30).
Lessons Learned
xii.   The main lessons to be learned from this project are (para. 33):
a) Significant improvements in the performance of the sector and its utilities require a
well-functioning regulatory and institutional framework -- including an independent
regulatory agency, rates based on long-run costs, direct income support to the low-income



v
consumers, and decentralization of the water utilities and their corporatization -- as was
introduced in Chile in the late eighties;
b) To avoid unnecessary delays in project implementation, it is essential to have detailed
designs for a given percentage of the project subcomponents before project effectiveness;
c) In the case of an experienced and efficient utility such as EMOS, a project designed
from the outset to finance a time slice of its investment program versus a project approach
would have precluded the adjustments needed to accommodate the shift in priority as it
emerged during project implementation.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
SECOND SANTIAGO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 2651-CH)
Part I - Implementation Assessment From Bank's Perspective
A.    Project Identity
Project Name:      Second Santiago Water Supply and Sewerage Project
Loan Number:       265 1-CH
Loan Amount:       US$53.68 million (reduced from original amount of US$60 million)
RVP Unit:          LAI, Infrastructure and Urban Development Division
Country:           Chile
Sector:            Water Supply and Sanitation
B.    Background
Sector Objectives
I .    The population of Chile in 1995 reached an estimated 14 million, of which about
85% live in urban areas. Santiago, with about half of the country's urban population, has
absorbed a substantial part of the population growth in the last two decades. As its main
objective for the water sector, the Government of Chile (GoCH) has sought to ensure that
high levels of service coverage are attained. At the time this project was being prepared,
water supply coverage in urban areas stood at around 89%, while sewerage coverage was
69%. In Santiago, water and sanitation coverage was 95% and 87%, respectively. While
impressive achievements in service levels have occurred as a result of government policies,
water pollution caused by the discharge of untreated sewage into open water courses and
water scarcity in some areas have emerged as new challenges. The other three objectives
of the GoCH included the attainment of financial self-sufficiency for urban water and
sanitation services, the strengthening of the sector institutional framework, and the
introduction of modern management techniques.
Sector Organization
2.    Since the late 1 970s, water and sewerage services were the responsibility of 13
regional water utilities operating under the Servicio Nacional de Obras Sanitarias
(SENDOS), an agency of the Ministerio de Obras Publicas (MOP), with the Empresa
Metropolitana de Obras Sanitarias (EMOS), the regional utility in charge of the Greater
Santiago metropolitan area, and Empresa de Obras Sanitarias de Valparaiso (ESVAL) in



2
charge of the fifth region. During the implementation of this project, the regional water
utilities were converted from public sector agencies to stock corporations. These
companies remain under the control of the central government; their main shareholder is
the state-owned Corporaci6n de Fomento de la Producci6n (CORFO), while the Republic
of Chile is a minor shareholder. In addition, there are a few private shareholders. A
transparent system of concessions was instituted whereby each regional company was
granted the concession of water and sewerage to the geographic area where it was
located, with the option of granting subconcessions to the private sector for parts of the
area or some of the services it provides.
3.    During the 1988-90 sector reform, the GoCH adopted three important measures.
First, it created the Superintendencia de Servicios Sanitarios (SSS) as regulator for the
sector. The SSS is an autonomous entity with juridical personality and independent
budget. Its main functions are: a) granting concessions for water and sewerage services,
b) setting standards for the sector and controlling compliance with them, and c)
calculating tariffs and controlling their implementation. Second, a tariff law was adopted
to ensure economic efficiency and autofinancing of the utilities through the use of long-
term average costs. Third, the Government adopted a new system of direct income
support to help low-income consumers pay their water and sewerage bills. This transfer is
financed from the central budget and made available through the municipalities.
Bank Sector Lending
4.    The Bank's assistance to the sector supported the Government's objectives and
efforts to achieve a more rational sector development and modernization, to improve
efficiency, to alleviate poverty and unemployment, and to address critical public health
problems arising from inadequate sewage disposal and reuse in large urban areas,
particularly in Santiago. The Bank has made four loans to the sector (including this one,
see Table 2): one to the Republic of Chile, the present loan to EMOS, and two to ESVAL
(the water utility in Valparaiso). The larger part of the loan to the Republic of Chile helped
finance -- through a project agreement with EMOS -- the construction of a water
treatment plant, water transmission mains and distribution systems in Santiago, in addition
to the preparation of a sewerage master plan for Santiago and studies and equipment for
reducing water losses. The second part of the loan was used for control of water losses in
the rest of the country through a project agreement with SENDOS. The project was
completed satisfactorily and closed on June 30, 1986, one year after the original closing
date (ICR dated September 1990). The first loan to ESVAL financed improvements to the
water supply systems and consulting services for the improvement and expansion of the
water and sewerage systems in Greater Valparaiso; it was closed on December 31, 1990
(ICR dated June 30, 1994). The second loan to ESVAL, which is about two thirds
disbursed, is designed to improve the water supply and sewage collection and disposal
system of Greater Valparaiso.



3
C.    Project Objectives and Description
Project Origin
5.    The project was designed to further and consolidate the improvements in water
supply and sanitation initiated under the previous loan for the Santiago Metropolitan
Region (SMR). The SMR, which includes the city of Santiago and 15 provincial centers,
comprises EMOS' area of concession. Since the first project focused on improving the
water supply system, the second project was designed to address mainly the issue of
sewage treatment, disposal, and reuse.
Project Objectives
6.    The project had three objectives: a) to support the first phase of a plan to alleviate
the sewage disposal and reuse problems with a view to reducing the incidence of typhoid
fever and other enteric diseases; b) to upgrade the potable water quality and to increase
available water quantity by improving the operation and maintenance and reducing water
losses in the distribution system; and c) to strengthen EMOS' management and cost
control.
Project Description
7.    To meet the objectives, the Project had the following components:
a) Sewerage (Santiago and provincial centers): construction of about 70 km of trunk
mains and 200 km of secondary sewers, a pilot sewage treatment plant, and 13
stabilization ponds for provincial cities;
b) Water Supply (Santiago and provincial centers): construction of about 150 km of trunk
and distribution mains, about 80,000 m3 of reservoir storage, and about 30 wells;
c) Technical assistance: improvement of management, information, and operating systems;
development of a staff training program; construction of an operations center, and
provision of operations and office equipment and water meters.
The Executing Agency
8.    EMOS (Empresa Metropolitana de Obras Sanitarias) was created in 1977 to
provide services to the SMR. In 1989, it was converted into a shareholding company
whose main shareholders are CORFO (64.6%), the Government (35%) and private
shareholders (0.4%). Although EMOS enjoys considerable autonomy in its operation, the
Government, through its nomination of the members of the Board of Directors, still plays
a significant role in investment planning and management.



4
9.    In the SMR, EMOS is responsible for providing services to about 83% of the
population, while the remaining area is covered by private (5%) and municipal companies
(12%). EMOS is responsible for the planning, administration, construction, operation,
and maintenance of the systems. It employs about 1,950 people and provides services
through almost one million connections of water and sewerage.
D.    Project Design
Conceptual Framework
10.   The project originally was conceived as a continuation of the previous Loan
(183 2-CH) which included the first phase of modernization and rehabilitation of the water
supply system and studies for the long-term development of the sewerage system. The
first mention of the project is made in November 1982 in a back-to-office report as a
possible follow-up to the on-going project. The Santiago sewerage master plan, prepared
in 1984 as part of the first Loan by the international consortium Coyne&Bellier/Cade-
Idepe, included a survey of the conditions of existing facilities, a definition of the
requirements for sewer networks and the possible location of future treatment plants. The
project was then reoriented to address the problems of wastewater disposal and to
rationalize and control its use in irrigation to minimize the incidence of typhoid fever and
other water-related diseases. The sewage disposal concept was based on the interception
of the wastewater discharged into the three main water courses (Maipo, Mapocho, and
Zanjon de la Aguada) crossing SMR, so that the irrigation canals fed from these sources
would not be contaminated. Moreover, the concept included the pilot plant studies of the
applicability of different options of wastewater treatment, including innovative systems
based on lagoon technology. On the water supply side, the project sought the
improvement of water quality and service through the modernization and optimization of
the main treatment plant, and improved management and control of the distribution
network.
Project Preparation
11.   Project preparation was based substantially on the sewerage master plan for
Greater Santiago (mentioned earlier) and a subsequent study on the Improvement of the
Water and Sewerage Service of Metropolitan Santiago, prepared by a national consultant
(INECON) in 1985. The appraisal of the project was based largely on these studies, which
did not include detailed designs for any major project component. The absence of detailed
designs ready for bidding was one of the reasons for the initial delays in project
implementation (see Table 3 for the project timetable).



5
E.    Project Implementation
Project Start-up
12.   Although the project was appraised in February 1985, it was only approved by the
Board in February 1986 and became effective in July 1986. The Board presentation was
made contingent to a rate increase of 15% and automatic rate adjustments according to
inflation (decrees published in December 1985). In August 1986, immediately after
effectiveness, an emergency situation arose as a result of the cresting of the Maipo River
above its flood level, causing major damage to one of the water intakes, the main
treatment plant, and some of the transmission mains. EMOS requested Bank financing to
deal with this emergency. The Bank responded positively allowing direct contracting and
offering financing from the then on-going Loan 1832-CH. The first activity of the new
project was, after prequalification, the hiring of consultants to design the pilot sewage
treatment plant and the interceptor, Zanjon de La Aguada.
Project Implementation Schedule and Procurement
13.   According to the SAR, it was estimated that project designs would start in early
1985 and project construction in late 1986. However, the first works contract of this
Loan was only awarded in December 1987 (San Bernardo collector, second phase), even
though some of the civil works contracts of the first project, closely identified with the
objectives of the new project, were accepted for disbursement in February 1987.
14.   Although EMOS had been considered an efficient utility, a number of unforeseen
difficulties delayed the project in the initial phase:
a) as mentioned above, in August 1986, heavy rains and flooding led to major damage of
the water intake and treatment installations. The cost of the emergency was estimated at
US$4 million, with serious implications on the financial situation of EMOS;
b) bidding documents were not acceptable to the Bank. The documents used under the
first loan were deemed unacceptable and had to be changed. Only in March 1988 and
February 1989 was EMOS able to present acceptable bidding documents for consultants
and civil works, respectively; revised bidding documents for goods were approved by the
Bank in September 1989;
c) the project coordination was weakened after the dissolution of the Coordination Unit of
the first project in 1985. This was followed by the assignment of the project execution
functions to various Departments (e.g. Engineering and Construction, Administration and
Operations), and the overall coordination to the Department of Planning and
Development, without a clear definition of their respective functional responsibilities. This
led to the loss of the experience gained in the first project. This also meant that other parts
of EMOS had to learn the various procedures requested by the Bank. This was followed
by an attempt to place the coordination of the project in the Department of Projects and



6
Construction (1987), and the dissolution (January 1990) and revival (March 1990) of the
Department of Planning and Development, to which the overall coordination of this
project was ultimately entrusted. Moreover, until 1990, a severe shortage of qualified
professionals who could review and approve the designs prepared by consultants also
contributed to the delay in initiating the construction of the project;
d) the project risk mentioned in the SAR of delays in expropriations and land acquisition
materialized. This led to serious delays in the construction of the San Bernardo and Padre
Hurtado collectors. Delays also occurred in the acquisition of land for the wastewater
treatment pilot plant;
e) the proposal by a British firm to construct a primary treatment plant on a BOT basis
which led to additional reviews and discussions with various authorities before the offer
was rejected. There were also differences between the Bank and EMOS about the
concept and design of the Santiago Poniente pilot treatment plant;
f) budgetary restrictions and reductions imposed by the Finance Ministry in 1986, which
were not predicted in the preparation of the project, caused the postponement of some
works; similarly, the requirement to turn over a part of the profits to the owners was
caused by the inability of EMOS to maintain the investment program agreed in the SAR,
primarily in the 1986-90 period.
15.   As early as 1989, EMOS decided to reduce the sewerage component of the project
and shift priorities to water supply, in accordance with its new 5-year investment program
of US$131 million (the original and final project scope are detailed in Table 4). After
numerous changes and repeated delays in the design and bidding process of the Mapocho
sewage interceptor, EMOS eventually removed it from its investment program.
According to the new master plan for sewage treatment, building the Mapocho interceptor
will be delayed until the year 2009. Moreover, 12 out of 13 stabilization ponds for the
provincial centers included in the original project scope were not constructed. In the early
years, EMOS attached to them a low priority, and later it delayed them because of the
pending decision if they would be part of the installations included in a BOT scheme. On
the water supply side, more emphasis was put on the rehabilitation and replacement of
primary mains and the construction of reservoirs in Santiago at the expense of the
provincial centers, where the scope for both water supply and sewerage was drastically
reduced from appraisal levels. The initial delays could not be recovered and the closing
date was extended until December 31, 1995.
16.   Overall the implementation of the project was satisfactory. The procurement of
works, goods and services did not present any unusual problems (Table 5). Most bids
were answered by an adequate number of qualified bidders and there was no significant
problem in the selection of the most qualified contractors. In a few components, the issue
of quality arose, as was the case in the construction of the Reina Baja and La Hermida
reservoirs.



7
17.   Around mid- 1991, a threat of a cholera epidemic forced EMOS to take a series of
operational measures, such as increasing the residual chlorine in its water distribution
systems, and accelerating its sewerage construction program. The Bank responded by
offering at its own initiative expert consultant advice on how to deal with the emergency
situation, ultimately agreeing to amend some clauses of the loan agreement to permit
emergency works to be contracted directly. As a result, the extension of the Tajamar
sewer main was bid through shopping even though this procurement method was not
allowed under the original loan agreement. Similarly, the extension of the Padre Hurtado
sewer main was added to an existing contract to expedite its construction.
Project Costs
18.   The cost of the project at appraisal was estimated to be US$121.2 million,
including the civil works, materials, equipment, technical assistance and contingencies, of
which US$60.0 million was for foreign costs (Table 6). The final project costs
corresponding to the revised scope reached US$201.1  million. The increase in costs is
mainly due to: a) the underestimation of project costs at appraisal, as the preparation of
project components had only been done at the prefeasibility stage, and b) price escalation
due to the longer implementation period. For example, the cost of one of the major
components, the Zanjon interceptor, was higher than originally estimated, as it was based
on the master plan, whereas the final design introduced a change in the design period from
2010 to 2040, leading to an increase in the diameter of the pipe. In sewerage, although
significant cost overruns occurred, the total increase was limited to 3% over the appraisal
figure by a significant reduction in the original scope.
Project Financing
19.   Table 7 indicates the estimated and actual project financing scheme. It was initially
estimated that the Bank would finance all foreign costs in connection with the original
scope of works. During implementation, the modifications that took place with regard to
the project components led to the financing of about US$44 million of local costs. It is
important to bear in mind that the project ultimately financed a slice of EMOS' investment
program. As a result of the cost increases, the Bank's participation in the financing of the
project was reduced from 50%, as envisaged at appraisal, to about 27%.
20.   As a result of the delays in project implementation, disbursements did not follow
the appraisal estimates. The bulk of the disbursements happened after FY90, with the
peak in FY93 (see Table 8). The slower pace of disbursement was due to the delays
described in para. 14.
21.   The original allocation of the loan proceeds by category was based on the
assumption made during project preparation (1985) that the civil works and the equipment
for the major components would be contracted separately. However, in most cases,
EMOS included in the civil works contracts the acquisition of related equipment and
materials to ensure better coordination between supply and installation. Thus, the



8
allocation of funds between these categories had to be adjusted accordingly (see Table 9).
This situation already had occurred in the first loan, but was not taken into consideration
in this project.
F.    Project Results
Project Objectives
22.   Although not formally discussed and formalized in an amendment to the Loan
Agreement, a shift in project objectives from an emphasis on sewerage to water supply
works occurred during project implementation. However, the objectives stated in the
SAR were to a large extent met. EMOS has managed to achieve or surpass most of the
targets set in the SAR for operational and financial performance. At the same time, a very
significant drop in the incidence of typhoid fever and other enteric diseases has been
observed, although this achievement cannot be attributed to EMOS' efforts alone. Some
concern remains with respect to the long-term sustainability of this achievement in the
absence of the Mapocho interceptor.
Physical Results
23.   As a result of the shift of emphasis from sewerage to water supply, the physical
targets as set in the SAR have not been fully achieved. Table 4 shows a comparison
between the initial and actual scope of works. In Santiago sewerage works fell short of
the initial plans but substantially more water supply works were built than planned. In the
provincial centers, however, targets were not reached for water supply and sewerage
works. Both in Santiago and the other towns, water supply investments were geared
mostly to improving service quality since coverage was already at a high 95% at the
beginning of the project; sewerage coverage was raised from 87% to 96% in the
metropolitan area.
24.   From the operational point of view, EMOS' performance has been satisfactory.
Water production increased steadily during the project. However, average sales per
connection declined from 35.8 m3 per month in 1987 to 31.6 m3 per month in 1994 due
primarily to the rate increases in real terms that took place over this period, as well as the
reduction in the number of people living in the same household. The residential
consumption in the same period declined from 24.3 m3 per month to 21.0 m3 per month
per connection. During the same time, unaccounted-for-water (UFW), measured as the
ratio of metered consumption over volume produced (at plant exit), was lowered from
43% in 1985 to 26%, as forecast in the SAR. It is expected that, with the completion of
macrometering and rehabilitation of the distribution network, the UFW level will continue
to fall and stabilize at an even lower level than at present.
25.   During project implementation a significant reduction of typhoid fever incidence
was observed (Table 10). This reduction was most marked after the cholera epidemic
threat, when the GoCH introduced a number of measures to prevent the use of sewage-



9
contaminated water for irrigation of food crops that are consumed uncooked. Moreover,
intensive health education campaigns helped contribute to a remarkable drop in all water-
related diseases.
26.   The Santiago Poniente wastewater pilot treatment plant, which was built to test
design parameters for larger plants in Santiago, failed to produce an effluent of acceptable
quality in the winter months. Moreover, the investment and operating costs of the plant
proved to be much higher than estimated at appraisal. After two years of research, EMOS
discontinued further testing. It is not clear whether additional reconfiguration of the plant
processes would have resulted in a more satisfactory performance. To address the issue of
effluent quality, EMOS has introduced a chlorinating step, an effective but costly measure.
EMOS' Financial Performance
27.   The financial position of EMOS is fully in accordance with targets. The operating
ratio (operating expenses/operating revenues) has improved significantly, from 77% in
1990 to 59% in 1995. Likewise, the working ratio (operating expenses minus
depreciation/operating revenues) changed from 52% in 1990 to 45% in 1995. The
accounts receivable position, expressed in average daily sales equivalent, reached 75 days
at the end of 1995, which was equal to the appraisal estimate for the end of the project.
The minimum 55% (covenanted) self-financing investment indicator was surpassed in all
the years and averaged about 75%. The debt-service coverage ratio, after dropping to 1.0
in 1991, reached 8.1 in 1995; the SAR estimate of this ratio for 1993 was 3.6. The rate of
return has increased from 6.1% in 1990 to 14.2% in 1995, due mainly to rate adjustments;
which represents a substantial improvement over the rates estimated at appraisal. Table
11 provides a comparison between financial statements of the company as forecast in the
SAR and actual achievements, Table 12 shows the same comparison for the monitoring
indicators.
Economic Reevaluation
28.   In line with the change in emphasis on EMOS' total activities adopted in this
report, the economic reevaluation is based on all investments made by EMOS in the time
slice 1986-95 as compared to the more isolated analysis of the costs and benefits of the
Bank assisted project (1986-91) in the SAR. In the reevaluation, it was assumed that the
capacity created by the new investments will be fully utilized by the year 2000.
Incremental sales have been determined proportionately to the addition to total fixed
assets that the time slice investment cost represent. The project life was assumed to be 30
years. The revised long-run marginal cost of water supply, at a discount rate of 11% (the
same as in the SAR), is estimated at US$-cents 22.1 (1984) per m3 as compared to US$-
cents 8.9 (1984) per m3 at appraisal. The reasons for this increase over SAR estimates
are: (i) higher investment costs; (ii) increased operating costs; and (iii) lower sales. At
appraisal, investment costs were based on prefeasibility studies that carried cost estimates
much below actual costs. EMOS' operating costs increased considerably during project



10
execution. In 1993, their value per m3 was 130% higher than the appraisal estimate. In
the SAR, a consumption of 37 m3/connection/month was assumed, while actual
consumption in 1994 was 31.6 m3/connection/month. The average 1995 water rate (in
December 1984 prices) of US$-cents 16.3 per m3 remains below the costs determined
through this calculation. Beyond the methodological differences in approach (historical
versus future cost of the system), the Chilean water tariff legislation uses a lower discount
factor of 9.2% than the 11% applied here, which results in lower rates. Using rates as
proxy for benefits, the rate of return has been reestimated at 4.4% for the entire 1986-95
investment program. This low rate of return, in addition to the explanations given for the
higher costs, is due to lower water and sewage rates in effect for most of the years of the
investment period. The full target rates calculated according to the new tariff were
reached only in 1994. As rates reflect only part of the benefits of water supply and
sewage disposal services to society, total benefits will exceed the level resulting from this
calculation. Table 13 provides the details of this calculation, for both water and sewerage.
Impact on the Poor
29.   Although the project was not designed to target directly the poor, it is safe to say
that the benefits from the improvements to the water supply systems and the construction
of major sewer networks have a positive impact on the lives of the low-income population
of Greater Santiago. In the context of its mandate, EMOS has extended water supply
services to all populations within its area of concession, of which 10 % qualify for direct
subsidy from the State for up to 20 m3/month of water consumption. Moreover, in
extending water services to the low-income communities in the periurban areas, as part of
its participation in the National Program for the Alleviation of Extreme Poverty, EMOS
provides technical assistance at no cost to the municipalities and finances the cost of
connections without interest.
G.    Project Sustainability
30.   It is expected that EMOS will adequately operate and maintain the new facilities,
given its track record. However, it would require assistance in carrying out field research
to determine the optimal operation and management of the Santiago Poniente pilot
wastewater treatment plant if there were renewed interest in the non-conventional and
innovative processes incorporated in this plant, either for Santiago or other cities. At
present, EMOS has discontinued such investigation because it has opted for more
conventional processes for the future Santiago wastewater treatment plants, which will be
contracted with the private sector through a BOT arrangement. From the institutional and
operational points of view, the existing legal and regulatory framework guarantees the
sustainability of the new facilities. Moreover, the tariff and income support laws provide
the best guarantee that EMOS will be able to maintain its financial performance.



11
H.    Bank Performance
31.   Overall, Bank performance was satisfactory. The Bank's preparation involved
89.3 staff weeks. However, at the end of the appraisal process, an insufficient number of
final designs for the investment components to be executed in the first two years were
available.
32.   The Bank's supervision was intense, comprising 133.4 staff weeks during the
implementation period. Between 1986 and 1995, 18
missions visited EMOS (see Tables 14 and 15). There was a remarkable continuity of
essential Bank staff in supervision. The attitude of the Bank was flexible during the
flooding of 1986, when the Bank responded by offering contracting procedures more
adapted to the emergency situation. Bank staffs advice in the decision-making process
regarding sewage treatment was actively sought and provided a high level of input in areas
where the Borrower lacked the required experience. This was most evident in the design,
research, and monitoring studies carried out at the Santiago Poniente wastewater pilot
plant. The Borrower showed appreciation for the Bank's input when, after canceling part
of the loan, it decided to keep some of the loan proceeds for the consultants' studies then
in progress where it needed the Bank's technical assistance in the monitoring and
evaluation (Table 16).
Lessons Learned
33.   The main lessons learned from this project are as follows:
a) Significant improvements in the performance of the sector and its utilities require a
well-functioning regulatory and institutional framework -- including an independent
regulatory agency, rates based on long-run costs, direct income support to the low-income
consumers, and decentralization of the water utilities and their corporatization -- as was
introduced in Chile in the late eighties,
b) To avoid unnecessary delays in project implementation, it is essential to have detailed
designs for a given percentage of the project subcomponents before project effectiveness;
c) In the case of an experienced and efficient utility such as EMOS, a project designed
from the outset to finance a time slice of its investment program versus a project approach
would have precluded the adjustments needed to accommodate the shift in priority as it
emerged during project implementation.
1.    EMOS' Performance
34.   EMOS is considered one of the more efficient water utilities in Latin America.
Overall its performance has been very satisfactory, especially after overcoming initial
delays. However, in the first three years, EMOS was unable to provide sufficiently



12
experienced staff for timely review and supervision of consultant work. Consequently, the
preparation of acceptable standard bidding documents was delayed until 1989. Moreover,
project implementation suffered delays because of a lack of continuity in the management
of the project coordination unit. However, after 1990, with a new legal status and a new
management, EMOS was successful in accelerating the implementation of the project. In
its new investment program, EMOS modified the focus of its development, shifting
priority from treatment and disposal of wastewater to rehabilitation and improvement of
water supply. In implementing its new priorities, EMOS treated the loan, with the Bank's
consent, more as a loan to finance a time slice of its overall investment plan than an
investment loan for constructing identified facilities.
J.    Bank-Borrower Relationship
3 5.   The relationship between the Bank and the Borrower was generally cordial. There
was considerable continuity in Bank staff working on the Project. Similarly on the
Borrower side, there were relatively few management changes after 1990. This
combination led to the development of a stable working relationship. At the initial phase
of the project, the insistence of the Bank on using new standard bidding documents,
differenit from those used in the previous loan, faced some resistance from EMOS. This
change of bidding documents became necessary because the ones used in the previous
loan, which were mostly for local procurement of minor works and goods, included
clauses that did not conform to the Bank's new procurement guidelines, and thus were not
suitable for procurement using ICB of major civil works and equipment envisaged under
the new project. The Bank, however, allowed the use of local bidding documents for
LCB of minor civil works during the project.
K.   Consulting Services
36.   The scope of the consulting services required was greater than anticipated at
appraisal. The performance of the local and international consultants hired to carry out
the studies, design the civil works, and supervise their construction was generally
satisfactory. Regarding the Santiago Poniente wastewater pilot treatment plant, the
expected results were not achieved in the two-year field investigations. More research on
reconfigured processes would be necessary to establish whether satisfactory performance
of the plant could be achieved.
37.   The majority of the consulting assignments were contracted in accordance with the
shortlist procedure recommended by the Bank, some of which were preceded by a pre-
qualification step, while the remainder were directly contracted (e.g., rehabilitation of the
networks, diagnosis of the treatment plant; and supervision of the construction of the
aqueduct Laguna Negra). In the case of the design and field research for the Santiago
Poniente plant, the consultant was hired directly after being prequalified along with four



13
other firms. These procedures were approved by the Bank in accordance with the
guidelines for exceptional circumstances.
L.    Project Documentation and Data
38.   The staff appraisal report was well-prepared and provided a useful framework for
project supervision and the preparation of this report. The aide-memoires, the supervision
reports, and letters to EMOS provided a detailed record of the issues encountered during
project execution, and the actions recommended and taken to improve performance.
Quarterly progress reports submitted by EMOS were generally well-prepared and
provided a good record of project execution. EMOS also submitted a very thorough
completion report, which was used in the preparation of this report.



-14-
Part II:
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives       Substantial      Partial        Negligible      Not applicable
Macro Policies                     Q               5                                 V/
Sector Policies                    E              [ l                                /
Financial Objectives               /               a:              [J
Institutional Development          5                                                 5C
Physical Objectives                               [                S                []
Poverty Reduction                  S              [                 5                V
Gender Issues                                                                       IV [    V
Other Social Objectives             ]             i:                                V/
Environmental Objectives           V               C               Cl               I
Public Sector Management            J              i                                 V/
Private Sector Development                         E a                               V/
Other (specify)                    0              U                                 V/
B. Project Susinabilitv               Likelv                 Unlikely                 Uncertain
(1)                     (V)                       (~/)
Highl
C. Bank Performance                    satisfactory         Satisfactorv              Deficient
Identification                       ]                     V/ 
Preparation Assistance             E                       V                         E
Appraisal                          0                       V                         E
Supervision                        V                        ]                        E



-15-
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                        satisfactor     Satisfactory      Deficient
(/)             (/()            (V)
Preparation                                                    /
Implementation                                El               V 
Covenant Compliance                           / Vl 
Operation (if applicable)                      /               5               5
Highly                                             H
E. Assessment of Outcome               satisfactor    Satisfactorv   Unsatisfactorv     unsatisfactorv
5/              (/                5/                5/



Table 2: Related Bank Loans (US$ million)
Loan title and number                        Purpose                                        Amount Year        Status
Previouis Operations
Water Supply Project (1832-CH)               To provide water supply for 700,000 people in  32.3 a/  1980    Completed
Santiago, reduce water losses in other systems of the
country, and help reform the water sector
Following operations
Valparaiso Water Supply Reconstnuctioni l'roject   To help reconstnmct the water suipply systenm and  6.0  1986    Completed
(2652-CH)                                    prepare plans for the expansion of water and
sewerage networks in Valparaiso
Second Valparaiso Watcr Supply and Sewerage    To implement the extension of the water and  50.0     1991     65 %
Project (333 1-CII)                          sewerage systems and assist in the institutional                 disbursed
strengthening of ESVAL
a/ The original loan amount was US$ 38 million.



-17-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle     Date Planned            Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Preparation                        June 1984            October 8, 1984
Appraisal                     November 1984            February 3, 1985
Negotiations                    October 1985           October 21, 1985
Board Presentation            December 1985           February 11, 1986
Signing                                                   April 4, 1986
Effectiveness                                              July 3, 1986
Project Completion         December 31, 1991              June 30, 1995
Loan Closing               December 31, 1992         December 31, 1995



Table 4. PictScpe
Estimated
in SAR                  Actual
Unit
Sewerage - Santiago
Trunk Mains (900-4000mm)
Interceptors                               Km                       30               16.3
Main Collectors                            Km                       40               31.8
Secondary Collectors, <900mm                  Km                      125               51.2
Pilot Treatment Plant                                    I (30000m3/d)       1 (16000m3/d)
Sewerage - Other Cities
Sewers, <600mm                                Km                       76               58.2
Treatment Plant                                                        13        1 (4700m3)
Water Supply - Santiago
Prnniary Distribution Pipes (300-1200mm)      Km                       55               94.1
Secondary Distribution Pipes (75-300mm)       Km                       46               32.9
Reservors~ New                                              9 (65,000m3)   18 (242,500m3)
Rehabilitation                                    1 (20,000m3)      3 (44,OOOm3)
WlelIs                                                                  5                  5
Pressure Control and Macrometering                       Not quantified    Part of civil works
Water Supply - Other Cities
D,stributio;, Pipes (75-250mm)                Km                       46               36.5
Reservoirs                                               11 (16,300m3)          6 (5,850m3)
1v1eSl                                                                 25                 11
Oper. & Maint. Improvements
Central Operations Center                                               1         Postponed
7ech. Assist. and Training for EMOS Staff                  Not Quantified              Done
Opei-atiors Equipment                                      Not Quantified         Purchased
Consulting Services
DLsign of subprojects                                        Not specified             Done
Supoe nissccr                                                For all works             Done
Stud;es                                                       Not defined              Done
* ) Ma1or studies were  Wastewater treatment program for Greater Santiago
Research of innovative processes for Santiago Poniente Plant
Macrometering and Telemetry
Plan 'or maintenance, rehabilitation, and replacement of water supply network



-19-
Table 5. Implementation Schedule and Procurement Method
Package Description                            Bid                Contract        Completion        Procurement
Invitation         Award           Date              Method
A. Sewera2e
L. Main Collectors San Bernardo, Padre
Hurtado r, LI, LI, IV and two primary sewers
Planned                                  Mar. 1986           June 1986       Dec. .987         I,ocal
Actual                                   Aug. 1987           Dec. 1987       Sept.1993
II   Main Collector Paralelo Conchali and 10
prirnary sewers.
Planned                                  Aug. 1986           Dec. 1986       Dec. 1988         Local
Actual                                   Mar. 1989           July 1989       Sept 199(
Il.  Pilot Treatment Plant.
Planned                                  Aug. 1986           Dec. 1986       Dec. i988         International
Acnual                                   Nov. 1991           Mar. 1992       June  i33
IV.  17 Primary & Secondary Sewers
(Panamerican Sur II Sect. 2aE & others)
Planned                                  Aug. 1987           Dec. 1987       Jun.e ';          L ocal
Actual                                   Feb. 1991           May 1991
V.  Main interceptors, Zanj6n, I and 2
phases.
Planned                                  July 1987           Nov. 1987       Dec. i9          international
Actual                                   Oct. 1990           Jan. 1991       2nd pnas. not
completed
VI.  MIain interceptors, Mapocho, 1, 2
and 3 phases.
Planned                                  Jan. 1988           Mtay 1988       Dec. 1990         Local
Actual                                   Feb. 1995           June 1995       Not completed
VI. Main Collectors, Canal A-H Vicufia
Mackenna and Avda. Cerrillos and
primary sewers.
Planned                                  Sep. 1987           Jan. 1988       Dec. 1990        TLcca
Actual                                   Apr. 1990           Nov. 1990       Dec. 1993
VIII. 9 sewer systems for provincial
centers.
Planned                                  Sept. 1989          Jan. 1990       Dec. 1991        Local
Actual                                    lar. 1991          July 1991       Not compieted



-20-
Package Description                          Bid                 Contract       Completion       Procurement
Invitation         Award          Date              Method
B. Water Suipply
I.   Improvements to Lo Gallardo, Lo
Bravo, Canal San Carlos and Third
Aquaduct, Reservoir Reina Baja
Planned                                 Sept. 1986         Jan. 1987       Dec. 1988        Local
Actual                                  Feb. 1989          June 1989       Dec. 1994
II.  Improvements to Amdrico Vespucio,
Pedro de Valdivia m, and Laguna
Negra aqueducts.
Planned                                 Sept. 1987         Jan. 1988       Dec. 1990        Local
Actual                                  Mar. 1988          Aug. 1988       June 1993
m. Extensions and improvements of dis-
tribution systems.
Planned                                 Sept. 1988         Jan. 1989       Dec. 1990        Local
+                                            Feb. 1988           May 1988       Not completed
Actual
IV.  Extension and improvements for 5
sectors and 8 provincial center
systems.
Planned                                 Sept. 1989         Jan. 1990       Dec. 1991        Local
Actual                                  Mar. 1991          July 1991       Not completed
C. General
I.   Construction of operations building
Planned                                 S/i                Jaa. 1986       Dec. 1991
Actual                                  Cancelled
II.  Consultants
Planned                                 S/i                Jan. 1986       Dec. 1991        Local and
Actual                                  June 1986          Aug. 1986       Dec. 1995        Intemational



Table 6. Proiect Costs (USS million)
Appraisal Estimate                  Actual
Local   Foreign                 Local  Foreign                Percent
Costs     Costs    Total        Costs    Costs    Total       Change
Sewerage - Santiago
Sewer Lines                           17.8      19.4     37.2          32.0      3.2     35.2         -5%
Pilot Treatment Plant                  1.7       1.9      3.6          2.8       2.8      5.6         54%
Sewerage - Other Cities                  1.1       1.2      2.3           3.4      0.3      3.8         64%
SUBTOTAL - SEWERAGE                     20.6      22.5     43.1          38.2      6.4     44.8          3%
Water Supply - Santiago                  7.8       8.7     16.5          37.5     10.7     48.1        192%
Water Supply - Other Cities              4.4       4.8      9.2           4.1      0.6      4.7        -48%
SUBTOTAL-WATER SUPPLY                   12.2      13.5     25.7          41.6     11.3     52.8        106%
Oper. & Maint. Improvements              2.3       2.8      5.1             -      0.5      0.5        -91%
Consulting Services                      2.2       2.2      4.4           5.0      4.2      9.2        110%
TOTAL BASE COST (June 1985)             37.3       41      78.3          84.8     22.3    107.1         37%
Physical Contingencies (15%)             5.6       6.2     11.8             -        -        -
Price Contingencies                     18.4      12.7     31.1          47.5     12.5     60.0         93%
TOTAL NET COST (current prices)         61.3      59.9    121.2         132.3     34.8    167.1         38%
Taxes and Import Duties                    -         -        -          33.9        -     33.9
TOTAL GROSS COST                        61.3      59.9    121.2         166.2     34.8    201.1         66%
(current prices)



Table 7. Proiect Financing (US$ million)
Appraisal Estimate                         Actual
Local       Foreign       Total         Local        Foreign          Total
Costs        Costs                      Costs         Costs
IBRD                      -          60.0          60.0           44.0           9.7            53.7
EMOS                    61.2           -           61.2          122.2          25.1           147.3
TOTAL                   61.2         60.0         121.2          166.2          34.8           201.1



Table 8: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual (US$ million)
I   FY861    FY871    FY881    FY891    FY901    FY911    FY921    FY931    FY941    FY95
Appraisal estimate                0.1      3.0      14.5     31.0     46.5      58.5     60.0
Actual                                     1.0       1.8      3.2      7.6      11.3     25.7      44.7     53.3      53.7
Actual as % of estimate                   32.3      12.1     10.4     16.3      19.2     42.9      74.5     88.8      89.5
Date of final disbursement:  24-Jan-95
<D



-24-
Table 9. Allocation of Loan Proceeds (USS million)
Category         Appraisal      Oct. 1991      July 1994        Final
Civil works        20.00          43.00          46.35          45.59
Equipment          25.00           2.00           0.37           1.01
Consultant          3.00           8.00           8.00           7.08
Unallocated        12.00           7.00           0.00             --
TOTAL              60.00          60.00          54.72          53.68



-25-
Table 10. Incidence of TvUhoid Fever in Santiago and the Rest of the Countrr (Der
100.000 inhabitants)
Year                    Santiago                Rest of Chile
1980                     159.7                      59.2
1981                     158.6                      55.7
1982                     177.9                     69.0
1983                     214.9                     59.2
1984                     122.6                     47.1
1985                      84.8                     48.2
1986                      77.2                     46.8
1987                      56.3                     38.9
1988                      56.6                     32.2
1989                      80.1                     33.1
1990                      53.0                     29.1
1991                      47.9                     29.1
1992                       8.7                      12.2
1993                       7.1                      10.5
1994                       6.8                      11.5
Source: Ministry of Health



Table 11A, EMOS' Financial Staterments- IncorneStatement (Dec. 84. USS millionI
1990               1991                 1992                 1993           1994      1995           1996       1997      1991     1999      2000       2001
SAR   Actual       SAR    Actual        SAR   Actual         SAR   Actual        Actual   Actual                             Present Forecast
OperaUng Revenues
Water Revenues                               24 1      353       267       37 2       29 1      424       26.2       50 1      54.9      60.4          63.5      654       67.1       68.7      70.5       71.9
Sewerage Revenues                            12.7      13 4      14 1       14 8      14 4      18 1       13.9      23 9      27.3       23.3         23.0      23.7      24.4       25.2      25.9       26.7
Connection Fees                               0.7       0.1       0.5        1 0       0.5       1.4        0.5       1.5       2.1        15           1.8       1.9        1.9       2.0       2.1        2.1
Reconnection Fees and Other                   1.3       15        1.4       06         1.4       1.9        14        1.6       1.0        1.4          1.0       1.1        1.1       1.1       1.2        1.2
Eaploc                                        0.3       05        0.3       06         0.3       0.5       0.3        0.6       0.6        1.0          1.1       1.2        1.2       1.2       1.3        1.3
Total Operating Revenues                     39.1      50.8      43 1      54.2       43.7      64 3      42.3       77.6      85 9      87.6          90.4      93.2      95.7       98.3     100.9      103.2
Operating Expenses
Personnel                                    (7.4)    (142)       (83)    (15.7)      (B6)    (19.2)       (B4)    (21 7)    (21.9)    (22.5)         (22.5)    (226)    (22.5)    (238)    (25.2)    (26.7)
Chemicals                                    (0.6)     (07)       (07)      (0.8)     (0.7)      (06)      (07)      (06)       (06)      (0.5)        (1.0)     (1.1)      (I 1)     (1.2)      (1.3)     (1.3)
Power                                        (I 2)     (1.4)     (1.3)      (1 3)     (1.4)     (1. 1)     (1.3)     (1.3)     (1 5)      (1 5)        (15)       (1.6)     (1.7)     (1.8)     (1.9)      (2 0)
Maintenance                                  (1. 1)    (1.7)     (1.2)      (1.9)     (1.2)     (1.7)      (1.2)     (1.9)      (I 9)     (2.6)        (2 7)     (2.8)      (2.9)     (3.0)     (3.1)      (3.2)
Private Contractors                          (5.1)     (55)      (56)       (7.0)     (5.7)     (6.1)      (5.5)     (91)    (10.5)    (11.1)         (11.5)    (12.0)    (t2.4)    (12.8)    (13.3)    (13.8)         CT)
Write-Off Receivables                        (0.1)     (1.2)     (01)       (03)      (0.1)     (06)       (0.1)     (0O )      (0.8)     (0.4)        (0.9)     (0.9)      (1.0)     (1.0)      (10)      (1.0) 
Admtnislration                               (06)      (17)       (0.6)     (1 9)     (0.6)     (31)       (06)      (1.4)      (1.5)     (10)         (1.0)      (1.0)     (10)      (10)       (1.0)     (1.0)
Depreciation                                (14.9)    (12.8)    (16.9)    (12 7)    (16 9)    (13 1)    (16.5)    (13 7)    (11.2)    (12.2)          (12. 8)    (13.4)    (14.0)    (14.8)    (15.5)    (186.2)
TotalOperating Expenses                     (31.0)    (39.2)    (34.4)    (41.6)    (352)    (45.5)    (343)    (50.6)    (49.9)    (51.8)            (53.8)    (55.3)    (56.5)    (59.3)    (62.2)    (65.1)
OperatingIncome                                 8.1      11.7       8.6      12.9        85       18.8       80        27.0      36.1      35.9          36.8      38.0      39.2      39.0       38.7      38.1
FinancialRevenues                             0.0       8.3       0.0        2.6       0.0       08         0.0       2.2       2.0        2.1          0.3       0.1       0.0        0.0       0.0       (0.1)
FinancialExpenses                            (2.2)     (1.8)     (3.0)      (0.7)     (27)       (0.6)     (2.1)     (1.4)     (1.1)      (1.2)        (0.8)     (1.1)      (1.1)     (0.9)      (0.7)     (0.5)
Non-operalirglncome(net)                      0.0       1.0       0.0       04         0.0       1.0       00         0.0       1.0        1.4          1.4       1.4        1.4       1.4       1.4        1.4
EltectAoPiceChangesonRev. &Eq.              (14.9)     (6.8)    (172)       (0.5)    (17.6)      0.7      (17.3)     (05)       0.3        0.0          0.6       0.1       0.4        0.7        1.0       1.7
Enfect o Price Changes on Assels & Liab.     33.0       0.0      35.0       0.0       36.2       0 0      34.9        0.0       0 0        0.0          0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Non-OperaUng Income                            15.9       0.7      14.8       1.8       15.9       1.9      15.6        0.3       2.2       2.3           1.5       0.6       0.7        1.2       1.7       2.5
Income before Income Tax                       24.0      12.4      23.4      14.7       24.4      20.7      23.6       27.3      38.3      38.2          38.1      38.5      39.9      40.2       40.4      40.8
IncomeTax                                       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       (1.5)     (5.8)      (5.7)        (58)      (5.9)     (6.1)      (6.2)     (6.2)     (6.3)
Net Income after Tax                           24.0      12.4      23.4      14.7       24.4      20.7      23.6       25.8      32.5      32.5          32.2      32.7      33.7      34.0       34.3      34.4
Working Ratdo%                                 41.0      51.8      41.6      52.9       41.9      50.3      42.2       47.6      45.1      45.2         45.4       44.9      44.4      45.4       46.3      47.4
OperatingRaUo %                                79.2      77.0      80.0      76.3       80.5      707       81.2       652       58.1      59.1         59.5       59.3      59.1      60.4       61.7      63.1
RateoftReturn%                                   1.8      6.1       3.8       6.5        3.8       8.8       3.8       11.7      15.0       14.2         13.8      13.5      13.1       12.2      11.3       10.6



Table 11B. EMOS' Financlal Statements - Balance Sheet (Dec. 84. USS million)
Year ending December 31                1990            1991            1992           1993       1994   1995       1996   1997    1998   1999   2000   2001
SAR   Actual   SAR   Actual  SAR   Actual  SAR  Actual Actual Actual                          Present Forecast
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Gross Plant in Service           699.7   350.6  597.3  363.3  608.6   398.6  554.8  571.4  585.3  599.0          628.9   658.4   692.9  728.5  765.0   800.5
Accumulaed Depreciation         (327.7)  (163.3)  (318.2) (170.7) (334.0)  (182.1) (311.1) (340.6) (341.6) (350.6)    (365.8)  (378.8) (392.4) (406.7) (421.7)  (437.4)
Net Plant in Service             337.0   187.3  279.0  192.6  274.8   216.5  243.7  230.9  243.7  248.4          263.1   279.8  300.6  321.8  343.3   363.1
Work in PIogFess                  20.2     7.0   25.4    8.2   29.6        6.6   26.3   5.1    4.0   10.4         14.8    19.9   25.9   32.1   38.4    44.6
Net Fixed Assets                 357.2   194.3  304.5  200.7  304.2   223.1  269.9  236.0  247.7  258.8          277.9   299.5  326.4  353.9  381.7   407.7
Current Assets
Cash                               4.1    22.4     1.4    2.0    1.0       0 3    1.0   4.4    8.2    5.6          0.5     0.4   (0.4)  (1.0)   (1.9)    (3-4)
Accounts Receivable (net)         10 6    12.5    9.0   13.4    9.1    16.1    8.2  18.4   20.1   21.0            23.5    24.1    24.8   25.4   26.1    26.7
Matewias andSupplies               1.8     0.4     1.4    0.6    1.2    0.5    1.1   0.8    0.8    0.8             0.8     0.8    0.8    0.9    0.9       0.9
Other                              0.5     0.3    0.5    1.6    0.5        1.6    0.4   1.6    0.7    2.7          2.8     2.8    2.9    3.0    3.2       3.3
Total Curent Assets               17.1    35.7    12.3   17.7   11.8    18.5   10.7  25.2   29.8   30.1           27.5    28.2   28.1   28.3   28.3    27.6
Other Assets                          3.5     4.2     2.6    5.2    2.3    5.6    1.8   5.3    6.5    6.9            5.6      6.9    8.9    6.9    6.9       6.9            r)
ToW                                 377.8   234.1   319.4  223.6  318.3   247.3  282.5  266.5  283.9  295.8        312.4   334.6  361.5  389.1  41$9    442.2
LIABIUTIES AND NET WORTH
Net Worth                           193.6   153.5   16.5  166.4  169.0   147.7  153.5  189.2  203.8  213.9         228.3   240.7  251.4  262.5  273.7   285.0
Monetary Correction                 137.1    46.1   116.4   31.6  118.5    52.7  107.3  21.6   16.3   17.8          16.8    15.6   16.3   17.1   17.8    18.5
Long-Term Liabilities
Long-Term Debt                    34.2    10.8   27.5    0.6   21.1    9.8   13.5  15.6   15.0   11.9             10.0    20.2   34.2   49.1   84.1    78.7
Other                              2.0     3.4    1.7    4.0    1.8    4.3    1.6   3.9    4.4    4.6              4.6     4.6    4.6    4.6    4.6       4.6
Long-Term Liabilites              36.2    14.1    29.3    4.5   22.9   14.2   15.1  19.5   19.4   16.5            14.5    24.8   38.8   53.7   68.7    83.3
Current Liabitles
Accounts Payabe                    3.1     0.8     2.4    0.7    1.8       1.3    1.7   0.9    0.9    0.6          0.7     0.8    0.8    0.9    0.9       0.9
Current Po.ion of Long-Term Debt   7.4     5.5    6.0    4.1    5.8    4.0    4.4   4.3    3.5    3.2              2.3     2.3    2.2    2.2    2.1       0.0
ShoriTwrm Loans                    0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.3    0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0              0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0
OtherCurrent Liabilities           0.0     3.0    0.4    4.5    0.4        8.2    0.4  10.2   11.7   11.3         11.8    12.0   12.2   12.8   13.4    14.0
Divdends & Taxes Payable           0.0    11.1    0.0   11.7    0.0       8.5    0.0  11.8   16.9   21.1          26.6    27.0   27.9   28.1   28.3    28.4
Total Current Liabilities          10.9    20.4    8.7   21.1    8.0    22.4    6.5  27.2   33.1   36.2           41.5    42.0   43.1   43.9   44.7    43.3
Total                               377.8   234.1   319.4  223.6  318.3   247.3  287.5  266.5  283.9  295.8        312.4   334.6   361.5  389.1  416.9   442.2
Debt/(DebttEquity) Ratio             11.2     7.5    16.9    2.3   13.7    6.5   10.5   8.6    7.8    6.1            4.8     8.1   12.0   15.5   18.5    20.6
Current1 Ratio                        1.6     1.8    1.4    0.8    1.5    0.8    1.7   0.9    0.9    0.8             0.7     0.7    0.7    0.6    0.6        0.6



Table t1C. EMOS Financial Statements - Sources and Uses of Funds (Dec. 4. USS million)
1990             1991            1992            1993          1994      1996         1996      1997     199l       1939    2000      2001
SAR    Actual   SAf   Actual  SAR   Actual   SAR          Actual  Actual   Actual                          Present Forecast
Nel Operaling Income                10.8    11.7      8.6   12.9    8.5    18.8        8.0   27.0      36.1      35.9         38.6      38.0     39.2      39.0      38.7     38.1
DeprecialionandAmonization          19.7    12.8    16.6   12.7   16.9    13.1        16.5    13.7      11.2     12.2         12.8      13.4     14.0      14.8      15.5      162
Non-operating income (nel)           0.0     9.2     0.0     3.0    0.0      1.8       0.0     2.2      3.0       3.5          1.8       1.6      1.5       1.5       1.4       1.4
Othernon-cash transactions           0.0     0.3     0.0    0.1    0.0    (0.1)        0.0     1.6      (0.5)     1.4          (0.1)     0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Incoam Tax                           0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0          0.0     0.0      (1.1)     (5.4)        0.0      (5-5)    (5.6)     (5-8)     (5-8)     (5.9)
Dividends                            0.0    (4.2)    0.0  (13.5)    0.0  (13.3)        0.0   (14.6)    (16.6)    (14.3)      (20.4)    (20.3)   (20.6)    (21.2)    (21.4)    (21.6)
Gross Internal Cash Generation      30.5    29.8    25.2   15.2   25.4   20.4         24.5   29.9      32.1      33.4         30.7      27.1     20.6      28.2      28.3     28.3
less: Anotization                   (6.9)   (7.5)   (5.3)  (15.2)   (5.2)   (4.0)     (4.8)   (3.6)     (3.3)     (2.8)        (2.3)    (2.3)     (2.2)    (2.1)     (2.1)     (2.0)
hlneresl Expenses                (3.0)    (1.6)   (3.0)   (0.6)   (2.7)   (0.6)    (2.1)   (1.4)     (1.1)    (1.2)        (0.8)     (1.1)     (1.1)    (0.9)     (0.7)     (0.5)
Net InIernl Cash Generation         20.7    20.7    16.8   (0.6)   17.5    15.8       17.6   24.8       27.8     29.3         27.5      23.8     25.3      25.1      25.6     25.6
Working Capital Needs                1.7    (3.4)    1.3   (2.7)    1.5      1.0       1.2   (2.3)      (0.1)    (4.4)        (2.6)     (1.4)     (1.4)    (1.2)     (1.2)     (1.2)
Other Assets and Liabili6es Needs   (0.2)    2.1    (0.2)   (0.6)   (0.2)   (0.2)     (0.2)   (0.3)     (0.8)    (0.4)        (0.2)     (0.1)     (0-1)    (0.1)     (0 1)     (0.1)
Itaeinal Contribulton lo Invesintent  19.3    19.4    15.2    (3.9)   16.2   16.6     16.6   22.2      26.9      24.5         24.6      22.2     23.7      23.8      24.2      24.5 
Inv.stmentCos, IBROProjecI          23.8    11.4    10.7   18.6    0.0    29.9         0.0    13.9      0.4       0.0          0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Other Works                          5.1     3.2    12.2     4.2   16.9      2.5      16.5    13.0      25.8     27.3         29.6      35.0     41.2      42.5      43.7     42.5
Contributed Investmenis              3.1     0.0      1.6    0.0    1.6    0.0         1.6     0.0      0.0       0.0          0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Subloa tnvestmwnts                  32.0    14.6    24.4   22.7   18.5   32.3         18.0   27.0      26.2      27.3         29.6      35.0     41.2      42.5      43.7     42.6
Capitalized Interesl                0.8      0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0       0.0          0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Investment Cosl              32.8    14.6    24.4   22.7   18.5   32.3          18.0   27.0      26.2      27.3         29.6      35.0     41.2      42.5      43.7     42.5
Required Financing                  13.5    (4.8)    8.7   26.6    2.2    15.7         1.4     4.7     (0.7)      2.7          5.0      12.8      17.5     18.7      19.5      18.0
Disbursements. IRDLoan              11.8     4.6     5.6    5.7    0.4    13.7         0.0     8.8      3.2       0.2          0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Disbuasimenisu Bonds                 0.0     0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0       0.0          0.0      12.8     16.8      18.0      16.5     16.4
Total Loans                         11.8     4.6     5.6    5.7    0.4    13.7         0.0     8.8      3.2       0.2          0.0      12.8     16.8      18.0      18.5     16.4
Consumer Contrtbutlons               3.1     0.0      1.8    0.5    1.6    0.4         1.6     0.0      0.0       0.0          0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
14.9     4.6     7.2    6.2    2.0    14.1         1.6    8.8       3.2       0.2          0.0     12.8      16.0      18.0     18.5      16.4
Change In Cash                       1.4     9.3    (1.6)  (20.5)   (0.2)   (1.7)      0.2     4.1      3.8      (2.6)        (5.0)     (0.1)     (0.8)    (0.7)     (1.0)     (1.)8
Debt Service Coverage Ratio          3.1     3.3     3.0     1.0    3.2      4.4       3.6     5.9      7.3       8.2          9.7       6.0      6.7       9.4      10.3      11.3



Table 12. Monitorina IndIcstors
1989         1990          1991          1992         1993      1994   1996       1996   1997   1898   1990        2000    2001
SAR  Actual SAR  Actual SAR  Actual  SAR  Actual  SAR  Actual Actual Actual                        Present Forecast
OPERATIONS
Water produced (M3 million)                         467.3 495.5  474.3  478.9  485.3  468.6  493.8  502.2  502.5  505.0  515.0  514.5     514.9   527.7  540.9   554.4   568.3   579.7
Melered Water Consumption (M3 million)              341 1 331.5  351.0  332.0  359.1  332.0  365.4  339.0  371.9  358.0  372.0  380.0       n.a.    n.a.    n.a.    n.a.     n.a.     n.a.
Unaccounted (or water (%)                            27 0  33.3  26 0   31.0  26.0   29.0  26.0   32.0  26.0  29.0  28.0   26.0            25.1    25.1   25.1    25.1    25.1       25.1
Water Sold (M3 million); see Nole below                   326.8         329.0         329.3        335.8        335.1  360.0  370.0       379.3   388.7  398.4   408.4   418.6   427.0
Water sold per connection (M3 per moeth)             37.0  35.1   37 0   33.7  37.0   32.6  37.0   31.9  37.0  32.3  32.1   31.7           31.7    31.7   31.7    31.7    31.7    31.7
Water connections year end (1000)                    79.3 799 8  801.8  834 0  815.0  863.2  830.2  900.7  844.8  940.2  981.8 1,018.5    1,053.0  1,088.8 1,125.7  1,164.0  1,203.6  1.244.5
Service coverage. water. (%)                         97.6  98.0  98.4  98.0  98.5   98.2  98.6  99.6  98.7  99.8  99.8   99.8              99.9    99.9  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Sewerage connections year end (1000)                733.0 658.6  760.0  774.4  776.0  803.7  792.0  858.5  807.0  910.8  953.5  988.9    1,023.6  1,062.4 1,103.0  1,144.9  1,188.4  1233.5
Service coverage, sewerage. (%)                      91.8  88.5  93.3  88.8  93.7   92.0  94.0  95.9  94.3  96.3  96.4   96.6              96.8    97.0   97.4    97.7    98.0    98.0
Metefed water connJwater conn.(%)                   100.0 100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0     100.0   100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Working meters/meters (%)                            95.0  95.0  95.0  95.0  95.0   95.0  95.0  98.7  95.0  99.5  99.5   99.5              99.5    99.5   99.6    99.5    99.5    995
Emplbyees/1000water connections                       2.5  2.2   2.5   2.2   2.5    2.2   2.5   2.2   2.5   2.1   2.0    1.9                1.9     1.8    1.7      1.7      1.6      1.6
FINANCIAL
Average RatVlaW3 billed (current US$-Cents)          15.7  13.6  17.0  17.6  18.2   20.0  18.9  25.2  19.7  29.2  34.2   38.8              40.1    41.3   42.5    43.8    45.0    48.3
Average Rete9M3 billed (constant 1984 US$-Cents)     13.6  11.3  13.6  14.9  13.6   15.9  13.6   18.0  13.6  20.7  22.6   22.4             22.5    22.6   22.6    22.5    22.5    22.5   
AverageWaterRatel43billed(curfenlUS$-Cents)          10.3  10.1   11.1  126   11.9   14.2  12.4   17.6  12.9  19.9  23.1   28.3            29.8    30.8   31.7    32.7    33.7    34.7    O
Average Water Ralett3 billed (conslant 1984 USS-Cents)  8.9  8.4    8.9  107    8.9   11.3   8.9   12.6   8.9  14.1  15.3   16.3           16.7    16.8   16.8    16.8    16.8    16.8
Average Co  bM3billd (current US$-Cenis)              6.8  11.3   7.4  14.1   8.0   15.9   8.4   18.9   8.8  20.0  20.7   24.0             25.0    25.6   26.3    27.6    29.1       30.5
Average Cost"3 billed (constant 1984 US3-Cents)       5.9  9.4   5.9  12.0   6.0   12.7   6.0   13.6   6.1  14.2  13.7   13.9              14.0    14.0   13.9    14.2    14.5    14.8
AveragePePsonnelCost/m3billed(currentLUS$-Cents)      3.1   3.5   3.4   5.1   3.7    6.0    3.9   8.0   4.2   8.6   9.1   10.4             10.4    10.5   10.5    11.1    11.8    12.5
Average Personnel Cost/m3 billed (constant 1984 US$-Cents)  2.7  2.9   2.7   4.3   2.8   4.8   2.8   5.7   2.9   6.1   6.0    6.0           5.9     5.7    5.5      5.7      5.9      6.1
Working Ratio                                          41  52.2  41.0  51.8  42.0   52.9  42.0  50.3  42.0  47.8  45.0   45.2              45.4    44.9   44.4    45.4    46.3    47.4
Opeiating Ratio                                        78  79.0  79.0  77.0  80.0   76.3  81.0  70.7  81.0  65.2  58.1   59.1              59.5    59.3   59.1    60.4    61.7    63.1
RateoReturn(%)                                        4.2  4.8   3.8   6.1   3.8   6.5   3.8    8.8   3.8  11.7  15.0   14.2               13.8    13.5   13.1    12.2    11.3    10.8
Debt Servca Coverage Ratio                            4.3  4.5   3.1   3.3   3.0    1.0   3.2   4.4   3.6   5.9   7.3    8.1                9.7     8.0    8.7      9.4    10.3    11.3
Contributbontotnvestment(%)                          57.7  63.9  58.9  66.2  66.3   70.4  88.0   71.5  92.4  83.4  83.1   75.7             67.0    61.1   57.6    56.8    56.4    56.5
Accounts Receivable/Average monthly sales             2.5  2.6   2.5   2.8   2.5    2.9   2.5   2.9   2.5   2.8   2.5    2.5                2.7    2.7    2.7       2.7      2.7      2.7
Total Capital lnvesiment Program (current US$ million)     11.1          17.2         28.5          45.1         38.0  39.6   47.2         52.7    64.1   77.7    82.5    87.5    87.5
Total Capita Investment Program (constant 1984 US$ million)  9.2         14.6         22.7          32.3         27.0  26.2   27.3         29.6    35.0   41.2    42.5    43.7    42.5
Project Investments (current USS million)                   6.3          13.5         23.3          41.7          19.7   0.4    0.0         0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Project Investments (constant 1984 USS miljion)             5.3          11.4         18.6          29 9          13.9   0.4    0.0         0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
Investments Other Ihan Project(current USIS million)  9.7  4.7   10.1   3.8  22.0   5.2  30.8   3.4  33.0  18.3  39.5   47.2               52.7    64.1   77.7    82.5    87.5    87.5
Investmenis Other than Project (Constant 1984 US$ million)  8.1   3.9   8.1   3.2  16.5   4.2  22.2    2.5  22.8  13.0  26.1   27.3        29.6    35.0   41.2    42.5    43.7    42.5
PROJECT PERFORMANCE
Bank Loan Disbursed (%)                              59.9  7.6  83.9  18.6  98.8   31.6  100.0  66.5  100.0  90.9  99.5  100.0             0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
ECONOMIC
AnnualAveragelnfialionRale(%)                        15.0  17.0   150   26.0  15.0  21.8  15.0  15.4  15.0  12.7  11.4    8.2               7.4     6.5    6.5      6.5      6.5      6.5
Average Exchange Rate (CH $/US $)                   240.0 267.0  255.0  305.1  274.7  349.4  303.6  362 6  335.4  404.4  420 1   407 0    413.8   427.9  442.4   457.5   473.0   489.1
Note: Pad of the consumed volume Is free of charge ( measured from 1988).



Tbb 13. Ra.t of Itgi.
(965     t9s6      1967     1988      1969     1600     1991      1962      1903     1904     1995        i6       (97         6        Iwo         2000    M 20t202
Vabirnaiwaabe"iutnm      3)                               282.0    307.1    309.1    320.2    3268       3290      3293    3358      355.1    360.0    370.0        3793    318.7    39&4         404          4188       427.0
wcr wvjaw  .(m*onnm3)                                               25.       27.1     38.2      44.8     47.0      47.3     53.8     73.1      780      880         97.3    t08.7    116.4       126.4        1366        1450
VaIunww of S.W bdt.(miNionm3)                            267.0    297.0    304.0    325.3    329.2    3253         3250     3342     360.3    3681      377.7       386.0    40D.7    412.7       425.1        437.8       4510
mu scwage vlwkm   (i8cnm3)                                          IOD       170      38.3     42.2      36.3      380      47.2      723      t1.1     907        102.0     113.7    125.7      M38.         t50.8      1t4
Capaiy audiabon cc Wm suca ewaland (                         0      10%       20%      25%      30%       40%      50%       55%      60%       70S      75%    6     0%      85%       GM         95%         1O0%
Inu w  lklonmtlmrn   (icc  o nm3)                                    93       18.6     23.3     28.0      373       46.8     51.3     55.9      853      69.9        74.6      79.2     83.9       88.6         93.2       912
nci sawagelkOomn.sk,c (a*cnm3)                                       9.7      195      244       29.2     300       48.7     538       585      88.2      73.1       78.0      82.8     87.7       92.8         97.5       S7.5
ToW mcac voonbe (gdhom3)                                            19 1     38 1      47.7     57.2      76.3     95.4    104.9   tt4         1335      143.0      1526      162 1    171t6      16t12        too.7      1907
Ta Sicc Opet. Renu6w. wae Supply, YE 1964 rpkfs                     835      1863     2587     347.9    5239      6905      862.5   1.041.9   1,312.6   1.4998     1,5998   1,699.8  1.799.7    1.8997       t.99.7      tStS7
TrSkbceOpr. R.wn s. S.weag    YE1984prices                          37.1      839     107.8    142.7    226.5    312.2    4168       5435      702.4    641.1       683.9    726.6    769.4       612.1       854.8       8548
ToIlTcneSic Opc.Re. YE1984puices                                  1206     270.2    366.4    490.6    750.4   1002.6   1.2792   1585.3   2,015.0   2.140D         2,2836   2.4264   2569.1    2.711.6       2854.5      2.6545
TimaSc0por.CoA WaSupply.YEF984ptic.                                 57.2    119.1    151.6    202.6    305.7    417.0       56.4    5967       875.5    720.1       7".1    *16.1    864.1        912.1       owl         86.1
fsw*Sic.Ope.CoiiSerap. YE1984 ples                                  155      31.7      390      52.6      80.9    110.5    1330      (54.2    230.3    245.9        262.3    278.7    295.1       311.5       327.8       327S
toti Tww Sce Opfi. Cosl. YE 1984 prics                              72.6    1508      190.6    255.2    3666      527.5    6395      7509    905.8    966.0        1.030.4   1.094.8  1,158.2    1223.6      (.211.0     1.21.0   w
Twn,Ska (vil Wae Supply. YE 1964 pFcs                             1.2706   t.302.5    822.6    834.9   1,293.0  1.86       7J83.3   2039.9   2,521.3   2,730.7
iroeS.h5cbw&^eiL.a agYE 1984 prc                                   358.4    367.4    2890      4903      5600    1078.7   2,363.9   1,417.5    941.3    765.2
Tcul Two Skl khvuLknl. YE 1864 pfirs                              1,629.2   1,669.9   (.11116   1,325.3  (.874.0   2,915.3   4,147.2  3,457.4   3482.6   3495.8
Tom cols. YE I964 Prces                                         t.701.9   (.20.7   1,302.2  1t560.5   2,260.6   3,442.8  4.7t6 6   4.208.3   4,388.4   4,46(19    1,030.4  (.6K94.   1,1652  t.2m 6         1t2S60      1,2 K
Ne buaat. YE I9S  pt(ca                                          -1.581.3  *1.5505   -435.8  -1069.9  -1,510.2  -2.440.1  *3,5074   *2.623.0  -2,3534   -2321.0    (.253.2  1t331.t   1,409.9    I.4U1.2    1t8866       (.816
IRR:                                                      44%
DOacatmab %)                                        11.0
PNrecl le. wrS (W-aeg)                                30
PV d ines  nI . Wlr Supply ((964 CM nVli)         68794.2         PV of kulm     . Wale SupY* (1914 USI mUon)               . SOS
NPV, Dic.14 milUol CH$;:                            I,3690.817                            PVdINS5ISinSdS BOW~ (1984CA nisim)                 4,468.0         PV di laus. Samasg (1984 USS mUon)                           34S
PV d I malhneaal; ((984 a104 now)                13,262.3         PV of 11mmanb (1h94 USS _UIn)                                '014
PV ci OAM ca"s. WalW Supaply (19804  mla nu )    4,569.7         PV of 0836 cosol, Wale Slupply ((984 LOS nUca,                3568
PV Of 6W eoals 6S1A9UC (1984 CtII anM)            1,457.5         PV of 053 cosa. Bae ((t964 USI,m14on)                         11.4
PV d0O6M coalS `1964 CM n    on)                 68027.2          PV d 03 gao" (1984 uSS nADan                                 470
PV a( V*NM tAddL, Wal (3% mfon)                    47Z4           PVo vd_am (ed W       (.3 mUo)                               472-4
PV of vUme baed S_va  (n3  ma)                     494.1          PV of valwm bled. 6emg  (.m3 mill)                           494.1
PV of vkame bOid. TOdd (M3  1a   )                 956.4          PV of vghme ied DOm3 a )                                     984
Ma=iga coal Wa96 Sppy (0- l9S4Fn3)                  28.3          1eod"F111o1l, W_CAl Smp* (SSt.94mA3)                          22
MaWll soal S ags P198611111i31  )                   12.0           d tgr ca 6--cp   US--ft9IW .4k                                 I4
hUalnacostl Wlr A Sow (0Cf1I11914n3)                40.3          MaWglncadWOW & SW. WI.Chi19SW4Au                              31.4
..
a.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b



-31-
Table 13: Rate of Return
Page 2 of 2
Year       Total Sales      Total Sales       Inctmental Sales  Incremental Sales   Time-sce Sales    Tlr.Sk  e
Water Million m3   Sewage Million m3   Water Million m3   Se#age Million m3   Water Millon m3   Sewage MUlin m3
SAR      ICR     SAR      ICR      SAR     ICR      SAR     ICR      SAR      ICR      SAR      ICR
1985    304.8   282.0   280.1   287.0
1968    310.9   307.1   287.1   297.0        61     25.1              10.0              9.3               9.7
1987    321.0   309.1    297.7   304.0    16.2    27.1    10.7        17.0    11.1    18.8    10.7    19.5
1988    331.3   320.2   308.8   325.3    28.5    38.2    21.8         38.3    26.9    23.3    21.8    24.4
1989    341.1    32e.8   319.9   329.2    38.3    44.8    32.9    42.2    33.4    28.0    32.9    29.2
1990    351.0   329.0   331.5   325.3    46.2    47.0    44.4    38.3    49.6    37.3    44.4    39.0
1991    359.1    329.3   341.0   325.0    54.3    47.3    54.0        38.0    58.6    46.6    54.0    48.7
1992    365.4   335.8    34.11    334.2    60.6    53.8    61.1       47.2    8Z3      51.3    81.1    538
1993    371.8   355.1    355.0   359.3    87.0    73.1    87.9    72.3    69.2    55.9    B7.9    58.5
1994    378.3   360.0   3620    3681        73.5    78.0    75.0    81.1    76.5    85.3    74.8    882
1995    385.0   370.0   369.2   377.7    80.2    88.0    82.1         90.7    81.5    69.9    81.8    73.1
1996    391.7   379.3   376.5   389.0    86.9    97.2    89.4    102.0    88.8    74.8    81.8    76.0
19S7    398.5   388.7   383.9   400.7    93.7   106.7    96.9    113.7    93.3    79.2    81.8    82.9
1998    405.5   398.4   391.5   412.7   100.7   116.4   104.5    125.7    93.3    83.9    81.8    87.7
1999    412.8   408.4   399.3   425.1   107.8   126.4   112.2    138.1    93.3    88.8    81.8    9Z2
2000    419.8   418.6   407.2   437.8   115.0   136 6    120.2    150.8    93.3    93.2    81.8    97.5
2001    427.2   427 0    415.3   451.0   122.4   145.0   128.2    164.0    93.3    93.2    81.8    97.5
2002    434.7   435.5   423.5   464.5   129.9   153.5   136.4    177.5    93.3    93.2    81.6    97.5
2003    442.3   444.2   431.9   482.7   137.5   162.2   144.8    195.7    93.3    93.2    81.6    97.5
2004    450.0   453.1    440.4   497.2   145.2   171.1   153.4   210.2    93.3    93.2    81.8    97.5
2005    457.9   462.2   449.1   507.0   153.1   180.2   162.1    220.0    93.3    93.2    81.6    97.5
2006    465.9   471.4   458.0  5S7 2    161.1   189.4   171.0   230.2    93.3    93.2    81.8    97.5
2007    474.1    480.9   467.1    527.5   169.3   198.9   180.1    240.5    93.3    93.2    81.6    97.5
2008    482.3    490.5   476.4   538.1   177.5   208.5   189.3   251.1         93.3    93.2    81.8    97.5
2009    490.8   500.3   485.8   548.8   186.0   218.3   198.7    261.8    93.3    93.2    81.8    97.5
2010    499.4    510.3   495.4   559 8    194.6   228 3    208.4   272.8  , 93.3    93.2    81.8    97.5
2011    508.1    520.5   505.2   571.0   203.3   238.5   218.2    284.0    93.3    93.2    81.6    97.5
2012    517.0   530.9   515.2   582.4   212.2   248.9   228.    295.4    93.3    93.2    81.8    97.5
2013    526.1    541.5   525.4   594.1   221.3   259.5   238.4   307.1    93.3    93.2    81.6    97.5
2014    535.3   552.4   535.8   605.9   230.5   270.4   248.8    318.9    93.3    93.2    81.8    97.5
2015    544.6   563.4   546.4   618.1   239.8   281.4   2594    331.1    93.3    93.2    81.8    97.5
2018    554.2   574 7    557 2    630.4   249.4   292.7   270.2    343.4    93.3    93.2    81.6    97.5
2017    563.9   586.2   568.3   643.0   259.1   304 2    281.2    356.0    93.3    93.2    81.6    97.5
2018    573.7    597.9   579.5   655.9   268.9   315.9   292.5    368.9    93.3    93.2    81.6    97.5
2019             609.9            669.0            327 9             38Z0              93.2              97.5
2020             622.0            682.4            340.0             395.4             93.2              97.5
2021             634 5            696.0            352.5             409.0             93.2              97.5
2022             647 2            710.0             365.2            423.0             93.2              97.5
NPV until 2018   3.264 3   3,160.9  3,1080   3,238.8   636.1   744.8   7143    782.3   555.3   463.1   506.1    484.3
NPV until 2022          3,216.8          3.300.2            779.0            822.0             472.3            493.9
bothl at 11 % CF



-32-
Table 14: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Staff Weeks     Dollars
Project Preparation                         83.9      $155,180
Project Supervision                        133.4      $361,752
ICR Preparation                              6.3        $8,339
TOTAL                                      223.6      $525,271



Table 16. Bank Resources: Missions
Number of   Days in         Specialty           Financial        Management    Availability
Stage of Project Cycle          Month/Year      Persons       Field      Representation       Performance       Performance        of Funds
Project ldentificalmo                      Nov-B2           1            2    E
Project EBief Preparation                 Oct-83            1            2    E
Preparation                                Jul-84           2           10    E. F
Pre-appraisal                             Dec-84            2           10    E, F
Follow-up on pre-appraisal                Dec-84           NIA         NWA
Appraisal                                 Feb-85            3           18    E, F, ECO
Board Approval through effectiveness      Mar-86            3            5    E, F, ECO
Supervison                                                                                                                                                                     C
I                       Mar-88           2            4    E.                                               1                1
2                       Nov-86            2           13    E, F                                            1                1
3                       Oct-87            2           15    E. F                                            2                2
4                       Oct-88            2           11    E, F                                            2                2
5                       May-89            1           11    F,                                              2                3
a                       Dec-89            2           11    E, F                          2                 2                3
7                       May-90            2           18    E. F                          2                 2                2
8                       Jun-91           2            15    E, C                          2                 2                1
9                       Aug-91            1           7    F                              2                 2                1
10                      Oct-91            1            3    E
11                      Nw-92             1           10    E                             2                  2               1
12                      Dec-92            1           10    F                             2                  2               2
13                      Jun-93            1           11    E                             1                  1               1
14                      Dec-93            1           10    F                             1                  1               1
15                      Mar-94            1           10    E                             1                  1               1
16                      Jun-94            1            7    E                             1                  I               1
17                      Dec-94            1           10    E                             1                 2                1
18                      Jul-95            1            2    F                             1                 2                 1
ICR Preparation                           Nov-95            1            1    E



Table 16: Studies Included in the Project
Purpose as Defined
Study                   at Appraisal/Redefined                 Status                       Impact of Study
I. Wastewater treatment plan for  To evaluate llte leciihnical/economiiic   Completed by Consullants  After comparing the results of tlhe study, EMOS decided to opt for
Greater Santiago              feasibility of various treatment  Consortium ACER-Severn    conventional treatment (activated sludge) with a plan to build 3
options                          Trent-Cade /IDEPE          new plants (Santiago Sur, Zanjon, Mapocho) in addition to
Santiago Poniente.
2. Santiago Ponienite Pilot   To help define performance of non-  Completed by TAIHAL-     Results of investigation were not conclusive. EMOS discontinued
Trealment Plant                conventionial wastewater treatment   IFARLE                 testing program. More research is needed to establish whether
processes for Sanliago's climatic                           satisfactory performance could be achieved.
condilions
3. Macroinetering and Tcnimctry   To improve operationial      The sitidy was done by Ilte    Magnetic and ultrasonic macrometers have been installed at the
performance and control          Consortium Rhenag-         primary network. Plan of instrument maintenance has been
Lahinecyer-IFARLE          operationalized.
4. Rehabilitation program for the  To determine the need for an  Carried out by WRc and    - 70 km of pipes were replaced. Recommended plan is for 200km.
water distribution network    upgrade of the existing system   Halcrow/ICSA                - 58 km of pipes were rehabilitated.



Table 17. Status of Legal Covenants
Agrw.n.                 Sundm                               S*aua              OrigLDiUg  RPinedDe   Da=itzon of Cove                                                             Cm
Lan                     2.03                               OK                   12/31/92                12f321i5                           Date
4.03                                                                                                    ApprnprCate ar ance                              Coqwa wee bi
but EMOS had diffylity
in r           aninid 1993.
._ _ _ _ _ _ .   _  _   _  _  _ .    _  _   _  _  _ .    _  _   _  _  _  _   . .  .    _  _  _   _  _  _   _  _  _ f                                                    (or  lack   of  r    a
5.0 1(bXii) and                    OK                  6J30 amuaiy                                      EMtOS to ftmnish to the Bank an                  No pa 
5.01(cxiv)                                                                                              audit rtepo on financia
statementa, special account, and
SOE
5.01(bXiii)                        Not                                                                  EMOS to fljrnsh to the Bank                      No spocial ac           -----
Applicable                                                           monthly statme   of the special
account
5.02(a)                            OK                                                                   EMOS to finance from inumal
sources at least 55% of capital
expenditures (moving avaap of
past year, prest   antd three fli e
year)
.............................................................................................................................................................. ...................................................................................................................................
5.02(b)                            OK                  9n30 armlly                                      EMOS to present to the Bank a                    With delays
financial forecat to review if
requirementa an 5.02(a) can be met
in current and next year
5.02(c)                            OK                                                                   EMOS to promptly take all                        Se 5.02(b)
necessary meaures to meet
requirements in 5.02(a)
j   arantee             2.02                               OK                                                                   if EMOS;sfundtare ioIdequateto   See 5.02(b)
meet expenditures for Project.
Republic of Chile will provide
necessary funds
3.01(a)                            OK                                                                   Republic of Chile will enable                    See 5.02(b)
EMOS to set tariffs at levels
required to meet obligations under
..           . .. . . ... .          . . .. ... ...                         ..... ................. .. .. ... ... . ...           5. ....................  ...........            .        .         ..
3.02                               OK                  12/32i87                                         Republic of ChIletocaryout a                     Ws  educadto tff
study on the adequacy of its                    study. Conclusios not
financial policies in the water                 discu-sed wits Bank.
supply and sewerage sector and
exchange views with the Bank on
its conclusions.
Sharholdss    2.03                                         OK                  aunually                                         Shareholders will limit dividend
di;tribution  to allow  EMOS to
comply with 5.02(a) L.A.
......................................................................   ..............................................................   ..........   ..   .......   .......-.1.......- -........ ............   ...........................I.................................................................



-36-                          Appendix A
Page 1 of 2
Santigo, 0?7 JUN lg&
EMOS Li N     0 8 6 1 g
IEMOS SA..-No 81 
Seflor
AA Faiz
lefe Divsi6nMedio Ambieze y
Desarrollo Urbano
Departamento I
Oficira Regonal pma
America Laina y El Caribe
Banco MNndial
Pres=nie
MAT.: IInfome Proyecto .92. y AlcantaIrado
para Sandago 1L (rdstamo 2651-Ch).
De =i conssideracion:
Me es sao  m2ajfem   alUid que, en t=nos generales, comartnmos la evaIuaci6n del Proyecto
de Agua Potable y Al a:Mnado pa. Sartiago E >(stamo 2651-Ch), onteida ea el docu3So
enviado el dia 29 de Mayo del presente ao. Nos parece relevze destacar lo perdme a las
lecciones aDrendidas, por cuanto es-tamos plenamerc de acuerdo con las conclusiones obtenidas
No obsrtane lo a=erior, esdmo conv;eiente efecWar alounas prccisiones:
a)   I=erceptor Mamocho
Pig. ii Pirrafo m
PNg. 6 P-rafo 15
-A respecto, cabe seEalar que de acuerdo con el actual Proama de Trataernto de Agus.
Servida.s para Sanago, se esnma que la Planm  de Tratamienzo de AS. Apocho debera
enar en operari6n el aao 2009, motivo por el cual el Interceptor Mapocho debera esar
operando a esa fecha TInluso se esma que una primera parte del iaterceptor debea es
consatdda al ano 2000, lo que permitii saner 6.000 his. de nego.
b)   Coacesiones Empresas Sanitkas Regionales.
Pig. 2 Pirrafo 2 at Enal.
A las empresas sanit     regonales se les rcconoci6 como area 2eoz*Eca de concesi6n
aqu.efa izea ceogca donde estaban operando a 1990 a tian estudios en desarrllo.



-37 -
Appendix A
Page 2 of 2
08619
c)   PlaTnaTtaiero AS. Sdana Poniente.
Pag IVPbaff M
P4& 9, Pirrafo 26
P24 10, Pirrafo 3o
Pig. 12, Pirrafb 36
La Plana no tvo los resul1tados esperados en caIidad para los meses de iviemo con ua
squcina operatvo de ninima conso de ener>ga. Sin embargo can mayor consmo de
energa, clorai6n razonable y con un. adecuado arreeo opmz&o, se esn  obtniendo
efluentes que  unmp1ea con gan holgura las e2dencias de las nowas pa  riego sin
reskciones.
Par otra parte, EMOS ao considera imporesciadfle cotar con asisncia edexrn  pan
optmzr el manejo de Ia PIa=q En efecto, con recwsos intemos, ya se han logrado algmas
opuniciones, a partr de las resultados de la campafa de investgaci6an ivada a cabo
dLnante los anlos 93, 94 por TAEAL-IF.ARLE. Es el caso de la maodcad6n en el
prematento del m6dulo I ea donde Ia aireaci6n se taslad6 a las lagmas secmdaria.s
dejando las lagnas prmmias como anzer6bicas, esto es, en foima simnlar a como est
dispuesto el pretatamieato en el m6dulo 2. En otro orden de cosas, se esti probaado la
efecrvidad de la clorad6n en dfferenes dpos de eflucates con rulzados  promisorios y
efectivos-
Con respecto a la invesigaci6n cabe seialr que esa con?;nqii De hecho ya se han realzado 2
memorias de dtulo refereates a iivestigaci6an de procesos y modelos ea. hignas anar6bicas y
en embalses de estabffizci6n.
d)   La laente de la tabla 10 es la Unidad de Trazamiento de Aguas SeIdas de EMOS, en base a
daros obtenidos peri6dicamente del fnisterio de Salud.
Sin otro pardculr, saluda atenamerte a Uai, _
e~  '~L4~  JOS!EIIe,A BOLEIX C.
; Gerente Geneal
ANS/seb 
- Gerencia de Planes y Desarrollo
- Arobivo
C.RTAn.7I3






MAP SECTION



I



IBRD 19352
CH I LE
SANTIAGO WATER SUPPLY AND
SEWERAGE 11 PROJECT
PR*E!E  _ )MPONENTS                                             D      /=                                              
I      Collecr1 n Se.erg. E.t,--son A,e-,     C-nals                                                                _
=    P,lo Treo..e..  Pl=nr-    P,wet_
Wer., Snppl Ses-r E-te-r,,n           ean AL- s
Pseelines                              E, sri2g IVHnJ'                                                               
0    Res.r-o.s                              P-see.-d 2Olc
d..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~StT'   a                                                                            s~*s,e.
*DSIe ~acreonsr,uC2n a rheese eree. s nar ,lWsr,aree                                            _________.___I___5:l
dac Ia scale Losonn y,. rrre,ntso 









_MA i;, 1N '
Report  No:            I b'7i '4
Tr pe:  I(JL



