Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9318-ZIM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ZIMBABWE
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
APRIL 30, 1991
Southern Africa Department
Population and Human Resources Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may te used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
USS 1.00 = ZS 2.50
ZS 1.00 = US: 0.40
FISCAL YEAR
Government Fiscal Year: July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGRITEX         Ministry of Agriculture Extension Service
ARI             Acute Respiratory Infection
AV              Audio-Visual
CB              Competency-based
CBD             Community-Based Distribution
CBGM            Community-Based Growth Monitoring
CDHs            Community-based contraceptive Depot-Holders
CFNP            Community Food and Nutrition Programme
CNO             Community Nursing Officer
DANIDA          Danish International Development Agency
DHSAs           District Health Services Administrator
DNE             Diploma of Nursing Education
DNO             District Nursing Officer
EEC             European Lconomic Community
ERU             Evaluation and Research Unit
FHP1            First Family Health Project
FHP2            Second Family Health Project
FLE             Family Life Education
FP              Family Planning
GOZ             Government of Zimbabwe
GTZ             German Technical Aid Agency
HTD             Health Teachers Diploma
IDD             Iodine Deficiency Disorders
IEC             Information, Education and Communications
IPPF            International Planned Parenthood Federation
IUD             Intra-Uterine Device
KAP             Knowledge, Attitudes, and Practice
MCH             Maternal and Ci;ild Health
MIS             Management Information System
MOH             Ministry of Health
MLGRUD          Ministry of Local Government, Rural and Urban Development
NGO             Non-Governmental Organization
NORAD           Norwegian Agency for International Development
ODA             United Kingdom Overseas Development Administration
PHC             Primary Health Care
PIS             Personnel Information System
PMD             Provincial Medical Director
PMU             Project Management Unit
RHC             Rural Health Center
SCNM            State Certified Nurse-Midwives
SCN             State Certified Nurses
SIDA            Swedish International Development Agency
SRN             State Registered Nurses
STD             Sexually-Transmitted diseases
TFR             Total Fertility Rate
TGR             Total Goitre Rate
UNDP            United Nations Development Program
UNFPA           United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF          United Nations Children s Fund
USAID           United States Agency for International Development
UZ              University of Zimbabwe
VCW             Village Community Worker
VCR             Visible Goitre Rate
VSC             Voluntary Surgical Contraception
WHO             World Health Organization
YAS             Youth Advisory Services Unit
ZDHS            Zimbabwe Demographic and Health Survey
ZEDAP           Zimbabwe Essential Drugs Action Program
ZEPI            Zimbabwe Expanded Program of Immunization
ZNFPC           Zimbabwe National Family Planning Council
ZSAS            Zimbabwe Service Availability Survey



ZIMBABWE                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SECOND FAMILY BEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Title                                                                    Page No.
Basic   Data    . ..................   ........................................ .
Loan and Project Summary ..................... ii
Estimated Costs, Financing Plan and IBRD Disbursements .iv
I. INTRODUCTION                            .........1
II.  SECTOR DYNAMICS IN ZIMBABWE 3....... .                                      3
A.    Population .....                      .     .      ............   3
B.  Health                                       ...                     10
C. Nutrition                     ...                                     20
D.    World Bank Involvement in the PHN Sectors                          25
III. THE PROJECT                          . . . .                     ..... 29
A.    General Description               ..........29
B.  Detailed Project Description. . .                                    31
IV.   PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING.                    .     . .......... .   49
A. Costs                            ...49
B.    Financing   ..............    .....                   ......       53
C. Procurement                             .... 54
D. Disbursements                      ....56
E  Accounts and Audit .56
V.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION.                          .       .                  58
A.    Organization and Management ....       ......... .................  58
B. Status of Project... 60
C.    Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation          .    .    .63
VI.   PROJECT BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION, AND RISKS           .    .    .65
A.  Benefits and Justification               . . .65
B   Risks                                        ........ 67
VII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS .... .....69
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Zimbabwe in November-December 1990, comprising Messrs/Mesdames R. Hecht
(Sr. Economist, mission leader), J. de Beye- (Economist), A. Hill (Sr.
Demographer), D. Sebina (Public Hea.th Speclalist), B. Jacobson
(consultant, Architect), and Y. Ad'A Boahene (consultant, Health Management
Specialist). Messrs. S. Sinding (Population Advisor) and A. Berg
(Nutrition Advisor) served as the lead advisors. Ms. R. Mendoza provided
secretarial support in the preparation of the report. Mr. D. de Ferranti
and Mr. S. Denning are she managing Division Chief and Department Director,
respectively, for the operation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNIS
Annex Is Project Costs and Financing .............. ...................  71
Table 1.  Project Components by Year, and Foreign
Exchange  Content  ........................................    71
Table 2. Project Components by Expenditure Category .................  72
Table 3. Total Project Costs by Year and Expenditure Category .......  73
Table 4.  Project Base Costs by Expenditure Category,
(US$  and  Z$)   ......................     ....  . 0   74
Table 5.  Project Base Costs and Contingencies by Expenditure Category,
including Foreign Exchange Amounts and
Percentage (a. USS b. Z$) ...*.................*.*....***  75
Table 6.  Financing by Component and Expenditure Category ...........  77
Table 7.  Disbursement by Financier by 6-month period ............... 78
Annex 2:  Family Planning ................................................  79
Part 1.  ZNFPC Organigrams and Added Staff Under FHP2   ..............  79
Part 2.  Introduction to the Five-Year Family
Planning Strategy ................... . ............. . 82
Part 3.  Current and Projected Users of Family
Planning, 1990 and 1995         .    .       ........ . .  87
Part 4.  Draft Terms of Reference for ZNFPC
Management Audit ...................................... 88
Annex 3: Maternal and Child Health .................................  90
Part 1.  MCH component: List of Equipment for Maternal and
Neonate Care for Rural Health Centers and Hospitals
Not Being Upgraded     .      .... ....         ... ....  90
Part 2.  Terms of Reference for IEC Consultant for
Health Education ... .. ..........      ...........    .  91
Part 3.  Maternal Mortality by Cause, 1987-1989 ................. ... 93
Part 4.  Leading Causes of Under 5 Morbidity by Province and
Project Districts, 1987-1990, Reported Case Numbers  .... 94
Part 5.  Terms of Reference for the Directorate of
Nursing Services for Training of SCNS with
Special  Needs   .. ......................... ...............    99
Part 6.  Terms of Reference for the Directorate of
Nursing Services for Pilot Distance Learning .. ......... 101
Part 7.  Provincial and Project District Access to
Maternal Health Services, Immunization Statistics,
and Child Nutrition Status ................... .. ......... 103
Part 8.  Scope of Study on Maternal Mortality ..... ..............  104
Part 9.  Scope of Study on Impact of In-Service Training ...........  106
Part 10.  Draft Terms of Reference for Consultant/Trainer
to Work with Nutrition Unit of MOH ..    .................  108
Part 11.  Primary School Enrollment of Project Districts ........... . 110
Part 12.  Protecting, Promoting and Supporting Breastfeeding        11........ I



An-nex 4i Rural Health Services Delivery .............................. 118
Part 1.  Availability and Utilization of Health Facilities ......... 118
Part 2.   Implementation Schedule for Year 1 ................. o ....... 119
Part 3.   Terms of Reference for Physical Planning Advisor .......... 120
Part 4.   Revised Stock Type Plan.s for District Hospitals ........... 123
Annex S  Health Man2ower Development ................................. 124
Part 1.  Ministry of Health Staffing, 1990 ......................... 124
Part 2.  Current Basic Health Training Courses in Zimbabwe .......... 125
Part 3.   Projected Losses from the MOH, 1990-1995/96 ............... 126
Part 4.   Terms of Reference for Long Term Advisor to Manpower
Taskforce ....... c  .......    .#*    ..    ..**      127
Part 5.  Terms of Reference for Long Term Curriculum Advisor ... .... 129
Annex 6: Health Management Strengthening ............................. 131
Part 1.   Terms of Reference for Medical Equipment Advisor . ......... 131
Part 2.   Terms of Reference for Financial Management Advisor ....... 133
Part 3.   Terms of Reference for Project Management Advisor ......... 135
Part 4.   Terms of Reference for Medical Equipment Specialist   ....... 136
Part 5.   Terms of Reference for FHP2 Project Advisory Committee  .... 137
Annex 7:  Project Implementation ... ................... ............... 138
Part 1.  Lessons from First Family Health Project ................... 138
Part 2.   Project Vehicles ....  . ...................... ........... 143
Part 3.   Supervision Plan ..    .......... .. ............. .... . .. ..O. ... . . .. 144
Part 4.   Studies, Technical Assistance and Study Abroad ............. 147
Annex S  Documents Available in the Project File ..................... 149
MAPS
1.     IBRD No. 22839  Zimbabwe - Location of Health Facilities in
Relation to Population
2.     IBRD No. 22841  Zimbabwe - Location of New and Upgraded District
Hospitals and Rural Health Centers
3.     IBRD No. 22842  Zimbabwe - Existing Family Planning Council
Services Network: Clinic and Community-based Distributors
4.     IBRD No. 22840  Zimbabwe - National Family Planning Council
Mobile Clinic Venues: Existing and to Be Establil-"' Under
the Project



BASIC DATA
Country Data
Per Capita GDP (1988)                       US$ 650
Total Population (end 1990)                 10 million
Population Growth Rate (1985-90)            3.2 percent
Health, Population and Nutrition Indicators
Infant Mortality Rate (1990)                53 per 1000 live births
Survival to age 5 (1987)                    91.4
Survival to age 5 for females               92.1
Reported Maternal Mortality (1988 est.)   90 per 100,000 births in facilities
Crude death rate (1985-90)                   8
Crude birth rate (1985-90)                  40
Total fertility rate (1986)                  5.7
Life expectancy at birth (1987)             64
Low birth weight (under 2500g, 1987-89)   5-6Z of hospital births
(urban survey, 1990)      10O
Malnutrition of under 59 (1988)             12 percent
stunted           29 percent
wasted (acute)      1.3 percent
Population per physician (1984)          6,700
Population per nurse (1984)              1,000
Births attended by health staff (1990)    70 percent
Public Expenditure on Population, Health and Nutrition
Percent
MOH share of total Govt budget (1990)       5.6 percent
MOH share of GDP (1990)                     2.8 percent



- ii -
ZIMBABWE
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrowers          Republic of Zimbabwe
Beneficiaries:    Ministry of Health
Zimbabwe National Family Planning Council
Loan Amount:       US$ 25 million
Termss             Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable rate.
Proiect Obiectives:
The project will provide the required financial and human
resources for most of the Government's five-year investment
program (1992-96) for health/population/nutrition (H/P/N),
and wfll promete policy and institutional reforms, in order
tot k..) improve maternal and child health and nutrition
status; (b) reduce the rate of population growth; and (c)
ensure that households in the 16 worst-served districts (40Z
of the population) have access to basic H/P/N services. To
achieve these objectives, the project will increase the
output ard effective utilization of trained Zimbabwean
health, famAIy planning, and nutrition workers; enhance MOH
capacity to plan and manage H/P/N activities; and increase
efficiency and mobilize additional resources.
Project Descriptions
The project will support the following six components: (a)
Family Plannings training, community outreach and static
facility services, special youth services, IEC campaigns,
evaluation and research, and better management; (b) Maternal
and Child Health: midwifery training, maternity equipment,
school health program, and operations research; (c)
Nutrition: supplementary food production, growth monitoring.
micro-nutrient supplementation, IEC, and training; (d) Rural
Health Delivery: upgrading of 16 district hospitals and
about 80 RHCs, provision of staff housing, ambulances and
supervisory transport, medical equipment, and radio
communication; (e) Health Manpower Development:
institutional strengthening, curriculum reform, systems
development and studies, and selective upgrading of training
facilities; and (f) Health Management Strengthening:
training and systems development in financial management,
materials/equipment management, district-level information
systems, and sector planning.



- iii -
Justification and Risks:
The proposed project will directly benefit low income
households in rural and urban areas, especially women and
children, by improving their health and nutrition status.
The roughl7 800,000 women expected to utilize modern family
planning methods in 1995 will obtain a wider range of
methods, better quality services, and easier access, while a
large proportion of the 250,000 women giving birth in 1995
will experience safer pregnancies and childbirth. The two
million persons living in the 16 target districts will
benefit from expanded hospital and health center-based
services. Targetted communities will learn how to monitor
the growth of all under-fives, and to act to protect those
at nutritional risk. Large numbers of Zimbabwean doctors,
nurses, and other paramedical cadres will acquire additional
skills and increased incomes as a result of project-funded
training. The technical and allocative efficiency of the
national health and family planning system will be
significantly enhanced as a result of management
improvements, and extra resources for health will be
generated through increased cost recovery and a widening of
medical insurance coverage. For Zimbabwe as a whole, better
health and nutrition and lower population growth will yield
benefits in the form of increased labor productivity,
improved educability of children, and lower outlays, oublic
and private, for social services to a smaller population.
The main risks are: (a) weaknesses in the local construction
industry could delay the hospital and RHC upgrading program;
and (b) inadequate institutional capacity in M0H and other
Government agencies could prevent timely project
implementation. The first risk will be minimized by
staggering the construction schedule and dividing the main
civil works contracts among several firms. Also, the
overall trade and investment liberalization process in
Zimbabwe should help revitalize the construction industry.
The Government will aim to mitigate the second risk by
implementing the new scheme of public service for Zimbabwean
doctors, providing additional incentives to health workers
serving in the rural areas (including project-financed staff
housing), and expanding and reorienting training programs to
emphasize community medicine and public health. The health
management, family planning, and nutrition components of the
project are all designed to develop skills and systems
required to improve the planning, execution, and evaluation
of H/P/N programs.



- iv -
ZIMBABWE
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Estimated Costs, FinancMng Plan and IBRD Disbursements
Estimted Costs
Project Components                              Local        Foreign      Total
---------US$ million)_-------
Family Planning                                  8.36         7.39        15.75
Maternal and Child Health Services               3.16         6.92        10.08
Nutrition                                        1.53         1.89         3.42
Rural Health Centers                             5.58         1.68         7.26
Rural Hospital Upgrading                        28.02        18.68        46.70
Hospital Equipment                               1.06         6.01         7.07
Health Manpower and Management and PMU           2.70         5.99         8.69
Total Base Cost                                 50.41        48.56        98.97
Contingencies                                    9.68         8.22        17.90
Total Project Cost                              60.09        56.78       116.87
Financng Pl
Local        Foreign      Total
--- S---.uS$ million)--------
Government                                      46.6          6.1         52.7
ZNFPC                                            1.4          1.1          2.5
World Bank                                       0.0         25.0         25.0
Co-financing
EEC                                          2.1          1.6          3.7
DANIDA                                       4.5          3.8          8.3
NORAD                                        1.6         12.6         14.2
Netherlands                                  2.5          3.3          5.8
ODA                                          1.4          3.3          4.7
Total                                           60.1          56.8       116.9
Estimated Disbursements of IBRD Loan
1992        1993         1994         1995          1996
Annual                   1.2          6.3          8.7          6.3          2.5
Cumulative               1.2          7.5        16.2         22.5         25.0



ZIMBABWE
SECOND FAMILY HEALT! PROJECT
STAF APPRAUISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      While economic performance has been uneven in the 10 years since
Zimbabwe gained its independence in 1980 (with rapia grcwth in the early
and last years of the decade, and stagnation during the middle period),
Zimbabwe has macu impressive and consistent progress in the health,
population, and nutrition sectors. As a result of concerted Government
policy decisions to (a) reorient expenditures from upper-income urban
hcuseholds to poor rural families, (b) focus health and nutrition services
upon primary and preventive care, and (c) support strongly at the highest
political levels the national goal reducing the rate of population growth
through child-spacing and fertility reduction measures, dramatic changes
have occurred during the past decade. Infant mortality has declined from
over 100 per 1000 live births to 53 in 1990 and life expectancy haa
increased from 56 to 63 years during the same period. Prevalence of severe
malnutrition in children has fallen from 022 to 12?. Use of modern methods
of contraception has risen from about 14? in 1960 to an estim&vted 362 in
1988, the highest level in Sub-Saharan Africa.
1.02      Even though this progress is important and praiseworthy, much
more needs to be done if Zimbabwe is to achieve its goal of providing
access to good-quality preventive and curative care to all of the country's
nine million inhabitants, as stated in the Government's recently updated
'Equity in Health* white paper. Significant problems remains maternal
morbidity and mortality rates are unacceptabl" high; rural dwellers in meny
districts still do not have ac_;ess to a well-staffed and equipped rural
health center (RHC) or district referral hospital; the family planning
program is heavily based on oral contraceptives, with low availability of
other methods, and current outreach and promotional efforts appear to be
inadequate for Zimbabwe to complete the transition to lower fertility over
the next 5-10 years; planning and management systems, especially those for
financial and materials/equipment management, are weak and result in
uznecessary inefficiency and wastage.
1.03      At the same time, Zimbabwe is about to enter a period of
economic adjustment which will entail certain austerity measures and cuts
in public expenditures. Under these circumstance, it is even more urgent
that the Government ensure that in the human resources sectors: (a) poor
and vulnerable households are shielded from the negative social effects of
adjustment; (b) allocative and technical efficiency is increased so that
maximum benefits are derived from tightly constrained budgets; and (c) more
financial resources are mobilized, especially by stimulating private and
N';O activities in health, population, and nutrition.
1.04      The proposed Second Family Health Project (FHP2) will make a
major contribution to the realization of Zimbabwe's sectoral goals for



healt'h, population, and nutrition over the decade of the 1990s. As the
centerpiece of the Government's five-year investment program for 1991-95,
FHP2 will assist Zimbabwe in achieving its equity, efficiency. and quality-
of-life improvement objectives, while simultaneously protecting low-income
households from the adverse social consequences of economic adjuctment. It
will do so by promoting a major further expansion of family planning and
related fo-rtility reduction; improving maternal health and child nutrition
programs; building, staffing, and equipping rural health faci'lcies in the
most deprived districts if the country; boosting the output and quality of
various cadres of basic health workers; and strengthening critical
management systems for financial resources, personnel, and physical assets.
1.05      Based upon the suk:essful experience to date with the first
Family Health Project (Ln 2)44-ZIM), the Government and World Bank agreed
in early 1989 to prepare a second project that would build upon the first
operation. The Ministry of Health (MOH) subsequently took in hand and
directed the preparation of FHP2, starting in mid-1989. The Government and
donors can be fairly optimistic that the proposed project will be
effectively implemented, because the local, broad-bRsed effort to prepare
the project ha3 already demonstrated clearly the strong degree of
Zimbabwean commitment to project objectives and activities.



II. SECTOR STATUS AND ISSUES
A. Poulatin
2.1         Population Dynamics  Zimbabwe's current population (mJd 1990)
is estimated at around 10 million, giving an overall densi&y of 25 persons
per ihm2, spread very unevenly across the country. Urbanization was 262 in
1982 but has lncreased substantially since then. Most urban dwellers liv6
in Harare, Chitungwiza or Bulawayo.  Life expectaney has .oeen over 50 for
the last 30 years and is now (1990) estimated at 64 years, among the
hlghest in Africa. Only about 82 of children die du7ing their first five
years of life.
2.2         Population growth in Zimbabwe was extremely high for decades,
fuelled by very high fertility and relatively low and falling mortality.
It is now declining as a result of recent falls in fertility. The total
fertility rate (TFR) is estimated to have fallen from around 8 before 1970
to 5.7 by 1936 and to less than 5 at present. Modern contraceptive
prevalence has risen from 52 in the late 1960s to 362 in 1988. The rate of
population growth has consequently fallen from close to 42 in the 19609 to
3.22 in the late 19808.  Future trends in population size and growth will               r
depend primarily on the speed with which fertility continues to decline.
2,3         Population Policies  The Government of Zimbabwe has long been
concerned over the harmful impact of high fertility ar.d pid population
growth on the country's socio-economic development ard on family welfare.
Particular concerns have includedt pressure on natural resources, the
problem of absorbing a rapidly-growing labor force in constrained
traditional agricultural and modern employment sectors; pressure on
government social service budgets from the youthful and rapidly-increasing
population; and the inability of women to contribute their maximum efforts
to development under the burden of excessive childbearing.
2.4         These considerations have led to a number of statements and
actions by Government aimed at reducing rapid population growth. Most
important has been strong and continued commitment to family planning in
Zimbabwe: notably the creation of the Zimbabwe National Family Planning
Council (ZNFPC) through a 1985 Act of Parliament. More recently, steps
have been taken towards the design and adoption of a national population
policy, with active participation from parliamentarianis, the main political
party (ZANU-PF), the Cabinet, and MOH/ZNFPC. Proposals have been submitted
to the President and Cabinet for the establishment of a Secretariat for
Population Policy and Development that would oversee formulation of a
policy and an implementation program, and are at present under
consideration.
Family Planning Program Services
2.5         The ZNFPC is the third incarnation of a Family Planning
Association originally established in 1957. It is a parastatal
organization under the Ministry of Health, governed by an 18-member Board



- 4 -
chaired by th,e Permanent Secretary of M0, with the Vice-Chair allocated to
the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Community Development. The
mandate of ZNFPC is to bring family planning (PP) services and information
to persons in need oZ them, with responsibility for all FP training and
contraceptive commodity distribution in the country (excep' for some items
sold commercially through the retail pharmacy network).
2.6         ZNFPC has its headquarters in Harare and administrative offices
in the eight provincial capitals. It is headed by the Executive Director,
assisted by two Deputy Directors and six Unit Heads. There are three
service support and management units: the Medical/Clinical Unit, the
Community-Based Distribution (CBD) Unit and the Youth Advisory Services
(YAS) Unit; and three technical support unitst Training, Information,
Education and Communication (IEC), and Evaluation and Research (ERU). A
seventh unit, Management and Administration is run by the Deputy Director
for Administration and Finance, to whom the eight Provincial Managers
Province report. ZNFPC organization is shown in Annex 2, Part 1.
2.7         Each Provincial Manager is solely responsible for all ZNFPC
program activities within that province. Every ZNFPC provincial office has
counterparts of the three service units -- Medical/Clinical, CBD and YAS --
as well as an Accounts Section; however, these only send information to the
corresponding central units and do not report to them. The three technical
support units hiave no provincial counterpart.
2.8         Total ZNFPC staff strength is somewhat over 1,000, of whom
about a tenth are in Harare (including 30 professionals). About three
quarters of ZNFPC szaff are involved in the CBD system through either
providing or supervising CBD field services.
2.9         The ZNFPC offers three major types of FP service d-rectly, and
these account for just under half of all FP users in Zimbabwe; namely
Medical/Clinical, CBD and YAS services. Medical/Clinical services are
offered through ZNFPC's network of 33 fixed-location and five mobile FP
clinics. The fixed clinics serve urban centers (there is one in every
provincial capital), but also function as back-up and referral centers for
the CBD network. They provide a wide range of FP methods, including IUDs,
injectables (on strict health-related criteria) and female barrier methods,
as well as pills and condoms. The two clinics in Harare and Bulawayo also
provide infertility treatment, cervical and breast cancer screening, and
perform sterilizations; other clinics refer clients to hospital for such
services. The mobile clinics (two in Manicaland, two in Midlands and one
in Masvingo) serve areas without access to fixed health or ZNFPC clinics,
and which hence could not otherwise be serviced by CBDs; such areas are
generally either remote, difficult of access or given over to commercial
farms. They provide clinical back-up for CBDs, a range of PP methods
including IUDs and some other services such as cervical smears.
2.10        The CBD network is the only family plannir.g outreach system in
Zimbabwe and is the backbone of the country's FP services. CBDs are rural
FP outreach workers, working in and selected by their own community. They
visit households to motivate, provide an initial supply of pill cycles and,



-5-
after an initial exam (plus subsequent regular check-ups at a ZNFPC clinic
or other health facility), resupply with pills. CBDs also dispense condoms
and refer couples to ZNFPC or health facilities for other PP methods if
desired. Numbers of CBDs (currently at 668) have remained fairly stable
for several years; the system was reported in 1990 to cover about three-
quarters of the rural population, with very high coverage of households
within CBD areas (a radius of around 20 km around the CBD's home).
2.11        Youth Advisory Services are aimed at the young and single
population and conslst largely of education and counselling services. The
core service is Family Life Education (FLE), now being provided by 23 Youth
Advisors, on invitation only, to nearly 850 schools plus some groups of
young people not in school and some parent groups. FLE is given three
times in schools, to Grade 7 pupils (final Primary year), Form 2 pupils,
and Form 4 pupils (the last Secondary year for many), as well as to older
groups in tertiary education or elsewhere: it includes, according to age of
audience, basic information on human reproduction, education on puberty and
the need to avoid pregnancy, and FP information and motivation. Other YAS
activities include a weekly radio program and a Youth Advisory Center in
Harare for confidential counselling of young people, including PP advice if
desired. YAS services are estimated to have reached up to 1.5 million
students and 200,000 adults over the past few years.
2.12        Rather more than half of all FP users in Zimbabwe do not obtain
services directly from ZNFPC. Most of these are clients of the government
(MOH, MLGRUD and City Health Department) network of health facilities,
although some use private and/or company health facilities. In all cases,
however, FP training is provided by ZNFPC, either directly, through
training of health staff at ZNFPC training centers, or indirectly, through
ZNFPC training of FP trainers. ZNFPC also receives and distributes all
contraceptive commodities entering Zimbabwe, except for a few commercially
sold items.
2.13        Since 1986, it has been MOH policy to integrate FP services
into general MCH and PHC services. About 2,500 MOH/MLGRUD/City Health
staff and 5,400 others (community leaders and traditional midwives) have
received FP training at varying levels of specialization. A wide range of
methods is available in those hospitals which have suitable and adequate
facilities and suitably-trained staff, but in most lower-level facilities
nurses are trained only to dispense pills and condoms in much the same
manner as CBDs. Some FP motivation is done by the former Village Health
Workers, now being re-trained as multi-purpose Village Community Workers.
2.14        Family Planning Training  The ZNFPC Training Unit manages all
in-country training of medical, paramedical, and lay personnel in FP. It
runs two centers in Harare and Bulawayo, and is staffed by 11 Senior
Tutors. Courses provided include a 4-week course on all aspects of FP
methods and service delivery for doctors and nurses; a 3-week practical
course on IUD insertion; a 4-week course for training of trainers; a pre-
service 6-week course for CBDs; and in-service short training or refresher
courses for all ZNFPC workers.



- 6 -
2.15        In order to cope with the training of large numbers of MO0
personnel needed to implement the 1986 decision to integrate FP into health
services, FHP1 helped establish an additional health/FP training center in
each of the eight project districts. These serve as provincial centers for
MOH/MLGRUD staff training. They are staffed by MOH trainers Y'rr are
trained and provided with technical supervision and back-up b) _aFPC.
There is also a limited amount of specialized training abroad, most notably
of doctor and nurse teams in mini-laparotomy sterilization at specialist
centers in Kenya.
2.16        Family Planning INC Program and Strategy  The ZNFPC's IEC Unit
is responsible for developing national FP IEC plans, strategies and
materials, and for handling ZNFPC's press and public relations. It is
staffed by three permanent professionals; there are no trained IEC
personnel in the ZNFPC provincial offices. An Audio-Visual Production Unit
has recently been completed under FHP1 funding in the ZNFPC grounds; ZNFPC
shares it with MOH. Production of materials in other media is contracted
uUt.
2.17        In its early years, the IEC Unit took a low-key approach and
concentrated on ZNFPC public relations and basic materials production,
focussing largely on building general awareness of family planning and on
the health benefits of child spacing. The ZNFPC's 1987-91 IEC Plan and
Strategy aimed at more assertive and broad-based IEC and more specific
messages for each target group. The plan includeds changing the use of
mass media from public relations to FP information and support; intensive
use of interpersonal communication; strengthening FP provider skills; use
of community-level workers for motivation and referral; and forming
community-level groups for PP promotion. As part of this plan, the IEC
Unit has just completed a broad-based male motivation campaign, and has
chosen IEC for service providers as its next major area of attention.
2.18        Family Planning Monitoring, Evaluation, and Research  The ERU
Unit is responsible for all FP service statistics in the country and for
research to evaluate program impact. It has six professional posts plus
(until recently) a resident expatriate adviser, and full computer
facilities for MIS management, ZNFPC personnel files and payroll. Recent
studies include surveys of CBD performance and attitudes to IUDs among
providers, clients and public; a pilot study of the expansion of the CBD
outreach network through the use of contraceptive depot holders is planned
to begin shortly. The MIS system is ir. disarray at present. An intended
streamlining of reporting procedures for clinic and health facilities is
still not operational, with several different reporting forms still in use.
MOH's system to collect, collate and convey reports from its facilities to
the ERU is not working either, with no more than a quarter of them
reporting regularly. Only the separate CBD MIS system is working
efficiently. As a result, routine VP statistics have become completely
unreliable for tracking progress, program impact, trends or problems,
forcing an almost total dependence on periodic sample surveys of which the
latest was the 1988 Zimbabwe Demographic and Health Survey (ZDHS) and its
1989/90 follow-up Zimbabwe Service Availability Survey.



-7-
Population/Family Planning Financimn and External Support
2.19        No data are available on total expenditure and costs for PP
delivery through non-ZNFPC channels, due primarily to the limitations of
MOH's accounting system. ZNPPC's annual expenditure is substantial,
amounting to Z$12 million in 1988. Government has maintained and protected
strong financial support to ZNFPC through the 1980s; in all years the
largest single component of ZNFPC's income has been a MOH grant, which at
present amounts to nearly two-thirds of the total. The remainder has come
almost entirely from donors, of whom USAID has been by far the largest.
Other important donors to ZNFPC include UNFPA, IPPF (technical assistance
and commodities), Netherlands, NORAD, and GTZ (through FHPI), and UNDP.
Donor support to PP outside ZNFPC has also been substantial, the most
important sources being FHP1 (for MOH) and USAID (for the private sector).
Other aspects of population activities (such as population data collection
and development of demographic training) have also received substantial
donor support; e.g. Sweden supported the 1982 and 1992 censuses, and
various NGOs provide FP services through health facilities.
2.20        USAID Activities and Programs  USAID assisted PP development
through the bilateral US$6.5 million Zimbabwe Child Spacing and Fertility
Project between 1982 and 1985. Subsequently an even greater volume of
activities continued through a variety of centrally or regionally funded
contracts with cooperating agencies. USAID's program focus has been on
supply of contraceptive commodities and technical assistance and equipment
for specialized support activities such as IEC and research and evaluation
(the latter including the 1988 ZDHS). Most funding has gone to ZNFPC
although there have also been important programs of private-sector support
through social marketing and industrial/insurance-funded health care.
These broad directions and areas of interest will continue under the new
bilateral project, due to start late in 1990, which has been developed in
close collaboration with the Bank in order to ensure harmony with FHP2 .
2.21        USAID has prepared a new US$14 million bilateral project to run
from 1990-1995. This project, whose broad purposes are diversification of
the FP method mix and improvement of national self-reliance in the FP
field, has three components, namely Diversification of Methods, Expansion
of Private Sector Involvement, and Coordination and Sustairability
Enhancement. Planned activities include training, IEC, service delivery,
research and evaluation, private sector development and contraceptive
commodities.
2.22        UNFPA Activities and Programs  UNFPA supported a variety of
population activities through its 1983-86 Country Program whose total
budget was US$3.5 million. This program focused primarily on development
of population policy and awareness of population issues, including support
to the 1982 population census, the creation of a Population Planning Unit
in CSO, and the establishment of an undergraduate demography program at the
University. It also provided some support to MOH's MCH department, the
establishment of PP services in Harare Central Hospital and supplementary
supplies of contraceptives commodities.



2.23        An indicative second Country Program was developed in early
1989, to run from 1989 to 1993, with a total UNFPA budget of US$10 million.
The broad objectives are development of a population policy and program,
increased awareness of the impact of FP on family health and population
issues, and increased contraceptive prevalence. Within this program, sub-
projects at various states of development includes strengthening of MCH/FP
services; population, IEC and family life education for the non-formal
sector; population education in the formal school system; assistance to the
1992 population and housing census; social science research for development
planning; population policy formulation; research into law and population
issues; demographic training programs at the university; and women in
development.
2.24        World Bank Programs  The Bank, with its co-financing partners,
has provided support to FP services in the context of the government health
care network, as part of FHP2. Assistance has focussed on training
MOH/MLGRUD staff in FP, expanding urban FP services, (with an emphasis on
training and facilities for more specialized methods such as IUDs and
sterilization), and on developing and producing IEC materials, notably
through the construction (under GTZ funding) of the new Audio-Visual Unit.
The project also includes a component (funded by the Netherlands) for
strengthening FP training for community-based workers, chiefly village
health workers; however, the redeployment and lengthy re-training of this
cadre as multi-sectoral community development workers has delayed
implementation of this component.
Family Planning Program Issues
2.25        Achievements:  The achievements of Zimbabwe's family planning
program to date are impressive. Family planning has become an accepted
part of life throughout Zimbabwean society and is making a significant
impact on population dynamics. Modern contraceptive prevalence is the
highest in Sub-Saharan Africa, at 36Z of currently married women of
reproductive age (ZDHS 1988). Equally impressive is the diffusion of
contraceptive use throughout all population groups; though use is greatest
(as usual) among urban women and women with secondary education (49 and 52?
respectively), it is still relatively high among rural women (31Z) and
women with no or or / primary education (25 and 34? respectively).
Knowledge of mode- ,mily planning is practically universal among both men
and women, and approval is also very high (almost universal among women,
74Z among husbands). Motivation for FP use is increasingly shifting to a
desire to reduce family size and stop childbearing permanently rather than
simply to space births adequately for health reasons. Fertility has
already fallen by over one-third from peak levels in the late 1960s and
population growth is also now declining.
2.26        On the technical side, the quality of Zimbabwe's program is
good. The combination of ZNFPC's very ef2.ctive CBD rural outreach
network, the dense, good quality governmenL health facility network, and
ZNFPC clinics and MOH hospitals in urban areas, have provided access to
family planning services for most families in Zimbabwe. Coordination and



_ 9 "
collaboration between MOH and ZNFPC is good at central level and excellent
at field staff level. Training, supervision and contraceptive logistics
all work well. Funding for ZNFPC and MOH PP activities has never been a
problem, thanks to continued firm commitment to the program from government
and donors. User knowledge about the pill (the major method) is good and
pill discontinuation rates are low; general reported levels of client
satisfaction are high.  In many respects, therefore, Zimbabwe's program is
a model of how programs in Africa could and should work.
2.27        outstanding Needs   There remain several issues and needs to be
addressed if Zimbabwe's progress in family planning is to continue and
accelerate.  At present the program has reached a natural plateau after a
successful first stage built on a low-key approach to establishment of
family planning as a normal part of life for Zimbabwean families. This
approach was based on child spacing for maternal and child health (which
was already culturally valued) rather than on family limitation'(which was
not); it relied predominantly on the pill, a short term, easily-reversible
method suitable for short-term spacing and free from the political problems
associated with some longer term or permanent methods (injectables and
female sterilization) before Independence; and its IEC activities were
primarily channelled through interpersonal informal contacts of providers
with clients, families and communities, together with public relations for
the new ZNFPC. The CBD system, appropriately backed-up by government or
ZNFPC clinics for monitoring and referral, was an ideal vehicle for such an
approach, and has been the major reason for relatively high levels of FP
use among rural and less-educated women.
2.28        A wider and more dynamic approach is now needed to maintain and
accelerate program momentum. Key and interrelated elements would be: a
wider rationale for FP use, including child spacing and smaller family
size; a broader range of methods, including the latest versions of longer-
term or permanent methods (such as IUDs, implants and mini-lap female
sterilizations) that are suitable for long-term/indefinite spacing or
cessation of childbearing, and strengthening and broadening IEC activities
through a combination of effective client/provider personal contacts,
promotion by a variety of community-based development workers, and vigorous
mass media campaigns. For this approach to succeed, a wider range of
health personnel at all levels must be actively involved in FP service and
IEC delivery, as well as outreach workers and specialized agencies in
sectors other than health. Several moves towards such an approach have
begun - some under FHPI - but require fuller development.
2.29        Besides these shifts in tone and focus of approach, the
Zimbabwe program has now reached the stage where it can and should plan for
a substantial expansion of FP service delivery through both fixed
facilities and outreach networks. With regard to outreach, the CBD network
has never been sufficient to service the entire rural population, covering
now only around three-quarters; many of the CBDs themselves, a very stable
and low-turnover workforce, are also aging to a point where they are
becoming increasingly less mobile and productive.  While the expansion of
FP service delivery through government health facilities has partially
filled the resulting gap in coverage, there is still a need for a dedicated



- 10 -
FP outreach network for community motivation and support capable of
servicing the entire rural population. Operational research on comnunity-
based contraceptive depot-holders under CBD supervision is due soon to go
into the field, but clearly results must still be uncertain. With regard
to fixed facilities, the current expansion of FP service delivery through
government health care channels needs to continue to the point where all
health staff in both government and non-government facilities are trained,
equipped, and motivated to provide a full range of services appropriate to
their level and degree of specialization. Moreover, the linkages and
coordination between government, ZNFPC and other non-government health
facilities need to be reviewed and firmly piaced within e. comprehensive
national family planning framework, in order to avoid either duplication or
gaps in FP services.
2.30        Under such an expansion and strengthening of FP service
delivery, both funding and management of the Zimbabwe program will of
course require careful attention in order to ensure that the expanded and
strengthened program will be assured of adequate and sustainable funding
and sufficient managerial capacity. Current funding levels and patterns of
sources will need to be reviewed and augmented, and the role, structure and
functions of ZNFPC - originally set up to deal only with a relatively
small, simple and highly centralized program of its own plus back-up to a
limited number of non-ZNFPC activities - will have to be redesigned and
strengthened to service a far larger and more complex national FP program.
B. Health
2.31        Introduction to the Health Sector  Zimbabwe has made impressive
gains in providing health care to its ten million people during the decade
since independence in 1980. Progress has been especially great in
redressing the marked inequities in health care that existed prior to
independence. The Government has extended basic health care to hitherto
underserved rural areas, by constructing and staffing about 290 clinics,
reconstructing about 160 war-damaged clinics, and upgrading an additional
160 facilities. To provide preventive and promotive - and some simple
curative - services at the grass-roots level, more than 4,400 Village
Health Workers (now Community Development Workers) were trained between
1980 and 1985. To staff the clinics, large numbers of unqualified
personnel were retrained as State-Certified Nurses.
2.32        The Government's emphasis on primary health care (PHC),
combined with other measures to improve the quality of life in the rural
areas, has already started to bear fruit. The percentage of fully
immunized children increased from 25Z in 1980 to 42Z in 1984 and 67S in
1987, and could well approach the target level of 801 in 1990. Infant
malnutrition has declined from 292 in 1980 to 16? in 1984, and there is
evidence that it has continued to drop to 10-12Z in selected provinces at
present.



- 11 -
Background ou Zimbabwe's Health Sector
2.33        Health Status  The health status of Zimbabwe's 10 million
people is fairly typical for countries with a similar per capita income
(per capita GDP of US$650 in 1988) and at a similar stage of development.
Life expectancy is 64 years, infant mortality is 53 per 1000 live births,
and maternal mortality is about 90 per 100,000 deliveries in health
facilities. (There is no reliable figure for the entire population.
Although maternal mortality is low compared to other countries in the
region, there is concern that it has hardly changed since 1980.) The major
causes of mortality and morbidity among children are respiratory
infections, malrutrition, diarrhea, meningitis, measles, and malaria. The
leading causes of death and illness among adults include respiratory
diseases, tuberculosis, sexually-transmitted diseases, malaria, pregnancy-
related complications, accidents, and cardio-vascular diseases.
2.34        Sector Organization and Institutions  The institutional make-up
of Zimbabwe's health sector is highly heterogeneous, with the central
goverranent, municipalities and local authorities, church missions and other
NGos, industries and mines, private practitioners, and traditional healers
all playing significant roles. Since independence, the Government has
progressively organized the public and NGO institutions plus some private
facilities into a four-tiered system of national health service delivery,
to ensure adequate access, a balance of preventive and curative care, and
an efficient chain of patient referral:
(a)   At the first level, where the focus is on primary health care,
community involvement, and preventive health practices, there are 56
rural hospitals and 927 health centers (about 132 MOH, 510 local
government, 70 mission, 55 urban, and 160 industry-owned facilities).
(b)   The second level has 55 district hospitals (MOH and church mission-
operated), of which just 26 currently meet the standard requ.rements
for a first line of referral. Thus more than half of the district
hospitals are inadequate in terms of bed capacity, equipment,
staffing, etc., and require upgrading over the coming years. A
District Health Executive headed by the District Medical Officer and
District Nursing Officer work to integrate preventive and curative
services and to promote intersectoral collaboration.
(c)   At the third level there are eight provincial and four general
hospitals which aim to provide specialist services to deal with most
medical/surgical problems, as well as obstetrics, gynecology, and
pediatrics. A Provincial Health Executive led by the Provincial
Medical Officer is responsible for the planning and supervision of
health services throughout the province.
(d)   At the fourth level, five central hospitals (including the specialist
psychiatric hospital) located in Harare and Bulawayo, are intended to
serve as national i,ferral facilities. However, the limited
availability of secondary and tertiary care in the main cities leads
to increased workload for the central hospitals.



- 12 -
2.35        The MOH headquarters, located in Harare, provides overall
leadership, planning, policy guidance, and various kinds of support
activities (related to the management of the Ministry budget, transport,
drugs, health statistics, etc.) to the entire four-tiered health system
described above. The current organizational structure of the MOH
headquarters uas put in place in 1986-87, with substantial backing from
FH?1. It features three main wings, Health Care Services, Support Services
(each under a Principal Medical Director) and Finance and Administration
(under a Deputy Permanent Secretary); all three of these persons are
responsible to the Permanent Secre'tyy. This structure has remained in
place since the 1986-87 reorganization, except for a minor reshaping of the
Department of Htclth Service Management into a Department for Health
Planning and Management in mid-1990.
2.36        Important progress in organizational and management
strengthening has taken place over the past four years, with assistance
from FHP1 and from other donors including SIDA and WHO:
-     a national health planning system has been developed and utilized in
the preparation of the five-year plats (1991-95);
-     health services administrators have been trained in a new diploma
course and deployed to many of the districts;
-     substantial management training for middle-level managers has taken
place; and
-    management systems and procedures have been implemented for health
personnel and for related personnel information.
2.37        Despite these achievements, current health management practic-:s
continue to exhibit a number of serious weaknesses that the Government
intends to address through upcoming projects including FHP2. In
particular, skills and systems for the management of medical equipment
remain inadequate. There are major inefficiencies in the entire equipment
chain, from the identification of equipment needs and procurement of items,
to their installation and maintenance in health facilities. Equipment
maintenance personnel are in desperately short supply: of all categories of
M0H workers, the highest vacancy rate is for medical equipment technicians.
The provincial medical equipment maintenance teams are essentially non-
functional at present.
2.38        The Government now recognizes that further efforts to expand
and improve the quality of health services in Zimbabwe will require a well-
articulated health financing strategy and the financial management skills
to implement it. MOH has committed itself to four main objectives in this
area, as highlighted in the 1990 report on "Financing of Health Services in
Zimbabwe": (a) improving allocative and technical efficiency; (b)
mobilizing additional resources for health through a variety of mechanisms;
(c) continuing to enhance equity in access to health services; and (d)
strengthening financial management systems to support these goals. To



- 13 -
achieve these objectives, MOH intends to carry out a series of reforms in
health financing. In the early years, these includes
-     overhauling the MOH budget system, in part to decentralize
responsibility for budget formulation and expenditure, in part to
make the budget a more useful tool in pursuing allocative targets;
-     increasing cost recovery through user fees, by improving billing and
collection practices and raising fees while maintaining exemptions
and subsidies for low-income households; and
-     improving cost-consciousness and technical efficiency in major
hospitals, starting with the sour central hospitals.
2.39        While recent efforts to strengthen health management at
district level (e.g. through deployment of health service administrators,
enhancement of planning skills, development of in-service health worker
training plans, etc.) have been positive, much still needs to be done to
implement an integrated district health management information system
(MIS). At present, morbidity/mortality data, routine service statistics,
budget and personnel information, and reporting on inputs such as drugs,
medical supplies, and transport are kept in a number of separate and ad hoc
systems, with much of the data manually tabulated and of uneven quality. A
district-level health MIS would integrate this data in ways that would
improve its collection and analysis and use in program management. This
will become increasingly Imperative as MOH moves over the next few years to
decentralize to the district many key functions including major
responsibilities for planning and budgeting, personnel management, and the
organization of in-service training.
2.40        Health Manpower  Including personnel in both public and private
institutions, Zimbabwe has a total of about 1,250 doctors and 10,000 state-
registered nurses (SRN) and state-certified nurses and nurse-midwives
(SCN/SCMN). There are also about 700 environmental health officers and
technicians, plus about 6,000 village community workers (VCW) who were
trained as village health workers before being transferred to the Ministry
of Community and Cooperative Development as multi-purpose community
development workers. About 12,000 traditional healers are registered in a
Government-sponsored association, and their total number is believed to be
about 20,000.
2.41        Manpower is perhaps the most important resource in the
de'velopment of health services; it is also one of the most complex areas to
plau and manage. A manpower plan has recently been prepared, an important
step towards more optimal use of health staff and greater returns on the
large investments in training and staff development. In all, MOH has a
total staff establishment of 23,380, with nearly 96Z of all posts currently
filled (Annex 5, Part 1). Analysis of these data reveals thats
(a)   Nearly a third of the MOH posts are allocated to the four big central
hospitals. Parirenyatwa Hospital alone employs more staff than
Matabeleland North, Matabeleland South, and Mashonaland East



- 14 -
Provinces combined. PMD offices and rural health centers account for
12? of the total posts, and MOH Headquarters for 2.4?;
(bl   The level of overall vacancies is low, standing at 854 (42) across
all categories of staff. The restricted growth in the number of
additional posts over the last two years has resulted in a sharp drop
in the number of vacancies. There are some important exceptions,
however, including hospital equipment technicians (672 of posts
vacant), physiotherapists (42X), dieticians (36Z), dental therapists
(34Z), nutritionists (32Z), pharmacists (23?), and X-ray operators
(23Z).
(c)   Distribution of posts across the Provinces varies from 3?
(Matabeleland North) to 9.1? (Midlands), reflecting both the relative
size of the provinces and the spatial distribution of health
facilities.
2.42        A wide range of basic health training programs are provided by
the University, the Polytechnic and the Mission Hospitals as well as the
Ministry of Health (Annex 5, Part 2). For those programs run by the
University and the Polytechnic, the total number of graduates who join the
MOH (excluding those attending under cadetship) depends both on the
availability of vacant posts and upon graduate career choice. It is
therefore difficult for the MOH to control the volume of graduate
recruitment. There are no trainee posts for some categories of health
manpower trained by the MOH. In such cases (e.g., dental surgery
assistant, scientific laboratory technician), the MOH can only recruit a
new staff member to a vacant post and then train them on the job and/or
through day release courses. For a few cadres, notably those of
environmental health technicians and pharmacy technicians, training outputs
are already in excess of available posts, and the MON is wover-
establishment". In several more categories, such as radiographers and
rehabilitation assistants, training outputs will soon be beyond the MOH's
absorptive capacity.
2.43        Ideally, loss rates should be tracked by the MOH year by year
to identify trends and to be able to take action where problems seem to be
most acute. Unfortunately, historic data are not available. Even those
data that are available for 1989 are conflicting. However, an analysis of
1989 data (Annex 5, Part 3) suggests that while the turnover for a few
cadres is alarming (e.g., general doctors, pharmacists, and hospital
equipment technicians), for others the loss rate is well below the rate at
which new personnel are being trained and employed (e.g., SCNs). For those
cadres facing a net loss of personnel, MOH needs to look carefully at pay
and employment conditions, as well as other factors leading to undesirably
high rates of attrition, in order to develop effective staff retention
policies. In the other categories where training outputs exceed losses, it
will still be useful for MOH to consider the cost of improved retention
schemes, since the numbers of staff projected to leave the MOH over the
coming years represent a tremendous training investment from which MOH does
not benefit fully. For example, the approximately 1500 registered nurses
projected to leave the MON between 1991 and 1995 at the current turnover



- 15 v
rate of 7.12 represents approximately Z$11 million of training lost to the
public service.
2.44        SDecial Programs  To accelerate the development of PHC, the MOH
has launched a number of special programs, typically utilizing a core team
of full-time staff in MOH headquarters and general-purpose health workers
(nurses, VCW, etc.) in the field. These special programs includes
(a)   the Zimbabwe Expanded Program of Immunization (ZEPI), aimed at
vaccinating against the major childhood diseases. ZEPI is funded by
UNICEF, SIDA, other donors, and the Government;
(b)   the Zimbabwe Essential Drugs Action Program (ZEDAP), supported by
WHOIDANIDA. ZEDAP has published an essential drugs list for the
country, improved drug testing and safety and developed training
materials for doctors and nurses and drug prescribing practices;
(c)   rural water supply and sanitation projects have been undertaken
throughout the country, with MOH and MLGRUD taking the lead for
different parts of the overall program. Donor support for
construction of boreholes, wells, and latri.es has been forthcoming
from UNDP, DANIDA, NORAD, GTZ, the Netherlands, and the EEC;
(d)   the Zimbabwe AIDS Control Program was started in 1988 with backing
from WHO and a range of donors associated under the umbrella of the
Medium-Term Plan (MTP) for AIDS Control. Program activities to date
have covered protecting the nation's blood supply, IEC campaigns to
promote safe sex, and counselling of infected persons and their
families.
2.45        In addition, MOH runs a highly successful, well-managed
schisto-somiasis control program. Antl-malaria campaigns, featuring
chloroquine prophylaxis, are routinely mounted during the wet season in the
worst-affected areas.
Government Health Policies and SLrateties
2.46        The Government's main policies and strategies for the health
sector are spelled out in its 1984 white paper entitled 'Planning for
Equity in Health", the 1987 "Health for All Action Plan", and the 1990
updated "Equity in Health" document. The key sectoral objectives are to
improve access and equity in the provision of basic health ssrvices and to
ensure the financial sustainability of the health system. To achieve these
objectives, the Government's main programmatic strategies includes
(a)   Promoting PHC, especially in the rural areas.  This means building
and upgrading additional health centers and district hospitals And
funding priority activities including immunization, ante-natal car3,
control of diarrheal diseases, growth monitoring and therapeutic
feeding for malnourished children, health education, control of
communicable diseases, and supply of safe drinking water and
sanitation;



- 16 -
(b)   Expanding family planning, especially by integrating FP services into
the PHC activities of all health institutions, public and privatel
(c)   Improving the supply and minimizing the cost of essential drugs;
(d)   Widening access to basic health services by building or upgrading
district-level hospitals and clinics;
(e)   Improving the patient referral system through a combination of
expanded lower-level facilities, improved transport and communication
links between facilities, education, and incentives, including the
structure of fees; and
(f)   Encouraging increased efficiency and financial viability of the
health system through self-help, local financing mechanisms,
appropriate user charges, and health insurance.
ExRenditures for Health
2.47        Total expenditures on health and health-related activities
covering capital, recurrent, and technical assistance costs amounted to
ZS636.2 million in 1987. This translates to per capita expenditures of
about Z$70 or US$45 at the 1987 exchange rate. Compared to many other
developing countries, Zimbabwe's per capita expenditures for health are
relatively high. According to a 1987 survey of 29 developing countries,
Zimbabwe's per capita expenditure level of about US$30 in 1980 was one of
the highest in Sub-Saharan Africa, exceeded only by Botswana, Swaziland,
and Zambia, and was higher than a number of developing countries from other
regions including China, Indonesia, Morocco, and Thailand. About 902 cf
Zimbabwe's total health expenditures in 1987 were for operating and
maintenance purposes, and 102 for capital items. Using 1981 prices, 1987
expenditures amounted to Z$291.4 million, nearly twice the Z$155.8 million
spent on health care in 1981. This implies a real increase of almost lZ a
year over the 1981-87 period.
2.48        Providers of Health Care  Government provideR nearly two-thirds
of health care in Zimbabwe (in financial terms), but private institutions
and individuals also play a major role in the health system. In 1987, a
little more than 632 of expenditures were incurred by public providers of
health care, with the private sector accounting for the remaining 37Z.
Among the public providers, the MOH alone was responsible for two-fifths of
all health expenditures in the country (Z$255.5 million), and other
ministries involved mainly in water and sanitation improvements spent
another 132 of the total (Z$84.4 million). Municipal health departments
(dominated by Harare and Bulawayo) were also major care providers (62);
rural local government, while important in terms of coverage (about 500
clinics serving two-thirds of the population), accounted for only 2Z of
nationwide expenditures for health. The bulk of health expenditures by
private providers were incurred by private doctors (Z$156.8 million or
nearly a quarter of the total) and private industries, mines, and
commercial farms (Z$50.3 million or 8Z). The roughly 70 church mission
hospitals which account for more than a third of the 18,000 hospital beds



- 17 -
in Zimbabwe reported Z$18.6 million in expenditures or 32 of the national
total. Voluntary organizations, including the Red Cross and a number of
local NGOs, spent an additional Z$7.6 million or just over 12 of the total.
2.49        Sources of Funds  Government funds provided about 642 of the
total outlay on health (including foreign (mainly public) assistance).
Central government revenues for health amounted to Z$310.2 million or
nearly 492 of the total. These revenues financed about 90Z of the MOH
budget and, through direct subventlons, 802 of the budgets of the local
councils and church mission health 'providers. Central government funds
also made an important contribution to health-related expenditures by other
ministries (432) and municipal health departments (272).
2.50        Among the other important sources of financing for health care,
private industry, mines, end commercial farms spent over Z$50 million at
their own facilities. Voreign assistance (mainly official multi-lateral
and bilateral loans and grants) accounted for nearly 122 of expenditures,
allocated to a wide range of Government, parastatal (ZNFPC), mission, and
NGO providers. The largest share of foreign aid tZ$46 million) went to
ministries other than MOH, and was spent mainly for rural water and
sanitation. Health insurance was also a significant source of financing
for the health sector, with the 27 medical aid societies in the country
paying out Z$102 millior or nearly one-sixth of all expenditures, for
health care provided to 42 of Zimbabwe's population. Roughly 102 of
outlays for health came in the form of out-of-pocket expenditures by
private individuals, and moit of these went to private doctors and
pharmacies; direct payments by individuals covered just over lt of MOH
expenditures (2.32 when medical aid payments are included), and about a
tenth of municipalities' expenditures for health. This indicates the
relatively low level of cost recovery in the public sector.
Recent Trends in NOR Expenditures
2.51        Throughout the period 1981-88, the MOB budget has averaged
about 52 of total Government outlays, although this declined to 4.52 in the
drought year 1983 and recovered gradually to 5.42 in 1988. For middle-
income developing countries with a per capita GDP level similar to
Zimbabwe, the share of health expenditures in total government spending
varies widely, from 2-32 (Egypt, Indonesia, Morocco) to 9-112 (Dominican
Republic, Paraguay). In this regard, Zimbabwe occupies the middle ground,
with a budget share allocated to health similer to Botswana (5.62) and
slightly lower than a number of other African countries (Lesotho, Liberia,
Zambia) which spend 7-82 of the budget for health.
2.52        Between 1979-80 and 1987-88, MOH expenditures grew more than
fivefold in nominal terms (from Z$54.2 million to Z$277.3 million), by
about 942 in real terms (from Z$56.8 million to Z$110.4 million), and by
482 in real per capita terms (from Z$8.0 to Z$11.8). These significant
increasee in public spending for health reflect the post-independence
government's serious comuitment to improving access to health care for a
large segment of the population that was underserved before 1980.



- 18 -
2.53        The big surge in real HOH expenditures occurred in the first
two years following independence, when the budget increased by 37.9? and
12.52, respectively. Since then, given the overall fiscal constraints
facing the Government, the rate of real growth of the KOH budget has been
much lower, averaging 3.9Z a year during the six year period 1982-88. This
sluggish growth in public funding of health care has forco. the Government
to examine carefully ways in which available resources for health can be
more efficiently utilized, and to search for additional sources of revenues
for health services provided by HOH. The constrained state of public
finances has also prompted Government to begin considering an expanded role
for local government and the private sector (including NGOs) in providing
health care in the future.
2.54        Allocations bv Level and Tme of Service  Further analysis of
the blue book suggests that about 71? of the 1987 MOH budget (Z$171.3
million) was allocated to facility-based health services, with the balance
of funds for community-based programs (water and sanitation, disease
control campaigns, etc. - 112), training (10?), central administration
(5?), grants to ZNFPC (2Z), and research (1X).
2.55        If tne expenditures incurred by municipal and local government
health authorities using their own resources are added to the MOH budget,
then total public outlays for facility-based services come to Z$188.2
million; this is the so-called Upatient bu,'get" for Government health care.
Of this amount, nearly SO (Z$93.5 million) was spent at tertiary level,
including 36? (ZS67.4 million) at the four central hospitals and 122 (Z$21
million) at provincial hospitals.  About SOX of the patient budget (Z$56.4
million) was allocated to secondary-care ."ctlfties, including the 55
district and mission hospitals, with the rLctvaining 202 (Z$38.3 million)
spread across the roughly 1000 urban and :ctril clinics at the primary-care
level.
2.56        The distr'hution of Government ;\,-alth facilities by provin..e,
as measured by hospital beds ter 1,000 population and clinics per 10,000
population, is fairly equal.  However, the pelw capita distribution of
public financial resources for health is 2-5 ;mes higher in the two
provinces where the four central hospitals a'-i located (Hashonaland East -
Z$48, and Matabeleland North - Z$33) than in the other six provinces (Z$10-
15 per capita). Even when these figures are adjusted to take into account
patients referred from the other provinces to the central hospitals in
Harare and Bulawayo, per capita expenditures in the two "urban' provinces
are still 1.4-2.7 times hlgher than in the otheri.
2.57        This top-heavy allocation of financial resources indicates that
although much has been done since independence to correct the urban, high-
technology bias of Zimbabwe's health system (common in developing
countries), that bias still persists to some degree. Data on the average
cost per patient-day at various levels of health facilities confirm this
bias. The Government has already taken a number of positive steps to
Improve the situations (a) new construction at the central hospitals has
generally been halted since the early 19809; (b) district hospitals and
clinics are being built or upgraded to relieve pressur4 on the tertiary-



- 19 -
level facilities; and (c) MOH is implementing regulations requiring that
young doctors serve in the rural areas, while providing incentives (e.g.,
good quality housing) to health person .el to work outside of the major
towns.
Health Sector Challenges and Issues
2.58        Despite these major achievements, Government officials
recognize that many problems remain in Zimbabwe's health sector. Some
remote rural populations are still underserved; more than 100 additional
clinics are required to reach them. PHC programs to provide clean drinking
water and adequate sanitation still have a long way to go, but there is
considerable donor support for Government programs (para 2.44). Maternal
mortality rates remain unacceptably high for rural women. Preventable
communicable diseases including malaria, schistosomiasis, typhoid,
respiratory infections, tuberculosis, and sexually-transmitted diseases
(STD) continue to take a high toll in morbidity and mortality. AIDS is
also beginning to impose a significant social and economic cost.
2.59        As Zimbabwe's health care delivery system expands, the country
is also experiencing serious shortages of staff, especially in the public
sector. These include not only medical officers and nurses (especially
maternity-trained nurses), but also non-medical personnel such as
nutritionists, equipment technicians, health education officers, and health
planners and accountants. Some of these shortages are due to inadequate
training facilities; in addition, significant differentials in salary and
conditions of service between the public and private sectors are causing
high losses from the Government health service.
2.60        The Government has indicated that it will aim to maintain
spending for the health and education sectors during the current period of
economic austerity and impending structural adjustment. Nevertheless, the
severe fiscal constraints facing Zimbabwe suggest that it will be difficult
for the Government to meet its existing commitments for recurrent financing
of the health system, and also to make the additional investments in health
that are urgently needed. The country's primary health care infrastructure
and services and a range of preventive activities in particular need to be
further expanded over the coming years; additional manpower must be trained
and optimally deployed; and management systems need to be strengthened.
2.61        To address these imminent challenges, Zimbabwean policy-makers
have elected to pursue three basic health finance strategies:
(a)   Mobilize more resources for the sector, through a combination of
increases in user charges, establishment of insurance programs or
expansion of existing insurance schemes, development of earmarked
taxation, etc. The Government will also seek to induce non-
governmental institutions to assume greater responsibility for
providing and paying for health services, by encouraging church
missions, other non-profit NGOs, private practitioners, commercial
enterprises, health insurance companies, traditional healers, and



- 20 -
local communities themselves, to Increase their level. of
participation in the nation's health system;
(b)   Improve the efficiency of existing expenditures, i.e., obtain more
"value for money" in health. This means improving both allocative
and technical efficiency, especially in the public sector but also
among private health providers; and
(c)   Strengthen the management of health finances, so that public and
private health practitioners and administrators are able to design
and implement measures for enhanced resource mobilization and
efficiency. This requires the development of individual skills and
broader systems of management in financial planning, project
appraisal, expenditure control, procurement, etc.
C. Nutrition
introduction
2.62        Nutrition has been an issue of concern to the Ministry of
Health in Zimbabwe since independence. During the early years, children
under the age of five were suffering from high levels of undernutrition,
due in part to disruptions caused by the war of independence and a series
of drought years in 1982-86. Large-scale child food supplementation
programs were run during the first half of the 1980s, combined with
nutrition education. In the early 19809, the MOH Nutrition Unit also began
establishing community-based agricultural production units for feeding of
preschool children. This national program, now called Community Food and
Nutrition Program (CFNP), was run by intersectoral committees operating at
every level from national to ward. Both the 1984 and 1987 PHC evaluations
noted that nutrition was the component of PHC which had best succeeded in
achieving the Alma Ata goals of mobilizing community participation and
working intersectorally.
Nutritional Status
2.63        A review of the nutrition surveys which have been conducted
since independence and the available clinic-based nutrition surveillance
data suggests that while overall deficits in weight for age (malnutrition)
among children - the most vulnerable group - have declined somewhat during
the past decade, they are still at unacceptably high levels. Furthermore,
the gains in the overall nutrition situation have resulted mainly from
declines in acute malnutrition (wasting), with chronic malnutrition
(stunting) remaining at about the same level throughout the 10-year period.
It is estimated that malnutrition continues to account for about one-
quarter of all deaths of children aged 1-4.
2.64        Nutrition surveys conducted at the beginning and the end of the
1980s, supported by studies during the intermediate years, reflect these
trends. According to a 1982 report, about 22Z of under-fives had second or



- 21 -
third-degree malnutrition (less than 75 of median weight for age), 282
were stunted (less than 90? of median height for age), and 9? were wasted
(less than 80? of median weight for height). By 1988, the ZDHS found that
12? of the under-fives were malnourished, with 29t stunted and just 1.32
wasted. It is likely that the drop in wasting is associated with the end
of transient acute malnutrition due to the war and droughts and episodes of
acute illness among children. At the same time, the maintenance of
substantial levels of stunting is probably the result of gradual
nutritional insult to children over long periods, related to infant feeding
practices (see para. 2.72).
2.65        Low birth weight (less than 2500g), an indicator of maternal
undernutrition, was seldom measured until recently. Health facility data
show fairly low levels of 5-62 for recorded hospital-based births from 1987
to 1989. However, one urban survey found a rate of over 10?, and data are
probably biased by the fact that about a third of all deliveries do not
take place in health facilities.
2.66        A national goiter survey conducted in 1988-89 found that iodine
deficiency disorders (IDD) are a public health problem in every province of
Zimbabwe. Overall, the total goiter rate (TGR) was 4'44 and the visible
goiter rate (VGR) was 4?; TGR varied by province from 52Z in Mashonaland
Central to 17Z in Matabeleland South, while the VGR varied from 7? in
Mashonaland East to 0.7Z in Matabeleland South. The district of Murewa was
most affected, with a TGR of 78Z and a VGR of 24Z. Thus IDD can be said to
be a mild to moderate problems throughout the country, with some areas
having a severe endemnicity.
2.67        While the data on iron deficiency and anemia are spotty, there
is some evidence of a significant problem that is not being solved by
providing iron and folate tablets to pregnant women a-tending ante-natal
care clinics. A recent study of 1000 pregnant women visiting health
centers in Masvingo Province found that 50? had Hb levels below 10. Anemia
was also detected in 30? of the children aged 0-4 accompanying these women.
2.68        Vitamin A capsules (50,000 IU) are a part of the Zimbabwe
Essential Drugs Action Program, to be given to children with measles,
chronic diarrhea, and eye signs of vitamin A deficiency. However, it is
not known how often eye signs of vitamin A deficiency are seen, nor how
often these capsules are properly prescribed and taken for the indicated
diseases.
2.69        A review of the adult chronic disease problems frequently
related to diet has not been carried out for Zimbabwe. Many of these
diseases are becoming a cause of substantial morbidity and mortality in
Zimbabwe, including heart and circulatory diseases, cancers of the liver
and stomach, diabetes, chronic liver diseases and cirrhosis, ulcer of the
stomach and duodenum, and dental problems. Hypertension and dental
problems are among the top ten health problems among persons over five
years of age. Between 1980 and 1987 there was a 36? increase in the number
of deaths attributed to cancers of the liver and stomach, a 13? increase in
deaths from diseases of the circulatory system, a 35? increase in deaths



- 22 -
from diabetes, and a 43Z increase in deaths due to ulcers. In this same
period there was only a 1t increase in the number of deaths due to
nutritional deficiency and a decline in the number of deaths due to
infective and parasitic diseases and respiratory diseases. The role of
diet and of alcohol consumption in the etiology of many of these diseases
appears to merit some serious study and the development of related public
health programs. Zimbabwe has very little capability to include dietary
aspects in treatment. Few hospitals have dieticians -- even the central
teaching hospital in Harare is currently lacking one. An inadequate number
of posts for dieticians exist, but even nine of the existing ones are
unfilled. There is no in-country training for dieticians, and none are
being sent for training overseas.
Underlying Causes of Malnutrition
2.70        It does not appear that the persistent problem of failure to
grow in young children - and especially chronic undernutrition - is caused
in a major way by the disease episodes that account for malnutrition in
many other African countries. This is because Zimbabwe has made
substantial progress over the past decade in reducing the incidence of
early childhood disease, through its preventive health care programs.
Construction and staffing of rural health centers, expanded access to
improved latrines and water sources, programs for management of diarrhea
and acute respiratory infection, and increased vaccination coverage have
all helped to lower the incidence of a range of infectious diseases that
exacerbate malnutrition. The percentage of out-patient attendances for
diarrhea declined from 33Z in 1980 to less than lOX in 1988. One
additional factor that may contribute to lower incidence of diarrhea in
Zimbabwe, as compared to many other African countries, is the common use of
'mahewal and other fermented gruels for young child feeding. However, one
harmful practice found in Zimbabwe is to remove the infant immediately from
the mother's breapt. once diarrhea commences.
2.71        Food insecurity contributes to malnutrition in Zimbabwe,
especially chronic insecurity in communal farming areas with high
population density and high levels of male out-migration, as well as in
some commercial farming areas where wages are low and purchased food prices
are relatively high. Droughts resulted in transitory food insecurity in
the more arid parts of the country during the 1980s, although relief
efforts were highly effective in mitigating the nutritional impact.
2.72        Perhaps the most important factor leading to infant and child
malnutrition in Zimbabwe concerns child care and feedinR practices. This
is supported by the fact tLat the process of growth failure begins early in
the first year of life: an examination of the 1988 ZDHS data shows that the
process of becoming stunted begins before three months of age, a high
prevalence is reached by nine months, and peaks at 19 months of age.
Breastfeeding and complementation patterns are the main determinants of
growth at this vulnerable age, when infants are still somewhat protected
from disease and household food insecurity. Too few feeds per day with
foods low in caloric density during the weaning period are common probleris



- 23 -
among women overburdened with work and unable to afford special infant
foods or even much fat or sugar.
2.73        While the median duration of breastfeeding continues to be
about 20 months per child and only 10-15 of infants receive breast milk
for less than one year, several common practices in Zimbabwe tend to
mitigate the nutritSnnal benefits of breastfeeding. First, non-milk
supplements are communly given even to very young children: one study found
that among infants under three months of age, 26? in urban areas and 51? in
rural areas received such solid or semi-solid supplements. Such failure to
breast-feed exclusively increases the infants exposure to pathogens.
Second, the need to feed the young child frequently is apparently not
widely recognized: according to another study, three meals a day were
thought to be adequate by 44Z of mothers, and one or two meals daily by
13Z. Third, breastfeeding is sometimes stopped when the infant gets
diarrhea, thus aggravating dehydration and undernutrition: in a 1985
survey, 23Z of mothers stated that breastfeeding caused diarrhea if the
mother has sexual relations with her husband.
Nutrition Institutions and Programs
2.74        Thus far, the Ministry of Health has taken the lead in the
field of nutrition in Zimbabwe. As part of its primary health care
approach, the MOH changed its Dietetics Unit into a Nutrition Department
shortly after independence. The Department gained strength during the mid-
1980s, but in 1987 was incorporated into the Maternal and Child Health
Department as a Unit.
2.75        The MOH currently has posts for 24 nutritionists (six in
headquarters and two in each of the provinces), of which 12 are filled.
The large number of vacancies is due to a considerable degree to the
limited opportunities for advanced training available to MOH nutritionists:
in recent years, the Public Service Commission has only been allowing one
nutritionist to go abroad for study each year. There is also a high
vacancy rate for Instituional Domestic Supervisors who manage all food
services in hosiptals and other large instiutions. There are 61 nutrition
coordinators at district level (mainly to run the Community Food and
Nutrition Program - see below) and three dieticians, far from adequate
given the needs across the country. There are about 500 home demonstrators
(now community development workers) from the Ministry of Agriculture whose
extension responsibilities include nutrition-related tasks. The Ministry
of Education has become interested in recent years in the potential for
enhancing the learning capacity of students by investing in their health
and nutrition. The MOE has cooperated with the MOH Nutrition Unit in
planning a pilot project in conjunction with UNESCO, to be funded by SIDA.
2.76        One of Zimbabwe's most important nutrition initiatives has been
the Child Food and Nutrition Program (CFNP), which began in 1981 as a
drought relief effort aiming to reach the most vulnerable young children in
drought-prone area using locally-grown food and nutrition education. In
1984, over 250,000 children were reached by the program. Gradually, it
evolved into an intervention to deal with chronic malnutrition, by



- 24 -
mobilizing villagers to grow foods in a community gardens, rain-fed plots,
or poultry/rabbit projects, often linked to day care and special feeding
sessions for children identified as malnourished. There are currently over
2000 such CFNP projects, with 10-200 participants per project. Material
support (fencing materials, seeds, and fertilizer) is provided with funding
from SIDA. Technical back-up comes from Agritex, while MOH nutrition
coordinators help plan and manage activities at community level. At
national level, CFNP is run by an inter-sectorial steering commlttee
chaired by MOH, with similar committees at province, district, and ward
levels.
2.77        While the CFNP is generally regarded as having been successful
in combatting malnutrition, the program could still be improved through a
number of measures. These includet (a) greater targeting, especially to
large-scale commercial farms and to provinces/districts with relatively
high levels of malnutrition; (b) increased Government funding to ensure
sustainability; (c) improved reporting and monitoring and operations
research; (d) inclusion of community-based child growth monitoring as a
standard part of the program: (e) strengthened nutrition education and
training; (f) better integration of other ministries and their extension
workers, and stronger links with water and sanitation, functional literacy,
and pre-school activities; and (g) establishment of nutrition posts at
district level.
2.78        Growth monitoring has become well established in Zimbabwe at
hospitals and health centers, but not yet at community level despite
efforts to do so. Overall, the proportion of children surveyed in 1988 who
had no weights plotted on a growth chart varied from 7Z in Midlands
Province to 28Z in Manicaland. The average number of times that weights
were plotted during the first year of life ranged from 3.9 to 5.5 times in
the different provinces. In one district (Bubi, in Matabeleland North),
about 90Z of children under five are monitored at community level, and this
practice is spreading to other districts. Efforts are also under way to
use growth monitcring for promotion of better nutrition. A growth
monitoring training manual for community workers is currently at an
advanced stage of design. The MOH Nutrition Unit has long had plans to
review and strengthen the nutrition-related curricula of many extension
workers, but manpower constraints have largely prevented this from
happening.
2.79        Emphasis on nutrition education has always existed and the
population of Zimbabwe has continuously received messages from a number of
organizations over the past decade, although these have not been well-
coordinated.  Nutrition education has focused mainly on the need for a
balanced diet (food groups) and on child feeding messages such as the
importance of adding peanut butter to their food. Breastfeeding promotion,
including the WHO/UNICEF recommendation to practice exclusive breastfeeding
for at least the first four months of life and to continue for two years,
has not figured prominently. The same is true of other information needed
by families to optimize care and feeding of infants and young children.
Furthermore, while the importance of a strong mass media component and of
social marketing in nutrition education was recognized at an early stage, a



- 25 -
shortage of local skills and technical assistance for this purpose have
hampered efforts in these areas.
2.80        A national iodine deficiency disease (IDD) program is beginning
to take shape, based largely on the iodation of salt. One major issue is
whether to iodate within Zimbabwe's borders all salt after import or to
pass a law requiring all imported salt to be iodated at the required level
(50 ppm) -- about 45 firms currently import salt. In either case, quality
control and monitoring of the iodine status of the population will need to
be maintained. There may also be a need to complement salt iodation with
the distribution of iodized oil capsules in remote high-prevalence areas of
the country. A pilot project and a cretinism survey, to be funded by SIDA,
are planned for 1991.
2.81        Finally, while pre-service nutrition training is not offered in
Zimbabwe, the MOH Nutrition Unit devotes a substantial amount of its time
to administering and teaching parts of the six-week Eastern, Central, and
Southern Africa in-service nutrition course, which has been held in Harare
for the past four years with financial and technical support from the
Netherlands.
2.82        The main donors to nutrition in Zimbabwe over the past decade
have been UNICEF and SIDA. UNICEF's contribution, amounting to about
US$0.1 million a year, has covered some training activities and the
purchase of child weighing scales and other equipment. SIDA funding,
averaging about US$0.5 million annually, has been allocated to a wide range
of items including basic support for the CPNP and overseas training in
nutrition. The recently-concluded three-year program (1990-92) of SIDA
assistance to health and nutrition amounts to about US$0.6 million, to be
spent on training, parts of the IDD control program, consolidation of the
CFNP, IEC on infant feeding, pilot nutrition surveillance at community
level, and support to develop a national food and nutrition policy.
D. World Bank Involvement in the PUN Sectors
2.83        A PHN Sector Survey (1983) provided the analytical basis for
the design of the Family Health Prolect (FHP1, Ln. 2744-ZIM, total cost
US$52.5 million), which became effective in early 1987 and is scheduled for
completion at the end of 1991.  Through the project, the Government has
endeavored to (a) expand family planning services by training MOH/MLGRUD
nurses and carrying out effective IEC activities; (b) strengthen the
management of health services at district level and in MOH headquarters by
training health administrators and other specialized staff; and (c) provide
improved rural health care by upgrading and equipping eight district
hospitals, about 60 rural health centers and 20 small rural hospitals.
During the implementation period for FHPl, the Bank and local officials
have collaborated on two major sector studies concerned with Population and
Family Planning Programs (1989) and Options for Financing Health Services
in Zimbabwe (1989).



- 26 -
2.84        Mid-term evaluations of FHP1 conducted by HOf and by a team of
donor officials in late 1989, as well as recent bi-annual reviews of
project performance by the Bank, have found that overall implementation has
been good. Total expenditures as of December 1990 amounted to Z$106
million or 115X of the estimated project costs. Disbursements have
generally been satisfactory, except for some training and IEC activities
where delays occurred in the early years. Project targets for facility
upgrading and family planning and management training have for the most
part been substantially achieved. The project is already beginning to have
a discernible positive impact on the quality of health and family planning
services offered in rural areas, and on capacity-building at district
level, especially through the training of district health teams, the
posting of district health administrators, and the provision of quality
housing for MOH staff.
2.85        As part of the preparation of FHP2, a comprehensive list of
lessons from the first project was drawn up and used to sharpen project
design. This list appears in Annex 7, Part 1. A few of the most important
lessons from the implementation experience in FHP1 that have been
incorporated in the design of FHP2 ares
(a)   While the first project has made an important contribution to
Zimbabwe's family planning efforts, a broader approach is required,
starting with a comprehensive national strategy and program and
leading to a major project component comprising expanded service
delivery, method mix diversification, manpower development,
management strengthening and IEC;
(b)   While the first project focused on the management of MOH training
programs, other critical management areas need to be addressed
urgently, especially financial management of the sector and the
management of medical equipment and supplies;
Cc)   Designs for upgrading of district hospitals and clinics need to be
more flexible and tailored to local factors (population, disease
patterns, existing facilities and communications). The designs
should also be made more cost-effective and fully take into account
the associated recurrent costs (staffing, operation and maintenance).
Construction activities should be staggered during the implementation
period, given the prevailing capacity constraints in the local
construction industry;
(d)   Project management systems need to be well established at the outset
of the project and strengthened systematically, through a combination
of adequate staffing in MOH, short courses and on-the-job training,
use of local consultants, and provision of office equipment and
supervisory vehicles. Special attention should be given to project
monitoring and reporting systems, budgeting and accounts, and
procurement; and
(e)   To expedite the implementation of large numbers of highly-
decentralized short training courses, operations research and IEC



- 27 -
activities and minor purchases of materials and equipment, a project
Special Account should be set up and effective procedures for
accounting and claiming reimbursements adopted. A separate Special
Account should be set up for the ZNFPC to facilitate timely
implementation of their family planning activities, especially since
ZNFPC has demonstrated its relatively strong financial management
capabilities.
2.86        The preparation of FHP2 was a broad-based, participatory
process emphasizing local Zimbabwean inputs, that started in May 1989 with
the formation of a Project Planning Committee (PPC). The committee, which
reported to the Secretary for Health, included representatives of a wide
range of MOH departments and provincial officials, as well the ZNFPC.  In
consultation with senior MOH staff, the PPC set planning guidelines,
including financial cost and staffing parameters and a preliminary outline
of project scope and composition, and requested a large number of proposals
from the various concerned MOH and ZNFPC units. Perhaps the most critical
planning decision was to limit the number of districts benefitting from
health infrastructure upgrading to the two neediest districts in each
province of the country.
2.87        During late 1989 and the first half of 1990, 24 provincial and
district proposals and an additional 10-12 MOH/ZNFPC headquarters proposals
were drafted and subsequently reviewed by the PPC and World Bank/donor
missions. On the basis of these reviews, the various proposals were
revised and costed, and in some cases augmented by consultants engaged by
the Government and Bank with financing from a special Japanese Grant
Facility. During the second half of 1990, ZNFPC prepared a National Five-
Year Family Planning Strategy and Implementation Plan (summarized in Annex
2, Part 2), incorporating existing program and project plans by USAID and
UNFPA, which was used for preparation of six proposals for the FP
component. Following pre-appraisal in September 1990, a team of local
planning consultants supervised by the PPC was assigned the task u.
polishing the large set of project proposals and drafting a summary volume.
A donor mission consisting of Bank staff and representatives of a number of
interested donors (DANIDA, Netherlands, NORAD, and ODA) appraised FHP2 in
November-December 1990.
2.88        Officials of the Ministry of Finance, Economic Development, and
Planning (MFEPD) also played an important role ir the preparation of FHP2,
reviewing the project at several stages and ensuring that the project was
consistent with national planning guidelines and development policies. In
this regard, MOH endeavored to make FHP2 the centerpiece of the investment
program for health, population, and nutrition during the period of the
five-year plan (1991-95). MOH officials responsible for elaboration of the
strategic plan for the health sector coordinated the preparation of FHP2,
too, to ensure consistency between the two exercises. During the second
half of 1990, ZNFPC prepared a National Five-Year Family Planning Strategy
and Implementation Plan (shown in draft in Annex 2:C), incorporating
existing program and project plans by USAID and UNFPA, which was the basis
for the proposed FP component, and ensures that the project will contribute



- 28 -
to a well thought out broad strategy for improving and expanding family
planning services in Zimbabwe.
2.89        Finally, the project has been designed to support the
Government's impending structural adjustment Program in several respects.
Investments are targeted to the most underserved rural districts of
Zimbabwe, and to low-income households in those districts who will need to
be protected from any adverse social impacts of the adjustment process.
The project includes support for setting up a nutritional surveillance
system which will monitor the impact of the adjustment program and enable
timely action to be taken if necessary. The incremental recurrent costs
associated with the project have been minimized by emphasizing
rehabilitation of existing facilities and redeployment of staff (especially
from urban to rural areas). Furthermore, by assisting improvements in MOH
planning, budget and accounting procedures and an increase ir. cost recovery
through adjusted fees and strengthened billing and collection performance,
the project should actually lead to a substantial rise in direct charges
for health and family planning services, to supplement allocations from
general Government revenues.



- 29 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.1         The broad objectives of FHP2 are tot
(a)   improve maternal and child health and nutrition status;
(b)   reduce the rate of population growths
(c)   ensure that households in the target distr.cts (especially low-
income families) have access to basic health, population, and
nutrition services;
(d)   increase the output of high-quality trained Zimbabwean health
workers (especially in family planning, midwifery, nutrition, and
a wide range of management skills), in the context of improved
policies and practices for training and personnel management;
(e)   enhance MOH, ZNFPC, and relevant NGO capacity to plan and manage
health, population, and nutrition activities, at national,
provincial, district, community, and facility levels; and
(f)   adopt measures, systems, and skills to increase allocative and
technical efficiency and mobilize significant additional resources
for health, nutrition, and population.
3.2         To monitor the effectiveness of project activities, the
Government has developed a series of health/population/nutritic status,
service delivery, and other process indicators. On a nationwide basis,
the key indicators includes
(a)   lowering the infant mortality rate from 53 in 1990 to 43 in 1996;
(b)   increasing the percentage of children receiving the complete
vaccination course, at the correct age/interval, from 702 in 1990
to 85Z in 1996;
(c)   reducing the share of children aged 6-36 months who are
malnourished (less than 80 of the reference weight for age) from
12Z in 1990 to 52 in 1996;
'd)   increasing the percentage of pregnant women receiving antenatal
care from 902 in 1990 to 95Z by 1996 and increasing the percentage
who deliver in a health facility 70Z to 852;
(e)   lowering the total fertility rate from 5.5 in 1986 to 4.5 in 1996,
and raising the percentage of married women of reproductive age
using modern methods of contraception from 362 to 48Z;
(f)   increasing the percentage of married women using permanent and
semi-permanent methods from 42 in 1988 to 122 in 1996;



- 30 -
(g)   training 3,500 nurses and 120 doctors in family planning;
(h)   increasing the proportion of nurses in district and rural service
trained in midwifery to 602 by 1996;
(i)   increasing the level of cost recovery by MOH from 3? of recurrent
budget expenditures in 1990 to at least 102 by July 1, 1995.
Government's annual target increases will be monitored during
implementation.
For each of the project objectives and related components/subcomponents,
a more detailed set of progress indicators has been elaborated. In many
cases, the provincial and district health planning teams have developed
their own targets.
3.3         The scope of FHP2 is national in a number of program areas
where country-wide coverage is both vital to achieve a meaningful
health/population/nutrition impact and is also financially affordables
these include family planning, improved maternal health and child
nutrition, midwifery training, and health management strengthening. On
the other hand, the Government has decided to concentrate project
resources for upgrading rural health infrastructure and provision of
related equipment, transport, and radio communications in 16 of
Zimbabwe's 55 districts. These 16 target districts, which were selected
using a series of criteria to define "need" (e.g., disease incidence,
current level of service delivery, number of health personnel and
hospital beds in relation to the population, etc.), are:
-     Mudzi and Murehwa (Mashonaland East)
-     Rushinga and Guruve (Mashonaland Central)
-     Kadoma and Kariba (Mashonaland West)
-     Bulalimamangwe and Kezi-Matobo (Matabeleland South)
-     Bubi and Nkayi (Matabeleland North)
-     Buhera and Mutasa (Manicaland)
-     Chibi and Mwenezi (Masvingo)
-     Chivhu and Kwekwe (Midlands)
A profile of these 16 districts is given in Annex 4, Part 1.
3.4         In broad outline, the six main project components and
subcomponents, to be implemented during 1992-96, are:
(a)   Support to Family Planning: training, outreach services, clinic
services, special youth services, IEC, and management support;
(b)   Maternal and Child Health Services: midwifery training, maternity
equipment, MCH/FP in-service training, provision of transport and
radio communications links between health centers and hospitals, a
school health aiid nutrition program, and operations research and
program monitoring and evaluationt
(c)   Nutrition: community-based growth monitoring, nutrition gardens,
surveillance, research, promotion of breastfeeding, combatting
micro-nutrient deficiencies, nutrition training, and IEC;



- 31 -
(d)   Strengthening Rural Health Delivea: selective upgrading and
equipping of district hospitals and rural health centers,
construction of staff housing;
(e)   Healcth                       i zn-     Developantt institutional strengthening at
central, provincial, and district levels, systems development
including decentralising the personnel function, and providing
modest district trainlng facilitW.es; and
(f)   Management Strengthening: training, systems development, related
hardware, and limited technical assistance to build critical
capacity in financial management, materials and equipment
management, district-level health services management, and sector
planning.
B. Detailed Project Description
Family Planning (base cost US$15.7 million)
3.5         In line with the national FP strategy (see Annex 2, Part 2),
the project will aim to (a) increase access to high-quality FP carvices
and (b) expand use of longer-term methods. Current and projected levels
of family planning use, by contraceptive method, are given in Annex 2,
Part 3. Two subcomponents correspond to these aims. Two complementary
sub-components to facilitate their achievement are (c) provision of
appropriate IEC and (d) strengthening of FP program management.
operationally, the project budget for PP activities is divided into six
parts corresponding to the implementing ZNFPC Units, namely Training,
IEC, YAS, Clinic-based Services (Medical/Clinical), Outreach (CBD), and
Management (Executive Director's office).
3.6         Increasing Access to FP Services  Following the national FP
strategy, and taking account of parallel complementary activities by
other donors, this subcomponent will concentrate support to the
expansion and upgrading of two types of FP services in Zimbabwe, namely
those delivered through fixed health or FP facilities (Government or
ZNFPC) and through rural outreach networks. In addition, the
subcomponent will help strengthen FP training irstitutions to meet
additional demand arising from the much expanded volume of training that
will be necessary.
3.7         The improve: int of service delivery at Government fixed
facilities under FHP2 is in large part a continuation of the PP training
component of FHP1. It will provide for: FP in-service training for
government (MOH, MOLG or City Health Department) nurses not covered
under FHP1; refresher training for government nurses; and training of FP
trainers for City Health training centers, for existing vacancies in the
eight district MCH/FP training centers set up under FHPI and for the 16
centers to be established under the project. Strengthening of ZNFPC
training capacity to handle the increased intakes under both FHP2 and
the parallel UNFPA and USAID programs will also be financed.



- 32 -
3.8         Specifically, the training element of this subcomponent will
finance training fees, transport and per diem costs for the following
courses and trainee follow-up: (a) training of trainer courses for
MCH/FP trainers; (b) follow-up visits to new FHP2 district trainers; (c)
FP clinical courses for nurses at district MCH/FP training centers,
ZNFPC training centers and City Health training centers; (d) bi-annual
FP refresher courses for nurses; and (e) annual Contraceptive Technology
Update courses for MCH/FP and City Health trainers. To accommodate the
planned expansion of both teaching establishment and training workload,
funds will also be provided for: (a) construction of additional
facilities (classrooms and offices) at the ZNFPC training centers in
Harare and Bulawayo; (b) provision of additional training equipment and
transport for both centers; and (c) short-term training fellowships for
ZNFPC tutors in training management and specialist training areas.
3.9         In addition to these training activities, this subcomponent
will provide funds for expansion and upgrading of the ZNFPC fixed clinic
network. Three provincial Youth Advisory Centers, modelled on the
existing center in Harare, will also be established to complement five
centers being constructed with USAID support, making a total of one
cek.ter in every provincial capital.
3.10        To improve access to rural outreach FP services, the project
will aid the expansion and revitalization of the current CBD-based
outreach system (shown in Map No. 22482) through placing additional CBDs
in currently unserved or underserved areas, improving transport for CBDs
and establishitg alternative or supplementary community-based
contraceptive delivery systems. Full final specification of this latter
activity will have to await the results of the ZNFPC's forthcom3ng
operational research on covmunity-based depot-holder (CDH) systems,
which is scheduled to begin field work this year and produce preliminary
results next year. However, it has been budgeted for the moment on the
assumption that a network of 2,800 CDHs will be established over the
life of the project. Assurances were given by the Government that ZNFPC
will recruit and deploy at least 80 additional CBDs prior to June 30,
1993. Subsequent decisions on recruitment of CBDs wrill be based on the
results of ZNFPC studies of family planning manpower needs and options
for rural outreach services, to be completed by December 31, 1991 and
December 31, 1992, respectively. Supplementary outreach will be
provided by one mobile clinic attached to each of sdven of the eight
ZNFPC provincial offices (excluding Manicaland which is already
receiving a new replacement mobile under an IPPF grant). The new mobile
clinics, like those already in use, will provide FP clinic services and
back-up for CBDs in areas without access to fixed health or ZNFPC
facilities or hence CBDs (see Map No. 22840 for their planned venues).
3.11        Increasina Use of Longer-Term Methods  This subcomponent
builds on and continues development from the Urban Family Planning
Component of FHP1. It would support further expansion and development
of a network of (mostly urban) PP service centers capable of providing
IUD, sterilization and NORPLANT services (the latter being mainly
supported, however, by the NORPLANT component of the USAID program). A
major element will be the establishment of an additional 25 VSC/IUD
centers within existing government/ZNFPC facilities. These would



- 33 -
include 16 HOH hospitals (eight provincial, eight district), slx ZNFPC
clinics and three facilities in Harare, Bulawayo and Chitungwiza.
Additional staff, training and equipment will also be provided to
upgrade services in other facilities. The development of FP service
policies, protocols, quality indicators and monitoring and evaluation
will be supported.
3.12         Specifically, the project will finance the following: (a)
upgrading of facilities and provision of equipment at the 25 centers to
provide adequate premises for IUD and VSC service delivery; (b)
evaluation of the current FP Clinical and IUD training courses; (c)
local costs of training of IUD/STD trainers from ZNPPC, HOH provincial
teams and City Health; (d) IUD/STD training of MCH/FP trainers and
ZNFPC clinic and Central Hospital staff; (e) training of MOH and City
Health nurses in IUDISTD services; (f) training of doctor/nurse teams in
VSC and of doctors in IUD/STD services; (g) training of VSC counsellors
to cover all VSC sites, Central and Provincial hospitals and City Health
Departments; (h) training of doctors and nurses in NORPLANT services;
and (i) development and production of policies, protocols and quality-of
service indicators for FP services covering all methode.
3.13        Strengthening of PP Program Management   This subcomponent
will support the increasingly heavy task of managing the expanding FP
program by strengthening ZNFPC administrative and managerial
capabilities. This will include review and appropriate reinforcement of
ZNFPC central management, planning and administration; computerizing the
financial administration and accounting and the MIS and management
systems in all ZNFPC provincial offices; and enlarging ZNFPC provincial
office establishments. (See Annex 2, Part 1, for organigrams of ZNFPC
headquarters and provincial offices and a list of added posts.)
3.14        Specifically, the subcomponent will finance at central
level: (a) a full management review of the ZNFPC, plus appropriate
follow-up; (b) short-term local technical assistance to implement the
national FP strategy through preparation of provincial and district
strategiee and the first annual workplans at national, provincial and
district levels; (c) annual workshops for provincial and district
HOH/ZNFPC MCH/FP managers for program review/planning/supervision; (d) a
review of current planning procedures and of the contraceptive
commodities management system; and (e) stren6thening of the central
tachnical units' capacity to manage and supervise through additional
training, transport and staff.
3.15         At provincial level, the project will finance:
computerization of financial administration and accounting and the MIS;
(b) establishment of eight provincial IEC officers and 32 additional YAS
officers (in order to bring the total YAS workforce up to 55, or one
officer per district).
3.16        IEC  This subcomponent will provide both general and
specific IEC support to the objectives and activities described above.
It includes IEC materials and activities for (a) family planning and YAS
trainers, service providers and clients; (b) general community education
and outreach; and (c) education of leaders and influential persons.



- 34 -
Activities under this subcomponent will be enhanced by strengthening of
provincial-level IEC management (para. 3.14) and of the ZNFPC/MOH audio-
visual (AV) unit set up under FHP1.
3.17        Support to IEC for training and service providers will
improve their knowledge and communication skills, hence the quality and
range of information and services effectively available to clients, by:
(a) developing and producing instructional and promotional materials for
the use of FP trainers, service providers and clients,.including IEC
kits for trainers and service providers and IEC materials and equipment
for the 25 new IUD/VSC service centers; (b) monitoring and conducting
research on FP client reactions and attitudes, through surveys and
analysis of service statistics; (c) carrying out a range of activities
aimed at improving knowledge and attitudes of senior medical personnel,
including an FP Method Mix Symposium; and (d) developing improved IEC
materials and activities for the YAS program, including the new YAS
centers.
3.18        Support to IEC for general community education and outreach
is designed to assist the rural outreach network by disseminating and
improving knowledge and understanding of the rationale and methods of
family planning in rural communities. This type of IEC, which will be
particularly dependent on the work of the new provincial IEC officers,
will includes (a) reprinting materials (including some developed under
FHP1) for use in the training and work of community-based workers; and
(b) developing community-related promotional materials and activities
(e.g., rural newspaper articles, motivational talks, workshops for
community motivation teams, establishment of a community prize fund for
the rural community closest to MCH/FP targets, etc).
3.19        Support to IEC for influential people and opinion leaders
will give general assistance to the entire family planning component by
disseminating and improving knowledge and understanding of the rationale
and methods of family planning among influential persons. To do this,
ZNFPC will organize national, provincial and district-level conferences
and workshops for Parliamentarians and influential persons, as well as
workshops for media personnel. Suitable promotional materials for these
groups will also be developed and produced. A wide range of promotional
materials for the mass media (radio, TV, film, video, newspapers, etc)
will also be funded, in order to continue and reinforce ZNFPC's efforts
to mobilise general public opinion in favour of family planning, child
spacing and smaller families.
Maternal and Child Health (base cost US$10.1 million)
3.20        The key objectives of the maternal and child health program
for the next five years ares
-     to reduce infant (especially perinatal) and child mortality,
focussing particularly on the top three causes of death (AMI,
diarrhea and valnutrition);



- 35 -
-     to reduce maternal mortality and morbidity, work towards
eliminating maternal deaths due to preventable causes, and get
reliable estimates of maternal mortality.
The project would address several priority areas to help achieve the
service delivery and morbidity and mortality reduction targetst
improving coverage of antenatal, delivery and postnatal services,
ensuring that facilities are properly equipped and staff adequately
trained to provide optimum care 'o mothers and newborns, better
management of cases, improving communication and transport links for
patients being referred to higher levels of the system, improving and
expanding nutrition programs, and providing better health education to
parents and children.
3.21        Equipment  Inadequate equipment for &ntenatal care,
deliveries, and neonates has compromised the quality of care, especially
in rural facilities. The equipment provided by SIDA, UNICEF and WHO has
met some critical needs, but more is required. The MCH DeE rtment is
preparing standard equipment lists for facilities at various levels and
situations (e.g. rural health centers with/without electricity) and an
inventory system is being developed that will be easy to update and that
will include repair records. The project would provide all facilities
in the 16 project districts with the standard equipment (see Annex 3 for
main items and costs). In-service training will be carried out to
ensure that staff are well trained in proper use and care of equipment.
3.22        To ensure that the emergency referral and routine
supervisory systems function properly in the target districts, a total
of 24 ambulances and 16 four-wheel drive supervision vehicles will be
purchased under the project. In order to improve the versatility of the
supervision vehicles and to facilitate pharmaceutical distribution, 16
trailers will be included. A boat will be provided for Kariba District,
to be used for emergencies and for routine supply and supervision
purposes. About 80 motorcycles will be purchased for distribution to
outreach workers in the target districts. Point-to-point radio
communication equipment will be installed in RHCs that do not currently
have telephones, to enable RHC personnel to call for emergency services
and consult with their district referral hospitals. A detailed
inventory of existing communications, as well as preparation of detailed
radio equipment lists, budget estimates, and implementation plans will
be carried out in the first half of 1991.
3.23        MCH/FP Training, Including Refresher Courses  The project
would continue to support the training of nurses (SCNs and SRNs) at
district level to provide a full range of family planning and HCH
services in an integrated way. The project aim would be to train a
further 4,600 nurses in the 6 week MCH/FP course, which is being
successfully administered in the eight districts of the first project
(budgeted under family planning training subcomponent). ZNFPC would
train 32 (i.e. two per district) nurse-tutors from the district
hospitals as master-trainers (see para 3.8). Funds would be provided
for these trainers to conduct three MCH/FP courses each year in each
district, using rented premises until the in-service training facilities
at the district hospitals being upgraded are completed. The funds would



- 36 -
cover transport, subsistence, rental of premises where necessary and
materials for training. In addition, the project would provide for an
additional 3 one-week training courses each year for 15 participants in
each district, for refresher courses in areas of need to be identified
during project implementation.
3.24        School Health and Nutrition Program  The school health and
nutrition program presently has very low coverage outside of the main
urban areas, and has been hampered by staff shortages and inadequate
transport. The MCH Department aims to reach 802 of primary school
children in the 16 project districts. The project will provide support
for training at least one teacher in each school to do basic weighing,
measuring height, and screening for hearing and vision defects. These
activities could be incorporated into lessons on weights and measures
and health. Nurses would visit all schools annually to conduct hearing
and eye tests on children identified during screening, and to identify
children with other health or nutrition problems, to refer them for
appropriate treatment or further tests. The project would provide
audiometers, scales and height meters, and first aid kits for all
schools. (The kits could be replenished as necessary at local clinics,
and would include chloroquine in malarial areas.) The project would
also provide funds to print 500,000 child health cards.
3.25        Reeearch Studies  Existing statistics on maternal mortality
only cover the 702 of deliveries that take place in facilities, and the
vital registration data are incomplete. There is therefore no reliable
estimate of the maternal mortality rate, trends cannot be charted, and
not enough is known confidently to target efforts to achieve the biggest
reduction in maternal mortality. The project includes a community-based
study in selected areas which should enable an accurate estimate to be
made of maternal mortality rates (see Annex 3, part 8). The study will
be carried out in conjunction with the Zimbabwe Medical School staff,
and will complement ongoing research into the causes of 100 recent
maternal deaths. The project would also fund research into the
effectiveness and usefulness of selected in-service training courses, to
enable better training to be designed and delivered.
3.26        Monitoring and Evaluation  A comprehensive survey of health
and nutrition services and immunization coverage was carried out in 1988
and will be repeated in 1991 under the first Family Health Project. The
mid-term review of the proposed second project would include a similar
survey in 1994 to enable continued monitoring of progress. Assurances
were given b; Government that these surveys would be undertaken in 1991
and 1994 and the results submitted to the World Bank by March of each
following year. The project would also provide computers and training
in computer use, data entry, tabulation and simple analysis to district
staff, so that the data can be analyzed and incorporated in district
level planning (as well as being aggregated nationally). Procurement of
the computers and training for users would be phased over 3 years. (The
computtrs would also be used for general management and budgeting and
for the decentralized personnel information system, see para 3.46).
3.27        Health Education  The MOH Health Education Unit (HEU) and
field health education officers will be trained in research, social



- 37 -
marketing, planning and program management, conducted during periodic
visits (totalling 4 months) by a communications specialist/trainer who
will also advise the HEU and help plan (see Annex 3 for TOR). The
project would include funds to train nurses in communication skills, and
for studies of knowledge, attitude and practice (KAP), materials
development and testing, printing/production and distribution, mass
media messages (i.e. TV and cinema, radio, newspaper, billboards and
folk drama), and for evaluation of IEC campaigns. The project would
fund 8 well-equipped mobile communications vans and additional equipment
(projectors, videos, cameras and megaphones) for project districts.
3.28        Midwifery Training  Th, )verall goal of this sub-component
is to contribute to improved maternity and infant care by relieving the
shortage of maternity-trained nurses, especially in rural facilities,
strengthening basic and post-basic training for nurses, midwives, and
community nurses, supporting the community attachment which is an
important part of basic nurse training, and improving the skills of
practicing midwives through better supervision and in-service training.
3.29        The project would help to increase the number of midwifery
tutors to 32 by 1996 by supporting a doubled intake of students to the
2-year University-level Diploma of Nursing Education (DNE) (every year
instead of every second year) and creating a midwifery track in the DNE.
The Department of Nursing Science faculty would be strengthened by
getting an interim temporary faculty member for 16 months, and provision
made for (rented) accommodation for the additional midwifery-track DNE
students. Midwifery technical and teaching update modules would be
incorporated in the DNE and in the Health Teachers Diploma (HTD), which
prepares clinical instructors who teach the midwifery course for SCNs in
mission and Government institutions. (It is also intended to increase
the intake to the HTD, funded by the German Foundation.) Clinical
instructors and midwives who supervise DNE students during practicals
would receive training to update their clinical skills and improve
supervisory and teaching skills.
3.30        To enable an increase in the percent of nurses trained in
midwifery to 502 overall and 602 in rural health centers and hospitals,
the project would expand the capacity of eight existing nursing schools
by 100 places in all (extra classrooms and dormitories, and mini-buses).
An advisor will assist the Nursing Directorate to develop plans and
procedures to improve student selection and deployment; the project will
also support their implementation.
3.31        Basic and in-service nursing training would be strengthened
to help improve the quality of MCH and maternity care provided by nurses
and midwives. The temporary UZ Nursing Department faculty member would
help the Nursing Directorate review the basic nursing curriculum and
practical training experience, especially the obstetric/MCH/FP parts.
The community health secondment for SRNs would be improved by holding
training workshops for those who supervise and guide the students,
providing vehicles for supervision visits and the field costs of
supervisory visits to students by tutors, and ensuring that 32 of the
new/upgraded RHCs in project districts have reasonable accommodation for
two students and simple cooking facilities. Two week up-date courses in



- 38 -
midwifery would be given to 2,080 midwives during the project; and 220
DNOs, CNOs, and matrons would attend a series of 5-day course in health
service and staff management, to be designed jointly by the Zimbabwean
Institute of Management, local consultants and experienced health
service managers. Many staff in rural health centers have not had much
opportunity for in-service training. The Nursing Directorate intends to
develop a pilot distance learning program in MCH/midwifery, family
planning and young child nutrition, and test its effectiveness in
providing continuing education for 250 nurses in rural areas. It is
expected to be much less costly than traditional in-service courses. A
coordinator would be hired for three years, would go to Kenya on a study
tour to learn about the AMREF program, assess needs in Zimbabwe, and
manage the development and production of learning modules, and the
supervision and follow-up of participating students. The program would
be carefully evaluated after three years. The project would also
support a study to determine how many ex-combatant SCNs do not have the
educational attainment necessary for the SCMN course, and the
advantages, problems and options for offering a special program to
enable this cadre to become certified maternity nurses. Funds would be
set aside to design a course if recommended by the study.
3.32        This program will be a substantial challenge for the Nursing
Directorate and the Department of Nursing Sciences at the University,
which also need to make and implement important decisions and plans
concerning the proposed unification of the SCNs and SRNs into a single
nursing cadre, staff an expanding health service and improve the quality
of nursing care with constrained resources and staffing increases, and
reduce the high attrition rate of qualified nurses and tutors. The
project would provide funds for staff devAlopment through training on-
the-job and/or abroad, and a word processor, printer and xerox machine
for the Directorate.
Nutrition (base cost US$ 3.4 million)
3.33        This component would expand and strengthen nutrition
activities in the 16 project districts in response to their requests and
introduce innovative targeted programs, described in para 3.35-3.36
below. Priority would be given to districts with severe nutrition
problems and which showed particular interest and commitment. The main
problem to be tackled is persistent stunting, which still affects about
30Z of under-five children, and in which infant feeding practices seem
to play an important role.
3.34        Implementation of the proposed nutrition activities will
depend on the availability of adequately trained manpower. The
Nutrition Unit currently has only four staff at central level, down from
six a year ago. The project would contract a consultant nutritionist
for the first two years of the project to advise and assist the
Nutrition Unit in running local training courses and coordinating new
programs, and to provide on-the-job training (see Annex 3, part 10 for
terms of reference). It is expected that additional new staff will be
recruited nationally during the project for headquarters, and, as
recommended by the 1989 National MCH consultative meeting, 8 community



- 39 _
nurses or environmental technicians will be recruited and trained as
district nutrition workers to test the advantages of a cadre of
nutrition staff at this level.
3.35        The project would strengthen and improve targeting of the
Community Food and Nutrition Programme (CFNP), and link it to community-
based growth monitoring (CBGM) of all chilaren (not just those seen in
facilities) in communities most at risk. Project support would be
targeted to (a) workers on large-scale commercial farms; (b) new
res'.ctlement areas; (c) areas provided with improved water sources
intended to be linked to community gardens; and (d) communities with
more than 10? of under-fives "below the line" according to community-
based growth monitoring data or more than 20Z of under-fives 'below the
line" according to growth monitoring data from the nearest health
center. (The criterion is lower for communities which have proved their
commitment to nutrition by implementing community-based growth
monitoring, whose data would tend to be more reliable.) The project
would support pyramidal orientation, training and planning workshops
(from national down to ward and community-level) for the new community-
based program, and would train 40 additional nutrition coordinators to
be recruited over the first two years of the project, to manage the
expanded program. Assurances were given by Government that these 40
additional staff will be recruited and deployed prior to June 30, 1993.
Garden inputs: Participating communities would be given the minimum
necessary fencing, seed or fertilizer, and hardy fruit trees such as
guava, papaya and mango, to provide vitamin A and vitamin C. Advice
would be sought from Agritex on trees most likely to thrive in
particular areas. Wood lots would be added in areas where women have to
walk long distances to obtain fuel, to reduce their time and energy
constraints. The project would support pilot activities aimed at
improving preservation, storage and processing of the foods produced in
one district starting in 1993. Study tours for groups of leaders of new
project areas to places where successful projects are already under way
will speed up the learning process for communities, especially regarding
CBGM. Scales and growth-monitoring cards would be provided to
communities, and funds set aside for baseline surveys, a midterm review,
and program evaluation in 1996. Transport: To enable successful
implementation of the expanded programs, the project would provide a 4-
wheel drive supervision vehicle for each of the eight provincial
nutrition teams; nutrition coordinators would be provided with bicycles
or small motorcycles depending on area to be covered, and two seven-ton
trucks would be purchased for hauling the project inputs, especially
bulky fencing (commercial transport companies refuse to deliver in rural
areas).
3.36        Information, education and communication (IEC) activities to
support the CBGM and CFNP would brief communities on details of the
program and how to participate, young child feeding and the importance
of fresh fruits as a source of vitamin A and of vitamin C which enhances
absorption of iron when fruit is eaten after meals. The project would
fund the development, testing and production of a nutrition kit for use
by Village Community Workers, and training in their use for trainers,
district and ward nutrition teams, other health staff and extension
workers, and VCWs. The kit would consist of a tough carrying case, a



- 40 -
scale and growth charts, copies of a colorful laminated single-page
leaflet to be distributed to the community, with a few key messages in
Shona on one side and Ndebele on the other, a loose-leaf handbook with
information to answer auestions commonly asked by the public on
nutrition issues, an A5 size flip chart of key messages and graphics, a
small plastic bag of iodized salt and a small inexpensive kit (made in
India) for testing whether salt contains adequate '-vels of iodine.
This will be used for explaining to families the importance of iodized
salt, and for testing their salt.
3.37        A second major nutrition goal will be to increase the very
low prevalence of women in Zimbabwe who breast feed exclusively for A-6
months, as part of efforts to improve infant feeding practices. The
recent WHO/UNICEF recommendations for integrated national campaigns will
be adapted to Zimbabwe, with an emphasis on health worker traininig in
lactation management and support to working women.  The project 'ill
fund training in lactation management (which is not included in existing
health worker training) for nutrition and nursing staff. A baseline
survey of hospital practices throughout Zimbabwe would be conducted and
a workshop held for relevant staff from all central and provincial
hospitals. Periodic monitoring wouild track progress toward the target
of 1002 of hospitals conforming with the WHO/UNICEF '10 Steps' by 1996
(see Annex 3). The project would support activities through which the
Nutrition Unit could work with responsible authorities and interested
NGOs to review and improve (if necessary), monitor and enforce the
Zimbabwe Code of Marketing for Breast-milk Substitutes. The project
would also provide funds for IEC activities to be carried out in
conjunction with the health education unit: a total of 4-5 months (in
short visits as needed during the project) of a communication/social
marketing expert 1:o guide and train in IEC/social marketing techniques;
research into beliefs, and breastfeeding practices (including of health
workers and school-teachers who tend to be very influetitial especially
for young mothers); development and testing of appropriate messages and
materials, mass media message delivery, and evaluation of the campaign.
Improved breastfeeding practices could also improve contraceptive
protection for women not using other methods.
3.38        As part of the program to improve infant nutrition, the
project would also fund research to facilitate more effective
interventions for diarrhea management and infant feeding, and which
would guide the development of IEC messages and materials. The MCH
Department would seek research collaborators at Zimbabwe University and
other local and international institutions. There are two sets of
research questionst
(a)   How does infant growth respond when mothers are advised to
practice exclusive breastfeeding for 4-6 months? What types of
complementary foods best meet various needs in different settings,
based on local, inexpensive and time-saving foods? What is the
potential for promoting germination (to increase energy density),
fermentation (to reduce the effects of contamination), and
village-level production of toasted cereal-legume mixtures as
time-saving 'convenience foods'?



- 41 -
(b)   How widespread and strong are beliefs that breastfeeding causes
diarrhoea? Are there any messages that would be effective in
convincing most women to continue breastfeeding (and feeding other
foods) during diarrhoea? Are there any fluids commonly available
in homes which could be given to children as soon as they get
diarrhoea in order to prevent dehydration? Are health workers
aware of these issues?
3.39        To help control iodine deficiency disorders, the project
will establish a national monitoring system for iodated salt (which is
just beginning to enter the country in an uncontrolled way), and urinary
iodine and TSH hormone levels in sentinel centers in one high-risk
district in each province, by providing equipment and supplies for
testing, training of four laboratory technicians and their salaries on a
declining basis. These inputs would complement the training for the IDD
program and pilot capsule distribution in one district being funded by
SIDA, and which is expected to be extended to all the affected areas of
the country.
3.40        The nutrition unit has been asked to help monitor the impact
of Government's structural adjustment program on vulnerable people in
Zimbabwe. The project will assist by funding short-term technical
assistance (hired locally where possible) to help select sentinel
surveillance sites, develop a nutritional surveillance system and train
staff; a computer; and baseline survey and the costs of collecting,
analysing and compiling the data regularly and rapidly.
3.41         Institutional Domestic Supervisors manage food services in
hospitals and other institutions. The present annual output of 10 do
not meet demand, and many posts are vacant. The project will support an
expanded intake to the 1 year course by providing teaching equipment and
supplies (kitchen ware and appliances, food supplies, books, overhead
projector); student allowances and the transport costs for taking
students to sites for practical work (using the minibuses budgeted under
the midwifery component).
Strengthening Rural Health Delivery (base cost US$61.0 million)
3.42        To improve access to, and the quality of, rural health,
nutrition, and family planning services in the 16 target districts, a
package of rural health facility upgrading, transport, communications,
and related staffing and staff development will be implemented in each
district under the project. In line with established MOH norms, the aim
will be to ensure that each family has access to a rural health center
(RHC) within eight kilometers, offering the full range of preventive
(vaccinations, growth monitoring, antenatal, etc.) and outpatient
curative care, equipped to perform uncomplicated deliveries, and capable
of supporting and supervising community-based workers and programs. In
addition, by the end of the project period, each of the 16 target
districts should have at least one good-quality district hospital able
to provide the full range of first-line referral services, including
basic surgery, treatment of most accidents and illnesses, and care for
premature births.



- 4L -
3.43        The specific contents of the investment package will vary
from district to district, in line with their detailed needs as
identified during project appraisal, bearing in mind population,
catchment area, existing facilities, etc. - there is no standard
"blueprint" approach to this component.
3.44        As stated above, the project will cater for a district
hospital in each district. In a few cases where no hospital exists
(e.g. Mudzi, UMP, Kezi-Matobo, Mwenezi), a new complex will be
constructed. In the rest of the districts, an existing hospital will be
upgraded.  While most of the project hospitals belong to IOH. in two
districts (Guruve and Buhera), a church mission hospital designated by
the Government to serve as the district referral facility will benefit
from the upgrading. Typically, the district facility will include: an
outpatient block; a materna_ and child health unit; maternity, male,
female, and pediatric wards; kitchen, laundry, and administrative
offices; mortuary and incinerator; a small teaching wing; and staff
housing.
3.45        MOH has carried out an extensive review of the designs for
hospitals and RHCs built under FHP1 in order to get better value for the
new capital investments and reduce associated recurrent costs. As a
result, the preliminary designs for the FHP2 hospitals are superior to
the eight FHP1 district hospitals in several respects: (a) the hospitals
are smaller and more flexible in their design, with bed capacity linked
closely to the population size and other nearby hospital facilities; (b)
space for patient care and ancillary services has been kept to a minimum
consistent with good quality care; and (c) the mix of staff housing has
been modified to include a larger number of low-cost flatlets and bed-
sitters which are preferred by MOH staff. The average cost of an
upgraded hospital in the proposed project is about Z$6.5 million, as
compared to a cost of about Z$14 million for the district hospitals in
FHP1 (1990 prices). Since facilities are being designed to meet the
particular circumstances and conditions at different locations, rather
than using the "full-size" standard stock design of FHP1, size varies
from 54-120 beds, with most in the 78-104 bed range. Some will be small
satellite hospitals, providing basic services to populations located at
a great distance from the main district hospital and referring more
complicated cases to the district facility. When combined with a
staggered schedule of construction (para 5.12), this should ensure
timely and cost-effective implementation. MOH will send to the World
Bank for review the final designs for each district hospital, before
proceeding to prepare tender documents.
3.46        Each of the eight provinces has begun to set its priorities
for RHC improvement under the project, within a budget ceiling which
could accommodate a total of four new RHCs or 12 upgraded RHCs, or some
combination of new and upgraded facilities. Following an in-depth
evaluation of the experience with RHCs in FHP1 and with rural health
centers funded by other donors in the early 1980s, a revised flexible
model design has been prepared (see Annex 4). Using this desigii and
based on simple preliminary site surveys and sketch plans, each province
will submit by December 31, 1991 a proposal justifying its choice of
RHCs for construction/upgrading. Criteria will include: local



- 43 -
population to be served, existing facilities and communications, and
availability of staff and recurrent budget. MOH will forward these
proposals to the Bank for review, before finalizing designs and
preparing tender documents.
3.47        The experience of FHPl has highlighted the importance of
staff housing in attracting and retaining MOH health personnel in ;he
more remote districts where resources are to be concentrated in FHP2.
For this reason, funds equal to 252 of the cost of the hospitals will be
set aside for housing. In a typical district with a 78 bed hospital,
housing will include about 10 units for doctors and senior nurses, and
about 15 flatlets for junior nursing personnel. In addition, housing
will be built at new/upgraded RHCs, with the aim of providing at least
three units (for two nurses and one nurse-aide) at each RHC.
3.48        Equipment and furniture will be provided for each district
hospital and RHC. Detailed lists will be drawn up in a three-stage
process, in which several medical equipment consultants will assist MOH
(paras. 3.51 and 3.57). The first step (during the first half of 1991)
will be to review equipment and furniture purchased in FHP1 and the
procurement procedures followed. This will be followed by a detailed
inventory of existing equipment and furniture in the second half of
1991, which will enable MOH to draw up lists for FHP2 districts and
procurement schedules tied to the expected construction timetable, by
June 1992.
Health Manpower Development (base cost US$1.4 million)
3.49         This component will contribute to more effective manpower
planning, training, deployment and management. This has high priority
in MOH, given that 60? of total expenditure is on salaries and wages.
The large volume of training to be carried out under the project - about
2,000 weeks of in-service training involving more than 20,000 persons -
will need careful management, coordination and support. Specif'_
activities to facilitate this include:
(a) Extending and strengthening the inservice training system throughs
preparation and support of district MCH/FP trainers by running
training-of-trainers and Art of Examination courses (or updates)
for all district trainers. (Other support activities for trainers
are included under in the family planning component.) HMD's
coordination and technical and administrative support for
inservice training will be improved by developing a training
information system to maintain records of inservice training,
preparing annual staff development plans and a calendar of
inservice training programs, training those who supervise field
attachments of trainees, running short "guidelines for teaching"
workshops for clinicians who are called on to teach periodically,
and providing books and training equipment for training centers.
The project will support HMD and build its capacity to provide
this improved coordination through a Masters degree in health
education, especially curriculum development, for the training
coordinator, a training advisor to assist the coordinator



- 44 -
especially during her studies, and a sedan car for frequent travel
to and from training sites. The project will also support
curriculum and training materials development, including on-the-
job training by a curriculum specialist who will work with all the
MOH departments with teaching/training responsibilities over the
course of two years.
(b)   Strengthening basic training through developing competency-based
(CB) basic training curricula for all health worker cadres,
training 60 health teachers/tutor/instructors in CB methods, and
developing an induction manual and new teaching modules for the
main basic training programs, providing books fcr district
training facilities, and improving preparation of newly-qualified
doctors for rural practice.
(c)   Building manpower planning and management capacity through
establishing and supporting a task force with representatives of
the Departments of Health Manpower, Health Services Management and
Planning, Finance, Personnel (Staffing), and Nursing. The project
will finance a long term advisor to the task force for 2 years
each, 12 months of local and outside short-term technical
assistance for specific planning and management analyses and other
tasks, a computer, and in-country courses in manpower planning.
Provincial workshops would be held to develop staff performance
indicators, train staff in their use and review their impact.
(d)   Decentralizing personnel administration to provincial and district
levels to strengthen effectiveness and efficiency. This will
require training for personnel staff, equipping provincial
district personnel offices, reproduction of a procedures manual,
and evaluation of the system.
(e) Finalizing and decentralizing the personnel information system
(PIS) to provide regular and up-to-date information on health
staff on which to base management decision-making and planning.
The PIS system which has been set up for the first project pilot
districts needs to be evaluated before proceeding with country-
wide decentralization. Specific activities to be supported by the
project are: planning for decentralization, development and
printing of user manuals, and training in system operation and
informadton use. Computers being provided for PMDs are costed
under the MCH component.
Health Management Strengthening and PMU (base cost US$7.3 million)
3.50        Building upon the successful experience in management
strengthening in FHP1, plus the results of the Bank sector study on
Financing Of Health Services (1989) and a series of reports commissioned
by the Government for the updated Eguity in Health policy paper (1990),
the MOH will aim to develop further management skills and systems under
the second project. The emphasis will be on strengthening selected
areas that are critical to MOH's role as the overall policy-making and
planning body for the health sectox, as well as the major provider of



- 45 -
health, family planning, and nutrition services. As part of the
preparation for the national Five-Year Plan and for FHP2 (which were
carried out simultaneously), MOH has drafted an overall "Management
Strengthening Program" with seven sub-components: materials and
equipment management; health finance reform and financial management5
district health information management; top management and general
management training; health planning; moniitoring and supervisory
systems; and institutional development. While other donors (e.g. SIDA)
will be fundinS parts of this program, FHP2 (utilizing support from ODA,
which is earmarked for management improvement) will play a major role in
implementing the proposed MOH program.
3.51        Materials and Equipment Management  It is now widely
recognized within MOH that the timely availability and efficient
utilization of medical materials and equipment must be vastly improved.
To do so, project resources will help MOH to develop skills and
procedures for planning, ordering, procuring, utilizing, maintaining,
and disposing of equipment and materials. The medical technician
training school at Parirenyatwa Hospital will be expanded, the
curriculum revised, and teaching corps reinforced. Starting in the
second year of the project, 12 technicians will be trained annually
until each province is adequately staffed. These technicians will be
deployed to the provincial medical maintenance teams, whose mobility and
effectiveness will be greatly enhanced through the provision of a
vehicle and a small stock of spare parts for each team. In addition,
the provincial technicians will organize short in-service courses for
the handymen responsible for equipment operations and maintenance at
district hospital level. The module on supplies and materials
management for district health administrators will be revised and
expanded, to improve the DHSAs' ability to supervise the district-based
handymen. To plan and oversee the ertire effort in this area, a medical
equipment maintenance engineer will be recruited externally for three
years, and his local counterpart will be sent for additional training as
required. Terms of reference are given in Annex 6, Part 1.
3.52        Financia. Management  MOH is now committed to decentralizing
budgeting, expenditure decisions, and revenue collection, and to the
development of new budget/expenditure formats that facilitate local
decision-making, make allocation decisions more transparent, and enable
managers better to assess technical efficiency. The Government also
wishes to mobilize additional financial resources for the health sector
by increasing cost recovery, expanding health insurance, and
experimenting with other mechanisms for risk-sharing, local
participation, etc. To do so, MOH will formulate new policies and
eevelop the skills and systems required, utilizing a combination of
local and outside expertise, in-service training, and automation of
financial systems.
3.53        Initially, MOH will concentrate on three health financing
initiativest (a) increasing cost recovery by revising fees and improving
billing and collections; (b) enhancing accounting systems in central
hospitals; and (c) decentralizing budgeting and expenditures to district
level. For each of these initiatives and others that may arise in the
later years of implementation (e.g., drug expenditure monitoring,



- 46 -
expansion of health insurance, etc.), the project will fund short-term
local and foreign technical assistance (a total of 12 person-months),
in-service training, and acquisition of computers and other equipment as
required. To assist in managing the overall process of health finance
reform, a financial management advisor will be engaged (36 person-
months) and will report directly to the Deputy Secretary for Finance and
Administration. Terms of referince for the advisor are given in Annex
6, Part 2. To build local capacity in this area, training in health
economics will be provided through a link arrangement with the London
School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. This will include the
establishment in Zimbabwe of a short course in health economics for
senior staff, the training of local trainers, and the award of about
seven scholarskips for overseas study in health economics and/or related
fields.
3.54        MOH has announced that, as part of the structural adjustment
effort, revenue collections from user charges will be increased from 3Z
of recurrent spending in 1990 to at least 10? by 1995. This means a
rise in absolute terms from Z$14 million to Z$60 million over the next
four years. MOH is setting interim targets which will be used to
monitor progress annually. The Ministry is adopting two main strategies
for boosting cost recovery. First, the existing system of user charges
is being clarified through the production and dissemination of new user-
friendly manuals and schedules for use by hospital and RHC personnel, as
well as a broad-based media campaign to inform the public. At the same
time, efforts to enforce the user fee schedule by billing and collecting
charges from patients in a prompt and accurate manner are being
intensified, especially at the four large central hospitals. The second
strategy is to increase the level of MOH fees, which have not been
raised since 1985. Fee increases will be based on the actual rate of
inflation of health care costs, comparable fees being charged by private
hospitals in Zimbabwe, and actual cost-of-service calculations.
3.55        MOH intends to boost revenue collections without increasing
the burden of payment on low-income households. Zimbabwe is perhaps
best-placed among all the African countries to do so, for several
reasons. There is a substantial group of affluent Zimbabweans who
receive medical care from MOH facilities and are covered by health
insurance schemes that will reimburse the Ministry, as long as billing
and collection are carried out effectively; this group will account for
most of the increase in user fees paid. At the same time, Zimbabwe
already has a system for exempting low-income households earning lese
than Z$150 per month, and this system is currently being enhanced by
having the Department of Social Welfare play an expanded role in
identifying and certifying low-income families as exempted from paying
fees.
3.56        District Health Information Management  While information
systems at district level have been greatly improved in recent years
through a number of separate initiatives (e.g., National Health
Information System, personnel MIS, essential drugs program, etc.),
information management is still seriously deficient in two respects -
the lack of integration of data for decision-making, and the slow speed
of information retrieval and processing using manual systems. To



- 47 -
overcome these weaknesses, FHP2 resources will be used to pilot and then
extend nationally an integrated and computerized district health
information system. MUH staff and short-term consultants (total of 12
person-months) will design the new system, train district personnel, and
then progressively test and upgrade the system. Funds will be provided
for 24 computers (one per target district and one per province) to run
the system, and for the printing of manuals and other training
materials. Through link arrangements with UK health institutions,
practical experience in MIS development (integration of various data
sub-systems, selection of progress indicators, design of user manuals,
etc) will be applied to Zimbabwe's own health information needs.
3.57        Top Management and General Management Training  Since the
organizational and management changes proposed by MOH will only be fully
effective if they are well understood and actively promoted by senior
officials of the Ministry, the project will work intensively with the
MOH top management team in this area. An organizational development
consultant (total of 4 person-months) will meet periodically with the
team to conduct in-service training and identify other training needs,
including short attachments to other relevant health institutions
outside Zimbabwe. Through this process, the top management team will
elaborate a strategy and plan for enhancing the MOH work culture and
improving Ministry-wide procedures and practices, and will subsequently
develop performance indicators and monitor the results. To complement
the SIDA-funded mid-level management training, FHP2 will support an
assessment of management skills needs and an evaluation of the District
Heelth Services Administrators course set up under FHPi. The DHSA
course and other management training activities will then be modified
accordingly.
3.58        To further enhance the planning, implementation, and
-valuation of public health activities in Zimbabwe and in Southern
PI-ica generally, project funds will be utilized to establish a masters
degree program in public health at the University of Zimbabwe,
Department of Community Medicine. ODA support will cover a link
arrangement with a suitable UK institutions, technical assistance from a
senior lecturer/associate professor, training equipment and materials,
and a small fund for operations research on vital public health topics.
3.59        Project Management Unit  To coordinate and monitor the
project, including the maintenance of consolidated project accounts,
disbursement records, annual work plans and progress reports, the
Project Management Unit (PMU) established for the first Family Health
Project will continue under FHP2. Weaknesses in coordination of the
first project (e.g., inadequate planning and accounting, difficulties in
medical equipment procurement and hospital commissioning, delays in
claiming donor reimbursements) will be overcome by expanding the PMU
staff, providing on-the-job training and short-term technical assistance
early in the project period, and establishing effective management
systems at the outset of the new project (para. 5.04).
3.60        The existing PMU staff (project manager, deputy manager,
commissioning officer, accountant, and secretary, plus two local
physical planning consultants) will be maintained under FHP2. In



- 48 -
addition, project funds will be utilized to hire on contract several
local staff who cannot be recruited through regular public service
procedures: a financial officer, procurement officer, and an executive
secretary/clerk. MOH has agreed to hire a long-term (36 person-months)
physical planner/architect externally to assist with the hospital and
RHC construction program (see Annex 4, Part 3 for terms of reference).
Short-term technical assistance in project management (4 person-months)
and equipment procurement (6 person-months) will also be provided in the
first and second years of the project. Terms of reference for these
consultants are given in Annex 6, Parts 3 and 4. To facilitate the
PMU's work, project funds will be utilized to purchase a 5-ton track for
hospital commissioning, a four-wheel drive vehicle and a sedan car for
field supervision, microcomputers and associated software, and other
office equipment. Two drivers will be assigned to the PMU. A project
launch workshop for 80-100 participants will be held just prior to
project effectiveness, to ensure that implementing officers are well
briefed and have developed work plans and reporting systems for the
first year of the project.



- 49 -
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Costs
4.1         The total cost of the project is Z$363.0 million or US$116.9
million equivalent. Base costs are estimated at US$99.0 million equivalent
(852) and contingencies at US$17.9 million equivalent (152). Foreign exchange
costs are estimated at US$56.8 million or 49? of total project costs. Taxes
and duties are negligible, being less than 1S of total project costs. All
costs are based on November 1990 prices. Project costs by component are
summarized in Table 4.1.
4.2         Project costs by expenditure category are shown in Annex 1, Table
1. Capital costs for civil works account for 57? of base costs; furniture,
equipment, vehicles and supplies and materials for 22Z; training for 7?;
technical assistance for 5?; research, surveys, monitoring and evaluation for
12; and incremental recurrent costs (salaries and allowances, utilities and
supplies, and operation and maintenance of buildings, equipment and vehicles)
for 7}.
4.3         Civil works costs have been estimated on the basis of the value of
current contracts for comparable buildings. For most district hospital
buildings, construction costs are based on the rate of US$560 per sq. m.,
rising to US$760 per sq. m. for special facilities such as X-Ray and operating
theater. Staff housing is estimated at 25? of the cost of hospital buildings;
external works/location factor has been costed at 20? of building
expenditures; hospital equipment and furniture at 14? and 6? respectively of
civil works costs, based on the experience of FHPI; and architectural fees at
10? of building costs. The a/erage cost of an RHC upgrading is US$90,000,
with new health centers estimateed to cost about US$210,000. The cost of
furniture, supplies, and other (non-hospital) equipment is based on contracts
for similar items recently awarded by MOH, quotations from suppliers, and
international catalogs (including the UNICEF UNIPAC catalog). Equipment lists
will be finalized after a thorough review of the hospital and clinic equipment
purchased under the FHP1. The project includes 24 ambulances and 70 outreach
and supervisory vehicles, at a unit cost of US$27,600 (CIF), 10 mini-buses for
transporting student nurses and nutrition trainees at a unit cost of
US$32,400, and 90 motorcycles for MOH and 190 for the CBD system at an average
unit cost of US$1,020; 8.5 years of overseas degree study at an average annual
cost of US$25,000 and 25 short courses overseas at an average cost of US$8,000
per course (including airfare) and 12 study tours. Technical assistance costs
include airfares, fees and allowances. There are 16 years of long-term
technical assistance which is expected to be recruited abroad, 15 years likely
to be recruited locally or in the region, and 11 staffyears for clerk-of-works
with foreman qualifications; and 72 months of short-term technical assistance
likely to be recruited in the region (including Zimbabwe itself) and 44 months
for short-term consultants to be recruited abroad. Incremental salaries are
based on current Government scales, and local training costs and operational
and maintenance expenses are based on current actual MOH costs.



- 50 -
Table 4.1: S1IMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
Zimbab,w  8 '000         us I '000
A. FAMILY PLANNING
1. Training                                                         8,784              8,514
2. Outreach                                                         6,948              2,779
S. Clinic Basd Services                                             6,108              2,048
4. Youth Services                                                   7,726              8,090
S. Strengthening Program Management                                 1,441                677
6. Informtion, Education and Comunication                           9 B375                 760
9,382W
B. MATERNAL AND CHILD HEALTH SERVICES
1. Maternity Equipment                                              1,902                781
2. In-service Training                                              1,088                427
3. Telecommunications and Transport                                 9,627              3,011
4. School Hea1th Progrm                                               846                188
S. Reseorch, Monitoring end Evaluation                                749                800
6. Health Education                                                 4,488              1,798
7. Midwifery Training                                               7 11               2 846
C. NUTRITION
1. Co munity-basod Nutrition                                        6,900              2,860
2. Br.astfeeding Promotion                                            788                807
3. Iodine Deficiency Control                                          448                177
4. Training and Support for Nutrition Unit                            672                269
S. Institutional Do mestic Supervisors                                630                212
6. Nutrition Surveillance                                             227                 91
8,540              8,416
0. RURAL HEALTH INFRASTRUCTURE
1. District Hospitals and Training Centers                         93,384             87,854
2. Rural Health Centers                                            18,188              7,287
8. Staff Housing                                                   28,846              9,888
4. Medical Equipment                                               17 681              7 072
1S2,579             B1,081
E. HEALTH MANPOWER ANM MANAGEMENT STRENGTHENING
1  In-service Training                                              2,060                824
2. Improving Basic Training                                           188                 74
8. Support Manpower Planning and Management                           870                848
4. Decentralize Personnel Administration                              272                109
5. Improve Personnel Infomemtion System                                42                 17
8,430              1,872
Manamnt Stre nsthoninp
X. Finaniacl Managmaent and General Training                       10,487              4,176
2. Materials and Equipmnt Managemnt                                 8,678              1,469
8. ProJect Management Unit                                          4 192              1 677
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                                                  247,425             98,970
Physical Contingencies                                         25,062             10,026
Price Contingencies                                            90,480              7,877
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                                   EIS                 llB  !
Notes  1991 Exchange rate: USl  * Z82.6
Nominal exchange rate Is assumed to change
over the project life to maintain a constant
real exchange rate.



- 51 -
4.4         The total project costs include an allowance of US $17.9 million
equivalent for contingencies. Physical contingencies are 152 for civil works
and 52 for equipment, furniture, supplies and materials, and comprise US$9.7
million equivalent or 102 of base costs. The exchange rate used for 1991 is
ZS2.5 - US$1. Physical contingencies have been estimated using Bank
projections of international and domestic inflation, and assume the annual
rates of increase set out below. The nominal exchange rate is assumed to
adjust during the life of the project so as to maintain a constant real
exchange rate, given these projected inflation differentials.
1991        1992         1993         1994        1995
Foreign             3.4          3.4         3.4          3.4          3.4
Local              16.0         14.0        12.0         10.0         10.0
4.5         The foreign exchange component of US$56.8 was calculated on the
following basis: (a) civil works - 402; (b) furniture - 501; (c) equipment -
100; (d) vehicles - 901; (e) supplies and materials - 50X; (f) technical
assistance - 80X; (g) training and workshops - 302; (h) overseas training and
study tours - 100Z; (i) research - 501. For incremental recurrent costs, the
foreign exchange components were estimated at 301 for local wage costs; 601
for vehicle operating and maintenance costs; and 20% for building maintenance.
4.6         Recurrent Costs  Serious efforts have been made to minimize the
incremental recurrent costs associated with the project, and to ensure that
they will be affordable within the tightly constrained budget projected for
the MOH during (and beyond) the project life. The designs and size of
hospitals and clinics have been very carefully reviewed and modified so as to
minimize investment and recurrent costs, without compromising the quality of
health care; the number of new staff posts within MOH and ZNFPC has been
limited to a handful of high-level managers and technicians and critical
outreach workers in three areas which are seriously understaffed at present
(family planning, nutrition, and health education); and transport and
equipment have been restricted to those items required to support programs in
the field.
4.7         Furthermore, the project includes several activities designed to
offset higher incremental spending, by containing costs through improved
efficiency, and by increasing cost recovery and resource flows into the
sector. Part of the expected increase in the MOH budget is predicated on the
health sector recovering a larger share of costs through fee increases and
strengthened billing and collections. Cost recovery is expected to rise from
less than 31 of MOH expenditure in 1990 to 10 in 1995: in that year, Z$55-60
million is projected to be collected by the Ministry.
4.8         Analysis of the recurrent costs associated with FHP2 suggests that
these can be accommodated within the expected increase in the MOH recurrent
budget over the next five years. Incremental costs connected with the
upgrading of 16 district hospitals, which will constitute the bulk of
incremental expenditure resulting from FHP2, will amount to Z$14-15 million by
1995/96. Including other recurrent costs associated with the project (e.g.,
at upgraded rural health centers, vehicle operating costs, salaries for a
small number of other additional MOH and ZNFPC staff at headquarters and
provincial levels), total recurrent costs due to FHP2 will amount to about
Z$20 million annually by the end of the project period. The main scenario
currently being used by MFEPD and World Bank staff assisting in the



- 52 -
preparation of the Structural Adjustment Program shows a real increase in MOH
spending of Z$134 million by 1995/96. Under this scenario, the expected Z$20-
25 million in extra MO  spending as a result of PHP2 would be equal to just
15-192 of the incremental MOH budget.  Under a more pessimistic scenario of
3.02 real growth in the MOH budget, additional spending due to FHP2 would
still absorb less than a third of MOH incremental resources.
4.9         Whether the projected MO  recurrent budget will be adequate to
meet the overall needs of the health sector, including YHP2, will depend on a
number of other factors outside of PHP2 itself. These include:
(a)   The degree of 'underfunding' of existing servicess  If all existing MOH
vacancies were filled, for example, the salary bill would be Z$10.9
million higher.  The current MOH budget for drugs (Z$46.4 million) also
appears to be inadequate; an additional Z$10 million is needed to cover
this shortfall. Spending trends for other expenditure categories for
the first part of 1990-91 also point to some degree of underfunding; an
additional Z$5-l0 million is required to meet these costs. It is widely
agreed that the current MOH transport fleet is inadequate; if the
recommended program for rebuilding the fleet (400 extra vehicles) were
implemented, an additional Z$7 million in arnual operating costs would
be needed.
(b)   Secular growth in drug consumption as a result of improved health care,
increased personal incomes, and the spread of HIV-related illnesses: It
is extremely difficult to estimate this secular trend accurately,
especially since current efforts by the ZEDAP to improve drug storage,
prescribing practices and consumption and to lower unit costs through
better procurement and foreign exchange allocation should result in
important savings for drugs. Under a possible scenario in which secular
changes h-i drug consumption amount to 52 a year, an additional Z$19
million would be required by 1995 to meet total MOH drug requirements.
(c)   Other planned expansion of MOH servicesz The Government has at times in
recent years expressed its interest in building a large new provincial
hospital in Chinhoyi, and in constructing Multidisciplinary Training
Centers in several provincial capitals. Several other hospital
construction projects have also been proposed by MOH and will probably
be included in the PSIP. However, with the exception of a new maternity
wing at Mpilo Hospital (which has secured Japanese financing), these
other capital projects do not have foreign funding at present. Since in
the past the Government's contribution to the MOH capital budget
(outside of FHPl) has been very small, it is unlikely that these other
hospital programs will go forward during the coming five years, unless
donor assistance is forthcoming.
4.10        If all the incremental recurrent costs mentioned above are
combined (ZS20 million for FHP2, Z$10 million for drug underfunding and Z$19
million for secular increases in drug consumption, Z$l1 million for filling
vacant posts, Z$10 million for "other expenditures', and Z$7 million for
vehicle operation), the expected increase in recurrent expenditure amounts to
Z$77 million.  While this would be well within the MOH incremental budget if
the budget grows at Government's 5.32 average redl growth rate, it would
absorb nearly all of the budget if it grew at its recent historical average of
32 a year.  Under these circumstances, the MO1  is rightly expressing caution
about embarking on any other major capital projects during the coming five



- 53 -
year period. It is doubtful that a large hospital construction program such
as the one being proposed for Chinhoyi, or a major expansion of health
training at new multi-disciplinary schools, could be sustained during the
five-year plan period.
B. FinancinR
4.11        The total project cost of US$116.9 million equivalent, minus taxes
and duties, will be financed by the Government, the World Bank, and a number
of multilateral and bilateral sources (the financing plan is shown in Table 4-
2 below). The IBRD loan of US$25.0 million will cover 21.42 of total project
cost and the equivalent of 44Z of the foreign exchange cost, and will be
utilized primarily for district hospital upgrading and purchase of medical
equipment. The Government contribution of Z$171.5 million (US$55.2 million)
or 47.2Z of the total, will finance part of the cost of hospital and
ruralhealth center upgrading, local expenditures on furniture, supplies and
materials, services, training, research and studies, some imported equipment
and costs of training abroad and the incremental costs of salaries and
allowances and of operations and maintenance of vehicles, equipment, and
buildings.
4.12        Co-financing from other external sources will include;
(a) US$3.7 million equivalent from the European Community, for upgrading rural
health delivery in Kariba district; (b) US$8.3 million equivalent from DANIDA
for family planning training, IEC activities, FP management strengthening, and
for health manpower development; (c) US$14.2 million equivalent from the
Norwegian Government, for midwifery, MCH equipment and IEC, telecommunications
equipment, district ambulances and outreach vehicles, iodine deficiency
monitoring and testing and nutrition staff development, rural health center
construction, equipment for the district hospitals and rural health centers,
family planning clinical service and Youth Advisory Service expansion,
monitoring and evaluation and the PMU; (d) US$5.8 million from the Netherlands
for nutrition and expanding FP outreach services; and (e) US$4.7 million from
the British Overseas Development Agency for health management strengthening.
Table 4-2
Financing Plan
Local       Foreign        Total
---------(US$ million)---------
Government               25.0           6.1          52.7
ZNFPC                     1.4           1.1           2.5
IBRD                      0.0          25.0         25.0
Co-financing
EEC                     2.1           1.6           3.7
DANIDA                  4.5           3.8           8.3
NORAD                   1.6          12.6         14.2
Netherlands             2.5           3.3           5.8
ODA                     1.4           3.3           4.7
Total                    60.1          56.0         116.9



- 54 -
C. Procureinnt
4.13        Project-related procurement arrangements are summarized in Table
4-3. Items financed by the World Bank will be procured according to IBRD
guidelines as elaborated in paras. 4.14-4.17 below. Where similar items are
to be procured at different times during the project life or are financed from
different sources, the Project Management Unit will ensure reasonable
standardization.
Table 4-3
Procurement Arrangements a/
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
Total
Project Element                     ICB         LCB          Other b/       Cost
1. Civil Works                     60.2         5.0           4.0           69.2
(21.2)       (1.0)         (0.0)         (22.2)
2. Vehicles, Furniture,
Equipment, and Supplies        17.3          4.5           2.4           24.2
(1.8)       (0.5)         (0.5) Cl       (2.8)
3. Consultant Services                                        5.8            5.8
(0.0)         (0.0)
4. Training, workshops,                         -            10.0           10.0
studies, meetings, and                                    (0.0)          (0.0)
local services
,. Operating Costs                  -           -             7.7            7.7
(0.0)         (0.0)
TOTAL                       77.5          9.5          29.9         116.9
(23.0)       (1.5)         (0.5)         (25.0)
Note: a/ Figures in parentheses indicate the amounts to be financed by IBRD.
b/ Includes other donor agencies' procurement practices for items to be
co-financed on parallel basis, plus standard Government procedures.
cl World Bank prudent shopping.
4.14        The major civil works contracts for construction/upgrading of 14-
15 district hospitals, to be financed by the World Bank and the Government,
will be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding (aggregate
cost US$60.2 million, Bank financing of US$21.2 million). Upgrading of one or
two district hospitals, to be financed by the EC, would be awarded on the
basis of international competition according to EC procedures. Civil works
contracts for construction/upgrading of RHCs, with an average value of US$1.6
million per province, will form part of the hospital contracts awarded on the
basis of ICB. While the major contractors may in some cases sub-contract to



- 55 -
smaller firms for the RHCa, overall responsibility will remain with the main
contractor. This will limit the difficulties experienced under the first
project in administering a large number of small contracts and in evaluating
the capacity of medium-sized local contractors to carry out the work. Other
project civil works (e.g., minor improvements to nurse training and equipment
technicians schools, construction of youth counselling centers, installation
of water supply in rural health facilities, aggregate cost US$5 million, Bank
financing US$1 million) entail small geographically dispersed works that would
not attract international firms. These works, to be financed mainly by the
Netherlands and Norway through trust fund arrangements with the Bank, will be
carried out using local competitive bidding procedures which are satisfactory
to the Bank.
4.15        Equipment, supplies, and vehicles financed by the World Bank,
Norway, and Netherlands will be grouped as far as possible into contracts
valued at US$100,000 or more and awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding (ICB) procedures according to IBRD guidelines. Total ICB
procurement of goods will aggregate to about US$17.3 million, with other
donors providing the bulk of the financing and Bank providing about US$1.8
million. For goods tenders, local manufacturers will be eligible for a margin
of preference of 152 as compared to the c.i.f. price of competing imports, or
the prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower. Equipment and supplies items
and vehicles which cannot be grouped into bid packages of US$100,000 or more
and are to be financed by the World Bank, Netherlands, and Norway will be
procured through local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures. Contracts for
furniture and for IEC mass media production will also be awarded through LCB;
mainly because of the large amount of furniture and media production in the
project, contracts awarded by LCB are expected to have an aggregate value of
about US$4.5 million, with Bank financing of about US$0.5 million. Local
procurement procedures have been reviewed by the World Bank and found to be
acceptable. Small off-the-shelf items (e.g., print materials, office
supplies, costing less than US$25,000 per contract that cannot be bulked into
LCB or ICB packages or which are required urgently may be procured though
"prudent shopping" by comparing prices obtained from three independent
suppliers. Items procured in this manner will amount to about US$2.4 million,
with about USO.5 million of this financed by the Bank. Equipment and supplies
to be financed by other donors who are providing funds on a parallel basis
(DANIDA, EC, and ODA) will be procured in accordance with their own
procedures.
4.16        Consultants' services to be financed by NORAD and Netherlands will
be procured in accordance with "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as an Executing Agency". Consultants to be
made available directly by ODA and DANIDA would be recriuited according to the
respective donor procedures.
4.17        Contract Review  Bidding packages for ICB civil works (i.e.,
district hospital construction) and for ICB vehicles, equipment, and materials
(valued at more than US$100,000 equivalent) will be subject to World Bank
prior review of procurement documentation, including tender documents,
evaluation reports, and draft contracts. Smaller packages will be subject to
random post-award review by the World Bank. The PMU will therefore be
required to keep full procurement documentation on file for easy access. For
technical assistance to be financed by Norway and Netherlands, invitations for
proposals, firms' submissions, evaluation reports, and draft contracts will be
reviewed by the World Bank prior to award. Similarly, for individual



- 56 -
consultancies, the Bank will review terms of reference, curriculum vitae, and
draft letters of appointment before such appointments are made.
D. Disbursements
4.18        Disbursements from the World Bank loan will cover the percentage
of total expenditures as indicated in Table 4-4.
4.19        The World Bank loan will be disbursed over a period of five years,
from 1992-1996, with disbursements completed by December 31, 1997. The
proposed allocation of the loan and an estimated semi-annual schedule are
shown in Annex 1, Table 6. All applications to withdraw proceeds from the
World Bank loan will be fully documented, except for equipment and vehicle
contracts valued at less than US$25,000 equivalent, for which disbursements
will be made against certified statements of expenditure (S0E). Suppor .ing
documentation will be retained by project executing agencies and will be
available for review as requested by the World Bank supervision missions and
project auditors.
Table 4-4
Allocation and Disbursement of the World Bank Loan
(USS million)
Disbursement Category           World Bank          Z of Expenditure to be
Allocation         Financed
(USS million)
1. Civil Works                 19.0                 402 of all expenditures
2. Equipment                    2.4                 1002 of foreign expenditures,
10O2 of local expenditures
(ex-factory), and 802 of
local expenditures for items
procured locally
3. Unallocated                  3.6
TOTAL                          25.0
I. Accounts and Audit
4.20        Special Account.  In order to ensure that funds for the project
will be available as needed, a Special Account operated by the Project
Management Unit will be established by Government through the Reserve Bank of
Zimbabwe with a commercial bank. This account will receive deposits from the
project loan for financing eligible project expenditures (for items described
in the above section D). An initial amount of US$250,000 will be deposited by
the World Bank after receipt and approval of a withdrawal application. This
amount is estimated to cover about the maximum four-month average of



- 57 -
expenditure. to be financed from the account. Replenishment applications for
the Special Account will be submitted monthly or as required and will be
accompanied by the full documentation except for items eligible for
disbursement on the basis of certified statements of expenditure (SOE).
Similar special accounts may also be established to handle donor funds from
the Netherlands and Norway administered by the World Bank under trust fund
arrangements.
4.21        Audit  The Government's performance in auditing project accounts
under FHPl has generally been acceptable. Delays in carrying out audits that
were experienced in the early years of the project have now been overcome, in
large part by engaging additional PHU staff to prepare project accounts.  At
present, FHPl audits are up-to-date. The quality of the audits has also been
satisfactory. For FHP2, a project financial officer will be added to the PHU,
to established and monitor separate detailed accounts for all project
expenditures incurred by MOH and other implementing Government agencies.
Assurances were given by Government that all project accounts will be audited
by the Auditor General and that all audited accounts, together with the
auditors' report, will be subm'tted to the World Bank not later than nine
months after the end of each Gcvernment fiscal year. In auditing FHP2
accounts, the auditors will provide a separate opinion on SOEs and on the
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation. Project
special accounts will also be audited. ZNFPC will continue to submit its
accounts, ircluding those items expressly identified as being financed from
FHP2, to independent private auditors for annual audit, and will forward their
report to the World Bank through MOH, according to the timetable specified
above.



- 58 -
V. PROJECT IILLIMNTATION
A. Organization and Management
5.1         General  The lead agency for project implementation will be
MOH. Within MOH, direct responsibility for execution of specific
components and subcomponents will be assumed by the relevant MOH
headquarters departments and units within ZNFPC. The Provincial Health
Teams and the District Health Teams for the 16 target districts will
play a key role in ensuring the coordination and integration of project
activities on the ground, consistent with annual work plans and budgets
prepared by both the provinces/districts and national program offices.
5.2         In addition to MOH and ZNFPC, a number of other Government
and NGO agencies will assist in project implementation, including the
Ministry of Public Construction and National Housing (rural health
facilities construction and upgrading); the Ministry of Water and Energy
(water supplies to hospitals and RHCs); the Ministry of Cooperative and
Community Development (village community workers)s the Ministry of
Education (school health); the Ministry of Agriculture (Community Food
and Nutrition Program); and institutions belonging to the Zimbabwe
Association of Church Hospitals (ZACH). Their involvement in the
project will be coordinated by the Project Management Unit and the
Project Advisory Committee (para. 5.5 and 5.8).
5.3         The project has been designed by the Government to be
implemented through the regular organizational structure of KOH and
other agencies, with a minimum of project-specific organizational
development. The same MOH departments that have already taken the lead
in preparing the project will be expected to carry out the proposed
project activities. Primary and secondary responsibility for execution
of project activities is shown in Table 5-1.
5.4         While FHP2 is a major investment project, covering a ;urge
part of Zimbabwe's planned capital expenditure for health, population,
and nutrition over the next five years, proposed organizational
arrangements have been carefully assessed and found to be
institutionally feasible. The Government's demonstrated capacity to
plan and design in detail the proposed project shows that MOR and other
implementing agencies will bring a high level of commitment and
competence to project implementation. Day-to-day implementation
responsibility has been delegated to the concerned MOH departments and
provincial/district offices that were centrally involved in project
preparation. Many of these units have already proven their ability to
execute similar project activities under FHPI. Where weaknesses in
implementation capacity have been identified, these are being addressed
through a combination of training and short-term technical assistance.
to ensure that performance in specific components does not fall behind,
and that inter-departmental coordination is effective, KOH will be
establishing a Project Advisory Committee and holding regular meetings
with provincial and district officials (para. 5.7).



- 59 -
Table 5-1
Agency Responsibility for Prolect Execution
Component/Sub-component            Primary/Secondary Agency
Family Planning:
Training                        ZNFPC Training Unit/MOH Manpower
IEC                             ZNFPC IEC Unit/Health Education Unit
Youth Services                   ZNFPC Youth Advisory Unit
Outreach                        ZNFPC CBD Unic
Medical/Clinical                 ZNPPC Medical/Clinical Unit/NOH MCH Dept.
Maternal and Child Health:
Midwifery                       Nursing Services Dept/MCB Dept.
Maternity Equipment             NCH Dept.
Child Nutrition                 Nutrition Unit/MCH Dept.
Health Education                Health Education Unit/MCR Dept.
Rural Health Services:
Hospital/RHC Upgrading          Ministry of Public Construction/MOR
Water Supplies                  Ministry of Water and Energy/MOR
Radio Conmmunications           MOH/PTC
Health Manpower Departmentt        MOR Dept. of Health Manpower
Health Management Streni:thening:
Financial Management            MOR Finance Dept/Planning and Mgt. Dept.
Equipment Management            MOR Medical Equipment Dept/Planning and
Mgt. Dept.
District Info Systems           MOR Planning and Mgt Dept/Epidemiology Dept.
Management Training             NOR Planning and Management Dept.
Health Sector Planning          MOR Planning and Management Dept.
Project Management              MOR FHP2 Project Management Unit
5.5            Project Management  Overall responsibility for project
coordination will rest with the Project Management Unit (PMU), composed of
a project manager, deputy manager, financial officer, accountant, physical
planner, commissioning officer, procurement officer, secretaries and
drivers. The PMU will also be assisted by a consultant advisor for
physical planning/architecture (para. 3.59). Most of these positions
already exist under FHP1 and are currently filled; the incumbents are
expected to continue under FHP2, and only three new posts (financial
officer, procurement officer, physical planning advisor) will need to be
filled. The appointment of persons acceptable to the World Bank for the
posts of financial officer and procurement officer and recruitment of the
architect/physical planning advisor will be a condition of effectiveness.



- 60 -
5.6            The project manager will report directly to the Permanent
Secretary for Health. The main tasks of the PMU will be to: (a) organize
and m"pervise the drafting of annual work plans and progress reports for
various components; (b) consolidate these work plans and reports for review
by the MOH and donors; (c) organize quarterly meetings of the Project
Advisory Committee (para. 5.05); (d) monitor overall implementation and
help eliminate bottlenecks as they arise; (e) review spending decisions for
the maternal and child health, rural health delivery, and manpower
components; and (f) maintain overall project accounts and prepare
reimbursement applications.
5.7            The Ministry of Public Construction and National Housing
will be directly responsible for implementation of project buildings, on
behalf of the user ministry, MOH. The Ministry of Construction will engage
and oversee the work of private architectural firms in the design of
facilities, and will subsequently supervise the work of building
contractors. To supplement local supervisory capabilities, MPCNH will need
to recruit externally a limited number of clerks-of-works, as under the
first project. A total of 11 person-years will be required, somewhat less
than the amount provided in the first project. Likewise, the Ministry of
Water and Energy will carry out the provision of water supplies to health
facilities. The ZNFPC will be in charge of the implementation of the
family planning component of FHP2, with authority to operate and special
account and claim donor reimbursements (para. 4.20). All of the above-
mentioned agencies will submit period progress reports to the PMU.
5.8            The Project Advisory Committee which has functioned
satisfactorily under FHP1 will continue to operate under the new project,
meeting on a quarterly basis to review implementation performance and
discuss future work plans. As in FHPI, the committee will be composed of
managers of all the components/sub-components and representatives of the
provinces. The PAC's terms of reference are given in Arnex 6, Part 5.
B. Status of Project
5.9            Since the project has been prepared in considerable detail
by a wide range of headquarters and field units of MOB and ZNFPC, most
component activities have already been scheduled for the five-year project
period and are virtually ready for implementation. Work plans and budgets
for the first year of the project will be drawn up during the pre-
implementation period and wil be reviewed and finalized at the time of
project launch.
5.10           For project-supported training, timetables ave been
prepared, curricula have generally been revised (e.g., in-service family
planning, midwifery, middle level management, health administrators), and
adequate facilities and tutors are available. The curricula for health
economics trairzng and for medical equipment technicians training are to be
prepared, tested, and revised iL the first year of project implementation.
5.11           Take   of r'ference for long-term technical assistance have
already been drawn up and will form the basis for recruitment (Annezes 2-



- 61 -
6). Scopes of work for the key operational research studies have also been
drafted. Several long-term consultants, including the architect/physical
planning advisor and the financial management advisor, are to be recruited
in the first half of 1991 and should be in post prior to project
effectiveness; during the pre-impiementation period, they will be financed
from other sources including FHP1 and corsultant trust funds.
5.12           For project civil works, the standard designs for district
hospitals in FHP1 have been reviewed and modified designs have been
developed and discussed thoroughly with users (Annex 4, Part 4). The new
designs have been applied to the FHP2 districts in a highly flexible
manner. As a result of visits to all districts and proposed sites by MOM
and architectural consultants, preliminary sketch designs and estimates for
these facilities, as well as master plans for future development, are
already prepared.  Ministry of Public Construction will, through private
architects, develop designs and tender documents for the new stock-type
design by June 30, 1991. This will permit donor review during the pre-
implementation period. Although sites have been identified in all project
districts, they will only be finalized once more detailed surveys have been
carried out to confirm availability of water, suitability of sewerage
infiltration, ground conditions for foundations, etc. Once this is done,
local private architects will also be engaged to prepare final design
drawings, as in FHP1. MOH will recruit an architectlphysicial planning
advisor during the pre-implementation period, in order to assist the
Ministry in the design and construction phases of the project.
5.13           In order to spread the workload, implementation will be
phased starting with four hospitals in the first year, six in the second,
and six in the third. Packaging for any given year will be based on
expressed need and geographical factors. The districts hospitals have
already been tentatively classified according to need:
Group I: no existing hospital or current facility totally unacceptable:
Siakobvu (Kariba), Nkayi (Nkayi), Chimanda (Rushinga), Kotwa (Mudzi),
Mutawatawa (UMP), Hauna (Mutasa,, and Guruve (Guruve);
Group II: present facilities inadequate in relation to population served:
Chibi (Chibi), Matibi (Mwanezi), Silobela (Kwekwe), and Sadza (Chivhu);
Group III: hospitals fully functional but require some additional units:
Kadoma (Kadoma), Murambinda (Buhera), Plumtree (Bulalimamangwe), and
Inyathi (Bubi);
Group IVs replacement will only become necessary when existing hospital
site is flooded: Antelope (Kezi-Matobo).
Based on the above groupings and their physical location, appropriate
packaging of hospital construction contracts has already been suggested.
Tender documents for the first four hospital contracts will be finalized by
October 31, 1991. Tendering will follow, to ensure that construction
commences in early 1992 (see the timetable given in Annex 4, Part 2).



- 62 -
5.14           Based on the experience of PHPI, stringent cost control
procedures will be followed for health facilities upgrading/construction in
the proposed project:
-  detailed surveys of sites and existing buildings must be properly
carried out, including a full soil investigation;
-  all architectural consultants to the project must have professional
liability insurance;
-  tender documents must be sufficiently detailed to keep the need for
provibional sum to a minimum of not more than 10-152 of the total
estmatud cost; and
-  all variation orders with cost implications of more than an agreed sum,
e.g., Z$l0,OO0, should be approved by MOH before being issued.
5.15     Based on a thorough review of RHC upgrading in FHPI (based on
repeated field visits and a special architectural assessment in late 1990),
the standard designs for RHCs have been modified. New plans are based on a
standard size room unit (3.6 X 4.8 meters) with flexible and multiple
functions. A list of locations for 12 new and 54 upgraded RHCs has been
drawn up by MOH. This may require some revision before finalization, but
all target districts are aware that their final selection with be
constrained by a fixed provincial budget wLlocation for RHC improvements.
All project districts, through their provincial medical offices, will
submit by June 30, 1991 a list of proposed locations for REC
constructionjupgrading, following which the Ministry of Construction and
the private architects engaged under the project will carry out detailed
site surveys and prepare drawings, estimates, and tender documents. Based
on the uneven performance of small independent contractors in FHP1, REC
upgrading will be included in the district hospital contracts under FHP2,
thus making the major contractors formally responsible.
5.16           Equipment for district hospitals and RHCs will follow the
standard lists developed for FHP1, and revised in the light of the
evaluation of equipment purchase and utilization in the first project.
This evaluation has now been completed. Equipment lists for maternity
services have been reviewed and finalized. Equipment for voluntary
surgical contraception will follow the standard package developed under
FHP1. Equipment needs for management strengthening (computers, office
equipment) have already been quantified, and a procurement timetable has
been developed.
5.17           Vehicle lists and procurement schedules have already been
drawn up, and bulk purchases will be effected in line with these schedules.
Vehicle procurement, carried out by MOH with technical advice from CMED,
has proceeded smoothly in FHP1 and is not expected to creatt any
difficulties in FHP2. However, current arrangements for maintenance and
repair of MOH vehicles, including those purchased under FHP1, are not
satisfactory. The CMED, which is responsible for vehicle maintenance, has
experienced frequent delays in servicing MO1 vehicles, mainly because of
shortages of skilled manpower, workshop facllities, and spare parts.
Donor-financed spare parts for MOH projects have been mixed with other CHED



- 63 -
spares and have frequently been out of stock when required for MOH project
vehicles. Recognizing many of these problems, CMED has recently indicated
to MOH that it intends to improve its level of service by carrying out a
series of reforms, including (a) increasing staff and staff remunertions
(b) improving spare parts inventory management; and (c) making more
frequent use of private garages, especially for MOH ambulances. Assurances
were given by Government that CMED will by March 31, 1992 provide to MOH
and the World Bank a plan containing its proposed new arrangements for
maintenance and repair of MOH vehicles, covering the management and
reporting of spare parts inventories, service quality and turnaround times,
and sub-contracting with private garages.  Following consultation with MOH
and the Bank, CMED will implement the agreed plan by July 1, 1992.
5.18           Project implementation is expected to take five years,
starting in September 1991. The project will be completed by December 31,
1996 and will close on December 31, 1997. Most project activities will get
under way in the first year of the project, with the exception of (a)
district hospital and RHC construction, which will be phased over the
project life, and (b) full-scale implementation of the community-based
contraceptive depot-holder scheme, which will begin in the third year.
C. Monitoring. Reporting, and Evaluation
5.19           The project manager and his unit will have the overall
responsibility for project monitoring, with each implementing
department/agency expected to monitor directly and report to the PMU on
progress in specific project components and subcomponents. The PMU and the
implementing departments/agencies will prepare and finalize at the time of
the launch workshop draft formats for monitoring the project. These will
be forwarded to the World Bank for review. Implementation monitoring will
assess financial and physical progress of the various components, with the
most meaningful and practical indicators selected. The main national and
district targets set at the beginning of the project (para. 3.02) will be
closely monitored. Monitoring data will be sent to the PMU on a quarterly
basis for inclusion in the consolidated quarterly and annual progress
reports. Assurances were given by the Govermnent that semi-annual reiwrts
will be consolidated by the PMU within six weeks of the end of each
semester, reviewed by the ProJect Advisory Comm.ttee and forwarded to IDA
within eight weeks of the end of each semester.
5.20           In addition to the monitoring data collected by implementing
agencies as part of routine management, the project will also draw upon the
results of several other surveys and studies. These will include a follow-
up to the Demographic and Health Survey of 1988, to takz place in 1992 and
the annual reviews of the Expanded Program of Immunization and other
primary health care programs conducted by UNICEF. Furthermore, funds will
be provided under the project for a series of ad hoc diagnostic and
evaluation studies of specific project components, e.g., effectiveness of
midwifery training and maternal health activities, contraceptive user
satisfaction, public response to mass media campaigns, effectiveness of
child nutrition interventions. These operational research funds will for
the most part be attached to specific components, and the PHU will also
keep a small contingency fund for this purpose.



- 64 -
5.21           Starting with the pre-implementation period and the project
launch, implementing departmentslagencies will prepare annual work plans
and budgets, and the PMU will combine these in a single volume for review
by the Project Coordination Coumittee and the donors. As project
effectiveness is expected to take place in September 1991, at the mid-point
of the Zimbabwean financial year, it may be advisable to prepare a *mini
work plans for the first six months of the project and then to have
subsequent annual plans coincide with the July-June fiscal year, starting
in July 1992. Assurances were given at negotiations that MOB will submit
to the World Bank by May 15 of each year the annual work ilan for the
following fiscal year.
5.22           To ensure that a complete stock-taking of project
implementation performance and expected development Impact is carried out
during the project lifetime, the Government, Bank, and other co-financing
partners vill conduct a mid-term evaluation of the project some time in
1994. The results of such an in-depth review will help to make mid-course
improvements in implementation, as was the case under FHP1.
5.23           The Government will prepare a project completion report
within six months of the completion date, based upon a format to be agreed
with the World Bank.



- 65 -
VI. PROJECT BEWFITS, JUSTIFICATION. AND RISKS
A. Benefits and Justification
6.1         Proceeding with the project as proposed by the Government is
clearly justified, to the extent that FHPI will tackle many of the key
constraints to the health, nutrition, and population sectors in
Zimbabwe. These constraints include:
-     inadequate promotion and delivery of non-pill family planning
methods and, in some parts of the country and for some groups
(e.g., youth), lack of family planning services of any kind;
-     excessive maternal morbidity and mortality;
-     a significant amount of easily preventable child malnutrition,
especially those cases associated with child care and feeding
practices and micronutrient deficiencies;
-     lack of access to good quality primary and first-line referral
health care;
-     weak and overly-centralized systems for management of financial,
human, and material resources for the health sector; and
-     low levels of cost recovery and, more broadly, of internally-
generated resources for health.
The project will help largely to overcome these constraints and will
assist the Government in achieving its basic sectoral objectives as
enunciated in the updated "Eauity in Health' paper, i.e., to improve the
quality of, and access to, basic health and family planning services for
the majority of the country's population. To do so, the Government
envisions an important role for NGOs and the private sector, with the
MOH, local councils, and municipal government ensuring that no one is
denied these basic services.
6.2         To better appreciate the anticipated benefits of FHP2, it
may be useful to consider the likely health, nutrition, and population
status of Zimbabwe in the absence of such a project. Without FHP2, it
is probable that the use of family plannin8 services would expand rather
sluggishly, and certainly not to the target level of 55Z of married
women of reproductive age. There is evidence, in fact, that family
planning usage levels have become stationary in recent years, and would
probably remain fairly stagnant without the sort of method mix campaign
(training, IEC, outreach, etc.) to be carried out under the project.
Similarly, child malnutrition would decline only gradually in the
absence of the project, especially since stunting and micronutrient
deficiencies are linked to environmental and cultural factors that will
not change dramatically with economlc growth. A concerted effort to
modify child care and feeding practices and to fortify foods with



- 66 -
micronutrients, of the kind proposed under FHP2. Without the project,
the maternal mortality might well remin virtually stationary, with only
a minor decline linked to increased use of famLly plannlng and lower
fertillty. The impact on maternal mortalLty of midwifery traLnlng for
nurses, better equLppLng of RHCs, and provLiLon of emergency transport
and communications, under the project should be conslderable.
6.3         In the absence of FHP2, the general health status of the
populatlon in the 16 taxrget dlstricts would continue to improve, in
response to general lncxeases in household income and assocLated
improvements ln liet, %ousing, and water and sanitation. However, the
complementary and reLnforcing effects of having trained, well-equipped,
and properly housed and motivated staff to dellver family plannlng,
maternal and chlld health, and basic curative servLces would be lost
without the provlslon of essential rural health infrastructure in the 16
districts. These include several districts that lack even a sLngle
referral hospltal and would almost certainly be forced to continue
sendlng patients elsewhere if such facillties were not built under the
project. Finally, without FHP2, crltlcal health cadres (especially
maternity-trained nuzses, equipment technicians, family planning
workers) would remain seriously understaffed wlth negative effects on
the availability and quality of servlces. Even though some important
management skills would be imparted to health managers through training
programs supported by SIDA, several key management domains (financLal
and equipment/materials management in particular) would continue to be
neglected in the absence of FHP2, with attendant adverse impacts on
availability and efficiency of health servlces.
6.4         Given the very wide scope of the project, a substantial
number of Zlmbabweans will benefit directly from it. About 55Z of women
of reproductive age, or 870,000 persons, will receive better quality
family planning services and about 190,000 of these will be utilizing
non-pill methods of contraception by 1996, largely because of project-
supported actlvities. A large proportion of the 250,000 women
delivering babies in health institutions in 1996 will benefit from safer
care provided by maternity nurses trained and equipped under the
project. Roughly 200,000 children aged 0-5 will be reached by nutrition
activities under PHP2. As a result of improvements in rural health
infrastructure in the 16 target districts, virtually the entire
population of these selected areas, or about 2.2 million persons - many
of these belonging to low-lncome rural households - will have access to
good primary and preventive health services and to basic curative care
in RHCs and district hospitals.
6.5         Health, nutrition, and family planning workers trained under
the project will also benefit directly by acquiring skills and related
employment and income-earnlng opportunities. These lnclude the 8,000
health workers to be trained in family planning, the 2,500 nurses
scheduled to receive maternity training, 180 persons to be trained as
nutrLtion coordinators, Institutional Domestic Supervisors and
nutritionists, 36 equipment technicians to be taught at Parirenyatwa,
and many others who will attend short courses under FHP2.



- 67 -
6.6         A key benefit accruing to the Government of Zimbabwe vill be
the enormous expansion of local capacity to plan and manage health,
nutrition, and family planning services over the coming decades. Skills
and systems will be greatly enhanced in the areas oft health sector
planning; budgeting, accounting and revenue collection; personnel
management and manpower planning; equipment procurement and maintenance;
and hospital administration. Furthermore, as a result of changes in the
level and structure of user charges and in billing and collection
practices, MOH will increase cost recovery from about 32 of annual
recurrent expenditures in 1989 to at least 1iC by 1995. This implies an
increase from Z$14 million to about Z860 million a year. For Zimbabwe
as a whole, improved health status of the population will yield
important quality-of-life benefits from large numbers of people, and
will also improve directly the productivity of the adult labor force.
Better child health and natrition will enhance the capacity of
Zimbabwe's children of the 1990s to learn in school, and over the long
run this will lead to substantial further growth of labor productivity
for the country.
B. Risks
6.7         There are two main risks associated with the project.  The
first is that the local construction industry, which has struggled to
cope with the hospital and clinic upgrading program under the first
Family Health Project, will not have adequate capacity to carry out the
rural health infrastructure component under FHP2. In the first project,
construction delays occurred because of nationwide shortages of cement,
bricks, and locally-manufactured items for finishing buildings (e.g.,
windows, door handles, bathroom fixtures, etc.), and because of severe
transport problems that limited the movement of construction materials
to actual building sites. The civil works envisioned under FHP2 are
roughly twice as large as in the first project. To minimize this risk,
actions both within the project and in the larger construction industry
will be taken. The schedule for hospital and RHC upgrading will be
staggered across the five-year implementation period, to avoid
"bunching" of construction activity. Moreover, civil works contracts
will be broken down into several packages and awarded to a number of
construction firms, thus reducing the risk of a major setback if one
firm under-performs. More broadly, the Government is taking steps under
the economic adjustment/trade liberalization program to bolster the
construction industry, by encouraging local and foreign investment in
cement, brick, and other construction materials production and making
additional foreign exchange available for import of manufacturing
equipment. Government and donor efforts to remove the existing
constraints on availability of building supplies and on internal
transport (including World Bank-funded projects for the construction
industry and the national railways) are expected to intensify over the
next 3-5 years.
6.8         The second risk is that MOH and other implementing
Government agencies will not have adequate capacity to plan, manage, and
evaluate project activities under FHP2. Existing systems are weak in a
number of areas, as noted in Chapter 2, and competition with the private



- 68 -
sector for skilled manpower has resulted in the loss of significant
numbers of doctors, nurses, medical technicians, and managers from the
public sector in recent years. To mltigate this risk, the Government is
taking a number of actions, both within the proposed project and outside
of it. To retain more doctors in public service, MOH and the medical
school at the University of Zimbabwe introduced in 1987 a new curriculum
with a strong community medicine orientation, and in 1989 instituted a
new scheme under which graduating doctors serve for five years in
Government health facilities. The provision of good quality housing at
district hospitals under FHPB has already had a dramatic impact on
staffing levels in the rural areas, with large numbers of doctors and
nurses now eager to serve at these upgraded facilities. The large
cohort of secondary school students now graduating in Zimbabwe should
ensure thet training programs for doctors, nurses, midwives, and other
paramedical cadres - many of which are being substantially expanded
under FHP2 - provide adequate numbers of health workers for the country.
Under these circumstances, a moderate flow of health professionals from
the public to the private sectors is both manageable and, perhaps, even
desirable. Finally, one of the major objectives of FHP2 is precisely to
develop the planning and management systems which are lacking in the
health, population, and nutrition sectors, thereby building up local
capacity in these areas. The combination of training, selective
technical assistance, and provision of equipment should help to create
and sustain this capacity over the next five years.



- 69 -
VII.   ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.1         The following will be a condition for project effectiveness$
(a)   that the two new posts in the Project Management Unit and the
position of the architect/physical planning advisor be filled by
persons with qualifications and experience acceptable to the World
Bank (para. 5.5).
7.2         During negotiations, assurances on the following issues were
given by the Government:
(a)   that ZNFPC will recruit and deploy at least 80 additional
community-based distributors prior to June 30, 1993, and
thereafter, will base its decision on the future recruitment of
CBDs on the results of studies to be completed by the end of 1991
and 1992, respectively (para. 3.10); and MOH will recruit and
deploy 40 additional nutrition cooordinators prior to June 30,
1993 (para. 3.35);
(b)   that EPI/Nutrition/Health surveys will be undertaken in 1991 and
1994 and the results submitted to the Bank by March of each
following year (para. 3.26);
(c)   that, before proceeding to prepare tender documents, MOH will send
final designs for each district hospital to the World Bank for
review (para. 3.45);
(d)   that each province will submit a proposal justifying its choice of
rural health centers for construction or upgrading by December 31,
1991, and these proposals will be forwarded to the World Bank for
review before designs are finalized and tender documents prepared
(para. 3.46);
(e)   that audits of project accounts by the Auditor General or by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank will be made available
to the Bank within nine months of the close of each fiscal year
(para. 4.21);
(f)   that CMED will by March 31, 1992 provide to MOH and the World Bank
a plan containing its proposed new arrangements for maintenance
and repair of MOH vehicles, and, following consultation with MOH
and the Bank, CMED will implement the agreed plan by July 1, 1992
(para. 5.17);
(g)   that consolidated semi-annual reports of project monitoring data
will be compiled by the Project Management Unit within six weeks
of the end of each semester and forwarded to the World Bank,
following review by the Project Advisory Committee, within eight
weeks of the end of each semester (para. 5.19); and
(h)   that MOH will submit to the World Bank by May 15 of each year the
annual work plan for the following fiscal year (para. 5.21).



- 70 -
7.3         Subject to the above assurance. and conditions, the proposed
project will constitute a suitable basis for an IBRD loan of US$25
million on standard terms to the Government of Zimbabwe.



- 71 -                                                           ANNEX I
Table I
VANILT HEALTH PROJECT II
Project C~ompoents by Tear
Total$ mald  1ol              e                             Total$ Inc Idlng Coti Igigatde
92       93         94         90        90     Vogel         92        93       94        90       go      Toitl
.  ATEIA  AND CHILD HEALTH SERvicES             ad68    a;;.;2,  94.9.82lB.4    2.68.   24,0923.4 3 2038. 9  1. 18g. 3  1.0545,?    915.17  122. I1.9.
S.N'UT R IT ION                                 2,009.2   2 0356.0 2 2931.0  2, 244. 02, 211. 9  1,938. 8        948.2    690.0    sit.05    646.9   601.23  3.196. 8
C. NliNi FER?                                     l1l.S It  0.2980.? 1, 236 1    690.4    859.3   9, .?.I         64?.?  1,784.8    362.5    202.2   222.6   3 2,21. 9
0. RURALS HEALTH CENTERS                         2,101.    0,0664,4  11, 019. 94 4201.6             21,059.8   1,019. 8  32,241.2  2 ,421.9  1, 216,8            6,910i.8
8. DISTRICT HOSPITAL ERUIPHEN                              05.640.?  II. 101. 4  81,2311.6          26. 116.9            .91.21. 3   .154. 8  2. 421. 0          6. 089. I
1. RURAL HOSPITAL UPCRADING                      11, 161.9  09. 152.?  1 ?I01. 4320.266, I          116, 212.2   6.690. 2 20,046.3 22,039. 6  8,102.05          01.025.?
0. FANIL? PLANNING                                ?.U4. I  11,456.? 123,606.2 12,698.0  10.710.7  00, 425.32. 2,98. I2,882. 6  4,221.?7  2,120. I 2,921.9  It. 680.3
M. HEALTH NANPOIGER AND NANAUNINT AND MP1          ,260.4   8,184.2   1.60  I   ,1.    ,1.   2,86. 3.4 32,120.0  2,910.    - 2,6.               61.    16.        .2.
Vogal PROJECT Costs                               46,146, 0 101, 101. 3124,934.4 60,966. 818, 212.23 32629.1 16,380. 6 38.29?.? 38.164. 6 16,496. 2 4,90110.?1 116,6112. 0
llpril 21, 1991  19:20
FAMILY HEALTH PROJIECI 11
PROJECT COST SIINHAR?
IZ1N DOLLARS  0001                                      (US$1 '0001
*                                    U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Totls                            I Total
4                                                            1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ foreign  ease                   I Foreign  Bes.
L.ocal    foreign   legal    Exchaenga   costs    Local   foreign   Total    Exchiange   Costs
.S...  .  ...... ..... .... .  ........        1S.. . ...............  . *S.Ss**
a.NATEONAL AND CHILD HEALTH SERVICES             4, 019. 1  13,995.4  16, 014.05       11        71 1621. 650,98.2   1,229.8             1?  
B.  UTRITION                                     2,822.4   4,111.0   6,040. 9          00        3 1,022. 31,881. 0   3,416.2            00        2
C. MIDWIFERY                                       2, 812.8   2,2 02. 2  . ,116. 0      46        2 1 1,20.0 51,320. 9   2, 846. 4         46        2
0. RURAL HEALTH CENITERS                          12,958. 4   4. 208. 6  18. 180. 0     22        7 S 5,83.4  1, 832.6   7, 261.2          22        7
E. DISTRICT HOSPITAL EQUIPMENT                     280. 3.0  10,028.017 1801. 0         8s        71   01,g. 2S 6011. 2   1,012.4          8s        11
F. RURAL HOSPI TAL UPGRADING                     10,0M8.0  46,692.0 116,130. 0          40       47  28, 010.2 18, 616. 846,692.0          40       41
O. FAMILY PLANNING                               20,81..0  16, 483.2 339282.4            4?      lB   8,2059.8  1,392.23  10,1052.9        41       la
H. HEALTH NANPOHER AND NANIAO(EMET AND PI51        6.141. 8  14, 984. 121,1?3t.9         69       9 _2. 692. g 0993.6   8, 692. 8          62        9
Total BASELINE COSTS                               12'8'-,012,.0 12'1,4-12.1 2'41,'4'2'4'.6 49     100, 00,400.0 48,564.9  98,969.8          49      100
Phaysical Cant inganciss                         14,240.4  10,8a16. A20,082.2          42       10   S.,698.2  4,2326. 1  10,024.9        42       to
Price Contungascta,                             41,020.4  42,409.0  90,419.9           48       31   3.921.5  2,800.1   1,6811.23         49        8
Total PROjECT COSTS                                181,278.2 115,888.0 362.966.?           48     147  60,094.1 06,111.2 116, 872. 0         49      I18
...........          *.....   ....  .......  ...n....   ...* . ... t*.S.........s.. S.SSS
April 21. 1961 19:20
ZIRBSNWE
FARILY HEALTH PROJECT If
Project Coaponents by Tear
IIIII OOLLARS '0001
Baea Costs                               Total
92       92         94         90        96     ZIP1 DOLLARS (US$1 '0001
A. NATIRNAL AND CHILD HEALTH SERVICES             1,220.'4   2,98.8 2,34.   1,24.   1,4I.0              18,04.        .29. 8
B. NUTVRITION                                     2,281.2   1,092.0   2.034.?  1,2380.6  1,244.4         8,040.9   32,4r6.3
C. NIDHIFERY                                      1,088.2   2,162.8      801.4    424.9    P71.? I       1, 116.0    2,646.4
0. RURAL HEALTH CENTERS                          2, 100. 0   6. 7116.0   6. 904. 0  2. 268. 0           18. 1680. 0    1.261. 2
E. OISVRICT HiOSPIlTA  EQUIPMECNT                       -    . 4,32.0   8,222. 0,. 121. 0        -      11,80. 0    1,012. 4
F. RURAL HOSPITAL UPGRADING                      14,2301.0;  41,441.0  44,064.01g6923.0          -    g16,130. 0   46.692 0
0. FAMlLI PLANNING                               S.,OIL.6   8,942.0   9,422.2  1,911. 8  6. 120.8       39. 382. 4   15.152. 9
H. HEALTH RANPOWER AND NAAERENOT AND FMW          1,202.6   8,29.    0.400. II,3l9.          914.8      21.11 2.9    8. 692. 8
Total BASELINE Costs4,4. I  11,0S2'2'.6  80,2234.8  17. 448.1I 10, 274. 2                                241,424.6   98,989.8
Physiecs$ Contig Ingede                          2,308.4   8,6$40.0 9 8.806.2 33.804. 0    212. 2      20. 062.2   10,024.9
Price Canti  gt   8a                             3.092,0  20,142.8  20,1742.0 22,824.32  7,0560.9      90,419.9    1,871.23
total PTJECT COST$                                48,146. 0 10?. 101.  g124.934.4 82,966. 818, 212.2 3   262.966.,1  118,812.0
foreign Eachene                                 ? 06..I 4'9. 68'2.    8.96   2,0 S'j88     98'98 ..9    110, 6.8 G"5   8.11 
April 21, 1991 19:20



- 72-                                                            ANNEX I
Table 2-
FAMtLY HtAL4H PROJECt it
Siaw*y Account by PeoJecl COf.nl
1I11  DOLLARS  I000m
HEAITH
MATERNAL AND                                                OISTRICt        RURAL                  MANPONER AND
CHILD HiALtIH                              RURAt HEALTH  HOSPITAL   HOSPITAL             WitfAMt r   AAGEIENT
SERVICES      NUIRITION  MIOuIfERT         CENTERS        EQUIPMENT   UPGRADING  PLANNING         AD PNU          Total
* -.. ....... ...sSs...mf.  * .. -ss.,f...*gss *tSlS**3a  SSA*SSISSg  *SSSSS  *aISIf  .......... ..................sasa3 langs
I. INVESITENT COSTS
................
A. CONSTRUCT ION                                           *            -    3,093 0          t7. 464. 0            -  116, 730. 0   3, 138. 0            32. 5  140. 457.5
6. EQUIPIENT                                       5,727 8         266.0          48 0           320.0    12. 375.0              -   3. 467.8          2. 01. 2   25,005.8
C. VEHICLES                                        4, 281.0        829.6        729.0                                                 3. 015. 4        1. 174. 0    10.028.9
D. SUPPLIES MATERIALS AND FURNITURE                   971.0      3.446.5             -           384.0      5,306.0              -   7,694.2           1 255,4    19 057. I
E. SHORI AND MEDIUM  tERM CONSULTANTS                 200.0        215.0         126.1                              .                 1. 252.         4,041 0       5,834.6
F. LONG TERM ADVISORS                                      .       800.0         332.5                 *            *                                 6.462.0       7.294.5
6. RESEARCH . STUDIES AND MONITORING                  466.0        319. 1          7.8                              -                   407.4              14.2     1.214.5
H. LOCAl TRAINING                                   1, 790. 0    1, 097. 4     1,606 8                 *                              8.610 4          3.820 8    16. 925. 4
1. TRAINING ABROAD                                                  1 52 0       108                   *                  -             350.0            3.0          925 8
J. LOCAL SERVICES AND MEETINGS                        538.2        340.0         116.0                                           -   2,363.2             590 3      3.947 '
................ .... ......................... ...........  ............... .... ...........  .........  ............  ........  --------.-.......   ...... ..
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                13, 974.0      7, 165.6     6, 168.0        18. 168.0    17.681. 0   116, 710.0  30, 298.8         20.505 4  230.691.8
TI. RECURRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES AND PER DIES                                  -       686.0          78 0                 *            *            -   6. 679.8            890 0      8. 333.8
8. OPERATING AND MAINIENANCE                       4. 100.8       689.3         670.0                              -                 2.403.7            338.5      8.399.0
...   .......    . ....  .................. .............  .........  .............  .........  ---------... ........ .............  ...............  .........
tlot l RECURRENT COSTS                                 4, 100        1. 375. 3      948.0                                               . 9,083. 5         1. 225.5    16, 732.8
Total BASELINE COSTS                                    t8.074 5    8,540.9        7,116.0         18. 168.0    17,681.0   116,730.0  39.382.4             21.731.9  247.424.6
Phys icul Cont irgenc ,es                               745.0        284. 6       553.4          2 654. 8       884.1   17. 509.5    1. 269. 2          1, 191. 8   25.062.2
PrIce Continricess                                   5, 273.9      3, 143.4     2, 111.8        68 736.   7  . 583. 9   43.972.7  1S. 774. 8           S. 912. 7   90. 479.9
............     .............. .........  ------------.   .........      ---------    --------.. -- - -- - -      .............. .. .................
total PRODECI COSTS                                    24,093.4    11,938.8        9,781.1         27,559.5   26. 118.9   178,212.2  56,426.3             28.836.4  362.966.7
fhzrstSss:sg    Sstat:f:i   atS.=s:S5   *taIsttu:ssgt   s        :sfXSS   azls:=    af.ss.:.....  ;6    s.0.   6   .l .s.
foreign Exchcne9                                    18,411.2       64           4.                ,36.    22.199.8    1284.9  26,301.7                 20263.5   175,68.8
.................... ..................... ........................................................................... ................................
Pril 21, 1991   19:20



- 73 -                                                              ANNEX 1
Table 3
fANIht "EAtIH PROJECT 11
Stisatry Accounts by l"or
totals  Including Contingencis                                        Totals Including Contingencies
(ZIP DOLLARS  '0001                                                          (US9 * 0001
............ .................. ...... ........ ..... ...... .  . .................. ... .. . .... .. . .... .. . ....... ..... ..........  ....
92         93           94          95          96       Total           92         93         94         9e         96       Total
,,.,..... I::aa: ss;s .::. .:.....  .....                                      ..-- ........ 4s.3..: .. .... ,%  ....  ,::, :.......:
1. INVES1'4N4  COSTS
A. COtStRUCci014                                21,038.3  74, 126 7  82.620.9 36.006 1             393 4 214. 185 4    7.924.3 25. 1209 25.635 6 10.412.4    107 0  69,200. 1
0. QUIPIu                                       4,452.4    8.252 4   13.092 2  7,974 3  1.894.9   35.666.3    1,677.1  2.196.7  4.062.3   2.306.0    SIS.t  11.357.1
C. VEHICLES                                      7,636 S      1,618 S    1.930 4        383.5       100.2   11.669  1   2.876 4         548.5      S99.0       110 9      27.2    4,162.0
0. SUPPtlES NATERIALS AND fURNIIURE              3,289.5    85834.4    8.668 0  6.811. 1  3.325. 1  27.628. 1   1.239.0   1.875.6   2.689.5   1.969.7   903.9    8.671  7
E. SHOIal ANO NEOIUN TERt4 CONSULIANIS    2.453. 1   2.895.7    2.071 0                  77.8        68 4    7.566.0        924.0       981 3      642.6        22.5      18.6    2.589 0
f. lONG ItR1N 4OVISORS                           3,068.0    3.2815      2.274 1    452.7           364.4    9.374.7    1. 8S8 6   1.089.7          705.6       130.9      99.0    3, 180.9
C. RESEARCH . STUDIES AND NONITORING               260.8        330 4        ((9 0      772 1    214.7    (.697.0             98 2      112.0        36 9      223 3      58  4      528 a
n. tOCAL TRAINING                                3,649.7    8,074. 1   6.932 0  3.125. 1  3.155 3  23. 136.2    1.3174.7  1.719.6  2. (80 9   1.077.2 1,020.8    7.343 2
1. IRAI4I1G ABROAD                                 328.7        437 3       239 *        77.8       88 5    1.167.0          123.1      148.2       74 4        22.8      23.3       391.4
J. lOCAL SERVICES AND NEEIIIOS                     447.4    1.119.4    1.350.6   1,300. 1  1.422.5    5.640 0                168.8      379 4      419.1       376.0    386 7    1.729.6
_............... . ........ .... .... .. ...... ...... . ..  . . .... .. . I..... ..... . .. ........ .... ... .........
totbl IIIVESIEINT COSTS                            46.622.8  102. 604 4 119.298.0 57.,80.5 11.624.4 337.729.7   17.560 9  t4, 771.7 37.08.?7 16.651.4 3. (89.9 109. (89 7
II. RECURRENT COStS
A. SALARIES AND PER DIENS                       1.298.4    2.315.6    2.527 7  2.763.5  2.882.1 11(.768.5                  489.1       785.1      184.3       799.2    783 5    3,641. 1
a. OPERATING AND IIAINTENANCE                     828.0    2. 186.2    3. 108.7   3,622.8  3,708.8   13,448.5              310.8       740.9      964.6   1.047. 7 1,007. 4   4.071.2
. ...... ........ .... .. . .. . ....... ........ .. ... ....  .. .....  ........ ..... ..... .... .......
Total RECURRENI COSTS                               2,123.5    4.502 9    5.636.4   6.386.4   6.587.9   25,237.0                799.6   1.S26.0   1.148.9   1.846.8  1(190 8    7.712.3
total PROJECT COSIS                                 48,746.0 107. 107.3 124. 934.4 63,966.8 18.212. 3 362.966. 7  18. 360.8 36.297. 7 38, 764. 6 18.498.2 4.980.7 116.872.0
ril 21.   991 (9:20...... ......... ........ .                                          .......  ..............  ............ .    ... .... ........ ....                             ......
--    -  - --  -  - --  - -  -- -  -  -- -  -  - --  - -  --  - -  --  - -  -- -  -  -  -  - - --1-      -- -  - --  -  - -- -   - --  -  - -  -- -  -  -- -  - --  -  - --  - -  ---0-



-   74   -                              ~~~~~ANNEX  I
Z INBABUE
fANILY HEALTH PROJIECI 1I
SUNNAR? ACCOUNTS COSI SuNNAARY
(ZIP DOLLARS  '000)                                  1US$ '@001
I Total                                         I lotal
I foreign  BUse                                 I foreign  Base
Local    foreign   total    Exchange   Costs    tocal   foreign   total    Exchange   Costs
I. INVESTIENT costs
A. C0NSTRUCTI0N                           87, 562. 5  52. 895. 0 140,457.5     38      57  35,025.0 21. 158. 0  56. 183. 0      38      57
D. EQIou ET r                                939. 4  24. 066. 4  25. 005. 8    96      10     375.8  9, 626. 6  10.002. 3      96       10
C~. VEhICLES                               1, 075.8   B. 953. 1  10.028. 9     89       4     430.3  3. 581. *   4,011. 6      89        4
fi. SUPPLIES IIAIEA:.C3 AND FURlNITURE     1, 446. 0   9. 611. 0  19. 057. 1   50       8   3. 778. 4  3, 844. 4   7.622. 8    s0        8
E. SHORT MND NEOTIU  TERN CONSULTANTS      I. 402. 3   4, 432. 3  S. 834. 6    76       2     560. 9  1. 772. 9   2.333. 8     76        2
F. LONG TER  ADVISORS                      1. 458. 9   5,835. 6   7,294.5      80       3     583.6  2. 334.2   2.9)7. 8       80        3
6. NESEAI6I  . StUDIES MOD NNITORINO         720.3     494.3   1, 214. 5       41       0     288. I    197. 7    485.8a       41        0
H. LOCAL TRAINING                         11,897.0   5,028. 4  16,925.4        30       7   4,758.8  2, 011. 4   6. 770. 2     30        7
I. lTRAINING AB80*                               -    925.8a    925.8         100       0              370.3      370.3       too       0
J. LOCAL SERVICES AND HEET WriS            2,959.0     988. 7   3.947. 7       25       2   1. 183.     395.5   1.579. 1       25        2
Total INVESTHENT COSTS                      117. 461. 2 113. 230. 6 230, 691. 8   49      93  46, 984. 5 45,292.2  92, 276. 7     49      93
Physic.al Cont,rencil.                    13,973.6  10, 248. 7  24,222.3       42      tO   5,589.5  4, 099. 5   9,688. 9      42       to
Price Csntinggemiss                      43,201.3  39, 614. 3  82. 8)5. 6      48      33   3. 651. I 3,542.9   7. 194. 0      49       7
Totlg INCLUDING CONTINGE.NCIES             174. 636.1 163,003. 6 337,729.7       48      136  56,225.0 52, 934. 6 109, 159. 7     48      110
X.Sc:.u.9 .::fl:;:x ::fl::-:. s:::f:::::    :3:-   3::::xx:.:  fl3f   x3
II. HECJRRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES MOt PER DIf"S                5,833.7   2,500. 2   8,333.8        30        3   2,333.5  1. 000. '  3, 333. 5      30       3
8. OPRATING AND NAINTENANCE              2, 717.6   58681. 4   8,399.0       68        3   1, 087. 0  2, 272. u   3, 359. 6   68       3
total RECURRENIT COSTS                       8,551. 3   6, 181. 5  16,732.8      49        1   3,420.5  3,272.6   6. 693. I       49       7
Physical Contlngencses                      271.8     568. I    839.9         68       0      108.7    227.3     336.0         68       0
Price rjwiIngsncitis                      3.819. 1   3,8945. 2   7, 664. 3    so        3     340.4    342.8     683.2         s0       I
total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES               12, 642. 1  12,594.9  25,237.0       s0       1O   3,869.6  3,842.7   7,712.3         50       8
Total BASELINE COSTS                        126,012.5 12), 412. 1 247 424.6       49      100  50,405.0 48,564.9  98,969.8         49     100
Pivsical Cant Ingencus                    14,245.4  10.816.8  25, 052. 2       43       10  5,698.2  4, 326. 7  10,024.9        43      10
Price Contingencies                       47.0*0. 4  #-3,459.5  90, 479. 9     48      37   3 901t. 5  3. 885.? 7,1877. 3       49       a
Total PROdECT COSTS                         187. 276. 2 175. 688. 5 362, 966. 7   48      147  60. 094. 7 56, 777. 3 116. 872.0    49     its
April 21, 1991 19:20



f1*ll  11E851  19. 1C1 It
SEA""S Of 9)IWAOI ACC00U1S
5?iyslci CoftiholggIs
Oms  Costs                      ....................Pice Cmosnggirpmo                                                                     lotal lnad. Canit.
st oal
.......................                      C    "     ts I                          ...................... ------------------------------------------f  II 
local  RciI. Oatiss S                             hadt.  Dtiss a                             Lacs al Ia. Out Ie  a                            troal hxl. Ouat sI  S
fot. iast.      #e)          tlaxes    lots I    for. Efc. 1ax..)    fox"s    total    for. Each.             trtsl       TO."    lolal        for. EsehL    1Taxs)        1Tax       loUI
a.ttaaat  aaazaa.......    ast ........        s.....c s..... s.a...... ...... t.  ...... .: a      ... aat ,; ..t ........  z....    ..........ttt   tta........           ...ltt   .......
1. IswlI,   COSTS
................
*  cSIUCi)sU                                21. 1s80       35025 o            - S. 183.0       3.3131., S 253. a             L 427. 5      1,1n0.3        2,839.4            4,589 7       26062.0        43,138.1              69.200.1
*  091158                                   9,62 .6          371. a          - 10.002.3         so. 3    18.8                 524.1          00. 0          30.7          -   630.?       10.931.9          425.3          -  11.357. I
C  16)CtES                                   3.5I.2           430.3           -  4.0II.6           9.2       S.0         -       10.2        126.5           13.7          -   140.2        3,716.9          445.1          -   4.162.0
IL SwtlIES UTIEAIS  Ml  1F0M0                3,444          3.171,4          -  1.622.8          M98.8   105.5                 394.4         345.8          314.6          -   660.4        4.389. 1       4.2. 6           -   S677. 
1. iSt   MWN              IEU  CS     hIAQIS    1, m. 9       58i a           -  2.333.8         101.2    25.3            -    126.5         132.7           -4.1          -   1281.        2.00n9           so. I               2. I  . 
f. tac TEN  ANISM                            2.334.2          S8.            -  2.t91.0           19.1    12.8           -      98.0         158.0            6.2          -   164.2        2,571.3          609.5          -   3,180.9
G. MSEA3W  . stalls  Mm IUIUIS                  al7.I         28.8                 4 5.8              -        -a                   -         16 0           26.9          -    42.9          213.1          31S.0          -      52a
. towu 1i3 16                                2,011.4        4.758.9          -  6170.2            31.6    73.            -    105.4          t14.5          293.1          -   467.6        2.211.5        5.125.?               1,343.2
1.  9irt8119    1131M                          370.a               -         -    370.3              -                                        21.0              -               21.0          391.4               -                311.4
IL Uto   SEIUIS t1a 9ItI6S                     ns.s5        1,183.6          -  1,510.1            0.S       1.5         -       2.0          38.1          110.4          -   145            434.1        1.295.5          -   1 729 
..  ......     .... .....   ....  ..... ....  .. ---  ----  -      --- ---     - ---- -     --- ---- ----- ---- ----- ---- -     --- ----. ---- -  --- ---- -     --- ---- ---     - ---- -     --- ----
Ictal IUUSS7U1     StS                         45.292 2       4b. S 4              92.216.?       4.099. 5 Su. MS            -  9,0.  9       3,542.9        3,651.1          - 1,194.0       52,934.6       5    5. M. 0       - t0. 159.?
II.  5E8M   COSTS
..............
*  saias so    M Sw                         1.009.1       2.333-S           -  3,333.5              -                             -          92.3         215.            -   307.6        1.092.3       2.S48.8           - A, 41.1
SQ             M?1C   mmuiIiimc*           2,1.8m 6        1.,07.0          -  3.359.6          221.3    1081           -    336.0         250.5           125. 1         -   375.1       2, S0.4         1,320.9          -   4.071.2
------~~~~~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                                                  ,,,,   ,,,,, ,,,, ....... ... .... -- - -- -   -- -I - - - - -.-- - - -- - - -   - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - -   - - - -
Iotal K8A9fr  COSS                             3.272.9        3,420.S          - .63.1             227.3   t0. I                 3316.0        342 8          340.4          - 63.2           3.822 1        3,8696             7.112.3
lotus                                           41,51,1        50o,00             - 949119.1       4328. 56698.2             - 10,024.9        3."S.7        3,991.5            7,8U7.3        6.1,7.S       80,994.1 li.11.0
4prig .l,  ;Ir;v  MI*



f8111V 1)E861T1 PROJECT It
BlEAaoMOf 0 sumait acccuuTS
3118cata 323160000)
Bass Costa                          Physicali Catlnngecles                      Price Contingencies                        total lacd. Cant.
Local (Ixci. Duties a                      Local (fExd. Duties 8                     local lIedl. Out ts A                     tocal (Exci. Duties I
for. Each.   laxeal     fames   Total    For. Each,L   ate,%    Taxes   Total   for. Each.   taxes)    late,   Total   for. lech.    Tax",)    Taxes   total
3. lINVSMTuu  COSTS
I. astmlImci                         92.1M. a    B.82.5 sm.         t40.457.5    ?.934. 3    13,134. 4        21.068. 6    19.851. 0   32,608. 3         52. 659. 3   80. f .e2    133.509.2     -2)4. 335. 4
L  [4fpKl6.u                          24.066,4        939.4        -2500. V.8      1, 263. 3      47.0        -1. 310. 3     9, 003. 1     347.0       R- M5. 2   34,332. 9        1.333. 4       -35, 666. 3
C. vEIIClIS                            &93.091      1.0)s.8 a         30. 02& 0      23.0          2. 6       -     29.5     3 .449.6      169.3        -  1.614.?   10.429.?7     1.243.4        -  H. 669. 1
IL swPtlES 31133885 680 l633RgIg       9.1130       0.446.0           is 39,57.)1   49?.)        488.9             086.0    3,862.2       3,722.9       -1.985. )   13.970.4      13,697.8           27.62& l
I.  WR 841   I800l   UN3 CSa14MtS    4,432.3        1.402.3            5.9634.6     293.0         63.3        - 316.3    1. 383. 4         233.8        -1.4)5.2    5.888.?7       1,699.3            T.7,9680
F. low. Ito aV;sUS                     S,3.8 on     l.458.9        -1, 394.56       197.8         49.4        - 247.2    3.547 3           265.7        -1,833.0   ?. Sao.         1, 54.0        -  9.314.?
L. ESEU   . sf631153 MD       t166RIG    494.3        M2. 3        -   1.214.5                       -        --               180.0        302 4        - 482.4        674.3       1,022.6       -   .89?.0
a. 19602 131131K                       S. 62L4     11.891.0        -  14,92S.4        M2.1        384.5       - 263.5    1,872.8          4,074.4        -5,8941. 3    4,980.3    16,155.1           23.13s.2
I. lulling0 A3IM                         225.             -        -    925.8            -                                     241.2                    - 243.2   1.1367.0            -0. 0       -   3,61. 0
A  1069  SEMICI6S M3 KECIIK              38?        2,059".0       -  3,947.7          1.3         3.8        -      5.0       425. 6     1.261. 6       -1.687 3    1,415.6       4,224.4            5,640. 0
total lIUVslWmt COSTS                    313X230.6    117,461.2       -230,891.8   10. 24L ?      13.0?3.6       -24,222.3   39,614.3    43,201.3            8 2,815. 6  163.093.6    174.638.1      -337.2M.?I
4, SMElltsM  FU PCI 331                250.So.2     9,33.?7           IL 3338 S                                       -     1,036.4      2.4)31,3       -3.494 6   3,56,65        3, 253.0G         I )l3.5
L. OPEUItAG US o  iEIEOI3              5,331. 4     2,711.6           S. M9. 0      588.3        271.6        -    39.9    2,60.8        1,400.8           4,209. 6   9.0Q563     4,390.2        -13.4U1. 5
1gL3s 118338  Costs                       A. 181.9     B,5. S  .3     -6)4,32.8         563. I       213.6            Big 69.   3,645.2      3.819 I           7,684.3  12,594.0      12,642.1       -25.237.0
total                 .121.412. 1   12L4012. 5                         -247.424. 6    tO. 836.8    34. 249.*        25. 062.2   43. 459.59   47. 020. 4      -90. 479. 6  175. 633. 5    187. 278 2   -332,1ME, 7
April 23. Ml3 It20
flU



1M222   HAlA82PR.141, 2
l ,nancIng Plan by Project Compononts
(US11 '0002
282R0         DA120A        *0822A?     *2121W211DS       [IC          0ODA           222PC       Goverrment        total
how,n   I2      v an t   2    po%mt   Z    Amoujnl       Amomuni  X    kcUT2   2      Amnfn    I     Am~ount   I      wun2      I
A 11111IRRIN AND W22ill IAtIN SERVICES               --                     3,794 1 475                    332144 2                                 3.86624844       7.991 7   68
8. *101229                                                              -     140 3  37  3.363.08986           -    -293 677    3.79b8   3?
C. K10NhFEM1                                                                1   . 176 %367                                                          2.0788tk638    3. 2829   28
o) mUAsI "[Wif EMIRS                                                        1    .725 68 294- 2,088 81 2?2                                 -        6. 202 6884     8.92 gi8   7 6
I  D25JRiC2 HOSP2I*l 10U2P222U                 2. 782. 2 ~1 4               2. 683. 3 33 2       -         280 03 8                                 2. 143 629 0   0.089 2  6 9
;. C.28A1 KOSPtSIt UPGRADIIS                 22.215.1 4.6          -                                     .990 6  3                                 33.12? 8587 9    7.5287 49 2
(i IANIl PtANNING ti                                         6. 8292386   2.628 8 149  2.4180131                                     2.480 0140 3. 324 3  88 17. 6603  21I
N. NiAt IN NM2P02R *A0 MUAPiNIU AND PM               -    -  I. 452. 7 2lb22. 016 0209                                 4.74124492                   1.427 6148    9.6A7 7   82
total 0usbursamt                                4 "I.991421480.27129  72  14.164 6 12215.78104 493.690 632  4. 747  41  2.480 0  2    82.748? 2452    16.8720 2000
11prol 22. 1992 2124?
(Wit? 2211122 PW0JlC2 If
I,.wnicng Plan by Suwtary Accounts
2880          2*1208        30222*      312221918108      21           ODA           ?2P6        Goevewent         2o2al
Amou2   I    hqt22o.2 5 wt   I                            baount Z Aot   mm I    AbDUnl 2    k,m2   I     2 A"oun' Aot          I
.~~t                             .
2. lnsUWZSIS  C052S
C 03280C110                                           22.2W28.322    822207   2.6828639                          3.039b44                                -40.751 4889   69.2001 8922
s    UIomPRO?                                          2.782.2248    207.   18 I      . 98. 3852     3010233    280328    8874  49                       - 1. 19123208 21.38721  9?
C. Wip1c'1s                                                               s 922.    2.684 763. 81 o.il2243    264464    228928                                   26406    42 52. 0   36
S  SUPPItS *11131688 *22 208021218                                     2. 4'09 8 28 9    84 6  2 012.497 3 273    208b8  22    298 23 4                       4.185 4 48 2     8.671 7 174
E I        A S3US mSUlEN [totS11tl1NS-   444717. 2                                      416.216 1     2588820t0                  2.4693868                        0000    2.589 0 22
r. 1a521m0128016                                       88882~~~~~~~~~~~~~SO  58.4   2. 240815390    206.9  68  -   .21477362                                3290 9   27
a  UtS[BR0. STUDIES M  Mi220h2U6 AND vAL2~t20*                      -    208.22199        3 40. 6    2388262.                               .2843                                888 0
It lOCAl insoles                                                       3.891 2489              .      297340                     1.21348a188                  2.319 8386       7. 342 2 63
I  12918131G   80*0                                                 .    119.2 308      202. 32 29     342  8.7                                                  1367349         392 4 03
d0. 20t8t S(RW2CESSMD KEEIIGS                                  -          08 76.3        224.2966    6683885                        2122    2      7v,04        8292. 0469     12.7296   28
lotel IMSINENT Costs                       ~~24.997 422 98.2712.9  7.6123,257. 0 12.2  4.490.8  4.21 3.55983 34  4.7424 443            70 00  49.704 3 488109.289 7  93 4
IL. *awUM. cos1t
A. saigiItS mm pig 0113s                                                               902 324.8    987 7763                                  2. 30221388      479 0232    3.64122   3 1
1,OKIE*IING IUONIIU UCU                                    .    .        .              202        33288A2         0 70.0                  1.170 8286   2.861 9529    4.072 2   38!
2012W  IU cOSIS                                                           -          907.8228 a1.290216 7          0 7  00                 2.472 93221  3.040 939 4        7.71223   6 6
loilI DIsbwa,e2                                             24. 997. 4 21 4 8. 2719  7 I  14.164 6 12 2 8,782. 04 9  3.690 6  3.2  4.741 4  4122.480 0  2 I 52.145 2 48 2 216.87.   0
s,et2 22. 6891 22:42



- 78 -                                                      ANNEX 1
Page 7
2 INJABNi
fANIlY HfAlH P I,ROJIfI 11
Disbursement By f nancter bly Semester
1US$ ' 0001
ISRD   DA410A   NORWAY  NIlHtRIANDS   UEC         ODA    INfPC  Government  lotal
Anount  Anount   mnount         Amount  Amount  Amount  Amount         Amount   Amount
Semester
I            1. 142 3   976 9  1,963 4         535 7   748 3   904 9    99 S    2.809 3   9. 180.4
2            1.142 3   976 9  1.963 4          535 7   748 3   904 9    99 5    2.809 3   9. 180 4
3            3.806 9   940 6  2.256 7          600 1   951 0   893 4   211 1    8,489.2  18, 148.9
4            3,8069   9406  2.256.7            600.1   951.0   8934   211 1    8689 2  18.1489
5            4,999 7   986 5  2.068.0          742 8   14S 7   572.4   246 3    9.620 9  19.362.3
6            4.999 7   986 5  2.068 0          742 8   145 7   572 4   246 3    9.620 9  19.382 3
7            2.549.8   691 8    535.0          541 5      0 I         -   316 2    4,614.6   9.249 1
8            2.549.8   691 8    535.0          541.5      0.1             316 2    4,614 6   9.249. 1
9                   -   540 1    259.1         470 4      0. I            367 0       838 6   2.475 4
to                       540 1    259 1         470.4      0.I         -   367.0       838 6   2.475,4
..   ..     .. .     .     .. .....   .... ... .. ..     .. . .     ........ ....... . . ......     ... .    -
lotol              24.997 4 8,271 9 14. 164 6       S,781 0 3.690.6 4,741.4 2,480.0   52. 745.2 116. 872 0
April 22. 1991  21.42



SNIPPC ORGANIGRIIS AND ADDED SAF WIDR MP 11
ZWPC IRH6ISATIONAL CHART
HEADQUARTERS
FXECUTI%M DIWECTW
OEPU1Y DIRECTOR
DEPUlT   DIRE _T 3
AMN. FI ANN
t7l
0
PERS . W            t~~ITI _   1i:  IEC  TR  YAS  COD
Pc          FinancLal Comptroller
PURE. IA    Perconnel Manager
.ADM.  AN   AdiniLtrative Manager
pflUqgqft~g  p F                                 PR           ProwLicial Managers (of SRPC 
ProvlncLal OffLces)                    Z
- Et1  GRU  EatluatLon and Research UnLt         0
NTR         Matron
NC          Nsdlcal/ClinLcal UnLt
InC         InformatLon, Education and
CanLcation Unit
TR          Training Unit                        w I
TAS         Youth Advisory Services Unit
COD         Community-Based Distrlbutlon
Unit
no          Medical OffLcers



- 80 -
ANNEX 2 PART 1
Page 2 of 3
ZNFPC ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
Provincial Off ices
Provincial Manager
Accountant     Provincial            YAS Officers          Senior
Nursing             (Average - 3)         Educator
Offlcer
ZNFPC                                  Fleld Staff
ClinLc Staff



- 81 -
Annex 2 Part 1
Page 3 of 3
LIST OF STAFF ADDED TO ZNFPC
UNDER FHP2
STAFF ADDED
At headquarters 1/
YAS Unit
1 Assistant Chief Youth Advisor
AV Unit (IEC Unit)
1 Executive Producer
2 Graphic Artists
1 Cameraman
1 Sound Engineer
1 Production Assistant
1 Photographer
In Each Provincial Office
1 Provincial IEC Officer (8 in total)
Average of 4 YAS Officers (32 in total)
In the Field
200 CBDs 21
8 SRNs for 8 Provincial Youth Advisory Centres
2,800 Contraceptive Depot Holders 21
1/    6 Training Tutors will also be added to the Training Unit under the new
USAID bilateral project, and a ple-nning co-ordination officer and
Administration Secretary will be hired without creating new posts by
reorganizing existing staffing.
IL    Depending on results of research not yet carried out.  Initially, at least
80 CBDs will be hired (by July 1993).



- 82 -
ANNEX 2 PART 2
Page 1 of 5
ZIMBABWE
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Introduction To The Five-Year Family Planning Strategy
The Development of a Family Planning Strategy
1.          Donor investment and funding in the FP sector will total more than
US$40 million over the next five years, including the USAID project, the UNFPA
country program and the FHP2 FP component. This amounts to more than three
times ZNFPC's current annual expenditure. Moreover, each of these donor
programs is complex in design, covering a variety of activities across several
sub-sectors and agencies. In addition, there is a consensus that Zimbabwe
needs to move on to a wider and more dynamic phase of FP program-building,
incorporating new approaches in many areas.
2.          In such circumstances, the development of a comprehensive and
integrated strategy for Zimbabwe's family planning program over the next five
years, covering all agencies and donors in the sector, appeared imperative,
and became an essential part of FHP2 preparation. Aided by technical
assistance provided under the Japanese Grant Facility (see para 2.89), ZNFPC
developed an overall national strategy and accompanying sub-strategies for FP
Training, IEC, clinic-based and outreach FP service delivery, Youth Advisory
Services and FP program management; these in turn generated matching
implementation pla;is which formed the basis for preparation of the FHP2
component.  For .nternal scheduling reasons, USAID and UNFPA had already
completed the basic design of their programs, which were thus incorporated
into the strategy as they stood; however both agencies supported and
collaborated with the process of strategy development and indicated their
willingness to adjust their planned activities, as and where appropriate, to
harmonize effectively with its overall thruet.
3.          This national strategy and implementation plan follows in Annex
2:C; the accompanying sub-strategies, which like the national implementation
plan lay out the allocation of each activity between or among donors, can be
found in the Implementation Volume. The national strategy and plan is
conceived, however, as only the first, basic step in a continuing process of
planning and management. Building on it, provincial and district
implementation plans will be developed and embodied in annual workplans; these
annual wr!kplans will in turn take into account changing circumstances and
consequent necessary modifications to the original strategy and implementation
plan. The development of the provincial and district implementation plans is
expected to take place in mid-1991, together with preparation of the first
annual set of workplans. To assure continuity and a sound start to
implementation, technical assistance will be provided under WHP2 to these two
operatious; thEreafter Z."FPC will managp the process with their own resources.



- 83 -
ANNEX 2 PART 2
Page 2 of 5
An Outline of the National PP Strategy
4.          The national PP strategy for 1991-96 sets two goals:
1.    to reduce the national total fertllity rate to 4.5 by 1996;
2.    to increase the financial oustainability of the PP program, while
providing high-quality services and ensuring access to low-income
clients.
Each goal in turn is to be achieved through a set of specified objectives.
5.          The two objectives for Goal 1, Reduction of the TFR, may be
summarized as follows:
-     to increase the prevalence of use of modern PP methods to 48
percent of married women of reproductive age by 1996;
to increase the use of long-term and permanent FP methods to 12
percent of married women of reproductive age by 1996;
6.          The five objectives for Goal 2, Increasing program financial
sustainabillty, may be summarized as follows:
-     to maximize cost effectiveness of services;
-     to recover 25 percent of contraceptive costs and 10 percent of
medical/clinical costs by 1996;
-     to increase PP service delivery by the private sector to 17
percent of all services by 1996;
-     to increase ZNFPC non-FP revenues to recover 10 percent of
training and IEC costs and 100 percent of hostel and restaurant
costs by 1996;
-     to diversify donor funding and increase government allocations.
These objectives are to be attained through a set of specified strategies.
The Relationship of the FHP2 PP Component to the PP Strategy
7.          In the framework of this overall matrix, and taking into account
the broad areas of interest of USAID and UNFPA, as well as the activities to
which USAID and TJNFPA are already committed, the PHP2 FP component will
concentrate on activities falling under both objectives of Goal 1 (increasing
PP prevalence and Increasing use of longer-term methods) and the first and
last objectives of Goal 2 (maxlzising cost-effectiveness of service and
diversifvina donor funding and increasing government allocations).



- 84 -
ANNEX 2 PART I
Page 3 of 5
8.          Under Goal 1 of reducing the TFR and its two objectives of
increasing FP prevalence and increasing use of longer-ternm methods, a number
of strategies are specified under the headings of service delivery, IEC, Youth
Advisory Services, training, evaluation and research and management.
Strategies for service delivery are tot
-     identify target groups
-     carry out research into desires, needs and concerns
-     carry out an inventory of resources
-     expand service capability
-     introduce new methods
The FRP2 FP component will focus particularly on the strategy of expanding
service capability; in keeping with previous Bank approaches in FHP I, support
will be given primarily to activities implemented through MOH/MOLG/City Health
Departments and through ZNFPC.
9.          Strategies for IEC are to:
-     increase demand for services
-     improve provider skills
-     create a more favorable climate of opinion
The FHP2 FP component will provide support to all three strategies.
10.         Strategies for YAS are to:
-     provide information and services to enable youth ti' develop
responsible patterns of reproductive health behaviar
-     assist parents to carry out the role of sex educators
The FHP2 FP component will support both these strategies.
11.         Strategies for training are to:
-     expand training to cover additional service providers
-     make training more relevant to method mix diversification
-     increase trainee follow-up and supervision
-     increase training revenues
The FHP2 FP component will concentrate support on the first three of these
four strategies.
12.         Stratagies for evaluation and research are to:
-     produce regular routine data on service provision for all
providers
-     conduct appropriate research in accordance with program needs
The FHP2 PP component will provide support to both these strategies.



- 85 -
ANNEX 2 PART 2
Page 4 of 5
13.         Strategies for management are tot
-     strengthen ZNFPC management structure and procedures
-     strengthen ZNFPC planning procedures
-     strengthen ZNFPC financial management
-     support the provision of contraceptive commodities
-     strengthen the development of policy and
coordination
The FHP2 FP component will focus support on the first three of these five
strategies.
14.         Under Goal 2's first objective of maximizing cost-effectiveness of
services, a number of strategies are specified as follows:
-     research on cost-effectiveness of alternative delivery strategies
-     continued expansion of services through increased use of existing
resources to achieve economies of scale
-     review and implementation of studies on local contraceptive
commodity production
-     study of the cost-effectiveness of training
-     development and implementation of management improvements in
decentralized planning, budgeting, financial control and cost
accounting
-     review of the most cost-effective use and management of transport
-     development of a system for monitoring quality of services
-     review and improvement of the service statistics system
-     provision of logistics management support
-     cost-effectiveness study of IEC materials production methods and
different media
The FHP2 PP component will focus particularly on the strategy concerning
increased use of existing resources (particularly of government health
facilities, Youth Advisory Services and IEC facilities), and on the group of
management-related strategies concerning improvements in decentralized
management, quality indicators and monitoring through service statistics. In
addition, the PHP2 Strengthening Rural Health Service Delivery component will
provide support to increased use of existing resources, through constructior.
of an MCH/FP district training center and purpose-built PP clinic in each of
the 16 district hospitals due to be upgraded under this component. With regard
to local commodity production, a project through IFC is being considered for
local production of oral contraceptives.



- 86 -
ANNEX 2 PART 2
Page 5 of 5
15.         Under Goal 2's last objective of diversifying donor funding and
lncreasfing government allocatLons, a number of strategies are specified as
followst
-     developing additional sources of funds from new and current
donors, in particular for contraceptive supplies
-     negotiating with MFEPD for increased budgetary allocations for
contraceptive supplies
-     negotiating with government and donors for the provision of
foreign exchange for FP supplies
-     having government take over an increased share of the cost of oral
contraceptives
-     having government and non-USAID donors take over an increased
share of the cost of purchasing contraceptives other than orals
and NORPLANT
-     promoting fund-raising from private and corporate donors
-     strengthening ability to manage donor-funded projects
The FHP2 FP component will directly su>-port the first of these strategies,
through its mobilization of co-financing for the component from bilateral and
multilateral donors either already funding FP activities under FHP I or new to
the PP sector in Zimbabwe. It will alsn indirectly contribute to the last
through its support to management strengthening in ZNFPC, and to several of
the others through its general support to a long-tern enlargem3nt of the
country's FP program and its provision of back-up funds for purchase of
contraceptive supplies in the case of emergency shortages.



-87-                                 ANNEX 2  PART 3
ZIMBABWE
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Current and Projected Users of Paaly Plavmjng, 1990 & 1995
ZIMSAE3 N^ATIONAL FAMILY PLANING  MTATHOY 1991-55                                           NATIONAL AND PROVINCIAL TARGeTS
TASLE I              No tRa Of USERS BY SOURCe AND  ETSNO0. 1990                                                   NTIONAL
ALE       F                                     TOT                          TOT
SOURCE                   VSC       VSC       imP      IHJ       tUD   CLtNIC    PILLJ    OTHER   SUPP1Y       TRAD       ALL
Coo                      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0                0.0    107.7       3.4    111.1       0.0    111.1
ZNFPC                     :.2      0.4      0.0       0.7         4      5.6      57.6      1.7      59.5      0.0      65.3
MON                       1.2     23.0       0.0      0.          1      6.9      62.0      1.7      63.7      0.0      90.6
HUN:C:PRL                0.3       1.3      0.0       0.7       ;        4.3      60.5      3.0      63.4      0.0      07.7
RURAL COUNC1L            0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0          3     0.0     75.6       2.1    7*.0        0.0      76.0
cC-F0ER/:NDUST           0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       :;       0.0       2.5      0.0       2.5      0.0       2.5
MISSION                  0.0       1.3      0.0       0.7       3.5      2.5       7.1      0.0       7.1      0.0       9.6
PRV DOC5/PHARN           0.3       3.5      0.0       0.7      4.4       6.9       5.9      2.6       6.4      0.0      1'.3
ALL OTHER                0.0       1.3      0.0       0.0       1.0      3.3      19.7      1.7     21.4       0.0      24.7
TCOAL MODERN              3.1     30.8      0.0       3.6      14.1     51.7    419.0      16.3    435.3       0.0    466.)
-RADITIONAL              0.0       0.0                0.0      0.0       0.3       0.0      0.0       0.0     91.9      91.9
,,,,,,,,, ,,,.,............ ... ...._._ ........ .... .....  _..... _....  __..... .. ..  __.........__._ ........ .... ..... .... _.... .... ...._
TOTAL USERS (0003)        3.1     30.8       0.0      J.       14.1     51.7    419.0      16.3    435.3      91.9    578.9
TABLE 2              NWAUR OF USERS 3? SOURCE AND 30MT . 1995. WITH ALL TARGES REVISED                             NATIOAL
TO RELECT NEW COMMRCIAL/INDOITIY AND PRIVATE/PNAENACT TAROETS
MALB      tE                                    TMo                          TOT
SOURCE                   VSC       VSC       noP       IJ      ItU   CLINIC    PILLS    OTHER   SPPLY         TRAD       ALL
. ................. ................ ................ ................ ........ ........ ........ ........ ........
C13D                     0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0    125.6      10.0    135.8       0.0    135.8
ZNFPC                     4.3      0.9       5.2      2.5      20.6     33.7      71.1      5.2      76.3      0.0    110.0
NOw                       4.3     60.2       1.3      2.5      12.4     60.6      76.6      5.2      61.9      0.0    162.4
MUNICIPAL                 1.2      3.6       0.0      2.5      12.4     19.7      93.0      6.7    101.7       0.0    121.3
RURAL COUNCIL            0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      93.0      6.5      99.5      0.0      99.5
COSER/INOUST             0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      71.1      0.0      71.1      0.0      71.1
MISSION                  0.0       3.6       0.0      2.3       3.3      9.2      10.9      0.0      10.9      0.0      20.2
PRV OOCS/PHARN           3.3      22.6      2.2       3.3      16.3     47.?       5.5      7.0      13.3      0.0      61.0
ALL OTHIR                0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
........ ........ ................ ................ ........ ........ ....... ........ ........
TOTAL MODEgN             13.0     91.2       *.7     13.0      65.1    191.0   547.0       43.4    590.4       0.0    761.4
TEAOITIOAL                0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0    U6.9       66.0
.. ........ ................. ........ ...... .. ..... ... ...... .........
TOTAL USES (000o)        13.0     91.2       6.7     13.0      65.1    191.0    547.0      43.4    590.4      66.6    068.2
.......................... ....           ........ .......  ........ ................ ........ ......   ...           ........



- 88 -
ANX 2  PART 4
Page 1 of 2
ZIMBABWE
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Draft Outline of Terms of Reference
For Local and Overseas Consultancies
For ZNFPC Management Review
The Background to the Review
1.          The Zimbabwe National Family Planning Council (ZNFPC) was set up
in 1984 to coordinate and manage a family planning program which at that time
consisted largely of the ZNFPC's own clinic and outreach services, and catered
to less than 30 percent of the married women of reproductive age in Zimbabwe.
Since then, the government health service network has become the major
supplier of FP services in Zimbabwe ( catering to between 50 and 60 percent of
FP clients), and ZNFPC's own role has shifted more and more towards training,
referral and t'<^nical coordination and support. This shift is d&9 to
intensify sti:' -arther under the soon-to-be-implemented 5-year kerategy for
expansion and .pgrading of the country's FP program. This strategy provides
not only for a substantial expansion of the existing FP program, but also for
further decentralization of ZNFPC management to enlarged ZNFPC provincial
offices.
2.          The time iaas come, therefore, to review the structure and
management of ZNFPC in the light of past and future developments in ZNFPCs
role and functions. Such a review is an essential element of the initial stage
of strategy operationalisation, and its purpose is to ensure that ZNFPC can
make its full contribution to strategy implementation.
Composition, Structure and Length of the Consultancy
3.          The team conducting the management review will be composed of two
local management consultants, of whom one will be a specialist in financial
management and the other in general management, plus an overseas consultant
specialist in family planning program management. This team will carry out a
full marhagement audit and review of the ZNFPC, covering every level --
headquarters, provincial offices and field workforce -- of the organization.
The team will report to the Acting Executive Director of the ZNFPC. The
assignment will last approximately 4 weeks including report writing, and will
comprise time in ZNFPC headquarters, visits to all provincial offices and
selected field trips to meet field staff. The final report, including
findings, analysis of issues, conclusions and recomuendations, will be
submitted to the Acting Executive Director in draft form at the end of the
period spent on site, and in full no longer than 2 weeks after submission of
the draft.



- 89 -
ANNEX 2 PART 4
Page 2 of 2
Objective and ScoPe of the Review
4.          The overall objectives of the management review are (a) to review
and assess the appropriateness of ZNPPC's current structure, size, and
management and administrative policies and practices, relative to the tasks
assigned to ZNFPC under both the Act of Parliament that established it and the
forthcoming
national '-year FP strategy; and (b) to make recommendations for appropriate
modificat.ons in the light of those tasks. Particular attention will be paid
to the identification of any management-related or organizational constraints
or bottlenecks hampering ZNFPC in the performance of its assigned tasks,
together with possible measures to remove them.
5.          Specifically, the review will cover the following topics, all at
central, provincial office and field level and in relation to ZNFPC's role,
functions and activities:
-     ZNFPC's organizational structure
-     ZNIPC's staffing and salary levels and structure
-     ZRlPPCa management, administrative and personnel policies and
practices
-     ZNFPC's financial and budgetary policies and practices



ZIMBABWE
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
NM  Component: Equipmnt for Maternal and Neonatal C.Pre for Rural Health Centers and Hospitals
QuantIty
Unit  91    92    93   94   95  Total  Unit Cost   Total Cost  Total Cost
in z$iooO   in Z$0  OOO  in US$'000
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
________________
A. EQUIPMENT FOR RHC AND DISTRICT HOSPITAL
---------------------------------------
HAEMOGLOBINOMETER                                        200   200    -    -    -  400       0.813        32S.0      130.0
SUCTION PUMPS FOOT                                        55    55    -    -    -   110      0.625         68.8       27.5
SUCTION PUMPS ELECTRIC                                   150   150    -    -    -   300        0.4        120 0       48.0
NEONATAL RESUSCITOR                                      100   100    -    -    -   200      0.275         55 0       22.0
NEONATAL STRT SLADE LARYNGOSCOPE                         100   100    -    -    -  200       0.175         35.0        14.0
SONIC AID                                                40      -    -    -    -   40           2         80.0       32.0
PHYSICIANS SCALE FOR ADULT                               125   125    -    -    -  250       0.288         71.9       28.8
NEWBORN SCALE                                            100   100    -    -    -  200       0.263         52.5       21.0
STERILIZER DRESSING                                      100   100    -    -    -   200      0.463         92.5       37.0
SPYGNANONOMETER                                         250   250    -    -    -  500        0.125         62.5       25.0
PHOTOTHERAPY LI6HT                                        30    20    -    -    -   50        1.25         62.5       25.0
SPECTROPPOTOMETER                                         30    20    -    -    -    50       1.25         62.5       25.0
ROTATOR VARIABLE FOR RPR                                  30    20    -    -    -   50       2.125        106.3       42.5
VACUUM EXTRACTORS                                         30    20    -    -    -   50            1        50.0       20 0
SOLAR FRI0GES                                              -     -   12    -    -    12       6 25        195.0       78 0
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT FOR RHC AND DISTRICT HOSPITAL                                                          1.439 4      57S 8
B. EWUIPMENT FOR PROVINCIAL AND CENTRAL HOSPITAL
---------------------------------------------
APNOEA ALARMS                                             24     -    -    -    -    24        2.5         60 0       24.0
PULSE OXIMETERS                                            2     -    -    -    -    2        12.5         25.0        10.0
NEONATAL INFUSION SYRINGE PUMPS                           24     -    -    -    -   24           2         48.0        19.2
AIRSHIELDS VICKERS RESUSITATORS                           12     -    -    -    -    12         15        180.0       72.0
VICKERS INFUSION PUMP                                     24     -    -    -    -   24        6.25        150.0       60.0
Sub-Total EQUIPMENT FOR PROVINCIAL AND CENTRAL HOSPITAL                                                      463.0       185.2
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                        1.902.4      761.0
Total                                                                                                          1,902.4      761.0
.=.=         3a3..
---- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---- --- --- --- --- --- --- ---- --- --- --  --- ---   -- ---



- 91 -
ANNEX 3 PART 2
Page I of 2
NUTRITION, FP AND MCH COMPONENTSt HEALTH EDUCATION/IEC
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR IEC CONSULTANT
ROLE
A well qualified communication expert will be required to provide
support and training to the staff of the Ministry of Health and ZNFPC
involved in health education. This includes staff in HEU, Nutrition,
and ZNFPC. Several periodic visits of about one month each are
envisaged during the project period. The consultant will report to the
Director, MCH/FP through Unit heads.
QUALIFICATIONS
Masters Degree in healt'h education or equivalent with at least five
years of field experience--preferably in Africa. Demonstrated skills in
manpower development, program planning, project management, IEC
materials development, formative and operational research and
evaluation. Specialization in IEC for primary health care, MCH family
planning, child survival, nutrition, environmental health, or control of
diarrhoea diseases.
TASKS TO BE PERFORMED
The consultant will assist the Health Education Unit to prioritize and
select from the following list of tasks for each of several periodic
visits to the countrys
1.    Assess the training needs in IEC for staff of ZNFPC, Health
Education and Nutrition programs at central and provincial levels.
2.    Develop training design based on assessed needs and requirements
for Family Health Project Phase II IEC. Support and conduct in-
service training for Nutrition, Health Education and ZNFPC staff.
3.    Consult with the appropriate staff at the provincial and district
levels to strengthen the IEC components of the pilot districts'
FHP II project proposals.
4.    Develop standardized protocol for conducting IEC activities.
5.    Develop training design and conduct training of trainers workshop
for discrict research teams.
6.    Develop training design for training NGOs and other outreach
workers in IEC/social mobilization at the district level.
7.    Assist in the formulation of an agreement for MOH/ZNFPC sharing of
IEC production facilities at the Zimbabwe National Family Planning
Council and monitor utilization.



- 92 -
Annex 3 Part 2
Page 2 of 2
8.    Develop guidelines for planning district Family Health Project II
IEC campaigns/programs.
9.    Participate in designing and conducting a comprehensive evaluation
of the Diploma in Health and Adult Education Course at the
University of Zimbabwe.
10.   Provide technical assistance to update and improve the DHEA course
and participate in teaching the IEC state-of-the-art modules.
DURATION:   Four to six months in periodic visits.
******** ********** ****** **** ** *******
TASKS WHICH WILL REQUIRE TECHNICAL SUPPORT IN I.E.C. FOR
NUTRITION COMPONENT OF THE FAMILY HEALTH PROGRAM
--------------------------------------------------------------__--
To the extent that the consultant cannot include the following tasks in
his/her terms of reference, either because of time limitations or
because the consultant does not have relevant very specific experience,
additional consultants will be hired tot
1.   Assess training needs in IEC for Nutrition Department and workers
in other sectors who are involved in the nutrition programme.
2.    Develop a training strategy which will facilitate the transfer of
skills and expertise in IEC for nutrition activities. (In this
regard it is envisaged that the focus will be on training of
trainers.)
3.    Develop and produce guidelines for field implementation and
coordination of community-based IEC activities in nutrition.
4.    Develop an integrated community based and participatory IEC
strategy for nutrition, based on social marketing concepts and
techniques using social science research advertising and marketing
techniques in order to achieve the desired behavioral change which
would lead to improved nutrition.
5.    Improve the IEC components of the Co-munity Nutrition Programme
through the development and production of 1000 nutrition kits
consisting of flip chart and nutrition manuals for community level
workers.
6.   Develop, implement and evaluate a national social marketing
campaign on infant and young child feeding.



- 93 -
ANNEX 3 PART 3
ZIMBABWE
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Maternal Mortality b  Cause of Deaths  1987-1989
CAUSE                                 1987        1988         1989
Eclampsia                              14            5          18
Puerperal Sepsis                       14           14          15
Ruptured Uterus                         5            5           7
Abortion                                4           13          11
PPH                                     4            6          17
Anaesthetic Accident                    4            4           3
Pre-eclampsia                           3            2           1
Septicaemia                             3            7           9
Ectopic Pregnancy                       3            1           0
Abruptio Placentae                      2            2           0
Acute Renal Failure                     1            1           1
Retained Placenta                       1            2           0
CerebroVascular Accident                1            3           2
Unknown                                10           38           2
Malaria                                 -            -           6
Others                                  -            -          52
TOTAL                                  67         103          144
Note:       The increase in numbers year by year reflects better
reporting and may not indicate an increase in the number of
deaths.
Source:     Zimbabwe Country Paper, Harare (SADCC) Safe Motherhood
Conference, October/November 1990
Data from MOH maternal mortality form, coverage incomplete.
Maternal Deaths Harare Hospital. 1989
SPECIFIC CAUSES                        NO.           X
Puerperal Sepsis                       17           24
Hypertensive disease                   17           24
Hemorrhage                             11           1S
Post abortal sepsis                    10           14
Heart Disease                           4            5.6
Septicaemia                             4            5.6
Other                                   8           11.2
Sources     J. Kasule, ManaRement of Complications, Department of
Obstetrics and Gynecology, UZ, Medical, School, 1990.



SECOND FAMLt !LWTH PROJECT
Tablo 28  LAding Cause of Morbidity by Province and Proposed District Amongst the under So
1987 - June 1990 by Number of R.ported Cases ser Dises/Condition
Province/District                            ARI                                       MALARIA                              DIARRNOEA
1987       1988        1909       lW0        1987    1m         1989        1990      1987    1988    1989    1990
Maseing                   69 439     108 407     140 985               10 a93     13 314    118 19               89 394  30 453  2 465
-Chivi                     7 937      12 060                              11       497                          3803   3384
4Iwen"l                   6 78        6 08                                836       736                          2 673   2134
Matab.leland North        46 515      55 376     45 612                 8 054    50 469    20 2a.               15 386  14 167  11 179
-Bubl/Hlamgpbsa                       4 121       8 864                           1 220        256                        1 239     711
-Nheyal                    * 423        790                  39 1       1115      2034                     338   8336   2670                901
Mate blelandSouth         40004      41 116      49 748                 2 499     5952       2774               11 497  10 133   77M3
-9l/zbMatobo               I 32       6 8U        6 810      33 22        136       314        124          37   1697   1540   1162         712
*eulalma    p mgw5 72                 7 482      106e9        6           9ts81o  3 420      1174          294   2154       9s3    1179     706
Milands                  102 947     180 462     11 918     68 41    17 611      a8627      33 09       1 618  34 477  36 300  8 423  15 241
-Charter                  122 22                 20 00       9170 I378                         51          247   2842             2 406   1 129  1
-Kwk                     1i3s         219 sJ     23 5S6    12 117       4 203     6 962      8 409       2 838   6 702   5 803   6  6    2 659
Manicalnod                            91 731    145 005                          40 980    35 034                       3S 349  40 467
-Ouhera
-mute"a
Mashon s IdnnJ E5 55 c23             76 265      705 70                12 90      18 463    16 416              16 785  16 975  14 259
-Mudgi                    5 551       7018        5 920                 5 o       8 a 019    527                 2046   2 169   1563
-Ul Zvataeld              1 604       8 464       3 522                 1728      3 86       2536                1062   1 295   1200
Mashena land Cnttr l      45 119     68 662      66 760    31 376    23 864    42 069    30 296         15 920  18 760  19 443  15 149   6 os0
-4uruve                  10416        9 225       6 761      6 034      5265      75 47      9 039          14   2 22    2 467   2399   14
-Rshglnga                 439                                           8972                                     4385
Masbonalad gm           119 696     122 215    116 978     62 629    19 207    22 37       13 711       9 074  26 738  23 047  22 748  11 511
-Kadbma                   31 696     24 06       26 711     14711       3 197     3725       36 8          999   8 29    5 099   5 674   2 961
-Karlba                   8024        0 215       5060       3 00       156 I     2 39       2 065        997   1873        682     m       445
Natloal
Source: MON Project Planihng COmmilttes,
ep,
_x
0 n
uI-



TABLE S coe't UWND g, NEBOIDM STATISTICS - ISO? TO JUIE 1090
PRNIDOE/
DISTRICT                       DINRIES                        BILAHANZIASIS                 EYE DISEASES
1937    1968     1989    I990  1987   1986   9m            1990   1967    1964    1969    1990
UASVII                  19,874  13,969         -      -  2,176   1,118      926       -  19,943  19,570   19,26C         -
-04B1                    1,514   2,219        -       -    296    103         -       -   2,541   2,068         -        -
-EZi                     1,006   1,139        -       -      70     78        -       -   1,834    16m2         -        -
MA1EDELDANtUEh           9,M2   ll,86    10,316       -  1,007    810       852       -  18,940  18,755    9,0
-5UI                        -       65S      518      -       -    (1)    (13)        -        -   1,079      88         -
-WAYI                    1,146   1,249        -    472    367   (17)          -      86   2,541   2,399
MATEDELEM  SOlUH         0,077   5,690    6,183       -    840      94       59       -   5,696   7,604   5,211
-KEZIUMO                   704     779      9o      52       47      4        0       0      894      662     685      297
-mULAI  uANC2E            662   1,202        671    498      58      7        0       4   1,049   2,878       920      705
UIDLANDS                19,307  24,810   23,653  10,521  1,415  1,339       881     881  25,592  29,190  24,785  11,847
-CHARTER                 2,781       -    8,015  1,855    171        -       45      11   2,441         -   4,081   1,576
-KIEK9                   2,999   2,648    4,129  1,737    204    204        19S      84   8,667   8,M       8,84S   1,966
UMIICALIJS                      24,0965   8,707       -       -  1,588   2,620        -        -  19,32  28,925          -
-WTHESA
UASHOAULAM  EAST        12,677  10,12    15,022       -    671  1,8'    1,266        -   6,970  11,798  10,068          -
-41Z13                   1,92   1,98    1,80          -      9J     99       91       -   1,746   2,020   1,102          -
4-   ZYATAIDA              948   1,603    1,467       -    221    Jl:       281       -      962   1,882   1,008         -
MASNONLAND CWITAL       10,027  12,M      12,618  6,392   5,770  1,505   2,182      978   6,568   11,784   7,925   4,60
-GRUE                    2,525   1,303    2,380  1,071   54    865         404     2A4   1,U4    1,285   1,820        011
-RUSNOID                 1,204       -        -       -   (79)       -        -       -   1,284         -       -        -
MASIUIAL*I *ET          13,700  21,150   20,672 1o,On   1,7    1,         1,237     619  21,902  19,706  18,704   9,177
-IM4OMA                  4,981   4,027    4,100  1,723    251       35   (185)       31   6,528   4,242   4,287   2,834
-KARIDBA                   9       764       979    us    240   lS         181      23       NA   1,266   1,257       599
b ATIIL
3w
0 



TAKE 21 coe't UNDER  . MORIDmT  STATISnCS - 1967 TO JUNE 1290
PRNCE/
DISTRICT                SW                                 MAUWMMON                            SKIN DISEASE
1967     1968      1969     190   197    1          199        1990    1967     1968     1939      1990
wsvmASIN           (321)    (9O)      (108)       -   9,962   9,141    6,034         -   21,212   23,037   28,035         -
-CII                (11>        *         -       -     979   1,168         -        -    1,961    2,4S6         -        -
-MN3*Z              (12>        4         -       -     347      404        -        -             1,166    1,609         -
MATEBELELAN
NaRmH               362      410       476        -   93       66      4,229        -    6,666   12,823   12,822         -
-"I                    -       25      (18)       -       -      474      879        -        -    1,139       OM0        -
-SIA                  32       25         -      21   1,623   1,592         -      431    1,703    2,196         -    1,39
MATEDELELAND
SOMH               (98)       51      (34        -  9,140  11,0    9,525            -    6,913   11,052    9,44          -
-EZI/IATOI1         (19)        0         0       0   1,178      9"9       86      Ol       991    1,413    1,222       635
-0ULMA MANE            9       20         7       6   1,466   1,485       016      519    1,653    2,285    2,387    1,883
MIIDUNS              0??      0??       0??     0??  13,252  20,115   14,540      6521   20,44    30,62    25,761   17,986
-CHARTER             (7)        -         0       0     218        -    *.043      259    1,662        -    2,998    1,635
-EItl                  0        0      (23)       0   1,967   2,490    2,457    1,252    2,967    5,096    4,596    8,180
UNICMAD                -    (197)       452       -        -  16,106  17,236         -        -   29,797   89,757         -
4NOASA
EAST              (157>      212       280       -  11,395  15,770   14,039         -   13,936   23,670   26,220         -
.4ZI                  72     (13)      (29)       -   2,189   2,679    8,225         -    3,370    4,164    4,908         -
-1    ZYATAIDA       (9)       34        63       -   1,048   2,717    1,796         -    1,000    1,913    2,151         -
MASOULAND
CENntAL           (253>      242       287     187   6,762  11,414    5,410    2,79    14,1S8   25,062   2,e35  1i8,234
.4RME                 52     (34)       119      o6   659   1,232    1,628         6      1,790    2,157    3,6       3,169
-RUSHDN             (60)        -         -       -   0,677        -        -        -    3,294        -         -        -
MASHULAIR
WEST              43120     (90)       499   (1606   7,818   0,119    6,585    2,603   21,679   27,294   31,376   24,063
4QAMM               (68       (1)       257    (16>  1,927   1,896    1,408        743    4,445    5,064    4,607    4,030
-KIBA                 13        6        10      20   1,589      780      484      151    1,429    1,257    2,737    1,214
NATIUIW
0a z



TABLE 29 con't UNDER go MORBIOM    STATISTICS - 1989 TO JUNE 1990
PROVINCE/
DISTRICT                  MEASLES                             WHOOFING CO4                       TOM  EXTRACTION
1987     1988       1989      1990   1987    1988    1989          1990    1987      1988      1989      1990
UASVINGO              979      3196       1312            <262)      236    (131)               (110)    (229)    (270)
-CHIBI                 64       475          -        -                4             -        - 0-            4         -        -
-UWENEzl              221       204          -        -      27       17                  -       -0-         7    1,609         -
MATEBELELAND
NORTH              (145>       802       1519        -    (31)    (12)      (27>         -       336      (87>    (136)         -
4UBI                    -        78         69                -      -0-      -0-         -         -       -0-       (2)        -
-NKAYI               (21>       181          -      28      (7)      (1)                (3)       186        22
MATEBELELAu
SOUTH                819       987 (70438)??        -      ()       (1)     (27)         -       285      (30>       60
-KEZI/MATOBO          106       168        189        5     ()       -0-        3         1      (28)         6      -0-       -0-
-BULAIMA MANOWE      (27>)      159        598       1      -0-      -0-      -0-       -0-       345        12      -0-       -0-
MIDLANDS             127  t980            3458     S04      806   (165)    (221>       (49)    (112>       (10)      (11>      (6>
-CHARTER               98         -        817       87    (26)        -      (<)         6       106         -      -0-       -0-
-KWEKCE               818       999        449     121       48       12     (19)        18       -0-       -0-     (4)>      (8>
MANICALAND              -      8542       8155        -       -   (290>    (203)          -         -       589    (442>         _
USA
-MUTASA
MASHNALDJ
EAST                1845      1481       130S       -    (91)    (16)       (56)         -       272    (110)    (283)
-15ZI                 138       291        162       -      -0-      -0-      (4          -      (47>      (16)    (12>-
-UMP ZVATAIDA          77        54        lOS       -      (8)      -0-      -0-         -       -0-       -0-      -0-
CENTRAL             1073      2654       2809     249   (120)    (40>       (37)    (<11       (228)     (46)    (224)       (59
-GURUVE               250       47?       8a9       56    (20>    (15)        (6>       (4>      (3)      (10)      (n)        (9>
RUSNINA               409         -          -        -     (5)        -         -        -    (18>           -         -        -
WEST                1510      1978       2607     411   (19)    (64)        (43)       (3)       N99      260    (470)        470
-IADOMA               390       649        778      47    (18>)    (1         (8)      (<1      (104)        92      802       249
-KARIBA               15a        75         42  <S>         N/A      (1>      (9)       -0-       (5)        4)      -0-       (0)
tITONAL:
#                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 



TABLE 2  cont: UNER Be MOR9IOM  STATISTICS - 1967 TO JE 1990
MENTAL/NERVCUS DISORDERS            CARDIOVASCULAR DISORDERS                  HYPERTENSION
PRWOICE/
DISTRICT                       1987     1988      1989     1990     1987     1988     1989      1990     1987     1988    1969       1990
MASVDYiO                        639     (181l    (141)              (634)   (113)   N/A                   -0-      -0-    N/A
-CHIVI                         ( 22)      22                          64        9                         -0-      -O-
- MUEEZI                       ( 8) >                               (l8>      .0-                         -0-      -0-
IATEBELELANDNORH               ( 68     ( 67)       4)              (89)   (<9)   N/A                    <  7)    <  1)   N/A
- awl                                      4     (2>                         (2       ()                          -0-      -0-
-CAYI                          ( 11)    ( 12)              -0-      (23)         )             -0-       (  6)    -0-
NAaEDELELANDSOUfl              (117)    ( 7S)      49)              (23)    (81)   N/A                   (  6     -0-      N/A
-KEZI/ATOBO                      77        7    -0-        -0-      (6)    -0-          1        1       (2)    -0-        -0-      -0-
-BULAIMAMANMIE           <       IS        0        12     (8)    (10)         20        2)      is      ( 7)    -0      -          -O-
IDLANDS                        (162)   (229)    m          (285)   (263>)    387    MA          261      -0-      -0-      N/A      -0-
- CHARTER                      (46)                 10     ()    < 20)                   6)   -0-        -0-      -0-      -0-      -0-
- KWEKI E                       -0-      -0-        77     (6)        26)   <9)    (17)   (24)    -0-             -0-      -0-      -0-             c
MUNICALAND                              (327)   (8s)                         (204)   N/A                          ( 42     N/A
-BUHERA
- WUTASA
MASHONALAND EAST               ( 76)   (169)   (227)                ( 70)    <104)   N/A                 -0-      ( 4)    N/A
-  UDZI                        ( 4>       83       54               ( 4)    (8 2>   ( 39                -0-       -0-      -0-
- UW   ZVATAIDA                ( 9      < 11>    (14                -0-      -0-      -0-               -0-       -0-      -0-
NASHNALAND CEUTRAL              S56     (188)   (145)   (7 1        (880>   (63)    (104)   ( 75)    ( 21)    ( 2          -0-      -0-
-CURUVE                        (6) 6       1)>   (8)    (11         ( 6        42     ( 8)    ( 14)   -0-         -0-      -0-      -0-
-mRUSHIN                        175                                  277                                <  4)
MASHONALAND WEST               (84      ( 90)   (116)   ( 90)    (20)   (6 9)    ( 52)   (<5)    N/A              (20)    ( 45)    -0-
- KADOMA                        166       23)    ( 42)    ( 42)       91       17       11       is     4/A       -0-      ( 4)    -0-
- KARIBA                       (10)        2)    (  2)        7        8     (  4)    < 9)    (  2)    N/A       -0-       -0-      -0-
NATIONAL:
0Ul 
o '.



99 -
ANNEX 3 PART 5
Page 1 of 2
ZIMBABWE
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH  'OJL%3T
Consultancy for the Directorate of !Juraint Services
Ministry of Health, Zimbabwe
to Explore the Need for
Training for SCNS with Sgecial Learning Needs
BACKGROUND
A substantial but undefined number of health workers who serve in
rural health centers in Zimbabwe are former combatants who have entered
the health service after the way of independence and serve an State
Certified Nurses. The nursing officers have stressed the imAportance of
this group in staffing rural health facilities and would like them to
have more opportunities to upgrade their nualifications *.o midwifery
nurse.  Unfortunately a large prope,_.6on of theee staff have been
unsuccessful in efforts to upgrade their qualifications through
participation in formal training. The nursing Directorate is proposing
that a study be conducted to determine the magnitude of this problem and
to recommend training solutions-
PURPOSEs Conduct a study to determine the feasibility of conducting
remedial training for SCN ex-combatants who wish to prepare for SCMN
certification.
DURATIONs 2 months
Starting Date: April-May 1993
CONSULTANT QUALIFICATIONS:
Minimum of Masters Degree in Nursing Education/Research/Curriculum
Design;
Fluent or able to communicate freely in English, Shona and
Ndebele;
Experienced in data collection and analysis resulting in
formulation of a plan;
Experience in needs analysis and curriculum design.
TERMS OF REFERENCE:
1.    Conduct a needs assessment of ex-combatants to determine
their interest in, and ability to participate in a remedial
course to prepare for SCMN training.



- 100 -
ANNEX 3 PART 5
Page 2 of 2
2.    Review the previous experience of SCMN training ochools when
training ex-comhatante and recommend training strategies to
prepare this cadre for formal training.
3.    Compile recommendations to gulde the developmiint of a
program for ex-combatants SCNs which addresses learning
needsg duration of learning; teachirsg methods and evaluation
methodologies.
4.    Prepare and submit a final report i:o the Directorate of
Nursing Service.



- 101 -
ANNEX 3 PART 6
Page 1 of 2
CONSULTANCY FOR THE DIRECTORATE OF NURSING SERVICES
MINISTRY OF HEALTH, ZIMBABWE
TO
DEVELOP PILOT DISTANCE LEARNING PROGRAM FOR NURSES AND MIDWIVES
PURPOSE t
Work with the Nursing Directorate and School of Post-Basic Nursing
Education to develop a pilot study program to provide 250 nurses serving
in rural areas with learning materials and tutorial support. Design ways
to evaluate the pilot program, so as to be able to determine the
effectiveness of distance learning as an alternative to the traditional
workshop and seminar approach.
BACKGROUND:
Additional continuing education opportunities are required for nurses
working in more remote areas. Traditional inservice training ceminars and
workshops are an expensive means of supporting sta- development and are
frequently under-utilized by nurses who are assigned to ruras. health
centers. The nursing division has identified these nurses and midwives as
an important,  under-served group that requires   knowledge and skill
supplementation on a regular basis. The Nursing Department proposes the
development and testing of a pilot program in distance learning to address
the need for updated knowledge and skills among nurses who serve in the
rural areas. The distance learn program modules should provide regular
updates  on both  technical  and management  issues.    Proposed  topics
include; clinic management, supervision and technical issues related to
antenatal, delivery and postnatal care and family planning as well as
cur-ent information about care and nutrition of young children.
DURATIO}J: 3 months
LIKELY TIMING: 2 months in 1993, 1 month in 1994
CONSULTANT QUALIFICATIONS:
Minimum of Masters Degree ia Nursing Education/Midwifery;
Experience in research, curriculum design and distance learning
material development;
Fluent or able to communicate freely in English.
Understanding of conditions of service of nurses working in rural
health centers and clinics.



- 102 -
ANNEX 3 PART 6
Page 2 of 2
TERMS OF REFERENCEs
1.    Work with the program coordinator and School of Post Basic Nursing
Education to:
(a)   decide on content and design of course;
(b)   work  out  logistics  of  program  management  including
distribution of modules, student monitoring and follow-up;
(c)   carry out a preliminary needs assessment study to determine
and pretest the content and reading level for written learning
modules materials;
(d)   design and develop learning modules to address the needs of
nurses and midwives rural practice;
(e)   devise an appropriate plan for evaluation of the distance
learning program.
2.    Meet with the Directorate of Nursing Service at least weekly to
discuss progress and plans, and prepare and submit a final report to
the Directorata before leaving the country.



- 103 -
ANNEX 3   PART 7
ZIMBABWE
SECOhD FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Provincial and Project District Access to Maternal Health Services,
Iumization Statistics, and Child Nutrition Status
Peacentage access to      Percentage immunisation of one year olds    Percentage malnuituiton
matemnal health wevices                                 Full      0-5   6-11   12-23  24-59
Ist ANC  m      Inst. biths PNC   Polio3 DP`3 Measles B          aDurse    montd  monios month  month
District          %                                 % %  %  %  %   9       % %              %       %              %
Manicaland                                          87    89      90      101      74       3       7      14      16
Buhem             OD       75       35       14    52       l      69      72      46       2       7      14       1S
Mutasa            n.a.    nTA       n.       n.s.  n.a    64       S7      72     n.a.      4      10      18       19
Mash. Central                                       80    81      78      85       66       7       9      18      19
Gwuve             76       76       62       40    72    72        72      86      58       8      13      27      24
Rushiniza         56       7        37       11    35    35       40      43       34       8      10      18       16
Mash. East                                          82    81      84      73       82       5       8      1S      16
Mudzi              nl      49       20       n.a    83    79       84      54     n.a.      9      16      a4      23
UMP        *               n.        15      n.e.  n.a.    *   7           54     n.a.      6       9      is      is
Mash. West                                          77    76      72      83       69       4      6       13      14
K-doma            75       41       O        45    78   i76       65       90      66       3      6       12      11
Kianba            as       61        52      65    75    76        76     100      69       5      7       18      16
Masvingo                                            76    77      71      94       58       3      5       13      IS
Chivi             59       36       30       54    57    58        55      58      41       3      6       14      18
Mwenez,           102      55        71      41    86    84       75      120      55       3      7       17      19
Mat. North                                          63    62      54      71       44       7      12     25       24
Bubi              75       29        18      21    61    3)       64      44       47       6      9       18      19
NW           ~92      29        39       it    79    6p       58      65      45       7      11      72       24
Mat. South                                          67    67      62      74      49        S      9      18       20
Bulilima-mangwe    76      42       40       10    50    9)        63     73      n.a.      4      11      25      27
Kezi-Matoos       6B       30       41       21    71   7X        68      61       68       6      10      19      21
Midlands                                            73    74      67      75       5s       3      6      15       1s
Chivhu            61       48        34       9     46    47       52      52     n.a.      2      4       10      12
KweKwe            58      na        54       49    66    65       n.a.     72     n.a.      2      5       10      9
Source:   Ministry of Health,  FHP2 Project  Summary Document



- 104 -                             ANNEX 3  PART 8
Page 1 of 2
ZIMBA1dW  SECON   AIL    ELT   R]
Study on Matemal Mortality
Background
The Government of Zimbabwe has fundamentally changed the health policy of the
Pre-independence period when health services were largely curative and urban based. The
new policy advocates the adoption of the PLI' approach in order to make health services
accessible to majority of the people. Consequently there has been a significant improvement
in the coverage of services to pregnant women; with more than 90% of expectant mothers
attending antenatal clinics and about 709S delivering in Health facilities. Although it is still
difficult to get a reliable estimate of maternal mortality rate, available information indicates
that maternal mortality rate has hardly changed since independence. Direct and indirect
obstetric causes and other associated factors leading to maternal mortality in Zimbabwe seem
similar to the rest of the African continent yet Zimbabwe's maternal mortality rate at 90 per
100,000 live births according to the World Health Organization is much lower than the
regional average, this figure is based on births taking place in health facilities, hence not
representative of maternal deaths in the community particularly in rural areas.
Objectives
1.    To establish more accurate alternative methods of estimating maternal
mortality rate.
2.    To determine the complexity, magnitude and consequences of the problem of
maternal deaths.
3.    To determine the impact or role of the various complex inter-related factors
responsible for maternal deaths e.g. social, cultural economic and medico-
legal.
4.    To assess the adequacy or inadequacy of the current resources in the health
care system devoted to meeting the needs of women in order to reduce the risk
of pregnancy related deaths.
1.    The study will attempt to address the following:
(a)    dimension of the problem in Zimbabwe bearing in mind the
rural/urban and regional differentials.
(b)    complex inter-related factors concerning the status of women e.g.
income, employment education, health fertility and women's roles.
(c)    abortion and the law.
(d)   the role of health services in preventing maternal deaths.



- 105 -                          ANNEX 3  PART 8
Page 2 of 2
The approach would entail the following:
(a)   identification of the neglected needs of women as evidenced by high
levels of maternal mortality.
(b)    better and more ef.ecient use of existing resources - personnel,
facilities drugs and supplies and operational support services.
(c)   allocation of more resources to meet the needs of women.
(d)   design of appropriate, effective and efficient muernal health care
systems.



- 106 -                           ANNEX 3  PART 9
ZIMBABWE SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT                                Page 1 of 2
Study on Impact of In-Service Training:
Backgound
Personnel remain the core need. An insufficient mber, inadequate and sometimes
inappropriate training of existing workers continue to be a major constraints on the
development of the health services. Substantial resources have therefore been devoted to the
training of the most critical cadres in a variety of areas. The first and second Family Health
Projects provide for an ambitious in-service training program covering thousands of person
weeks of training locally and overseas. The training has been very comprehensive in scope
covering personnel at National Provincial and district levels; and in areas as varied as
financial management health and manpower planning, PHC management and Supervision in
midwifery, family planning, drug supply maintenance and repair.
The output of such a training program may be measured, among others in the nu mber
of person weeks. However, a study is necessary to evaluate the impact of in-service training
on the quality, efficiency and effectiveness of the overall health care delivery system.
Objectives
1.    To assess the training carried out in terms of achievement of targets, and
quality of training.
2.    To evaluate ex-trainees' capabilities achieved as a result of training.
3.    To asses the impact of the training within the context of wider programme
objectives and target as set out in the SAR.
Scope
1.    What was actually done in the ln-service  ining project?
Assescurriculum, content, materials' development, teaching methods and
management (physical targets met, courses held, materials developed, etc).
Critical indicators
(a,     r Inee/days of training conducted (no. trainees x no. of days of
training).
(b)    Training Materl developed or distributed. Person weks.
(c)    Teaching Methods used. This, if coupled with a assessment of
percentage of te-r Ing time given to practical work, is another good
indicator of quality oi training.
2.    How much and what did trainees ..rn?
Assess the amount of informatlon, skills, etc that trainees gained and retained
after training.
Establish the DIRECT impact of the training on the intended trainees; what changes
Oearning) occurred in them as a result of the training conducted.



- 107 -                          ANNEX 3  PART 9
Page 2 of 2
Critical Indicators
(a)   Improvement In scores on pre/posttests conducted at training
courses.
(b)    Delayed post-training evaluation of knowledge and skill gain and
retntion.
(c)    Subjective assessment of training relevance and needs by potental
and x-trainees.
3.    How are things being done now In the fleld?
Assess improved quality and/or increased quntity of performance of ex-trainees in
their work after training. Also look at extended coverage, increase in client load,
increased CPR, lowered discontinuation, increased use of ORS, etc.
Critical Indicators
(a)    Worker awareness of the impact of other constraints.
(b)    Actual Improvements In quaUty or quantity of work when other
constraints are controlled:
(c)    Appropriate training content and design:
Anreh _
The approach would entail the kinds of acivities:
1.    Review of training programme: study of documentation, interviews with
trainers, observation of training situations, courses, etc.
2.    Questionnaires, Ierviews, evauation tests, with a sample of ex-trainees.
3.    Performance Asessment/Task Analysis of a sample of workers in working
situatons.



- 108-                           ANNEX 3  PART 10
ZIMBABWE                            Page 1 of 2
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Consultant/Trainer
to Work with Nutrition Unit for KOH
Introduction
In view of the governments policy to strengthen the capacity at
district level to plan and implement programmes in the health
sector, including a (new) orientation towards and attention for
nutrition activities, it is envisaged that cadres should be
identified, able to fulfill this role. Given the present context,
where graduates in the field of nutrition are hardly available,
and even if they were, would not fit in with government staffing
norms for other sectors at district level, another, low.r level
type of cadre is needed. However, at present it is not clear which
existing categories of cadres would best meet the requirements or
whether a completely new type of cadre is needed.
The ccnsultancy is proposed to review the various options for
producing cadres with the required qualifications, l.e. either
through additional in-service training, through inc.usion of
specific options within ongoing training programmes or through the
set-up of a completely new training programme.
The consultant is expected to:
1. Define the types of skills needed by cadres, who would be made
responsible for planning and management of nutrition activities at
district level.
2. Review the various options for producing the cadres needed in
the most cost-effective manner and within the shortest time
possible.
More specifically the consultant is expected to:
* Identify existing categories of cadres who would come closest
to meeting the requirements.
* Indicate type of additional training needed by these cadres,
in terms of training content, level and duration.
OR, alternatively, if it does not seem opportune to make use of
existing cadres, to:
* design a new training programme (or a specific option for
inclusion in an ongoing training programme), in terms of training
content, level and duration.
I. Identify training institutes with a capacity to implement the
proposed training and assess implications in terms of resources
(manpower, physical facilities, funds)
4. Develop a curriculum for the proposed training.
5. Draw up a comprehensive training plan, in terms of numbers of
cadres to be trained, time-frame, costs, organisation and parties
involved.



- 109 -
ANNEX 3 PART 10
Page 2 of 2
In addition the consultant is requested to:
1. Assess the role of community-based extension workers operating
at a level just below the district and indicate how these workers
can be utilised in nutrition activities.
2. Identify training needed by these cadres for better performance
of nutrition-related tasks.
3. Identify training institutes with a capacity to implement the
proposed in-service training.
4. Develop a curriculum
5. Draw up a comprehensive training plan (see 5. above)



- 110 -
ANNEX 3 PART 11
Primary School Enrollment of Project Districts
Grade 1                   All Primary
Mashonaland East
Mudzi                    4,876                          27,400
Murewa                  10,936                          59,147
Mashonaland Centeral
Gur-ve                  4,994                           26,584
Rushinga                2,486                           13,121
Hashonaland West
Kadoma                  8,782                           44,081
Kariba                  2,169                            7,818
Matabeleland South
Bulalimamangwe          6,409                           33,744
Kezi-Matobo             4,014                           24,033
Hatabeleland North
Bubi                    2,488                           13,758
Nkayi                   5,880                           37,711
Manicaland
Buhera
Mutasa
Masvingo
Chibi                   8,247                           47,041
Mwenezi                  5,118                          25,676
Midlands
Chivhu                     888                           5,401
Kwekwe                   7,788                          41,523
Total for 14 districts        75,075                         407,038
Harare                 34,697                          210,118
Total for 14 districts
and Harare                 109,772                         617,156



PROTRCTIG, PROMTTIEG AND SUPPORTIN  BRUSTPROUG
Exerpts frmn k Joint  IOElUICEP Statemtent, M80, GeSeva, 1989                 Ten steps
to successful breast-feeding
Every facility providing maternity services and care for
newborn infants should:
1. Have a written breast-feeding policy that is routinely
communicated to all health carc starf.
2. Train all health care staff in skills necessary to imple-
ment this policy.
3. Inform all pregnant women about the benefits and
management of breast-feeding.
4. Help mothers initirae breast-feeding within a half-hour
of birth.
S. Show mothers how to breast-feed, and how to maintain _
lactation even if ihey should bc separatcd from their
infants.
6. Give newborn infants no food or drink other than
breast milk, unless nedically indicated.
7. Practise rooming-in - allow mothers and infants to
remain together - 24 hours a day.
8. Encourage breast-feeding on demand.
9. Give no artificial teats or pacifiers (also called dummics
or soothers) to breast-feeding infants.
10. Foster the establishmeni of breast-feeding support
groups and refer mothers to them.i on discharge fromn
the hospital or clinic.
W11O/1'Aeii;'19834a    O      i



3. Is there a mcchanism for evaluating the effectiveness of the
Annex                                                                                breast-fecding policy? For example:
* Are data collected on thc prevalence of breast-feeding
initiation and breast-feeding at the time of discharge of
Check-list for evaluating  the                                                         mothers and their infants from the health care facility?
adequacy  of support for                                                             * s there a system for assessing related health care practices
sUpport                                   and irainiing and promotional materials, including thosc
breast-feeding  in  maternity                                                          commonly uscd by antcnatal and postnatal services?
hospitals,  wards  and  clinics'                                                  4. Are the coopcration and support of all interested parties,
hOSpitals, wards  and  clinics'                                                   particularly hcalth carc providers, breast-feeding counscilors
and mothers' support groups, but also the general public.
soughi in developing and impiementing Ihc hcalth carc facil-
ity's breast-lteeding policy?
The followinig check-list has becn prepared for use by the compe-
tent authorities in countries - healih and nutrition policy-              S
makers; managers of maternal and child hcallih and ramily plan-           Staff training
ning services; clinicians, midwives, nursing personnel and oliter
support staff in malernity services and facilities for Ilte carc of           5. Are all hcalth care staff well aware of the importance and
newborn infants; healilt workers' organizations; and mothers'                    advantages of breast-feeding and acquainted with the health
support groups. It is intended to be a suggestive rather than cx-                care facility's policy and services to protect, promote and  -
hauslive inveniory of the kinds of praclical sleps that can be                   support breast-feeding?                                   -
takemi witlhin an<d througih materinily services to protectl proiolte         6. Has the health care facility provided specialized tra 'ing in
aned support breast-feeding, and sho(uld tc used in conjunction                  lactation management to specific staff members?
wilh the main lexl of the joint WHlO/UNICEF statement. Under
ideal circumstances, the answer to all of thc qucstions in the           Structure and functioning of services
check-list will be "Yes". A negative reply may indicate an inap-
propriate practice or routine thal should be modified in accord-              7. Do anicnatal records indicate whether breast-feeding has
ance with the statement.                                                        been discussed with a pregnant woman^ Is it noted:
a Whether a woman has indicated her intention to breast-
Policyt                                                                               feed?
Policitliolicycforypro-                    U Whelltcr her breasts havc been examined?
I. Does the hcalth care facility nave an explicit policy for pro-
tecting, promoting and supporting breast-feeding?                            * Wheliler tier bhcast-feeding hisiylv has beei takenl?
2. Is this policy communicatcd to those rcsponsible for manag-                  o lioW long and hIOW oftcn she has already brcast-fed?
ing and providing maternity services (for example in oral                    * Wletiher she previously eciiceiiilcrcrd any problems and, if
briefings when tuew staff arc employed; in manuals,                            so, whal kiinl?
guidelines and other written materials; or by supervisory                    * Whal type Or help shc received, ir any, anid from wholio?
personnel)?                                                               8. Is a motlier's annciiatal record available at Ilme time of delivcry?  
* If not, is tlc imiformatitin in point 7 nevertheless com-  h w
tereinalier collecively reecrcd lo as "scalih care facilimie&".                  municated lo ilte staff of tlc hcall h are facil0y?
* Does a womiani who has never brcast-fed, or who has
previously encoutllered probleins with breast-fedicng.
28                                                                                   receive special attetition and support from the staff of the  _
health care facility?



9. l>oes tlIC healilt care racilily lake ino accOUntl a womani's in-
ention to breast-fecd when deciditlg on the use of a sedative,
an analgesic or an anaestihetic, il any, during labour and
delivery?
* Are staff familiar with Ihc cffcCIs or sucIh nedicamenis on
brcast-feedilng?
10. In gcneral. arc newI orWb   iTifants:                                            * Where to turn, for example to breast-feeding support
* Showin lo their mothers witlhin 5 miniules after completion                      groups. to deal with these or related problems? (Do
of the seconid stage of labotir?                                                 breast-feeding support groups have access -o the health
* Shown/giveni to their moithers before silver nitrate or anti-                    care iacility?3
biotic drops are administered prophylaclically to the in-                 16. Are support and counselling on how to initiate and maintain
fants' eyes?                                                                  breast-feeding routinely provided for women who:
Is Given to their moithers to hold an(d ptit to thc breast within a              * Have unidergone caesarean section?
half-hour of compieion ol ihe second slage of labour, and                    * Have delivered prematurely?
allowed to remain with the lic  or at least one lhour?                        * Have dclivered low-birth-weighl infants'
11. Does the health care facility have a rooming-in policy? That ,is                    Have infants who are in special care for any reason?
do infants remaini with their molhers throughout their stay?                 17. Are breast-feeding mothers provided with printed materials
* Are mothers allowed to have thieir intants wish them in tIheir                that give relevant guidance and information?
beds?
* If the infants stay in cots, are thiCsC placCd close to tsIC
mothers' bedts?                                                       Discharge
 If rooming-in applies only dtirinig daytime hours, are infanlts
at least broughit frequenily (every 3-4 hours) to tlheir                  18. If "discharge packs" containing baby- and personal-care prod-
mothers at night?                                                             ticts are provided to mothers when they leave thc hospital or
12. Is it the health care facilily's policy to restrict the giving of               clinic, is it the policy of thle health care facility to ensure that
prelacteal feeds, that is any foodi or drink other than breast                  they contain nothing that might interfere with the successful
milk, before breast-feedinig has becni established?                             initiation and establishment of breast-feeding, for example
feedinig bottles and tcats, pacifiers and infant formula?
19. Are mothers or other family members, as appropriate, of in-
Health  education                                                                      fants who are not fed on breast milk given adequate instruc-
13. Are all x tatolersadvs nntriionlrquieninslions for the correct preparation and feeding of breast-milk
13. Are all expectant mothers advised on nutritional requirements                  substitoutes. and a warninig against the healthl ha,ards Of in-
during pregnancy anid dactation, and on the dangers                             corrctl preda    wnationn?
associated with the use of drugs?                                               * Is it aohe poulicy of to  he?alt care facility no! to give such
14. Are inforialioti and eduication on breast-feeding routinely                       instructions in hlie preser.ce Of breast-iilying mothers?
provided to pregnant women during antenatal care?                          20. Is every motiler giveII an appoiti nnenit for lher first follow-up
15. Are staff membcrs or counsellors who have specialized train-                  visit for posinatal and infant care?
ing in laciution managem-ent available full time to advise                      * Is she inforiied hotw to deal wit 1i any problems th at may    z
* Ma
breas -feeJding niotiers 4iaring their stay in the health care                    arise meaiwlile in relationi to breast-feeding!                x
facility and in preparation for their discharge? Are mothers
info. uned:                                                                                                                                    g
* About the physiology of lactation and how to maintain it?
X Hdmw to prevent and manage common problems like breast
r.b.;vmnen1 and sore or cracked nipples?



ANNEX  PART 12
- 114-                                   Page 4 of 7
INNOCENTI
DECLARATION
UNICEF                    WHO
Mr. lames P Grant         Dr. Hu Ching-Li (on behalf of                          On  the
Dr. Nvi Nv'i                Dr. Hiroshi Nakalinia)                   Protection, Promotion
Dr. James Himes           Dr. Angeli Petros-Bamazian                             SpotO
Dr. Urban Jonsson         Dr. Mark Bclscv                                  and Support of
Dr. 1. Peter Greaves      Dr. Elisabet Helsing
Ms. Margarct K'enkya-Isabirve Ms. Randa Saadch                              Breastfeeding
Ms. Agnes Aidoo           Dr. Djamil Bcnhouzid
Dr. Jim Tulloeh
US A.l.D.                 Dr. Marina Rea
Dr. Nancy Pielemeier
Dr. Marv Ann Anderson     SIDA
Dr. Nina Schlossman       Mr. Nils Ostrom
Dr. James Shelton         Mr. Tcd Greiner
Dr. Janet Togncrti        Professor Gjran Sterkh
Dr. Miriam Labbok
UK ODA
UNFPA                     Ms. Margaret Pollock                               - 
Dr. Nafis Sadik
FAO
UNDP                      Mr. Paul LuenI\
Mr. Aldo Ajello           WFP
UNICEF NATIONAL           Ms. Judit Katona-Apte
COMMITrEES
Mr. Amoldo Farina         WORLD BANK
Mr. Alan Berg
1 August, 1990
Florence, Italy
Further information mav be obtained from
UNICEF, Nutrition Cluster (H-8F), 3 United
Nanons Plaz5, New York, N.Y. 10017.



.NNEX 3  PART 12
-115-                                  Page 5 of 7
INNOCENTI- I
On the Protection, Promotion
RECOGNISING that                                        WE THEREFORE DECLARE that
Breastfeeding is a tinique pro:ess that:                As a global goal tor optimal maternal and child
* provides ideal nutriti,n tfor infants anid conuti-     health and nutrition. all women should be
butes to their healtdl growth and development;          enabled to practise exclusive hreastte ding anid
* reduces incidenice and severitv ot' intectiotis        all infants should be fed exclusivelv on breast
diseases, thereby lowering infaint morbidity and         milk from birth to 4-6 months of age. There-
mortalitv;                                               after, children should continue to be breastfed,
* contributes to women's health bv reducing              while receiving appropriate nd adequate com-
the risk of breast and ovarian cancer, and lih           plemenrarv foods, for up to two years of age or
increasing the spacing betwveen pregnlancies;            bevond. This child-feeding ideal is to be
* provides social and economic benefits to the           achieved by creating an appropriate environ-
farniil and the nation;                                 ment of awareness and support so that women
can breastfecd in this manner.
* provides most women with a sci ise of satisfac-      Attainment of the goal requires, in manv coun-
tion when successfuliv carried out; and that             tries, the reinforcement of a :breastfeeding
Recent research has found that:                         culture" and its vigorous defence against incur-
* these benefits increase with increaser'                sions of a 'bottle-feeding culture" This requires
exclusiveness' of breastfeeding during the first         commitment and advocacyt for social mobiliza-
six months of life, and thereafter with increased        tion, utilizing to the full the prestige and
duration of breastfeeding with complementary             authoritn of acknowledged I-ders of societv in
foods, and                                               all walks of life.
- programme interventions can result in positive         Efforts should be made to increase women's
changes in breastfeeding behaviour;                      confidence in their abilitn to breastfeed. Such
empowerment involves the removal of con-
straints and influences that manipulate
The Innocenti Declaration was produced and adopted     perceptions and behaviour towards breastfeeding,
by participants at the WHO/UNICEF policymakers'        often bv subtle and indirect means. This requires
meeting on Breastfeeding in the 1990s: A Global        sensitivity, continued vigilance, and a responsive
Initiative", co-sponsored bv the United States Agency  and comprehensive communications strategy
for Intemational Developmcnt (A.I.D.) and the Swv dish  involving all media and addressed to all levels of
International Development Authorit (SIDA), held at     societ Furthermore, obstacles to breastteeding
the Spedale degli Innocenti, Florence, Italy. on 30 luly - I  witvi  thermore, the  to breastfe
August 1990. The Declaration reflects the content of the  w ith the h e   em,ntew         e
onginal background document for the meeting and the    commnitv must be elimiated
views expressed in group and plenary sessions.



116 -ANNEX 3  PART 12
Page 6 of 7
) EC LARATJIO N
and Support of Breasifeeding
e\lasurcs shiould be taken to enIsure that wvomen     OPERATIONAL TARGETS:
arc adequately nouriyhed tor their optimal            All governments by the year 1995 should
health and that ot their families. Furthermore,       have:
ensuring that all women also have access to             appointed a national breastfeeding coordinator
farnily planning information and servi:ces allowsvs*apitdannnlbcstcigcoiia
family planning mt rmati  an .   ,eS aIlof appropriate authority: and established a
them to sustain breastfeeding and avoid               multisectoral national breastteeding committee
shortened birth intervals that mav c:ompn)m1sC
shortned brth irervls tht maycomprmisecomposed of representatives from relevant
their health and nutritional status, and that of      govmpendoepartentas, tromgrelevnta
their children,                         ~~~~~~government departments, non-governmental
Allirgovernments shoulddevelopnationaorganizations, and health professional
AD govermments should develop nationalasoitn;
breastfeeding policies and set appropriate            associations; 
national targets for the 1990s. Thcv should           * ensured that everv facility providing maternit
establishanational targetsysorthe 1 s mToo the        services fullv practises all ten of the Ten Steps to
estabish a national svstern for monitoring the        Scesu  ~i~eiystoti h  on
attainment of their targets, and they should          S         B          e o  i
develop indicators such as the prevalence of          WHO/UNICEF statement  Protectig.
exclusivelv breastfed infants at discharge from       promoting and supporting breast-feeding: the
~~~~~~special rolc of maternity services';
maternitv services, and the prevalence of             s
cxclusivelv breastfed infants at four months of       * taken action to give effect to the principles and
agtc    '                                             aim of all Articles of the International Code of
National authorities are further urged to             Marketing of Breast-milk Substitutes and
Nanonalauthoeir  areaturthedi  poies ito tsubsequent relevant World Health Assembly
integrate theirresolutions in their entirebv; and
overall health and development policies. In so        * enacted imaginative legislation protecting the
doing thev should reinforca all actions that          breastfeeding rights of working women and
protect. promote and support breastfeeding            estabfshed means for its enforcement.
within complementarv programmes such as
prenatal and perinatal care, nutrition, familv        We also call upon intenational
planning services, and prevention and treatment                     to:
of common matemal and childhood discases. All                up    to:
healthcare staff should be trained in the skills      * draw up acton strategies for protecing,
necessarv' to implement these breastfeeding           promoting ar.d supporting breastfeedimg,
policies,                                             including global monitoring and evaluation of
their strategies;
support national situation analvses and survevs
'Exclusive breasrfceding means that no other dnnk or food  and the development of national goals and
is given to the intant; the infant should feed frequently and  targets for action; and
for unrestrictd peronodares.r cton, n
t%Vorld Health Organisation, Genevae 1989.            * encourage and support national authorities in
planning, implemcnting, monitoring and
evaluating their breastfeeding policies.



ANNEX 3 PART 12
- 117-                              Page 7 of 7
PARTICIPATING GOVERNMENTS                            Dr. Samir Awamleh
Professor Dr. M.Q.K. Talukder                       Jordan
Bangladesh                                           Professor Joseph S. Oliech
Dr. Marcos Candau                                   Kenva
Brazil                                               Dr. Suzanne Bocoum
Hon. Dr. Patricio Silva Rojas                       Mali
Chile                                                Dr. Mrs. J. Ramphul
Dr. Wang Feng-Lan                                   Mauritius
CDina                                                Dr. Yolanda Senties
ChiGuna   YaZiMexico
Dr. Guan Yuan Zi                                   *Hon Professor Olikove Ransome-Kuti
ChinaNyei
Dr. Daniel Arenas Reves                             Dr.Adni
Colombia                                             Dr. Adenike Grange
Hon. Dr. Plutarco Naranjo Vargas                    NWeia
Ecuador                                              Hon. S. A. H. Kazmi
Hon. Col. Dr. Getachew Tadesse                      Pakistan
Ethiopia                                             Dr. Sved Tariq Sohail
Dr. Ruth de Arango                                  Pakisan
Guatemala                                           Hon. Piotr Mierzewski
Hon. Teofilo Martell                                Poland
H'onduras                                           Hon. Dr. Fanny Friedman
Mr. Jagdish C. Jetli                                Sa. .in   h
I^ndia                                               Dr. Qhmg Qhmng DIaniin
Is. Mira Seth                                       Swazila:f
India                                                Dr. J.W Temba
Hon. Mrs. A. Sulasikin Murpratomo                   Dr. Dhazchai Mungkandi
Indonesia                                            dr. a      M g
Dr. Soepardan Soerohocdojo                          Professor Dr. Tomris Turmen
Indonesta                                             roerk    r
Dr. Widyasuti Wibisana                              Dr.ey
Indonesa                                             Dr. Petronela Clarke
Professor Dr. Su Harvono                             Ut  Kingdom
Indonesia                                            Ms. Dora Henschel
Dr. Alireza Marandi                                 United Kingdom
Iran                                                 Dr. Audrey Hart Nora
Hon. Ivo Butini                                     United States ofAmenica
Hon.Ita o Butini                                    Dr. Dibandala Ngandu-Kabeya
Professor Dr. Joseph Andoh                          Hon. Dr. Timothy Stamps
Ioroy Coast                                         Zimbabwe
Dr. Mamoun Maabreh
Jordan
*(Meenqg Chairman)



- 118 -
ANNEX 4  PART 1
ZIWKAB4WE
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
AVAILABILITY AND UTILIZATION OPi HEALTH FACILITIES
DISTRICT     DJPATIENT SERVICES                         OUlPATISIT SERVICES
HOSPITAL     INPATIENT DAYS    POPULATION          CASES
Bedu/1000 pop. _1000 population   per fact I ty_  per 1000
HANICALND                   1.4               #C              0000
Buhore                      0.8               165             9000           0.8
Mutes*                      1.8              268              4000            1.8
MAS.ONALAND CENT.A          1.2              S9               gm
Curusv                      1.1              426              7000            1.8
Rushings                    1.2               819            10000           2.5
MAUIOMLAI  EAST             1.8              59               500
Mudzl                        0                                6000           8.4
UMP                          0                                7000           2.2
MAS4ONALAND MST             1.1              88               9000
Kadome                      1.8              422              7000           2.6
Kariba                      2.6               696             4000           2.8
mASvIN                      1.7              449              0000
Chivi                       0.6               148            11000           8.1
Mwonez1                     0.8              271              9000           2.4
MATABELEANID NORTh          1.2              80               6000
Subi                        1.4               225             7000           1.7
Nkayl                       1.8               162             9000            1.8
MATABELELAND SOUTH          1.6              84               7OD0
BuII IIma-angwe             2.8               88              8000           1.8
K.zl-Matobo                 2.6              476              7000           2.4
MIDLANDS                    1.9              460              600
Chtvhu                      1.8              1865             5000           2.6
Kwe Kw.                     1.4               295             7000            1.8
Source: Health Statistics Annual Report, 1989, pp 87 A 41
ZEDAP code lIst of fac ilties supplied by the GMS



- 119 -
ANNEX 4 PART 2
ZDMBABWE
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
CIVIL WORKS
OUTLINE IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE, FIRST PROJECT YEAR
ACTIVITY                     MOHN  MOPCNH  CONSULTANTS  IlRD  CONTRACTORS  TIME
Submission of final report by Civil Works                           0                             Dec. 90
Planning Consultants
Approval of Planning Consultants' report        0                              0                  Jan. 91
Recrultment of Project PhysIcal Planning        0                              0
Adviser/Architect                                       -
Brlfting of MCPCNH/Instructlon to appoint       0       0
architect and other consultants for Final
Design drawings.                                -       -      _ 
Approval of consultants                         0 .                            0
Appointment of consultants                              0           0                             Feb. 91
Preparation of now Stock Type Designs and                           0
Room/Department Function drawings 1:50.
Decisions on Phasing and Packaging              0       0           0         =
Approval of Phasing and Packaging-                                  0          0
Approval of Design/Function drawings            0       0                      0           _      Apr. 91
Preparation of Stock Type Tender Documnts
Approval of Stock Typo Tender Documents         0       0                      0                  Jul. 91
Preparation of Specific Documente for the                           0
agreed first y"or contracts. 
Shortilsting of contractors for ICB                     0           0                    0
Approval of shortilsted contractors             0       -0                     0
Approval of Tender Documents for first          0       0           0          0
yer contracts
TenderIag                                                                                0        Nov. 91
Evalustion                                                          0
Approval of Tender Evaluation                   0                              0
recommendation                                                                         _
Award of contract                                       0                               0        Feb. 92
Construction (2 yers)                                                                    0



- 120 -
ANNEX 4 PART 3
Page 1 of 3
ZIMBA 3WE
SECOND FAMILY EiEALTH PROJECT
PHYSICAL PLAYNING ADVISER
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
The Adviser will form part of the MOH Project Management
Unit and will be responsible to the Project Coordinator.
He (or she) should be an architect with extensive experience
of health tjildings in developing countries.
His duties will be to act as adviser to MOH on all matters
related to the FHP Phane II civil works.
He will be responsible for day-to-day contacts with MOPCNH,
consultants and other technical ministries or government
departments as the need arises.
The adviser will work together with a counterpart to be
appointed by GOZ. He will be responsible for drawing up a
proposal for counterpart training during the first 3 months
of his appointment and reach agreement on this with the
Project Coordinator.
It will envisaged that the Adviser will work full-time on
the project during a period of 2 years. This would be
followed by intermittent supervisory visits during 3 years
when his day-to-day duties will be taken over by the
counterpart.
BRIEFING STAGE
The Adviser will prepare written briefs on user
requirements, taking into account financial, staffing and
other possible constraints. The briefs will be illustrated
by simple sketches.
He will obtain approval of briefs from users and the Project
Management Committee before instructing MOPCNH/consultants
to proceed with designs.
Together with necessary expertise, he will review the
proposed sites for suitability for the planned development.
He will prepare approximate cost estimates and keep PHU
fully informed of cost development and cost implications of
alternative design options.



- 121 -
ANNEX 4 PART 3
Page 2 of 3
He will advise PHU on approval of appointment by MOPCNH of
consultants and their terms of reference.
DESIGNITENDER D--,UMENT STAGE
*    Agree on a work plan and time schedule for this stage
together with MOPCNH/consultants.
Provide all necessary information on requirements to
MOPCNH/consultants.
Attend planning meetings with MOPCNH/consultants as the
client/user representatives and report back to PMU with
recommendations and to obtain approval for decisions to be
taken.
*    Review cost estimates prepared by the QS and keep PHU
informed.
Ensure that MOPCNH/consultants' proposals conform with MOH
requirements.
Coordinate equipment requirements with provision of physical
facilities.
Discuss and obtain client/user approval of the final sketch
design including detailed room function drawings.
Agree with MOPCNH/consultants on contractors to be invited
to tender.
Familiarize HOPCNH/consultants with IBRD guidelines for
tendering and ensure that these are complied with.
Assist in the evaluation of tenders.
CONSTRUCTION STAGE
*    Check contract documents and iniurance coverage.
Advise PMU on acceptance or otherwise of variation orders
that MOPCNM/consultat.ts may wish to issue. Explain cost
implications and justifications for these.
*    Act as client/user representative at site meetings.  Report
to PHU on any issues which may arise.
*    Receive progress and financial reports from
MOPCNH/consultants on behalf of MOH and keep PMU informed.



- 122 -
ANNEX 4 PART3
Page 3 of 3
Ensure that the intentions of the brief are complied with
throughout the construction period.
Together with MOPCNY/consultants inspect buildings for
handing over. Participate in handing-over meetings.
Liaise closely with MOB procurement staff to ensure
coordination of construction program with the time schedule
for commissioning.
Check compatibility of equipment and furniture with the
physical facilities being provided.



- 123 -                       ANNEX 4  PART 4
ZIMBABWE
SECOND FAMTLYR EALTH PROJECT
REVISED STOCK TYPE PLANS FOR DISTRICT HOSPITALS: AREA AND COST
STOCK TYPE PUNS        PROPOSED REVISED PLANS
A. OWIATIEOT AREAS                        1      2e          ZS 000        2e         Zs 000
Outpatient Department                               872       x 1400          281       x 1400
Pharmacy                                            650       x 1400          109       x 1400
Emergency                                                                     214       x 1400
Mother and Child Clinic                                                        97       x 1400
TOTAL OUTPATIENT AREAS                              922       1898.8          701        981.4
S. MHDICAL SERVICE AREAS
X-ray                                               262       x 2100           78       x 1890
Op2rating Theater                                   879       x 2100          249       x 1890
CSSD                                                177       x 2100           s0       x 1890
Rohabi I ltation                                    284       x 1400          149       x 1400
TOTAL MEDICAL SERVICC AREAS                        1102       2116.4          621       911.68
C. INATIENT AREAS
Labor Ward                                          289       x 1660          181       x 1400
Maternity Ward                                      861       x 1680          886       x 1400
Femle Ward                                          616       x 1560          564       x 1400
Male Ward                                           616       x 1660          584       x 1400
Pediatrics Ward                                     816       x 1680          564       x 1400
Mental Observation Unit                                                       2386      x 1400
TOTAL IN-PATIENT AREAS                             2486       8876.6         2494       3491.6
D. SERVICES AREAS
Kitchen                                             400       x 1600          129        x 1400
Laundry                                             895       x 1680           9S        x 1400
Central store, Workshops                      .                                91       x 1400
TOTAL SERVICE AREAS                                 796       1240.2          818        446.2
E. OTHER AREAS
Administration                                      874       x 1400          206        x 1260
Mortuary                                            116       x 2100           se        x 1890
TOTAL OTHER AREAS                                   490       *767.2          274        888.08
RAND TOTAL A. B. C. 0. E.                          6794       9888.2         4808       6217.96
F. MCH TRAINING FACILITIES AND HOSTELS                  I            I                      226
0. STAFF HOUSING                           I                                             265 of
-______.________-________:-________ _.__   I         II_ -Grand   Total
_______ ______ ______ ______ ______ ______A .B .C                      0,



ZIMBABWE
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Ministry of Health Staffing. October 1990
i W.M   I 5?.O    I  .         I M.    I 111n.11   I sam. NW 551'S             at    I ,    I tLUrn   I N81.G515s 5. I M  I is#&.MUhIKLIU NM;            1T1M      I
ISNES          ~~~~Ing1. 11455.  "MT15. 19115I?. I15 I W5. M"1  ISW. I"39I MS.  "M15. 13415. 3191W. 359 I Wi. t14 I i?. [131,5I. a" lISW. El"8 I31.  "1  F5113
IWUS$EI am                55 1S          no   III       11    cII          I         I         I        I        I            BI a   o            1  3 31       5    5lIP  I-S,  9513
.uimn.UEI            I       a    13333  01ill   ElS    61        955is     111        to              1 21131             I          I          5 6    31  1551            611651211S
I                                                                                                                                         3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
mauusau  on                t  kwamMmi   I s sim SIm" S9   ORs  e9t saI e   c  I   ii   gs ii   s        its to    ii 3 u I          I          I  16  tNI  13  131 IUE  SIT?  9651
MM UiSIINSM          I 1 13  W1U  1118     13J   ASI SS  406110?  136146153123530101 MIa, tP                          to     to        I          I  2    aI  SIo into lime"  oil  Seol
II
3333113  I      I           SI    III          Oil~~~~~~~~S   Ii1     I         I        I        I          I  a   of                  I      S 9 S9 33   31    ml3
1513.35I9            I           lI     it           I          I         I          I                  a        a                     I          I          I         I   I    233051
~~B5W1S:  I          I    ~~~~~~IS      ii         2 15        1                                                          fitaIIa ut  saita                           a    s
tUi3R~~~flCBU  I      SI ~~    If          I                                                           Ito1   SI                       I                                    mlI S W
I u,maaNmsMu         I       a             aoc2    I   s    t    t it a    n         I         I            6I   e          Is        Is  El          a      I a           a    t?  531
I                                                                                                                                                                                        I
looawm          I             " maI us          1  M    1at   gIs  6                               1 s                 a             as      1a      mis           a       la  9ma
it-or                a32       11        RI?I     ito      a sII        Ii I3I I1E 53                                       I          Il       Ih          SI           aii    l      mlSS
I                                                                                                                                                                                        I
kiflR    1 ko  I             t    n I  5111 n 311       Els        ciI                             I          I  Ii I                                                      in33   5333
ii-MmmtluN            I         I          Ii 0   3 Ii         i 5       1    I           I I15 I                                            I       so  i9             S  a    3?   ml
sga=  LutSta         I A    It  St c6I           a              I4 4 113    I   a              I         I    I                        I   a      sEl     jgg1          I  Li   in   mtl
mI    u           m               mssic ms                     ti                                        I        sai                            i11                             5       I
MN1.I3.UEUOCN        I          I          I         I          I          I          I         I        I of   IIis                   I          I  3561               1   91   a13151
ISS.JSWFU ISD        I          I          I         I                               a                    61   0  a  am                I          IS   s  a  aaaml  51   15  621141
I                                                                                                                                                                                        I
aSUSlUtElSt    ~I  I    St161   Of 3    ISII    61  1               St          I         I        Sill1               I          I                                   a2 a15     WIl 
a  iIIIUEU W         I          I          II   I          I                         IiIi              I5        a          i          a          mi        1          I   3    256111
I     I O   MWIPIf  561A    aI                 I 3 2  21             5         i                   i        i          s         a          a          a          a   s    asia 11
M   15NWNE           I          I          I         I II  I a                                          I        I          I          I                   i2  s       I   2    I   Ma
15113 13          is   WsI a        tIss       ino is  III        Sal            1 asI a                of11               I                                     I Sto950    ml
ja.UUU                   a    21  3   1       1      II       to          I          I         I                                                    i      1I *                   1 W
OIEIU1SI    I  3                             25   i I I    5 S                                   I      I          I                               a      Al           I   15    I   ml3
5                                                                                                                                         I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
13111K    11W I INI         IS         I         Ic         I         I          I         I        I4g  I             It          I          It  IS    I                    is   MI
m 1 1U                 IS  ai   sait           13of    1111e       3I             I         I        I        I          I          1  6      It     I   1                    la 1    Wis
IWm UI*wFKIM                  4I  a     II          I          I          I                    I        INS  Ml2111       I                         3i   Sti0     SN  al  2    NM
I    m~m                               ~            sa       SIIg                              g        a        aaIS                          I           5I  m                 sSI
55ftt3515,CE m3.         a   it   a   31  5    35   1   6a 1 V           i           s      I I            S   Ii           a         1          I  5    CI1             15   U  ma
SKUsSUhff            ia         iml    cciW  I    us el  9    i SII M     1  dl  511           I  I  of l  am   S i             1 0   11  cc   el   3111m       6   65  Wi   lot  Sill
I                                                                                                                                                                                       I
mEfiEgv              a"   411 egiil   W?15 I TS MaU 613 1 55  9191  M                 M 213 3   31571 51111, 5611  31   MIi  is   Of 115  11311Ill  311  M    336 0   IMS   Si
itmzuwsucu,     a M   11IaM   gnaw   wl as  Rol                      II                  I         In2   mal       nsax  as   aI            I 0   331I           I Ms  ani?  9WI
1.I MA         iin i UINE  o   s06u 1        s  w1111   ilnI ieS    Ic us  maIi a   isam eszisassaamws  t1   li I  a           h  iir    sa  six~  amaIaim  siseIam  am    mat
I5                             I          I a        a                    I          I         I        I        I          I          I         I          I          I                I
I   II 31111W?I      I 35  LOS 33.5X651 1.1%  1.01 L35 Ls~6.1051 ,  kls1311LO u I S .as          Ull5 6.201 .15.2 1.5111 0.31 0tRI &.ssa L BS .0 LaWS P.111 4PI 1.3 11 PASS    M M      I



- 125 -
ANNEX 5 PART 2
ZIMBABWE
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
CURRENT BASIC HEALTH TRAINING COURSES IN ZIMBABWE
-----------------------------------------------------------------__-----
I                              I AV.OUTPUTS
PROFESSIONAL CATEGORY   I      COURSE OFFERED BYs      I PER YEAR
_______________________________________________________________________I
General Doctor           I University of Zimbabwe             60
State Registered Nurse    I Ministry of Health           I   362
State Certified Nurse      Ministry of Health/Missions   I   575
Dental Therapist         I Ministry of Health            I    10
Dental Technician        I Ministry of Health            I     4
Dental Surgery Assistant  I Ministry of Health           I    10
I                              I            I
Pharmacist               I University of Zimbabwe        I    30
Pharmacy Technician         University of Z1mbabwj/MWOH    |    20   I
I                             I            I
Radlographer             ! Ministry of Health            I    18
X-Ray Operator           I Ministry of Health            I    20     I
I~~ I                               I
Scientific Lab.Technician  Polytechnic/Ministry of Healthl     3
Laboratory Technologist   I University of Zimbabwe       I    10
Medical Lab. Technician   I Ministry of Health           I    20
Environmental Health Off.  B ulawayo Polytechnic         I    24
Environmental Health Tech.1 Ministry of Health           I   125
I~~                          ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I 
Physiotherapist          I University of Zimbabwe              5
Occupational Therapist    I University of Z mbabwe       I     5
Rehabilitation Assistant  I Ministry of Hea-th           I    20
Orthopaodic Technician        Ministry of Health         I     2
Clinical Psychologist    I University of Zimbabwe              I 1
Medical Social Worker       Hrare Polyteche c                  2
Hospital Equipment Tech.    Polytechnic College/Hlarr    I     8
Domestic Supervisor         Ministry of Health           I    10
Health Services Adminlor  I Harare Polytechnic           |    15
e.pe------- -e-----------------------e--------------------------------



- 126 -                       ANNEX 5  PART 3
ZIMBABWE
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
PROJECTED LOSSES FROM THE MOH 1990-1995/96 BASED ON:
(A) LOSS RATES PRESENTED IN THE REVISED EQUITY DOCUMENT
(B) 1989 ACTUAL LOSS RATES
I                       I TOTALI  I        I PROJECTED   I I      I PROJECTED I
I                       I STAFF ,1  IEQUITYI  LOSSES   I  1 1989  1 LOSSES   I
I   STAFF CATEGORY      AIN-POSTI  I LOSS 1 1990-1995 |  1 LOSS  1 1990-1995 1
I  1990  1  IRATES I AT EQUITY I  IRATES I AT 1989  1
I       1 II      1 LOSS RATESI  I        I LOSS RATESI
I------------------------------- I    I------------------I    I----------------I
ISPECIALIST DOCTOR      1  119 1  1 13.021         106 1  1  8.6S1          76 1
JGENER'L DOCTOR         1  675 1  1 13.021         439 1  1 21.521        624 1
!                       I       II         I           I I        I            I
ISTATE REGISTERED NURSE 1 3177 1  1 5.0S1         1081 1  1  7.1S1       1480 1
ISTATE CERTIFIED NURSE  1 4611 1  1 2.0S1          556 |  1  3.3S1        896 j
I                       I       I  I       I           I I        I            I
IDENTIST                1   31 1  1 16.011          23 1  1  8.321         15 1
IDENTAL THERAPIST       I   19 I  I 1l.O1            2 1  1  6.9ZI          15 1
IDENTAL TECHNICIAN      I    9 1  1 4.0S1            4 1  1  4.021          4 I
IDENTAL SURGERY ASST    1   27 1  1 29.011          51   1 I  9.5S1        15 I
;                       I       II         I           I I        I            I
IPHARMACIST             1   99 1  1 15.011         109 1  1 27.511        163 1
IPHARMACY TECHNICIAN    I  117 1  1 4.011           27 1  1  9.521         58 I
I                       1       1 I        1 I         I          I            I
IRADIOGRAPHER           1  125 |  | 9.011           68 1  1  6.5ZI         50 I
jX-RAY OPERATOR         1   37 1  1 1..OSI           0 1      4.8ZI         12 1
I                       I          1       I           1 I        I            I
ILABORATORY SCIENTIST   |   23 1  1 11.021          15 I  1 11.021         15 1
ILABORATORY TECHNOLOGISTI   153 1  1 8.0S1          62 1  1  5.4Z1         44 I
IMEDICAL LAB.TECHNICIAN 1   50 1  1 6.011           48 1  1  6.011         48 1
SCIENTIFIC LAB.TECH.   1  123 |  1 2.021            5 |  1  2.011           5 1
I                       1       1 I        1 I         I          I            l
IENV.HEALTH OFFICER     1   82 1  1 5.OI           30 |  |  9.OZI         49 I
IENV.HEALTH TECHNICIAN  I  741 1  1 2.01I          115 |  1  3.411         191 I
I                       I       I I        I           I I        I            I
IPHYSIOTHERAPIST        I   38 1  1 14.021          29 1  1 10.511         24 1
IOCCUPATIOML THEAPIST I   14 |  | 17.0S1            18 1  1 38.511         30 1
IREHABILITATION ASST    I  133 |  1 1.01I            9 1  |  3.2Z1         28 |
ICLINICAL PSYCHOLOGIST  I    7 1  1 8.01I            5 I  1 25.011         10 I
IMEDICAL SOCIAL WORKER  |    15 |  | 3.0S|           2 1  1 20.011         19 I
I                       I       I I        I           I I        I            I
INUTRITIONIST           |    15 1  1 13.011         13 |  | 26.721         20 I
IDIETICIAN              I    7 1  1 4.0S1            4 1  1  0.021          0 O
I                       1 I     I          I           I  I       I            I
IHEALTH EDUCATION OFFICEI    34 1  1 2.011           5 I  1 18.821         38 I
IHOSP EQUIPMENT TECH.   I   18 |  | 9.0S1           10 I  | 22.711         28 I
IDOHESTIC SUPERVISOR |      135 |  I 1. 1O           9 | |   2.3Z1         18 I
----------------------------a---   _____-___._________   -------.____________



- 127 -
ANNEX 5 PART 4
Page 1 of 2
TERMS OF REFERENCE
HEALTH MANPOWER COMPONENT
LONG-TERM ADVISOR TO THE MANPOWER TASKFORCE (NATIONAL LEVEL SUPPORT)
OVERALL ROLE
Under the leadership and guidance of the Manpower Task Force, to
strengthen the capacity of the MOH to develop integrated service,
manpower and financial planning processes, focusing on improving cost
effectiveness in the training, deployment and utilization of health
personnel.
DURATION 1-2 YEARS
SPECIFIC RESPONSIBILITIES
1.    To assist the Manpower Task Force to determine priority manpower
areas for review and to develop annual strategies, and workplans.
2.    To assist in the identification of critical areas of manpower
shortage and in the development of affordable strategies and
implementation plans to address these problem areas.
3     To assist Head Office Departments in assessing the p .ential for
increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of their existing
workforce and in developing strategies for improvements in such
areas as role adaptations, working procedures, supervislon,
training, career structures, etc.
4.    To assist Head Office Department in the conduct of functional
analyses for specified staff cadres to promote effective use of
existing staff to achieve priority service targets.
5.    To assist individual Departments and the MH0 as a whole, to define
performance indicators for manpower, to develop the necessary
information support, and to use the indicators for planning,
monitoring and day-to-day management decision making.
6.    To liaise and coordinate all work at the Head Office level with
the work of the second Long Term Advisor responsible for
Provincial and District support.
7.    To assist the second long-term advisor, as required, in Provincial
and District support.
6.    To assist the Task Force in identifying short-term consultancy
requirements and in coordinating and monitoring the work of such
consultants.



- 128 -
ANNEX 5 PART 4
Page 2 of 2
9.    To assist the Task Force to coordinate and monitor all
Departmental efforts and contributions, and to integrate these
into a cohesive programme.
QUALIFICATION & EXPERIENCE
1.    At least 10 years' senior level experience in health services
planning and management of which at least 3 years should have been
gained in the developing world.
2.    Post-graduate qualification in health services planning or
management.
3.    Previous experience in human resource management highly desirable.



- 129 -
ANNtEX S PART 5
Page I of 2
TERMS OF REFERENCE
HEALTH MANPOWER COMPONENT
LONG-TERH ArVISOR FOR CURRICULUM
There will be need to revise the existing health curricula to meet the
present needs and develop new curricula for new training programmes
including in-service Training. The main objective will be to develop
curricula that lead to competency-based programmes that are responsive
to health needs and services.
ROLE AND DURATION
The advisor will be based in the Health Manpower Development for a
period of two years attached to the Health Training Coordination Unit.
He/She will have the Health Training Coordinator as counterpart and will
be responsible to the Director, Health Manpower Development.
SPECIFIC RESPONSIBILITIES
1.   Work with a core group task force made up of representatives from
Health Manpower Development, Nursing Directorate, Nutrition,
Pharmacy, Public Health Laboratory and Environmental Health
Services, to review and develop curricula for training programmes
in these areas.
2.    He/She will assist the group in reviewing curricula and also
identifying core curriculum for Multidisciplinary approach to
training.
3.    To assist the group in writing/formulating appropriate curricula.
4.    To assist the core group in designing competency based training
and in developing appropriate evaluation and monitoring systems.
5.    To assist the various cadres in initiating pilot courses which
will be closely monitored, evaluated and then used as models for
the development of other training programmes.
6.    Tc assist in She design and development of training materials.
QUALIFICATIONS
1.    A Masters or PHD degree in curriculum development
2.    A minimum of five years of relevant experience.
3.    A working knowledge of competency-based, community oriented,
multidisciplinary education will be an added advantage.
4.    Previous experiense in a developing country is desirable.



- 130 -
ANNEX 5 PAtT S
Page 2 of 2
5.    Should be albe to develop excellent workLng relatlonshlps wLth
colleagues.
6.    Should be able to adapt to new clrcumstances in the work place and
should be a person of hlgh inLtLatlve and lntegrLty.



- 131 -
ANNEX 6 PART 1
Page 1 of 2
ZIMBABWE
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
MEDICAL EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE ADVISOR
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
GENERAL DESCRIPTION
The Medical Equipment Maintenance Advisor will be appointed for
two years to refocus and strengthen the existing program at Parirenyatwa
Hospital for provincial medical equipment maintenance technicians. This
will be done by redesigning training curricula to make it more specific
to medical needs as compared to existing one which is general. In
addition, the Advisor will supervise the up-grading of existing training
facilities at Parirenyatwa through construction and
acquisition/replacement of training equipment. The Advisor will provide
direction to the training of district handymen by provincial maintenance
technicians, by designing the associated training materials.
REPORT'NG
Reports to The Director, Medical Equipment Maintenance Department
of the Ministry of Health.
SPECIFIC RESPONSIBILITIES
The Advisor will, inter alia:
1.    Head the medical equipment maintenance training program at
Parirenyatwa.
2.    Redesign existing program to give it a health focus.
3.    Supervise the physical up-grading and re-equipping of existing
facilities.
4.    Participate in the selection of students into the program.
5.    Advise on the recruitment of two expatriate maintenance
technicians.
6.    Design and supervise programs for district handymen by provincial
maintenance technicians.
7.    Advise on the purchase of eight maintenance vehicles with
complementary toolJmaintenance kits for the provinces.
8.    Provide input into the strengthening of the materials management
program for District Health Administrators at the Harare
Polytechnic.



- 132 -
ANNEX 6 PART 1
Page 2 of 2
9.    Design and implement an in-country/overseas training program for
his counterpart.
10.   Develop and implement a management information system for
acquisition, storage and use of medical equipment at the district,
provincial, and headquarters level.
11.   Develop policies and manuals on equipment repair and maintenance
for district, provincial and headquarters staff.
QUALIFICATIONS
1.    Recognized degree/diploma in medical equipment maintenance.
2.    Several years experience in the training of medical equipment
maintenance technicians.
3.    A developing country experience will be an added advantage.



- 133 -
ANNEX 6 PART 2
Page 1 of 2
ZIMBABWE
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ADVISOR
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
BACKGROUND
A Financial Advisor will be appointed for three years to assist in
implementing the recommendations of recent studies on cost recovery,
financial decentralization and strengthening of distric. financial
management, as well as other health finance initiatives that MOH may
wish to undertake.
REPORTING
The Advisor will be responsible to the Deputy Secretary Finance
and Administration. For operational purposes, he/she will work with the
Finance Department.
SPECIFIC RESPONSIBILITIES
The Advisor will, inter alia:
1.    Provide the professional leadership in carrying out the financial
reforms entailed in ZIMBABWE: ISSUES IN THE FINANCING OF HEALTH
SERVICES (1990).
2.    Help recruit/supervise the work of short term consultants in
specific areas that required special attention as the
implementation of the reforms takes place.
3.    Help implement the recommendations arising out of the
consultanci.  through training development of manuals, workshops,
etc.
4.    Monitor financial management systems in place and ensure that
Ministry of Health finance/health management and planning staff
have the capabilities to continue with the monitoring after he/she
departs.
The specific terms of reference are tos
1.    Train district/provincial management teams as well as headquarters
accounting staff in concepts, procedures, guidelines, etc. for
financial management decentralization.



- 134 -
ANNEX 6 PART 2
Page 2 of 2
2.    Train district/provincial/headquarters accounting staff in
financial planning and preparation of estimates based on new
budget forms.
3.    Design/implement incentive systems to ensure maximization of
revenue collection at the provincial/district/health center
levels.
4.    Implement a management control system to monitor revenues.
5.    Design/implement a goal oriented/cost-effective subvention
mechanisms for MOH allocations to NGOs/municipal/district council
health facilities.
6.    Assume any other relevant responsibilities that may be assigned by
the Deputy Secretary.
QUALIFICATIONS
1.    A graduate degree in economics/finance/health management or a
recognized professional accountancy/qualification.
2.    Some practical exposure to financial issues in developing
countries.



- 135 -
ANNEX 6 Part 3
ZIMBASWE
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
PROJECT MANAGEMENT ADVISOR
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
BACKGROUND
Since FHP2 entails complex coordination, monitoring, and reporting
activities, it has been agreed ? at the Project Management Unit would
benefit greatly from the experience of a seasoned Project Management
Advisor. The Advisor, who will have had hands-on experience in managing
similar projects in other developing countries, will provide short-term
inputs (total of 6 person-months) to the PMU during the first and second
year of project implementation.
RESPONSIBILITIES
The Advisor will report to the FHP2 Project Manager. His/her
responsibilities will be, inter alia, to:
1.    Design a management information system for monitoring and
reporting the progress of various project components.
2.    Design a training program in project start-up/implementation for
component managers.
3.    Provide guidance to PMU on the design/implementation of reporting
formats for component managers.
4.    Advise on work plan scheduling to ensure that project objectives
and targets are met.
5.    Instruct PMU staff in component evaluation/feedback techniques.
6.    Advise on the design of reporting systems to meet donor
requirements.
7.    Advise on the aanagement of project accounts in conformity with
management needs and donor requirements.
8.    Help in the design/implementation of systems for monitoring
disbursements of donor funds.
9.    Undertake any other project related activity that may be assigned
by the manager, PMU.
QUALIFICATIONS
1.    A relevant University degree plus a postgraduate training in a
field relevant to project management.
2.    At least five years experience in project management at a senior
level.



- 136 -
ANNEX 6 Part 4
ZIMBABWE
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
MEDICAL EQUIPMENT SPECIALIST
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
BACKGROUND
A Medical Equipment Advisor will be appointed for a total of 6
person-months, to assist MOH in refocusing and strengthening the
procurement organization and processes for FHP2.
RESPONSIBILITIES
The Advisor will report to the FHP2 Manager. His/her
responsibilities will be, inter alia, to:
1.   Advise on the total project procurement process.
2.    Advise, support, and train the Equipment Procurement Officer over
the range of his/her activities.
3.    Review current procedures and systems and redesign and develop
these as necessary.
4.    Development and implement management information systems for
project procurement and inventory control.
5.    Develop computerized procurement systems.
6.    Advise, support, and participate in the Project Equipment
Procurement Committee in scheduling, specifying, and adjudicating
equipment.
7.    Advise and participate in equipment acceptance evaluations.
8.    Advise on storage, distribution, installation, and commissioning
of furniture and equipment.
9.    Conduct in-house staff training and advise on external training
requirements of Commissioning Unit staff.
QUALIFICATIONS
1.    Recognized degree and professional qualification.
2.    At least 10 years experience in procurement of medical equipment,
preferably including work in developing countries.



- 137 -
ANNEX 6 PART 5
PROJECT ADVISORY COMMITTEE
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
BACKGROUND
In order to facilitate implementation and maximize the development
impact of the Second Family Health Project, a broad-based Project
A' isory Committee (PAC) with representation from various implementing
departments will be constituted and will meet regularly, probably on a
quarterly basis.
The PAC will have the following membership:
Chairperson       Permanent Secretary or Principal Medical
Director
Deputy Chair      FHP2 Manager
Other Members     Heads of key MOH Departments (Maternal and Child
Health, Health Manpower, Health Planning and
Management, Administration/Finance, Nursing,
etc.)
ZNFPC Executive Director
Senier officials of other implementing agencies
(e.g., Ministry of Public Construction, Ministry
of Cooperatives and Community Development, etc.)
RESPONSIBILITIES
The main functions of the PAC will be tot
1.    Ensure that the goals, objectives and activitipi of the Second
Family Health Project are understood and widely known by each
department head and personnel.
2.    Determine how each department can best implement and support the
work of FHP2.
3.    Lobby at national, provincial, district and local levels, where
appropriate, for full participation and support of for the
project.
4.    Review the progress of the various components of FHP2 and advise
on needed adjustments in order to strengthen and improve
activities.
5.    Review and make recommendations on the managerial aspects of the
project.
6.    Review financial requirements and utilization of funds, to ensure
that adequate resources are available for project activities.



- 138 -
ANNEX 7 PART 1
Page 1 of 5
ZIMBABWE
Second Family Health Pro,.-t:
Some Lessons From FHP1 Im lementation
I. Overall Project Planning
Lesson l To engage fully the interest and commitment of the provincial
and district health workers, they must be fully involved in project
planning from the beginning.
Results FHP2 planning began 18 months before appraisal, with each of
the 16 target districts asked to develop proposals which went through 3-
5 drafts.
Lesson 2: Project planning must be broad-based and participatory at the
headquarters level.
Result: A Project Planning Committee with representation of all the
major departments was formed in May 1989, and this committee spearheaded
the project preparation process.
Lesson 3: Given the magnitude of the project, it must be planned in the
context of the overall sectoral program for health and population.
Results FHP was planned together with the five-year development program
for the health sector. The World Bank sponsored the preparation of a
national strategy and implementation plan for family planing, within
which FHP2 support for population activities was located. Similar
national strategies/programs were developed for health management,
nursing services, manpower, health education, and nutrition, thus
contributing heavily to the improvement of planning skills in MOH.
II. Distr!ct Hospitals and Rural Health Centers
Lesson 1: A number of buildings in the FHP hospitals were over-designed
(e.g., laundry, kitchen, operating theater).
Results A functional design review of all eight hospitals was carried
out in mid-1990, and dramatically new and less costly designs were
developed and accepted by MOH for FHP2. The 16 district hospital
upgrades in the second project are expected to cost about the same
amount as the eight hospitals in the first project.
Lesson 2i The inflexible design of the hospitals (all 140 beds) in FHPI
was not responsive to local conditions in the districts.
Result: A flexible, modular design was adopted for FHP2, leading to
hospitals with 52, 78, 104, and 120 beds, plus a variety of options for
operating theaters, pharmacy, etc,., depending on local needs.
Lesson 3: The award of the contract for eight hospitals to one
contractor and simultaneous construction of all facilities in FHP1



- 139 -
ANNEX 7 PART I
Page 2 of 5
resulted in cumbersome supervision arrangements and put a strain on the
construction industry.
Results For FHP2, construction will be staggered over five years, and
the job will be broken down into smaller bid packages.
Lesson 4: Tendering for medical equipment on an item-by-item basis was
administratively burdensome and led to some incompatibility of
equipment.
Result: FHP2 equipment bids will be evaluated on a lot-by-lot basis and
contracts awarded for entire lots. All equipment lists and procurement
procedures will be reviewed before FHP2 gets under way in late 1991.
Lesson 5s Some features of the rural health centers in FHP1 were not
cost-efficient (e.g., malelfemale holding wards).
Resultt These items are being deleted or modified in the designs for
FHP2. A flexible modular design has been adopted.
Lesson 6: The improved maternity services at the upgraded RHCs
(delivery room and equipment) have not been fully utilized thus far,
because of the nationwide shortage of trained nurse-midwives.
Result: In FHP2, a major program to expanded and improve the training
of midwives is being launched.
III. Health Transport and Communications
Lesson 1: While FHPI vehicles have generally been kept on the road, the
shortage of spare parts and lack of prompt maintenance by the Central
Mechanical Equipment Department has hampered their use.
Result: The World Bank and other donors have indicated that their level
of support for health transport will depend on whether the Government
changes its current policies on CMED maintenance. It is now reported
that Government is changing this policy; the World Bank team is
following up.
Lesson 2: The PTC has repeatedly failed to installed telephones in the
rural health centers as promised.
Results In view of the importance of having a communications link
between RECs and the district hospitals, point-to-point radio
communications systems will be provided in FHP2.
IV. MCH/FP Training
Lesson l In order to plan and carry out in-service training in a
coordinated and effective manner, the provinces and iistricts themselves
must plan and budget for the training on an annual basis.
Results Provincial training coordinators are being appointed, and
district-level training committees are being charged with the task of
setting annual training plans.



- i40 -
ANNEX 7 PART 1
Page 3 of 5
Lesson 2: It is not easy to monitor and document expenditures for
small, scattered in-service training activities which are reimbursable
by the donors.
Results Annual district training plans are now starting to identify the
source of funds, and district staff are being assisted by the Project
Management Department in claiming donor funds on a reimbursable basis.
Consequently, reimbursements for training are accelerating, e.g.,
Netherlands disbursements have increased from DFO.5 million in 1989 to
about DFl.5 million in 1990.
Lesson 3:  The large numb   of short in-service courses need to be
closely coordinated and combined where possible, so that staff are not
drawn away from their work unnecessarily.
Result: The training coordinator in the Manpower Department, along with
provincial and district trainers, are reviewing in-service courses and
rationalizing them.
Lesson 4: Tutors, once trained, will only be retained if they have
established posts and receive a higher grade and pay to go along with
their new skills/responsibilities.
Result: A pay increase for nurse tutors has just been approved, and the
upgrading of district MCH/FP trainers will be a conditionality for FHP2.
Lesson 5: Training is only fully effective when trainers are able to
follow-up and supervise trainees.
Result: Additional funds will be provided in FHP2 for supervision and
transport.
Lesson 6: Given the large numbers of trainees involved, unit costs for
training need to be carefully estimated to avoid major miscalculations
of funds required for training.
Result:  Training costs FHP2 are being estimated in great detail, using
the actual costs of training (travel, accommodation, subsistence,
teaching, etc.) in FHPI districts.
Lesson 7: It was ill-advised to rely heavily on another ministry
(Cooperatives and Community Development) to organize and support a major
part of the FHP training program.
Results FHP2 support to MCCD is being reviewed. At the same time,
increasing emphasis is being given to recruitment and training of ether
community-based workers (e.g., CBDs, ward nutrition coordinators, etc.)
V.    Family Planning
Lesson ls To keep up the momentum of the family planning program, basic
services must be extended to those rural areas not yet covered
effectively by ZNFPC and MOH programs.
Results In FHP2, the CBD program will be expanded by 200-300 community
workers assigned to as-yet-uncovered parts of Zimbabwe. At the same
time, in-service training of nurses in HCH/FP will be accelerated.



- 141 -
ANNEX 7 PART 1
Page 4 of 5
Lesson 2: The FHP1 family planning activities neglected young people,
despite the fact that teen-age pregnancies are increasino And the demand
for FP services among adolescents is high.
Result:  Family Planning in FHP2 will focus especially on Youth Advisory
Services, with the addition of staff, facilities, and IEC campaigns
targeted at young people.
Lesson 3: Past efforts to increase family planning acceptance were too
heavily concentrated on the use of oral contraceptives. To maintain the
momentum of the FP program, a diversified miz of methods must be
offered, starting with the urban areas.
Result: Building on the pilot efforts in VSC in FHP1, an expanded
program for use of semi-permanent and permanent methods (IUD, Norplant,
Depo-Provera, VSC) has been developed for FHP2. This will be
implemented in close cooperation with USAID.
VI. Information, Education, and Communication CIEC)
Lesson 1: Chronic shortages of ink and paper have inhibited production
of print materials.
Result: Donor funds will be used in FHP2 to import these materials, as
necessary.
Lesson 2: Effective design and dissemination of IEC materials cannot be
handled by the head office only; provincial and district involvement is
required.
Result: The ZNFPC is appointing provincial IEC officers; small IEC
units are being established at provincial level; and the Health
Education Unit is decentralizing materials design and production to the
provinces.
Lesson 3: While mass media campaigns are an important part of IEC,
there is also a pressing need to develop training materials for service
providers in communications and counselling, as well as materials for
these providers to use in communicating with clients.
Result: ZEC materials for training for use by service providers are
being included as an integral part of FHP2.
VII. Management of Health Services
Lesson l While there were important advances in health management
under FHP1 (especially through the establishment of the District Health
Services Administrators course), several management sub-systems were not
adequately tackled.
Result: In FHP2, management strengthening will concentrate on financial
systems/skills/policies and on the improved management of medical
equipment, materials, and transport.



- 142 -
ANNEX 7 PART 1
Page 5 of 5
Lesson 2: Even though health planning skills at district and provincial
levels improved in FHPI (and as a result of the planning for FHP2
itself), this was not linked to the development of budgeting and
financial control systems at these levels.
Results A major element of management strengthening in FHP2 will be the
development district-level financial skills and systems.
Lesson 3:  The senior managers of MOH were not fully-involved in
management strengthening in FHPl. This diluted the effectiveness of the
program.
Result:  The MOH top management team have participated heavily in FHP2
preparation, and will themselves undergo management training and analyze
management issues as part of FHP2 implementation.
VIII. Proiect Management
Lesson 1 Given the size and complexity of the project, strong
management systems need to be established at the outset, agreed to by
all component managers, and continuously refined.
Result: FHPl management systems are being upgraded for FHP2; a major
work-planning/project launch workshop will be held in mid-1991, before
FHP2 gets under way.
Lesson 2: Project finances need to be rigorously tracked from the
outset, and streamlined procedures for processing reimbursement claims
must be developed.
Result: A project financial assistant will be appointed for FHP2, to
work with the existing project accountant.
Lesson 3: It is essential that MOH have a full-time physical
plannerlarchitect among its staff, to develop the health facilities
construction program, monitor its progress, and generally liaise
effectively with Ministry of Construction and consulting architects.
Results A physical planner/architect will join the Project Department
as soon as possible, ideally during the first half of 1991.



zIMBABWE
SECOND FAMLY HEALTH PROJECT
Sumry of Vehicle  te
Pr*IJec C__eAeub     Freal S_w   1Matoi  NW   S      hHt                      Total He.    U.It Cost      Zs 'WOO
Pl_maimg    Child  aluith  fRural Ninst    M       a mm. is X    To_ C___
Vehlele Tne                     Sevls          salivey        baposer                   Spar Pers
Lube  I....           __________  ___________ _       24        ____________       24            69          L
4 U                       27            9             16           1+16.1          70            so          4, 80
Tralefra                                              la 18                       6l             12            102
Sod"                      2                                          2             4             46            184
Lorry                                   2                             l             8           138            414
I                                         _ a9                                    10            8S            810
Boat                                                   1       __                   1           300      .      00
Moor Cycle               190           10             so                           2           4   .           3U.4
4NWC        . 8
Bicycle                  675            s                                          7             0.4           326.5
Fl I-V.              _         _        8                      .                           ,    70             560
10,529.9
Note: pj  Cost epe-ds on engine size. ZFC budget ZIM,760. MN budget Z18,000.
'U



- 144 -
ANNEX 7 PART 3
Page 1 of 3
ZIMBABWE: SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
1.    Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
(a)   Progress reports are to be submitted to the Bank every six months
(in April and October) by the Project Management Unit (PMU) within
MOH.
(b)   Project monitoring and coordination will be the responsibility of
the PMU, and the Project Advisory Committee (consisting of the
Project Coordinator and DEputy, and Heads or representatives of
ZNFPC, the Departments of MCH and Health Manpower and the Nursing
Directorate, the MOH planner/s, and the Committee Secretary) which
will meet at least monthly. Additional people, with
respousibility for implementation of parts of the project
(including ZNFPC Unit Heads, the Chiefs of the Nutrition and HEU
Units) will be invited to these meetings as appropriate.
(c)   The Project Coordinator and/or Deputy Coordinator will meet at
least quarterly with the Provincial Medical Directors, to review
project progress and plans.
(d)   ZNFPC's Responsibility  While the PMU and MOH have responsibility
for the entire project, including the parts of the family planning
component which are to be implemented by the ZNFPC, routine
supervision and monitoring of the family planning component will
be carried out by ZNFPC through its existing management structure.
Project progress and issues will be the main agenda item of at
least one meeting each month of the Executive Director and Unit
Heads of ZNFPC. ZNFPC will provide quarterly reports to the PMU,
including financial statements for the project.
(e)   The PMU will be responsible for coordinating arrangements for Bank
supervision missions and for providing information required by
missions. Missions will normally be accompanied by an officer
from the MOH, the PMU and ZNFPC.
(f)   Mission briefing meetings on arrival and wrap-up meetings before
departure will normally be chaired by the Secretary for Health.
ZNFPC will also arrange (in consultation with the PMU) a briefing
meeting for the mission, normally chaired by the Executive Head of
the Council.
2.    Bank Supervision Inputs   It is estimated that regular supervision
from Washington (to review progress reports, procurement actions,
correspondence, etc) will require five staff-weeks in the first two
years of the project and four staff-weeks each year thereafter. The
staff time in the table which follows is in addition to this day-to-day
supervision.



- 145 -
ANNEX 7 PART 3
Page 2 of 3
Bank Supervision Inputs into Key Activities
Approximate
Dates     Expected Skill                             Staff Inputs
(month/year)  Requirements          Activity            (staff-weeks)
9/91  Mission Leader           Project Launch Workshop              2
Economist               and Planning Meeting
Procurement and Disbursement
MCH/Public Health/FP
2/92  Mission Leader           Supervision                          8
Architect
FP
Training/Manpower
Nutritionist
MCH/Public Health
6/92  Mission Leader           Supervision                          8
Architect
Pp
MCH/Public Health
Management
Total FY92    18
11/92 Mission Leader           Supervision                          10
Architect
FP
Training/Manpower
Nutritionist
IEC
5/93  Mission Leader           Supervision                          10
Architect
FP
Training/Manpower
MCH/Public Health
Management
Nursing/Midwifery                                                _
Total FY93    20
10/93 Mission Leader           Supervision                          10
Architect
FP
Training/Manpower
Nutritionist
IEC
Note: "Economies of scale" will be realised by supervising FHP2 jointly
with FHP1 in FY92 and part of FY93.



- 146 -
ANNEX 7  PART 3
Page 3 of 3
5/94  Mission Leader           Supervision                            10
Architect
PP
Training/Manpower
MCH/Public Health
Management                                                          _
Total FY94    2.0
10/94 Mission Leader           Supervision and Mid-term Review       14
Architect
Training/Manpower
PP
Nutritionist
IEC
MCHI/Public Health
5/95  Mission Leader           Supervision                           10
Architect
pp
Training/Manpower
MCH/Public Health
Management
Total FY95    24
10/95 Mission Leader           Supervision                           12
Architect
VP
Training/Manpower
Nutritionist
IEC
5/96  Mission Leader           Supervision                           12
Architect
VP
Training/Manpower
MCH/Public Health
Management
Total FY96    24
10/96 Mission Leader           Supervision                           12
Architect
FP
Training/Manpower
Nutritionist
IEC
10/97 Mission Leader    Project Completion and Review Mission        14
Architect
VP
Training/Manpower
Nutritionist
IEC
MCH/Public Health
Management
Total FY97    26



-147 -                       PANNEX 7 PART 4
Page 1 of 2
LIST OF STUDIES, TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND STUDY ABROAD IN PROJECT
A. Studies
MCH (Including Midwifery and Health Education)
1. Maternal Mortality
2. Impact of inservice Training
3. Midterm Monitoring Survey
4. Distance- and Special Learning Needs of SCNs and Midwives
5. Evaluation of Pilot Distance Learning for Nurses/Midwives
6.  KAP studies in 4 districts on MCH issues to be identified by districts
7. Two operations research studies on effectiveness of health education
Nutrition
8. Midterm review, community-based nutrition and growth-monitoring program
9. Evaluation of community-based nutrition and growth-monitoring program
10. Hospital Breastfeeding practices
11. Effects of Exclusive Breastfeeding and Introduction of Complementary Food
12. Research and Evaluation for Breastfeeding Media Campaign
13. Baseline survey for nutritional surveillance
Family Planning
14. Evaluation of FP clinical course for nurses
15. Evaluation of training in IUCD use
16. National survey of youth concerning Family Planning
17. Evaluation of ZNFPC Youth Advisory Services
18. IEC Impact - longitudinal client study
19. Clinic data review and Baseline Study of Service Providers
20. Focus Groups and Impact Studies of Minorities and Target Groups
Manpower and Managment Strengthening
Functional Reviews of Performance Indicators
B. Technical Assistance
Recruitment Expected
Yrs Mnths to be local/external
MCH (Including Midwifery and Health Education)
Midwifery Temporary Lecturer for UZ               1     4     external
Nursing Educator (Curriculum & Distance Educ)           3     regional
Nursing Educator/Researcher                             2     external
IEC Specialist                                          4     external
Nutrition
Social Marketing Expert                                 3   external
Advisor/Trainer                                   2         external
Surveillance system development, site selection         4   regional/local
Family Planning
Planner and Program Implementation Expert              16   local
Management Experts                                      9   7 local, 2 external
Computer Financial Systems Experts                     10   8.5 local, 1.5 external
Family Planning Strategy and Planning                 1.5   external
Design and Compile Inventory System for ZNFPC           3   local
IEC Specialist/Trainer in Program Management          1.5   external
Manpower and Managment Strengthening
Training Advisor                                 2          external
Curriculum Specialist                             1         external



- 148 -                           ANNEX 7  PART 4
Page 2 of 2
Materials Design and Layout Specialist                  1    local
Editor                                                  2    local
Manpower Management Expert                         2    4    external
Manpower specialists                                    8    local/regional
PIS Expert to Evaluate Decentralised system             2    external
PIS Manual Development                                  1    local
Financial Management Advisor                       3         external
Computer System Design/Programmer                      12    local
Medical Equipment Maintenance Engineer/trainer  3            external
MIS Systems Expert                                      9    external
Programmer                                              6    external
Physical Planning Advisor (Architect)             2          external
Clerks of Works                                  11          external
Procurement Specialist                                  4    external
Project Management Specialist                           6    local
Health Facilities Planner                        10          local
Financial Officer                                 5          local
C. Study Abroad
Years Months/Courses
4 Laboratory Technicians for iodine monitoring            4 x 6
4 District Nutrition Workers                              4 x 1
5 1 yr Diploma Courses in IEC                         5
5 study tours for Youth Advisory Service Staff            5 x 1
1 Masters Degree for ZNFPC Print Manager             1
10 short courses for ZNFPC IEC staff                        10
5 1-week study tours for Senior Health Staff                1
1 Masters Degree for Training Coordinator           1
2 Short Courses in Hanpower Planning                        2
2 Study Tours in Region for Manpower Management             1
1 Course in Medical Equipment Maintenance           1.5
2 Courses in Project Management                           2 x 3
2 Courses in Commissioning                                2 x 1
1 Course in Financial Management                            1



- 149 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 2
ZIMBABWE
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Documents Available In the Proiect File
Greiner, Ted, Zimbabwe Nutrition Review Update, February 1991.
Hall, Clarence, Report on Health Education Needs and Health Education
Component Proposal, Academy for Educational Development, November
1990.
Hopkinson, Kotilainen, and Alban, Second Family Health Project: Rural
Infrastructure Planning, Danish Hospital Institute, January 1991.
Kasule, J., Management of Complications, Dept of Obstetrics and
Gynaecology, University of Zimbabwe, October 1990.
Lynn, Wilma and ZNFPC IEC Unit, FP IEC Component Proposal, Trip Report,
Manoff Group, September 1990.
Manicaland PMD,  Role of Traditional Birth Attendants: the Manicaland
Experience, Manicaland, 1990.
Ministry of Health, Equity in Health (revised version), October 1990.
Ministry of Health, Family Health Project, Phase II: Summary Report,
November 1990.
Ministry of Health, Five-Year Plan for Strengthening Health Management,
November 1990.
Ministry of Health, Health for All Action Plan, 1987.
Ministry of Health, Jenny Huddart, and Joyce Lyons, Health Manpower
Projections and Manpower Strengthening for FHP2, Initiatives Inc.
November 1990.
Ministry of Health, Joyce Lyons and Directorate of Nursing, Midwifery
Training Strategy for .FHP2, November 1990.
Ministry of Health, Nutrition Unit and Ted Greiner, Nutrition Component
Proposal for FHP2, November 1990.
Ministry of Health, Proposals for Strengthening Maternal and Child
Health in FHP2, October 1990.
Ministry of Health, Regional Health Situation Analysis for FHP2,
(A. Greaves), November 1990.
Ministry of Health, Report on PHC/MCHIARI Surveys, October 1988.



- 150 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 2
Ministry of Health, Report of the MCH Consultative Meeting, Kadoma,
December 1989
Ministry of Health, Zimbabwe Country Paper for the SADCC Safe Motherhood
Conference, Harare, October 1990.
Okwesa, B.Andrea, Nutrition IEC Concept Paper, October 1990.
Overholt, Holmberg, Marcellin, and Murahwa, Improving the Cost Recovery
System, John Snow Inc. December 1990.
Paxman, John, ZNFPC Youth Advisory Services Component of FHP2,
September 1990.
Zimbabwe National family Planning Council and Jenny Huddart,
Comunity-Based Distribution Strategy and Clinic-Based Family
Planning Strategy, December 1990.
Zimbabwe National Family Planning Council and Management Sciences for
Health, Strategy for the Zimbabwe National Family Planning
Programme, 1991-96, January 1991.



ZAMBIA                                                  t                                M b t'
f % *\'/ D / -~~~~~~~~16- r f_>t     
NtAMIIA   \    ZIMBABWE   (    ''
toN
BOTSCWATN A           D           S                           HAS    1 =                                                              ;                                        /  1 V                                    -|
25m m         uno            l l ons26-   27'
21 5'          Majo  Stt   Roads                     500' persons                                                                          .       >      .. >.   1            _   _ _                                   ERU R     i
19        Rivers
Communal Lad                          2000                                                                                                                                                ,,*,, 
*   HPtPravinve Capitals10.0
22'    mPovinc    StatneaR.ds                      25,00 
Ralvtrotyna   7onaie                        ,00,0,000                                                                                                                                                                2
-t  Mo,n A,,po,ts ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~c  vw
P6             50c                 tOO MILES       ,00
25'           2'                                      -27      10,33
FEBRUARY 1991



ZAMBIA                                                 6                               S) N,                10                                                                                                           16
Harare      r       >'V4
r4AMIBIA   \ ZIMBABWE          (   t   |4-    
BOTSWANA  k--- 
/   SOUTH         '                                                                                                       '
BTAFRICA ) r-                                                      / .                                    - .'  o                 a
20                        26'                         7
FAIL HEALTH, TROEC C11,                                                                                                           '?     #*w -tX      N  s .    X                   */
LOCTIO VOFi  DITITHSIAS0r QY                                            '-         \                      ;.E          Ji  !..i    N    * *P.'
7, CA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~ 
F                          +~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 
UPRDDU0RHIA DH1                                                                                                                                                     *                 tug                              20iA ><   \.s     .........        Y |
21'      -     Major State Roads                    PROJECT:                t                       Qi \r\t              t                                              A-
-   SeXcondary Statle Roads               PHP Phase IHospital  .               0A                          s+                            j>t                    c.l,>                                              21'-
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                                            4
-         le Railwa s                          FHP Phases II Hospitals   i'       +t *:        -9             L    \t                                         
.-.ai Aivrpot                             EXISTING:                                                                                             a .\a  + 4  c0e t*
Communosl Lands                 Q    Run  Hospitals                                       +     <                                                                                     >^1t.e.
*     Province capitals                *    Reral Health CentersIo . -..s.
22.  -  --   Province Boundaries                *    Missien Hospitals                                                                                                                                 ""      /~lXv$<
*-Istereatronol Boendories          *     tndusrtinl Clinics/Hospitals                                                                                                                     'zn *e:e   z/  h  n z   22'
0           50          0O    ;10 ISLOiitMEtelESjj.rs                                                                                                                                            .00'.dj1  t* ,';  
o                   so                 100 MILES                                                   J4                          )
25-                       2t                       2z.                       2e-              _/    290                                                   31-       <                ;2-                        FEEiRUARYBA 99



_.>   \.,J   {Myt          1g  ~~~~    -          2e                           //f/r?<~      /      \              (        a  
ZAMBIA
4-\
BOTSW ANA              5  /                                                                                                                                    ,
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
P            _anrSRoods                            Nt                                                2,5             0 '  A
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT 11
EXISTING FAMILY PL.ANNING COUNCIL                                                                                                                                                  ,
SERVICES NETWORK (AS OF 1987):                                                                                                                                                                            0
CLINICS AND COMMUNITY-BASED
21    -       Maior State Roads        i         5v  persons                                                                                                                                                21-40DA    -
-       Secondary SLtte Roads              Settlernents over 2,500
-       0ther Roads                             pros
*     Prwrince Copitals                           50/0/0
-   ~province Boundaries-200
-22'         l....... -Internohonal Boundaries        '                                                                '-2
O           25  0     I00        150 KILOMETERS
l    2s   2,   21t  . .  I, , .0 ..  FEBiUARY32  EBRY 1991



ZAMWAA                   4T 
Hrarre
BOTSWANA                                          A'Ij1 7(/o                                              iII.
27'                         c& AA
~~~~~~~~~~'J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
22'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2



