Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19522
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
(Loan No. 3339-ZIM)
June 29, 1999
Africa Human Development Group 1
Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed
without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIALENTS
Currency Unit = Zimbabwe Dollar
Appraisal: US$1.00 = Z$ 2.50
Project Closing: US$1.00 = Z$ 37.3
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS           Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
CBD            Community Based Distributor
CHW            Community Health Worker
FHPI           First Family Health Project
FP             Family Planning
HIV            Human Immuno-deficiency Virus
IEC            Information, Education and Communication
MCH            Maternal and Child Health
MOF            Ministry of Finance
MOHCW          Ministry of Health and Child Welfare
MPCNH          Ministry of Public Construction and National Housing
PMU            Project Management Unit
RHC            Rural Health Center
SCN            State Certified Nurse
T FR           Total Fertility Rate
ZNFPC          Zimbabwe National Family Planning Council
Managers and Staff Responsible
Vice-President:        Callisto Madavo (AFRVP)
Country Director:     Barbara Kafka (AFCO3)
Sector Manager:       Ruth Kagia (AFTH1)
Task Team Leader:     Hope Phillips Volker (AFTH1)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ..                                         .............................................i
Introduction               ..............................................i
Project Objectives ..............................................i
Implementation Experience and Results                              ............................,.,.i
Major Factors Affecting the Project                            .............................................  ii
Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned   ............................................ iii
PART  I:  PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT                                             1.....................................
Introduction and Background ........1......................................
Project Objectives .......                                  ........................................                   1
Achievement of Project Objectives .....................................                .       .      .       .        4
Implementation Experience ........................................ .....                                               4
Major Factors Affecting the Project .....................................               .      .      .       .        7
Project Sustainability .....................             ........................................8
Borrower Performance ..................................... ....................... 9
Bank Performance .............................................................                             .9
Assessment of Outcome .....                  ...................................................... .                11
Future Operations ........................................................   . .       .         .                   11
Key Lessons Learned .............                                        ...............................................    12
PART  II:  STATISTICAL  ANNEXES ................................                           ...............................   14
Table IA: Summary of Assessments ...............................................................                     14
Table IB: Summary of Assessments: Family Planning Component .......................... 15
Table IC: Summary of Assessments: Maternal and Child Health Component ........... 15
Table ID: Summary of Assessments: Nutrition Component .................                              .................... 16
Table 1E: Summary of Assessments:  Rural Health Delivery Component ..........                                  ........ 16
Table IF: Summary of Assessments: Health Manpower Component                                          ........................ 17
Table 1G: Summary of Assessments: Health Management Strengthening and PMU
C om  ponent ...............................................................                                         17
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ...............................................................                  18
Table 3: Project Timetable ..........................                               ............ ...................    19
Table 4: Loan Disbursements, Estimated and Actuals ................................................ 20
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ...................................................  21
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation (continued) ..............                          .................. 22
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation  ...........................................................    23
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation (continued) ..................                      .......................  24
Table 7: Studies Included in Project ............................................               ...................   25
IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Table 8A:  Project Costs ......................................................    26
Table 8B: Project Financing Plan, SAR  Estimates and Actual .................................. 27
Table 9:    Status of Legal Covenants                           ......................................................   28
Table  10:  Compliance with  Operation Manual Statements ........................                              ................  29
Table 11: Bank Resources -- Staff Input . ......................................................  30
Table  12: Bank Resources: Missions ......................................................                                     31
Table  12: Bank Resources - Missions (continued) ....................................................  32
Table  12: Bank Resources - Missions (continued) ....................................................  33
Table  13: Component/Description/Status and Rating ................................................  34
Table  13:  Component/Description/Status and Rating (continued) ..............                                    ............... 35
Table  13:  Component/Description/Status and Rating (continued) ..............                                    ............... 36
Table  14:  District Hospitals Constructed  .......................................                        ................   37
Table  15: Rural Health Centers Constructed/Rehabilitated ......................................-38
Table  15: Rural Health Centers Constructed/Rehabilitated  (continued) ..................... 39
Table 15: Rural Health Centers Constructed/Rehabilitated  (continued) ..................... 40
Table  16:  Current Nursing  Situation at RHCs ......................................................                          40
Table  17:  Distribution  of Nursing Posts and  Staff by Level of Service ...........                                 ........... 41
Table 18: National Totals for Nursing Establishment, In Post- and Vacancies .......... 42
APPENDICES
Appendix A: Completion Mission's Aide Memoire
Appendix B: Borrower's Evaluation Report
Appendix C: Civil Works and Related Topics
Appendix D: Borrower's Comments on Draft ICR
Appendix E: Map of Zimbabwe



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
(Ln. 3339-ZIM)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Family Health
Project in Zimbabwe, for which Ln. 3339-ZIM in the amount of US$25 million was
approved on June 4, 1991, and made effective on February 25, 1992.
After a one-year extension from the original closing date of December 31, 1997,
the loan was closed on December 31, 1998, and the balance will be fully disbursed'.
DANIDA, SIDA and NORAD provided co-financing for the project. The closing date
for the NORAD grant has been extended to December 31, 1999.
This ICR has been prepared, even though the NORAD grant's closing date has
been extended, because most of the activities have been completed. The ICR was
prepared by Hope C. Phillips Volker, from the Human Development Technical Group I
of the Africa Region and reviewed by Mrs. Ruth Kagia, Sector Manager; Ms. Barbara
Kafka, Country Director for Zimbabwe; and Surendra Agarwal, Manager Operations
Support. The borrower provided comments on the ICR. NORAD and DANIDA
informed the Bank by phone that they had no comments. SIDA did not provide
comments.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission, November 3 to 17, 1998, comprising Ms. Hope C. Phillips Volker (Team
Leader), and Mr. Bengt Jacobson (Architect, Consultant), with input provided by Dr.
Kees Kostermans (Sr. Public Health Specialist). The report is also based on material in
the project files. The Borrower contributed by providing views reflected in the mission's
aide-memoire (Appendix A), preparing its own evaluation of the project's execution and
initial preparation (Appendix B), as well as commenting on the draft ICR (Appendix D).
The ICR also benefited from the OED report, The Impact of World Bank Support to the
HNP Sector in Zimbabwe2, and colleagues from the Bank who prepared and worked on
the project, as well as Mr. Andrew Follmer, a member of AFTHl's Quality Team.
As of June 20, 1999, US$ 24,778,713.61 or 99.11 percent was disbursed. The remainder of the funds will
be utilized to pay a final withdrawal application that is still pending, per agreement with the
Disbursement Officer.
2 Report No. 18141, June 30, 1998, Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group, Operations Evaluation
Department, The World Bank.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
(Ln. 3339-ZIM)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
1.    During the first decade after Independence, great strides were made towards
improving the health status of Zimbabweans, particularly in rural areas, by reorientation
of expenditures from upper-income urban households to poor rural families, a focus on
primary and preventive care, and strong political support for reducing the rate of
population growth. This resulted in improved indicators for infant mortality, child
malnutrition and modem contraceptive usage. It was agreed however, that more needed
to be done in order for Zimbabwe to achieve its goal of providing access to good-quality
preventive and curative care. It was envisaged that the Second Family Health Project
would make a major contribution to the realization of Zimbabwe's health, population,
and nutrition (HPN) goals in the 1990s, as the centerpiece of Government's five-year
investment program (1991-1995).
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.    The objectives of the project were to provide the required financial and human
resources for most of the Government's five-year investment program for HPN, and
promote policy and institutional reforns. These investments were envisaged to: (a)
improve maternal and child health (MCH) and nutrition status; (b) reduce the rate of
population growth; and (c) ensure that households in the 16 worst-served districts (40%
of the population in 1991) would have access to basic HPN services. To achieve these
objectives, the project would increase the output and effective utilization of trained
Zimbabwean health, family planning, and nutrition workers, enhance the Ministry of
Health and Child Welfare's (MOHCW) capacity to plan and manage HPN activities; and
increase efficiency and mobilize additional resources. The objectives were extensive and
realistic for the time at which the project was appraised. It was designed to "do the right
things", and to "do things right". The instrument (a project) utilized, however, was
probably not the most appropriate vehicle for accomplishing the objectives, which were
sector-wide in nature. The Loan funded part of the infrastructure and facility equipment
only, and the remaining activities were dependent on parallel or co-financing.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
3.    The achievement of these objectives is variable. The project improved the
availability of maternal and child health, and nutrition services, but did not improve the
health status of Zimbabweans to the extent envisaged. The total fertility rate (TFR) has
been reduced well beyond the target. Health facilities in the 16 districts were
constructed, but a shortage of health staff means that some facilities are less than fully



Evaluation Summary
staffed. Substantial changes in Zimbabwe over the last three years have contributed to
the project only partially attaining the objectives.
4.    Implementation experience. Overall the project was implemented satisfactorily,
although a number of parallel-financed activities were implemented only partially or not
at all. The project was extended for one year to allow for the completion of activities that
were primarily infrastructure-related. Disbursement lags were experienced initially, as a
result of the three-year delay in commencement of construction. DANIDA withdrew its
support to the project in 1995, and alternate funds had to be sought for activities it
supported. SIDA-funded activities were completed on time. With excellent, flexible
cooperation, the NORAD Grant was extended for a second time to December 31, 1999,
to allow for the completion of new activities they agreed to fund. Problems associated
with financial management in the last year of the project were discovered during the final
six months. These were resolved by the Bank and Ministry, and necessary
reimbursements were made by the Borrower.
5.    A Project Implementation Manual was prepared at the outset and utilized by
component managers and districts which ensured that infonnation for management and
donors was in an agreed, consistent and comparable format obviating the need for
differing reports for different donors. The Bank's bi-annual implementation reviews were
timed to coincide with quarterly review meetings held at rotating venues with the staff
from the provinces, districts, ZNFPC, and the headquarter component managers. These
reviews included co-financiers, parallel financiers, and implementers of the IDA-
supported Sexually Transmitted Infections Prevention and Care Project, as well as
representatives from the Ministry of Finance and the National Economic Planning
Commission. These sessions provided a more holistic approach to the sector and a forum
for districts to share problems which others may have encountered and, in many
instances, solutions which had worked.
6.    The major challenge faced by MOHCW was the tendering for the civil works and
medical equipment. For the civil works, the Unit benefited from a hospital architect who
worked half-time for four years in MOHCW. The placement of technical assistance in
the ministry responsible for construction to assist in supervision activities once
construction commenced helped ensure that the costs were adhered to during the
construction phase. Due to the late start in construction, a decision was taken to
commence all construction at the same time, contrary to the original phased approach,
which resulted in the periodic shortage of building materials, which caused delays at
some construction sites. For the procurement of medical equipment, technical assistance
was utilized to assist not only in procuring, but in training relevant headquarter and
peripheral staff in commissioning procedures. This helped ensure that the contractors
lived up to their obligations and that commissioning proceeded with fewer hitches than
would have been experienced in its absence.
MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
7.    A number of factors contributed to the variable outcome of the project. These are
largely beyond the sector and include: (i) the faltering economy; (ii) the rapid increase in
the prevalence of the Human Immuno-deficiency Virus (HIV) and Acquired Immune
ii



Evaluation Summary
Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS); (iii) a decreasing proportion of Government's overall
budget going to the health sector; and (iv) inadequate health human resources.
8.    Borrower Performance is rated as satisfactory. A dedicated team was put in
place to prepare the project, and consultations with stakeholders were undertaken which
resulted in buildings that meet functional needs constructed within budget. Strategic
decisions by MOHCW resulted in the reduced scope of some components and activities
becoming redundant. Performance of the Project Management Unit (PMU), staffed
mainly by civil servants, was satisfactory, but declined in the last two years of the project,
when both regular and technical assistance staff left and were not replaced. The loss of
key financial staff, poor record keeping and inadequate handover has contributed to the
current less-than-satisfactory performance by the PMU.
9.    Bank Performance is rated as satisfactory with a collaborative atmosphere
maintained from identification to completion. The team's decision not to halt activities
mid-stream, once it was recognized that the original objectives would not be completely
achieved, was the correct one, as a more negative outcome would have resulted.
However, the following caveats should be noted. The team should have worked more
closely with the Bank's macro-economists and the Ministry of Finance (MOF) in seeking
solutions to constraints to achieving the project's development objectives. The problems
associated with the financial management of the project might have been detected sooner
if a financial management specialist had been included on the team periodically. On a
positive note, the partnership and trust that existed between the organizations is reflected
in a team member being nominated to serve on the Presidential Health Review
Commission. Supervision ratings given by the Bank team, on the basis of the Loan, were
largely accurate.
FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
10.   The shortage of human resources in the health sector should be one of the top
priorities to be addressed by MOHCW. The Ministry should lobby vigorously for the
delay in the construction of any new facilities until adequate human resources to staff
new and existing facilities can be guaranteed. The Nursing Directorate should seek
solutions to the shortage of trained midwives at Rural Health Center (RHC) level.
ZNFPC's new strategy focuses on means of becoming more self-sustaining. It will be
important for the Council, and MOHCW to ensure that these measures do not preclude
providing access of FP services to those unable to afford them. The importance of
appropriate Information, Education and Communication (IEC) interventions is
recognized by MOHCW, and it will need to ensure that appropriate IEC activities
continue. These issues will be addressed as part of the health program currently under
preparation.
11.  In planning for any future operations, the following key lessons should be taken
into consideration:
(a)   Using agreed report formats facilitates the review process for government
managers and donors, and reduces the different reports which have to be prepared
by implementors.
111



Evaluation Summary
(b)   Reviews that involve all partners result in improved results where technical and
practical issues can be discussed and resolved through shared experience.
(c)    Close collaboration with the Bank's macro-economists is important to seeking
solutions to the impact that the macro-economic policies might have on
attainment of project objectives.
(d)   Reliance on parallel financing in the absence of agreed development objectives
makes the attainment of the project objectives uncertain.
(e)   Utilizing a sector investment program rather than a specific project during times
of economic uncertainty would provide flexibility and facilitate the Bank's ability
to respond to changing circumstances in-country and to client's needs.
(f)   Involving users and appropriate expertise at the planning and construction stage
results in buildings that meet functional needs, and are built within budget.
(g)   Staggering construction activities across the life of the project would ease high
peak loads at critical stages of construction, as well as the workload of staff
supervising, valuing and making payments, and allow curtailment of construction
if deemed prudent.
(h)   Having a commissioning system in place and staff adequately trained in its use
greatly reduces the complications that can be encountered in the delivery of health
facility equipment.
iv



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
(Ln. 3339-ZIM)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND
1.   In 1980 when Zimbabwe gained its independence, it inherited a health system that
was skewed towards the smaller urban population (which included most whites),
resulting in health indicators for the general population that were among the worst in the
world. During the first decade after independence, great strides were made towards
improving the health status, particularly in rural areas, with a reorientation of
expenditures from upper-income, urban households to poor rural families, a focus on
primary and preventive care, and strong political support for reducing the rate of
population growth. This resulted in: a decline in infant mortality (from over 100 deaths
per 1000 live births in 1980 to 53 in 1990), a decrease in the prevalence of severe child
malnutrition (from 22% in 1980 to 12% in 1991), and increased use of modem
contraceptive methods (from 14% of married women of reproductive age in 1980 to an
estimated 36% in 1988). Many of these improvements were attributed to community-
based workers notably the Community Health Worker (CHW), and the Community
Based Distributor (CBD) who concentrated on family planning. While the First Family
Health Project (FHBPI) supported some of the improvements, it was agreed that more
needed to be done in order for Zimbabwe to achieve its goal of providing access to good-
quality preventive and curative care to its population.
2.    At the time of appraisal, it was envisaged that the Second Family Health Project
would make a major contribution to the realization of Zimbabwe's health, population,
and nutrition (HPN) goals in the 1990s, as the centerpiece of Government's five-year
investmentprogram(1991-1995). TheprojectwouldassistZimbabweinachievingits
equity, efficiency and quality-of-life improvement objectives, while simultaneously
protecting low-income households from the adverse social consequences of
Government's intention to embark upon economic adjustment. This objective would be
achieved through a variety of means.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.    The objectives of the project were to provide the required financial and human
resources for most of the Government's five-year investment program for HNP, and
promote policy and institutional reforms. These investments were envisaged to: (a)
improve maternal and child health (MCH) and nutrition status; (b) reduce the rate of
population growth; and (c) ensure that households in the 16 worst served districts (40%
of the population) would have access to basic HPN services. To achieve these objectives,
the project would increase the output and effective utilization of trained Zimbabwean
health, family planning, and nutrition workers, enhance the Ministry of Health and Child



PARTI: Implementation Assessment
Welfare's (4OHCW) capacity to plan and manage HPN activities, and increase
efficiency and mobilize additional resources. IBRD only funded US$25 million of the
total original project cost of US$116 million .
4.    Specifically the project would (a) promote the expansion of family planning (FP);
(b) improve maternal health and child nutrition programs; (c) build, staff and equip rural
health facilities in the most deprived districts in the country; and (d) boost the output and
quality of various cadres of basic health workers. Support would also be provided to
strengthen critical management systems for financial resources, personnel, and physical
assets. These objectives were designed to be implemented through the following
components:
(a)   Family Planning (US$15.7 million, DANIDA and NORAD). Implemented by
the Zimbabwe National Family Planning Council (ZNFPC), this component
included (i) in-service FP training programs for government nurses; (ii) expansion
and revitalization of the CBD outreach system to improve rural access to FP; (iii)
expansion and development of urban FP service centers capable of providing
long-term methods; (iv) provision of a Youth Advisory Service (YAS) center in
three Provincial capitals; (v) support to FP information, education and
communications (IEC) activities; and (vi) strengthening ZNFPC's program
management.
(b)   Maternal and Child Health (US$10.1 million, NORAD and SIDA). This
component aimed to reduce infant and child mortality as well as the reduction of
maternal mortality and morbidity from preventable causes, and obtain reliable
estimates of maternal mortality. Support to the 16 districts included: (i)
equipment to facilities and training in its operation and maintenance; (ii)
computers, radio communication and vehicles and training in their appropriate
use; (iii) nurse training in the integrated provision of MCH/FP services; (iv)
training primary school teachers in weighing, height measuring and screening for
hearing and vision defects; (v) training of central and field level health education
officers in research, social marketing, planning and program management; (vi)
studies on maternal mortality rates; (vii) training 32 midwifery tutors and
expanding the capacity of 8 nursing schools2; (viii) reasonable accommodation
and cooking facilities at 32 rural health centers (RHCs) for nurse training; and (ix)
piloting a distance learning program to be evaluated after three years.
(c)   Nutrition (US$3.4 million, SIDA). Support for the expansion and strengthening
of nutrition activities in the 16 project districts included (i) pyramidal orientation,
training and planning workshops for community-based growth monitoring, as
well as scales, cards, surveys, and transport; (ii) improving preservation, storage
and processing of locally produced foods; (iii) nutrition kits for Village
Community Workers; (iv) training for nurses in lactation management; (v)
1  See Table 3, 8A and 8B for financing details.
2  The objective was to increase the percent of nurses trained in midwifery to 50% overall, and to 60%
in the rural health centers and hospitals.
2



PARTI: Implementation Assessment
research for effective management of diarrhea and infant feeding; (vi) a national
iodated salt monitoring system; (vii) expanding the intake of Institutional
Domestic Supervisors; and (viii) JEC in support of the foregoing activities .
(d)  Strengthening Rural Health Delivery (US$61.0 million, IBRD and NORAD).
This component provided funding for the construction of 16 district hospitals and
RHCs in the 16 districts.
(e)   Health Manpower Development (US$1.4 million). To contribute to more
effective manpower planning, training, deployment and management, this
component supported: (i) training of trainer courses; (ii) developing a training
information system; (iii) books and training equipment for training centers; (iv)
developing curricula and training 60 teachers in competency-based methodology;
(v) technical assistance to a manpower planning and management task force; (vi)
training of provincial and district level staff in personnel administration, including
the necessary equipment; and (vii) evaluating the pilot personnel information
system prior to country-wide utilization.
(f)    Health Management Strengthening and Project Management Unit (US$7.3
million. ODA for Health Management and NORAD for Project
Management). The health management strengthening component supported: (i)
skill and procedure development for equipment management; (ii) developing new
policies, skills and systems required to mobilize additional resources for the
health sector3; (iii) piloting and extension of an integrated computerized district
health information system; (iv) training of the top management team in improved
work culture at the Ministry; and (v) establishing a Masters in Public Health
program at the University of Zimbabwe. The PMU support included: (i)
expansion of skills of the Unit; and (ii) vehicles, computers, software and office
equipment necessary to undertake their responsibilities.
5.    Evaluation of Project Objectives. The objectives were extensive, and realistic
for the time at which the project was appraised. The cross-cutting nature of the
objectives were a challenge to MOHCW and the Bank. It was designed to "do the right
things", and to "do things right" incorporating lessons learned from FHP1. However, as
a number of activities in support of the objectives depended on appropriate financing, the
risk, in the absence of an agreed to Letter of Development should have been identified in
the Staff Appraisal Report. Dramatic changes in the country's economy and burden of
disease, which could not have been foreseen at the time of developing these objectives,
meant that not all of the activities were "the right things" if viewed in the current country
context. The instrument (a project) utilized was probably not the most appropriate
vehicle for accomplishing the objectives, which were sector-wide in nature. As the Loan
was only funding part of the infrastructure and facility equipment for Strengthening Rural
Health Delivery component, the remainder of the activities were dependent either on
parallel or co-financing.
3  The target was to increase MOHCW revenue collection from 3% of recurrent spending in 1990 to at
least 10% by 1995.
3



PARTI: Implementation Assessment
ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIWES
6.    The achievement of these objectives was variable. The project improved the
availability of maternal and child health and nutrition services in the 16 project districts,
although it did not improve the peoples' health status to the extent envisaged. The
population growth rate has been reduced, not withstanding the withdrawal of the main co-
financier of the Family Planning component. This is a tribute to the effective CBDs,
training in MCH/FP, and support from donors "outside of the project". Access to basic
HPN services was achieved to the extent that all 70 RHCs are functioning and 9 of 16
hospitals are fully functional. Seven of the new hospitals are partially functional. While
rural health facilities were constructed and equipped in the most deprived districts,
staffing remains a problem. This is due not only to a lack of established posts, but is also
the consequence of unfilled existing posts, partially as a result of failing to boost the
output of various cadres of basic health workers, and partially due to construction
activities undertaken outside the project by the Government. Finally, the personnel
system is non-functional, although management systems are now being put into place for
physical assets, and financial management4. Substantial changes in Zimbabwe over the
past three years, many of which were beyond the control of MOHCW, have contributed
to the project only partially attaining the objectives.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
7.    Overall the loan and co-financed activities were implemented satisfactorily,
however a number of parallel financed activities were only partially implemented or not
implemented at all. The project, as designed, was to be disbursed over a period of 5 years,
with an original closing date of December 31, 1997; a one-year extension was granted in
order to complete the Rural Health Delivery component funded through the loan and a
co-financier. A Project Implementation Manual was prepared at the outset and utilized
by component managers and districts participating in the project. This ensured that
information for management and donors was in an agreed, consistent and comparable
format obviating the need for differing reports for different donors. Reporting by districts
and component managers followed this during most of the life of the project, however the
quality began to slip during 1997.
8.    Quarterly review meetings were held with the staff from the Provinces, Districts,
ZNFPC, and the headquarter component managers, which allowed the PMtJ to have an
up-to-date picture of how project activities were progressing. The Bank's bi-annual
implementation reviews were timed to coincide with these review sessions, and were held
at rotating venues to facilitate field visits. These were extremely rich experiences for the
participants which included representatives of the co-financiers, parallel financiers, and
implementers of the IDA-supported Sexually Transmitted Infections Prevention and Care
Project5, as well as representatives from the Ministry of Finance and the National
Economic Planning Commission. By including concerned parties, the reviews provided a
more holistic approach to the sector and an opportunity to keep partners informed of
The former through project co-financing and the latter outside project funding.
The combined review mechanism was introduced in 1994.
4



PARTI: Implementation Assessment
progress. This mode of review allowed component managers and the Bank to hear of
constraints and/or progress from the district implementers, as well as providing a forum
for districts to share problems which others may have encountered and, in many
instances, solutions which had worked.
9.    The Staff Appraisal Report noted co-financiers as the European Community (EC),
Denmark (DANIDA), Norway (NORAD), the Netherlands and UK (ODA). Although
these donors provided parallel support to the five year strategy, only DANIDA (FP), and
NORAD (FP, MCH, Rural Health Delivery, Health Management Strengthening and
PMU), from the anticipated co-financiers, and SIDA (Nutrition and MCH) provided co-
financing. As the circumstances in-country changed, and depending on the modalities of
the support, not all of the parallel financing materialized as expected. ODA curtailed its
original support to the Health Manpower Development and Health Management
Strengthening components, and the EC counterpart funding for water at health centers
was halted when IMF support to the country was put on hold. Failure to fully implement
the former has contributed to the delays in some management strengthening activities.
Timely availability of funds for water resulted in some RHCs initially being without a
water supply; however, more than 95 percent now have a water supply, and the Water
Department is working to extend the water supply to the remaining facilities.
10.   DANIDA co-financing supported most of the activities to be implemented by
ZNFPC. Disagreement over the modalities of this support (specifically technical
assistance provided), and concern over financial management issues resulted in
DANIDA's decision in December, 1995, to terminate support to the health sector through
this mechanism. Concurrently, grant funding to ZNFPC declined. As a consequence,
ZNFPC drastically curtailed these activities, while.alternative funding was sought. A
prioritized proposal for funding IEC and training was prepared, and these activities
resumed with NORAD funding.
11.  Implementation of the MCH activities was undertaken through co-financing by
NORAD and SIDA. Still under implementation are the provision of radio
communication and solar lighting at facilities with NORAD funding. The expansion of
midwifery training schools is currently being funded by Government from its own
resources outside the project. SIDA co-financing in support of the nutrition component
was increased during the project. The nutrition department's innovation in designing
programs to fit existing circumstances contributed to ameliorating the effects of the
droughts faced by the country on child nutritional status. The only activities not
undertaken were those requiring technical assistance. These the MOHCW would not
allow the component to secure through the project (e.g. technical assistance to develop,
test and produce nutrition kits, see Table 13). The majority of SIDA funds were
disbursed by the original project closing date, with only a small balance being returned.
12.  In addition to funding MCH and PMU activities, NORAD also supported
construction of RHCs, staff housing and equipment. NORAD's grant amount was
increased in 1997 to cover the training and IEC activities of ZNFPC, and a second time to
fund water for RHCs and for the equipment maintenance and management activity. The
Grant Agreement was initially extended to December 31, 1998, to allow for the
completion of the civil works, facility equipment, and ZNFPC activities. The closing
5



PARTI: Implementation Assessment
date for the NORAD funds has been extended a second time, to December 3 1, 1999, to
allow for the completion of the equipment maintenance and management activities.
13.   Although there was a slow start to the construction activities, and the consequent
delay in commencing equipment procurement, these activities were successfully
completed during the one-year extension. Construction was managed through the
Ministry of Public Construction and National Housing (MPCNH), and this resulted in the
need for close collaboration between MOCHW and MPCNH. Reaching agreement
between the parties on tender procedures took longer than anticipated, contributing to a
disbursement delay of almost three years for the loan. The provision of technical
assistance to both ministries in infrastructure planning and supervision went a long way
towards reducing potential price over-runs. More variations than anticipated were
required, due to inadequate drawings for some sites. However, since the PMU put in
place a systematic approach to convey variation orders, this minimized problems that
could have arisen. Due to the late start in construction, a decision was taken to
conmmence all construction at the same time, contrary to the original phased approach.
This resulted in the periodic shortage of building materials, which caused delays at some
construction sites. A shortage of counterpart funding during 1996 delayed construction
activities and resulted in interest penalties being levied by the contractor. Overall these
did not result in insurnountable delays in the construction activities and the contractor
completed the civil works in the agreed to time without major over-runs. The non-phased
approach also meant that MOHCW had to staff all these facitities at the same time,
instead of staggering the staffing. This contributed to the current staffing shortages at
project facilities.
14.   The Manpower Development component was never fully implemented. While a
personnel information system was developed and peripheral staff trained in its use, it is
unfortunately currently non-functional due to software problems. The Health
Management Strengthening and Project Management Component was to be funded by
ODA and NORAD respectively, although NORAD is currently funding the equipment
maintenance and management activity under the Health Management Strengthening
Component. The other activities under the Health Management Strengthening
Component were undertaken. However, an evaluation noted that the absence of baseline
data made an accurate evaluation difficult. The Project Management, responsible for
coordination and monitoring, successfully undertook its responsibility, except as noted
below.
15.   The PMU was responsible for procurement under the project, and the process
largely went smoothly during the first five years. The major challenge faced by the Unit
was the tendering for the civil works, and medical equipment. For the civil works, the
Unit benefited from a hospital architect who worked half time for four years in MOHCW.
This, and the placement of technical assistance in the MPCNH to assist in supervision
activities once construction commenced, helped ensure that the costs were adhered to
during the construction phase. For the medical equipment procurement, technical
assistance was utilized to assist not only in procuring, but also to train relevant
headquarter and peripheral staff in commissioning procedures. The training and the
system assisted staff in ensuring that the contractors lived up to their obligations and that
commissioning proceeded with fewer hitches than would have been experienced in its
6



PARTI: Implementation Assessment
absence. Systems for equipment management and maintenance have been designed, and
staff are being trained to ensure maximum benefit and life from the equipment procured
under the project.
16.   Disbursement and Financial Management. Projected disbursements were not
achieved until construction commenced and equipment was procured. Once this
occurred, the disbursements were not far from the projections. Disbursement for the non-
infrastructure portion of the project moved at a relatively steady pace. Some delays in the
disbursement under the FP component were experienced due to ZNFPC's slowness in
properly accounting for funds utilized. No problems were experienced on financial
management until May, 1998, when it was discovered that there had been a 14 month lag
in seeking reimbursements for co-financed activities; the result of staff turnover in the
PMU. A review of SOEs for May 1998 indicated that there was inappropriate use of
project funds (claiming reimbursement for tax payments) and a failure to follow Bank's
procurement procedures in some instances in the latter part of the project. The Bank and
the PMU met; the PMU has reimbursed these funds.
17.   Legal Covenants. All of these have been met with one exception: the audit
report for 1995/96 was over a year late, and the report for 1996/97 is still awaited. A
Maternal Mortality Survey was supposed to be undertaken in 1994, but as a Demographic
and Health Survey was being undertaken at that time, funding was approved to undertake
a Quality of Care Study.
MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors Beyond Government's Control
18.   A succession of droughts during the project negatively impacted on health status
in general.
Factors Within Government's Control
19.   Government's decision, prior to negotiations, to reduce the Loan by US$ 10
million resulted in the need for more counterpart funds later in the project. The impact of
this decision came at a time when Government was reducing its funding to the health
sector, and the need for counterpart funds had not been planned for adequately. Over the
last three years, MOHCW has been receiving a smaller proportion of Government's
overall budget: 9% of the overall budget in 1996/97, 8.2% in 1997/98, and 8% in
1998/99. Political pressure to proceed with the construction of a large new hospital,
negatively impacted on the financial and human resources for the health sector as a
whole. Government's decision to release a number of nurses when they went on strike in
1996 reduced human resources in the health sector as well as staff morale. The shortage
of health personnel was worsened by health staff leaving the public sector for more
lucrative jobs, and the lack of human resources to fully staff the new facilities has
resulted in seven district hospitals being only partially operational. Government's
decision to commence RHC construction with donor funds which were later not available
7



PAR TII: Implementation Assessment
resulted in nearly 5% of the constructed RHCs being without water (see Table 15),
thereby reducing their efficiency and effectiveness.
20.   The faltering economy in the last three years has eroded civil servants' salary and
led to large losses of public sector health staff, negatively impacting on the availability of
health human resources, with over 50 percent of basic nursing graduates opting to work
outside the public health sector in 1997. The HIV/AIDS pandemic6 has placed a major
strain on the health sector, contributing to the reversal of gains in matemal and child
health and life expectancy indicators. The current estimated adult HIV/AIDS prevalence
rate for the entire country is slightly over 26 percent7. Having such a very high
prevalence of HIV/AIDS has put a strain on the health sector not only in financial terms,
but also in terms of staff morale and actual staff shortage. Currently it is estimated that
over 60% of the hospital beds are occupied by patients with AIDS, and AIDS-related
diseases.
21.   The Government's decision in 1993 to stop the training of and phase out State
Certified Nurses (SCNs) from 1993 reduced the output of new nurses available to support
the health sector and, in particular, reduced the pool of this basic nurse cadre which was
the back-bone of the rural health delivery system8
Factors Within MOHICW Control
22.   The MOHCW had partial control over some areas discussed in this section.
Given the current economic situation, there has been an increased emphasis on self-
sustainability, and the grant to support ZNFPC has been reduced. As uncertainties
surround its future, ZNFPC has experienced a loss of key staff, including most of the
trainers. The introduction of cost recovery without adequate explanation to providers and
clients resulted in a drop in attendance at health facilities. Not ensuring that fees
collected could be retained at facilities resulted in a less than anticipated cost recovery
rate. Despite being the lead Ministry to request fee retention, the MOHCW was not
given that right until 1997. It was the first ministry to retain fees.
PROJECT SUSTALNABILITY
23.    Sustainability of the project activities is uncertain in the present lackluster
economic climate. With financial and human resource constraints, whether the
infrastructure funded by the project will be fully utilized over the short- or even medium-
term is uncertain. Failure to fully utilize the infrastructure could affect the medical
equipment procured, as equipment malfunctioning could occur if it is allowed to stand for
long periods without use and is not adequately maintained. However, maintenance of
physical infrastructure has become more reliable since the establishment, at each district,
of a Health Service Fund which is being utilized in part to maintain infrastructure at
6   Prevalence among antenatal attendants ranged from between 7.6 to 20.3 percent in 1990 to 18.7 to 32
percent in 1994/95.
7   Deaths attributed to AIDS are currently reported at 1200 per week.
8   See Tables 16, 17 and 18 for the current nursing situation.
8



PARTI: Implementation Assessment
district level. While some of the activities initiated under the project have been taken up
by the Government, such as nutrition, there are a number of activities that will not
continue to the extent MOHCW would like without donor support. These include
training and EEC activities of ZNFPC, midwifery training, support for in-service and
refresher nurse training, as well as expansion of basic nurse training, which will be
necessary even if MOHCW decides to curtail the construction of health facilities which
are currently in the pipeline. The Government's move towards decentralization and the
sector's move towards health reforms is raising questions relating to centralized vs.
decentralized management of programs, as well as what the MOHCW's function would
be in a decentralized mode of operation. The decision by Government to decentralize
construction and building maintenance to line ministries means that MOHCW will have
to acquire the capability to take on this responsibility. The establishment of the Health
Services Fund at the district level, funded through fee collection and donor support, will
assist districts to undertake priority activities at their level, such as building maintenance.
This should positively impact on activities initiated under the project.
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
24.   The Borrower's performance during identification and preparation is rated as
satisfactory. A dedicated team was put in place by MOHCW to prepare the project, and
most lessons learned from FHPI were incorporated into this project's design.
Consultations with stakeholders were undertaken and the civil works component reflects
the positive aspect of this activity: buildings that meet the functional needs.
25.   MOHCW's performance on the narrow implementation issues was satisfactory, as
many of the problems associated with the delays in civil works were the result of working
with a sister Ministry, and the learning curve associated with Bank procurement
procedures. The provision of architects and a quantity surveyor through the project led to
good cost control of the civil works. Component activities funded under the Loan and
through co-financiers were marginally satisfactory. The Government undertook strategic
decisions, such as phasing out of SCNs, that necessitated reducing the scope of some
components. The benefits of including and collaborating with relevant ministries were
recognized, and they were invited to attend the review sessions. Performance of the
PMU, staffed mainly by civil servants, was initially satisfactory, but declined in the last
two years of the project, when both regular and technical assistance staff left and were
not replaced. Many of the problems the PMI experienced during this time were the
result of loss of key staff, especially on the financial side, and poor record keeping. The
problems were also the result of insufficient handover by departing staff to those
expected to take up these duties.
BANK PERFORMANCE
26.   Performance by the Bank during identification, preparation and appraisal is rated
as satisfactory. A grant facility was accessed which allowed the utilization of experts in
various fields to work with both the Bank and MOHCW team in the project's preparatory
phase. The participatory approach at this stage of the project resulted in a project-owned
9



PAR TI: Implementation Assessment
by all. The preparation team was, however, overly optimistic about the willingness of
donors to co-finance and the implications of relying on parallel financing should probably
have been mentioned as a risk.
27.   The Bank's performance during implementation is rated as satisfactory. There
were four task managers over the implementation period, each a previous member of the
team. This provided continuity and contributed to the good relations that existed between
the Ministry and the Bank, with an atmosphere of partnership maintained over the
implementation period. The Bank undertook reviews on a bi-annual basis, and co-
financiers participated on an annual basis. Combining implementation reviews of the
Bank's support to the health sector, resulted in a more sector-based approach to the
reviews, thereby avoiding duplicate meetings with MOHCW and allowed for exchanges
of ideas between Ministry and donor staff.
28.   The Bank's recommendation to install solar lights concurrent with the provision
of solar radios at RHCs was approved; their inclusion will improve the staff working
conditions at RHC's after dark. Concern expressed by the Bank on users' confusion
surrounding the imposition of health fees, and the drop in RHC utilization, led to a study
on user fees and the ultimate abolishment of these at RHC level. Although actual human
resource constraints were raised by the Bank missions, the absence of hard data made
quantifying the problem difficult. In response to this, the Bank assisted in the preparation
of terms of reference, and funding, for a study on human resources in the health sector.
The respect and trust that existed between the Borrower and the Bank is reflected in
Government's naming of a member of the Bank's health team to sit as a Commissioner in
the President's Health Review Commission.
29.   Ratings given by the Bank team, on the basis of the loan funding for construction
and equipment, were accurate. The objectives, however, included activities funded by
parallel and co-financiers and some of the ratings during the latter part of the project
should probably have been unsatisfactory. However, the Form 590, and the project
Supervision Report, do not provide this flexibility and it would have been difficult to split
the ratings between the options provided. Retrofitting of some components was
undertaken as a result of Bank proposals as well as donor withdrawal. The team's
decision not to halt activities mid-stream, once it was recognized that the original
objectives would not be achieved, was the correct one, as a more negative outcome would
have resulted. Given the impact that HI V/AIDS has on a population's health status, the
team should probably have revised the indicators to bring them in line with the
anticipated deterioration of health indicators. As the economic situation began to
deteriorate, the Bank team should have been more proactive in working with the Bank's
macro-economists in identifying and finding solutions to macro-economic constraints to
achieving the project's development objectives. Problems associated with Project
Financial Management such as reimbursing for taxes paid only surfaced during the last
year of the project. These might have been avoided if there had been a financial
management specialist in the Resident Mission with responsibility for oversight.
10



PARTI: Implementation Assessment
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
30.   Although the component outcomes were variable, the overall assessment of the
project is marginally satisfactory. It is important to bear in mind that many of the
uncertain or unsatisfactory outcomes are the result of dramatic changes experienced in
the economy over the last two years, the HIV/AIDS crisis, strategic decisions by the
Borrower, as well as changes in parallel financing. The components with better
outcomes achieved this by being proactive and responsive to changes occurring outside
of their control, as well as receiving the necessary, including non-financial, support from
MOHCW management. The components, the status of the activities, as well as the
ratings for the components are provided in Table 13.
31.   In the absence of this project, the health sector would have seen fewer staff
trained in midwifery and MCH/FP at the periphery, lower than achieved improvements in
children's nutrition status, and basic health services being less accessible to many of the
poorer, remote areas. The less than expected improvements in health indicators can, as
noted above, largely be attributed to the impact of the HIV/AIDS pandemic which is
eroding most of the health gains achieved in the 1980s.
32.   The Family Planning Component is rated as satisfactory, as the population growth
rate, measured by TFR, was reduced. However, it should be noted that these
accomplishments cannot all be attributed to the project alone. Even though there has
been a decline in maternal and child health status, the Maternal and Child Health
Component is rated satisfactory as there were improvements in MCH service delivery.
Increased mortality is the result of factors outside of the project's control. The Nutrition
Component is rated as satisfactory, with an improvement in breast feeding practices,
strengthening of the Community Food and Nutrition Programme, and the establishment
of a sentinel surveillance system for nutrition. The Strengthening Rural Health Delivery
Component is provisionally rated as marginally satisfactory, pending resolution of the
shortage of human resources to staff facilities and the availability of water. The Health
Manpower Development Component is rated as unsatisfactory, since manpower planning,
training, deployment and management deteriorated. The Health Management
Strengthening and Project Management Unit Component is difficult to rate, but is
provisionally rated as satisfactory, since the component activities are still on-going under
the NORAD grant.
FUTURE OPERATIONS
33.   Along with many other Sub-Saharan African countries, Zimbabwe is in the
process of undergoing fundamental health reforms, necessitated by the changing
economic climate. HIV/AIDS is also contributing to the decline in health indicators that
had been achieved during the 1980s and early 1990s. With dwindling Government and
possibly donor support, ZNFPC's new strategy focuses on means of becoming more self-
sustaining. It will be important for the Council, and MOHCW to ensure that these
measures do not preclude providing access to FP services for those unable to afford them.
Strategies for improving the uptake of long-term FP methods should also be given high
priority. Government's endorsement of the setting up of a Nutrition Council reflects the
efforts made by this department in furthering the goal of putting this activity at a higher
11



PARTI: Implementation Assessment
level, and reflects Government's commitment to improving the nutrition status of its
population. The importance of appropriate IEC interventions is recognized by MOHCW,
and it will need to ensure that appropriate IEC activities continue.
34.   The shortage of human resources in the health sector should be one of the top
priorities to be addressed by MOHCW. Through the provision of a Japanese Grant, the
Ministry has utilized technical assistance to prepare a Human Resource Development
Strategy. This report provides both a qualitative and quantitative analysis of the current
human resource situation in health, as well as recommendations for addressing the
current and future shortages. MOHCW should seize this moment to source funds for
ensuring that a reliable, and responsive Personnel Information System is put in place to
assist MOHCW management make informed decisions and seek support from relevant
ministries. The Ministry should lobby vigorbusly for delay in the construction of any
new facilities until adequate human resources to staff facilities can be guaranteed. While
targets for the training of nurses in midwifery have largely been met, there are still nurses
at RHC level who have not received training in this critical skill. The Nursing
Directorate needs to find solutions to this problem as a matter of priority. These issues
will be addressed as part of the health program currently under preparation.
KEY LESSONS LEARNED
35.   The major lessons learned from the implementation of FHP2 are given below:
(a)   Using agreed report formats facilitates the review process for managers and
donors and reduces the number of different reports which have to be prepared.
(b)   Reviews that involve all partners result in improved results where technical and
practical issues can be discussed and resolved through shared experience.
(c)   Close collaboration with the Bank's macro-economist could have assisted the task
team to ascertain and seek solutions to the negative impact that the
macroeconomic policies might have on attainment of project objectives.
(d)   Reliance on parallel financing in the absence of agreed to development objectives
makes the attainment of the project objectives uncertain.
(e)   Utilizing a sector investment program rather than a specific project during times
of economic uncertainty would provide flexibility and facilitate the Bank's ability
to respond to changing circumstances in-country and to client's needs.
(f)   Involving users and appropriate expertise at the planning and construction stage
results in buildings that meet functional needs, and are built within budget.
(g)   Staggering construction activities would ease high peak loads at critical stages of
construction, as well as the workload of staff supervising, valuing and making
payments, and allow curtailment of construction if deemed prudent.
12



PARTI: Implementation Assessment
(h)    Having a commissioning system in place and staff adequately trained in its use
greatly reduces the complications that can be encountered in the delivery of health
facility equipment.
13



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
SECOND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
(Ln. 3339-ZM)
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
TABLE IA: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives
Macroeconomic policies                                                    X
Sector policies                                           X
Financial objectives                                                      X
Institutional development                                 X
Physical objectives                        X
Poverty reduction                                         X
Gender issues                                             X
Other social objectives                                   X
Enviroinmental objectives                                                                  X
Public sector management                                                  X
Private sector development                                                                 X
Comimunity Empowerment                                                                     X
m,        ,4'/'
B. Project Sustainability                                                      X
C. Bank Performance
Identification                                            X
Preparation assistance                                    X
Appraisal                                                 X
Supervision                                               X
D. Borrower Performance
Preparation                                X
Implementation                                            X
Covenant compliance                                       X
E. Assessment of Outcome                 X_



PARTII: Statistical Annexes
Zimbabwe
Second Family Health Project
TABLE 1B: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS: FAMILY PLANNING COMPONENT
A. Achievement of Objectives
Macroeconomic policies                                                        x
Sector policies                  X
Financial objectives                                         X
Institutional development                      X
Physical objectives                                          X
Poverty reduction                              X
Gender issues                                  X
Other social objectives                        X
Environmental objectives                                                      X
Public sector management                                     X
Private sector development                                                    X
Other (specify)
B. Project Sustainability                                         X
C  Assessment of outcome                           X
TABLE IC: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS: MATERNAL AND CHILD HEALTH
COMPONENT
A. Achievement of Objectives
Macroeconomic policies                                                        X
Sector policies                                X
Financial objectives                                                          X
Institutional development                                    X
Physical objectives                                           X
Poverty reduction                              x                              x
Gender issues                                  x
Other social objectives                        X
EnviroDnmental objectives                _X
Public sector management                                                      X
Private sector development                                    _X
Other (specify)
B. Project Sustainability                                         X
C  Assessment of outcome                           X
15



PART II: Statistical Annexes
Zimbabwe
Second Family Health Project
TABLE ID: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS: NUTRITION COMPONENT
W.,W''~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~ ,p.'WA W:W"
A. Achievement of Objectives
Macroeconomic policies                                                        X
Sector policies                               X
Financial objectives                                                          X
Institutional development        X
Physical objectives                                                           X
Poverty reduction                             X
Gender issues                                                                 X
Other social objectives                       X
Enviromnental objectives                                                      X
Public sector management                      X
Private sector development                                                    X
Other (specify)
B. Project Sustainability             X
'.''   ..',    A .  A/, /'   .             TJus~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ..   ... . ,,......AL
C. Assessment of outcome                           X
TABLE IE: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS: RURAL HEALTH DELIVERY COMPONENT
A. Achievement of Objectives
Macroeconomic policies                                                          X
Sectorpolicies                     X
Financial objectives                                                            X
Institutional development                                      X
Physical objectives                X
Poverty reduction                                              X
Gender issues                                                                   x
Other social objectives                          x
Environmental objectives                                                        X
Public sector management                                                        X
Private sector development                                                      X
B. Project Sustainability                                         X
. ~ ~ ~ ~   ~   ~   ~   ~  IKj . . .%....
;.D_'  ';; ;r ;t;%;Sg,, =@  'Aft,8
C. Assessment of outcome                           X
16



PART II: Statistical Annexes
Zimbabwe
Second Family Health Project
TABLE IF: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS: HEALTH MANPOWER COMPONENT
A. Achievement of Objectives
Macroeconomic policies                                                       x
Sector policies                               x
Financial objectives                                                         x
Institutional development                                   X
Physical objectives                                                          x
Poverty reduction                                                            X
Gender issues                                                                x
Other social objectives                                                      X
Environmental objectives                                                     X
Public sector management                                     X
Private sector development                                                   X
Other (specify)
B. Project Sustainability                          X
C. Assessment of outcome                                         X
TABLE IG: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS: HEALTH MANAGEMENT STRENGTHENING
AND PMU COMPONENT
A. Achievement of Objectives
Macroeconomic policies                                       X
Sector policies                               x
Financial objectives                                         X
Institutional development                     X
Physical objectives                                                          X
Poverty reduction                                                            X
Gender issues                                                                X
Other social objectives 
Environmental objectives 
Public sector management                      X
Private sector development                                   X
B. Project Sustainability                                        x
17. .. *  ~  4.
C. Assessment of outcome                                         x
17



PARTII: Statistical Annexes
Zimbabwe
Second Family Health Project
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Past Operations
Family Health Project   Expand famnily planning services by training nurses  FY87         PCR
(Ln. 2744-ZIM)          and carrying out effective JEC activities; strengthen             December 12,
US$52.5 million         management of health services at district level and in            1994
MOH headquarters by training health administrators
and other specialized staff; and provide improved
rural health care by upgrading and equipping 8
district hospitals, 50 rural health centers and 20 small
rural hospitals.
On-going Operations
Sexually Transmitted    To (a) ensure an adequate supply of condoms for      FY93         Extended
Infections (STI)        disease prevention; (b) ensure implementation of the              closing date:
Prevention and Care     National Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs)                     December 31,
Project                 Prevention and Control Program, which provides a                  2000
(Cr. 2516-ZIM)          policy framework vital to the success of STI control;
US$64.5 million         (c) enhance Government capacity to identify and
treat, in those most at risk, the STDs that facilitate
transmission of human immuno-deficiency virus
(HIV); (d) treat selected HIV-related infections,
especially those that pose a general public health
threat, such as tuberculosis (TB); (e) facilitate HIV
testing and counseling of persons seeking to know
their HIV status; (f) ensure the continued safety of
the blood supply; and (g) protect health care workers
and facilitate home based care for AIDS patients.
18



PART II: Statistical Annexes
Zimbabwe
Second Family Health Project
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Identification                                                       Ocoer 11, 1989
Preparation                            November 1989                 My1990
Appraisal                              Sept-Oct., 1990               November 12, 1990
Negotiations                           March 1991                    April 1991
Letter of Development Policy (if
applicable)
Board Presentation                     April 4 1991                  June 4, 1991
Signing                                June-July, 1991               July 25, 1991
Effectiveness                          October, 1991                 February 25, 1992
Establishment of Special Account
Changes to the Development Credit
Agreement:
(a) Changing % of Bank funding from
40% to 100% of foreign and 40% of                                October 27, 1992
local expenditures under Category I,
Works
(b) Changing the reference to Bank                                  October 27, 1992
guidelines for procurement of
consultants from May 1985 to May                                 October 27, 1992
1992
(c) Adding that Borrower may grant a                                December 11, 1996
margin of preference to domestic
contractors
(d) Increasing the special account                                  September 24, 1992
amount from $250,000 to $2,000,000                               July 30, 1993
SIDA Grant Agreement:                  October 21, 1996              October 29, 1996
Signing Date
Increasing contribution by                                           July 5, 1993
SKR21,000,000                                                        December, 1995
Increasing contribution by SKR3,000,000
DANIDA Grant Agreement:                                              September24, 1992
Signing Date                           February 6, 1997              April 8, 1997
Terminated early                       June 10, 1997                 November 26, 1997
NORAD Grant Agreement:
Signing Date
Increasing contribution by NOK3,200,000
Increasing contribution by
NOK37,000,000
Mid-term Review (if applicable)        March 1, 1995                 November 30, 1995
Project Completion                     December 31, 1997             December 31, 1998
Closing                                December 31, 1997             December 31, 1998*
Full Project Closing                   April 30, 1998                April 30, 1998*
*This reflects all of the activities originally envisaged for completion by the Loan and co-financiers. NORAD's decision to pick-up
an activity originally to be funded by a parallel fnancier has necessitated the extension of that Girant to December 31, 1999.
19



PARTII: Statistical Annexes
Zimbabwe
Second Family Health Project
TABLE 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS, ESTIMATED AND ACTUALS
FY1992         Q3                1.14         1.14              0.00         0.00
Q4               0.02          1.16              0.00         0.00
FY 1993        Q1                1.12        2.28               0.25         0.25         1%
Q2                1.81        4.09               0.00         0.25         1%
Q3               2.00         6.09               0.00         0.25         1%
Q4                1.81        7.90               0.00         0.25         1%
FY1994         Q1               2.00         9.90               0.00         0.25         1%
Q2               2.50        12.40               0.00         0.25         1%
Q3               2.50        14.90              -0.25         0.00.        0%
Q4               2.50        17.40               0.00         0.00,        0%
FY1995         Q1        I      2.50         19.90              0.00o        0.00         0%
Q2                1.20       21.10               0.00         0.00i        0%
Q3                1.35       22.45               0.00         0.001        0%
Q4                1.35       23.80               1.19         1.19         5%
FY1996         Q1                1.20       25.00               1.33         2.52        10%
Q2                                               0.32         2.84        11%
Q3                                               0.63         3.47        14%
Q4                                               1.22         4.69        19%
FY1997         Q1                    _                          1.42         6.11        24%
.Q2                   I                           1.30         7.41        30%
Q3                                              10.28        17.69        71%
Q4                                               2.03        19.72        79%
FY1998         QI                                               2.41        22.13        89%
Q2                                               2.16        24.29        97%
Q3                                               0.16        24.45        98%
Q4         _                                     0.03        24.48]       98%
* The negative disbursement in the third quarter of FY1994 reflects the Borrower's return of the amount
in the Special Account, as it had been inactive for over one year.
20



PARTII: Statistical Annexes
Zimbabwe
Second Family Health Project
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Family Planning
Lowering total fertility rate (TFR) and raising percentage From 5.5 m 1986 to 4.5 in 1996 for TFR and 36% to    1994 data shows the TFR was 4.3 and 42% MWRA using
of married women of reproductive age (MWRA) using   48% for MWRA using modem methods            modem methods.
modem contraceptive methods
Increasing percentage of married women using    From 4% in 1988 to 12% in 1996                  7.7%
permanent and semi-permanent methods
Training in Family Planning                     3500 nurses and 120 doctors                     Not available
MCH
Lowering Infant Mortality Rate                  From 53 in 1990 to 43 in 1996                   80 in 1997 .
Vaccination Coverage; complete course at correct  from 70% in 1994 to 85% in 1996               74% in 19964 .
age/interval
Increasing percentage of pregnant women receiving  From 90% in 1990 to 95% by 1996 for antenatal care    For antenatal care: 74.1%, and for health facility delivery:
antenatal care and who deliver in a health facility  and from 70% to 85% for health facility delivery  81.5%5
Increasing proportion of nurses in district and rural  To 60% by 1996                           44%in1994
service trained in midwifery
Expand training capacity                        At eight schools                                Not done under Project; Government will fund
11994 Zimbabwe Demographic and Health Survey. Zimbabwe 1997 Inter-Censal Demographic Survey Report (page 135) gives an estimated TFR in 1997 as
4.32.
21994 Zimbabwe Demographic and Health Survey.
3Data from Zimbabwe 1997 Inter-Censal Demographic Survey Report (page 144).
4Data from Ministry of Health and Child Welfare.
5Data for ANC visits from Table 6.1.1 on page 129 of the Zimbabwe National Health Profile 1996, for under fives; data for health facility delivery was
extrapolated from that table (institutional live birth/total reported live births).
6 Information provided by districts to Nursing Directorate in 1994.
21



PARTII: Statistical Annexes
Zimbabwe
Second Family Health Project
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION (CONTINUED)
Nutrition
Reducing malnourished children aged 6-36 months    From 12% in 1990 to 5% in 1996                    To 6.4% in 1996'.
(<80% of the reference weight for age)
Strengthening Rural Health Delivery
Construction of District Hospitals                 16                                                 16
Construction of RHCs                               Not specitied                                      70
Health Manpower Development
Establish Personnel Information System at District level                                              Established but software currently non-functional
Health Management Strengthening and PMU
Increasing level of cost recovery by MOH           From 3% of recurrent budget expenditures in 1990 to at  1.5% in 1995
least 10% by July 1, 1995.
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~
7 Data from page 22 of the Zimbabwe National Health Profile 1996.
8 Public Expenditure Review.
22



PARTII: Statistical Annexes
Zimbabwe
Second Family Health Project
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
~~~   ~~~ .~~~N'N~~~~~  ***4$..V.i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..N'........
Family Planning
1. Continue training programs         External funds required to                                  Joint donor meetings to discuss
undertake this: being sought                               the needs of ZNFPC and solicit
assistance.
2. Rural outreach services maintained  Outreach services continue to be                           Means of ensuring sustainability
provided                                                   without reducing the uptake of
these services is being explored.
3. Improve on uptake of long-term     Appropriate staff will need to be                           Work with interested parties to
contraceptive methods                 trained and methods will need to                            work out the way forward.
be more accessible
Maternal and Child Health
1. Maintenance of equipment, vehicles and  Training of district staff in                          Supervision by central level to
solar equipment                       equipment maintenance and                                   ensure appropriate actions being
management                                                 undertaken
2. Adequate and appropriately trained staff  Human Resource Needs   Provision of refresher courses    Follow-up on recommendations
providing quality services             Assessment Study completed                                 for improving numbers, quality
and morale of health staff
3. IEC which is appropriate and responsive  Protocols to address knowledge,                       Continue working with district
to stakeholders' needs                attitude and practices are being                            and central level staff to ensure
prepared for a number of                                   services provided are responsive
diseases
23



I'ART 'Il: Statistical A.2nexes
Zimbabwe
Seconid Family Health Project
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION (CONTINUED)
Nutrition
1. Providing leadership to nutrition related   Setting up of a National                           Continue on-going activities to ensure
activities in-country                 Nutrition Council                                           nutrition and food security issues are
not minimized or side-lined
Rural Health Delivery
1. Maintenance of infrastructure and  Sensitizing district staff on  Need to create capacity at   Put in place a maintenance
equipment                             maintenance issues            MOHCW to maintain             management system
infrastructure as responsibility
has been transferred to MOHCW
Health Manpower Development
A Manpower Unit has been set                               Follow-up on recommendations from
up under the Planning                                      the Human Resource Strategy
Department
Health Management Strengthening
1. Equipment maintenance and          Training of central and                                     Collaboration between central staff
management                            peripheral staff is ongoing                                 and the periphery to ensure systems
are fulctioning
2. Managers who are appropriately      Continued training of staff in                             On-going training to be provided as
equipped to fulfill their responsibilities  management skills                                 .  required
Project Management
Management of externally                                    Staff from the PMU will either be
funded activities will be                                   mainstreamed, or moved into the new
mainstreamed in the Ministry                                unit being created as a result of the
transfer of infrastructure maintenance
to sector ministries.
24



PART II: Statistical Annexes
Zimbabwe
Second Family Health Project
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
F P
Evaluation of FP clinical course for nurses                     Not done
Evaluation of training in IUCD use                              Done          Findings used to redirect program
National survey of youth concerning Family Planning             Not done      GTZ funded a "National Reproductive Health Study of Youth"
Evaluation of ZNFPC Youth Advisory Services                     Not done
JEC Impact - longitudinal client study                          Not done
Clinic data review and Baseline Study of Service Providers      Not done
Focus Groups and Impact Studies of Minorities and Target Groups  Not done
MCH______
Maternal Mortality
Impact of In-service Training                                   Not done
Midterm Monitoring Survey
Distance and Special Learning Needs of SCNs and Midwives        Not done
Evaluation of Pilot Distance Learning for Nurses/Midwives       Not done
KAP studies in four districts on MCH issues to be identified by districts  Undertaken    Results shared at quarterly review meetings and formed the basis for the
districts to amend the way in which providers interacted with patients.
Two operations research studies on effectiveness of health education  Undertaken    Results assisted the health education unit improve the material which was
being produced.
Nutrifion
8. Midterm review, community-based nutrition and growth-monitonrng
program                                                         Undertaken   Information used to plan for future evaluation
9. Evaluation of community-based nutrition and growth-monitoring
program                                                         Ongoing       Decision taken on the need for impact evaluation
10. Hospital Breastfeeding practices                            Ongoing       43 hospitals named Baby Friendly; target is 213
12. Research and Evaluation for Breastfeeding Media Campaign    Undertaken    Flagged counseling as a component which required improvement
13. Baseline survey fornutritional surveillance                 Undertaken    Data to be utilized for evaluation purposes; will also assist in the way
forward.
Health Manpower and Management Strengthening
21. Functional Reviews of Performance Indicators                Not done      Currently underway
Rural Health Delivery
22. 'Building for Health Care' workshop to disseminate lessons learned    Undertaken   Involved all SADC region. Resulted in a widely used book.
from FH2
25



PARTII: Statistical Annexes
Zimbabwe
Second Family lHealth Project
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
US$ millions
Component                 Local  Foreign  Total   Local Cost   Foreign Cost         Total
Cost    Cost
Maternal & Child Health Services        1.6       5.6    7.2                                       4.23
Nutrition                               1.5       1.9    3.4                                      2.138
Midwifery                               1.5       1.3    2.8
Rural Health Centers                    5.6       1.7    7.3                                       8.44
District Hospital Equipment             1.1       6.0    7.1                                       11.46
District Hospitals                     28.0      18.7   46.7                                      40.99
Family Planning                         8.4       7.4   15.8                                        0.80
Health Manpower & Management &          2.7       6.0    8.7                                       0.89
PMU
Physical Contingencies                  5.7       4.3   10.0
Price Contingencies                     4.0       3.9    7.9
TOTAL                                  60.1      56.8  116.9                                     .68.94
Notes: Maternal and Child Health figures include Midwifery component.
Table underestimates components due to under-estimate of Government contribution and does not contain
parallel financing information
26



PARTII: Statistical Annexes
Zimbabwe
Second Family Health Project
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN, SAR ESTIMATES AND ACTUAL
US$ millions
'A
Government*               46.6         6.1          52.7                                 23.04
ZNFPC                       1.4         1.1          2.5
IBRD                       0.0        25.0          25.0                                  25.0
Co-financiers**:
EEC
DANIDA                    2.1         1.6          3.7
NORAD***                  4.5         3.8           8.3                                   0.3
Netherlands               1.6        12.6          14.2                                  16.5
ODA                       2.5         3.3          5.8
SIDA**                    1.4         3.3          4.7
0           0            0                                    4.1
Total                     60.1        56.8         116.9                                 68.94
*Accurate Government contribution data is unavailable; this amount is most likely an underestimate
**EEC, Netherlands and ODA financing information unavailable, as they parallel financed.
*This amount includes US$3.8 million yet to be disbursed.
27



PART II: Statistical Annexes
Zimbabwe
Second Family Health Project
TABLE 9: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Borrower shall recruit 80
Loan       3 03(a)    community based distributors
by 6.30.93 and appropriate
numbers thereafter          10              C                6.30.93         6.30.93
3.03(b)    Borrower to recruit 40
nutrition coordinators by
6.30.93                    10               C                6.30.93         6.30.93
3.04      Borrower to do MCH surveys  9                                 1991 and       1991 and    Quality of Care Survey
in 1991 and 1994                            C                 1994           1994        conducted in lien of MCH
survey
3.05      CMED to prepare and
implement a plan for
maintenance of vehicles
assigned to MOHCW          10               CP               7.1.92
3.06      Borrower to do midterm                                                                   By mutual agreement date for
review.                    9                C                 1994           11.95       midterm postponed to October
1995
4.01      Borrower to provide annual
I audits                    1                 CP               Annual         Annual      Audits completed to 1995.
C: Completed; CP: Completed Partially
28



PARTII: Statistical Annexes
Zimbabwe
Second Family Health Project
TABLE 10: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATION MANUAL STATEMENTS
OD 10.60 Accounting,        Paras. 26-27 of OD 10.60 state that, as a minimum, financial reports should normally
Financial Reporting, and    comprise a statement of receipts and payments, as well as total project costs and
Auditing                    sources of financing, and that the supporting schedule of statements should disclose
annual and supplemental budget allotments, actual expenditures under each budget
category for which Bank financing is fumnished, and the actual expenditures and
amounts of Bank disbursements claimed. In short, financial reporting should cover all
accounts pertaining to project expenditures, irrespective of sources of financing.
OD 13.10 Borrower           Audits were submitted in a timely manner for the first three years of the Project. The
Compliance with Audit       1995/96 audits were one year late, and the 1996/97 audited reports are still awaited.
Covenants
OP 6.30 Local Cost          The Bank usually expects the Borrower to demonstrate commitment to the project by
Financing and Cost Sharing    making a 10% minimum contribution to project cost (net of taxes and duties).
The Borrower's contribution towards the infrastructure component of the Project
amounted to 64%.
OD 13.30 Extension of       The Bank may approve for selected disbursements covering only part of a project to
Closing Dates               permit (a) implementation of some mutually agreed, high priority contracts; (b) the
extension of the validity of letters of credit covered by a special commitment or (c)
provision for retention payments, when the condition for release (e.g. completion of
performance tests or expiration of a warranty period) are met after the closing date.
The Bank extended the closing date of the Loan by one year and allowed an
additional 4 months after the project closing date for completion of civil works, and
delivery of equipment.
OD 13.55 ICR Preparation    The Borrower prepares and makes available to the Bank its own evaluation on the
project's execution and initial operation, cost and benefits, the Bank and Borrower's
performance of their respective obligations under the loan agreement, and the extent
to which the purposes of the loan were achieved, adopts a plan for the operational
phase of the project and assists the Bank in ICR preparation.
The National Economic Planning Commission is preparing the Borrower's evaluation
of the Project. The implementing agencies have all provided input into the
preparation of the ICR.
29



PARTII: Statistical Annexes
Zimbabwe
Second Family Health Project
TABLE 11: BANK RESOURCES -- STAFF INPUT
Preparation to Appraisal       NA           NA          NA        NA         185.6       227.0
Appraisal               NA           NA           NA        NA          66.6       122.1
Negotiations through Board
Approval                NA           NA           NA        NA          51.4       80.4
Supervision              62.0        153.3        90.8      193.3       128.5      197.5
Completion               13.0        25.6          4.5       8.6         0.2         7.3
30



PARTII: Statistical Annexes
Zimbabwe
Second Family Health Project
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Impl. Status         Developmental Obj_
Through Appraisal
Appraisal through Board
Approval
Initial Summary          8/91       0          0                                                 NR                   NR
Portfolio Status Update  8/91       0          0                                                  S                    S
1/92      4          14          Demographer, Public Health            HS                   HS
Supervision                                               Specialist; Manpower Specialist;
Economist
Portfolio Status Update  8.92       0          0                                                  S                    S
Supervision              10.92      8          14         Architect; NORAD physician;             S                    S
NORAD Ob/Gyn; Economist;
Family Planning; SIDA Ob/Gyn;
SIDA Physician
Portfolio Status Update   11.92     0          0                                                 HS                   HS
Supervision              6.93       6          14         Architect, Public Ilealth              HS                   HS
Physician; Manpower,
Economist; Midwifery Specialist
Portfolio Status Update  6.93       0          0                        _                         S                    S                  _
31



PAR TIJ: StatisticalAnnexes
Zimbabwe
Second Family Health Project
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES - MISSIONS (CONTINUED)
W   ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ "A.
Impl.      Develop-mental
Status     Obj.
Supervision      11.93      5         14     Architect; Operations           S              S
Analyst; Manpower; Public
Health; Economist
Portfolio Status    6.94    0         0                                      S              s
Update                                      I
Supervision      12.94      5         14     Architect; Operations           S              S
Analyst; Manpower; Public
Health; Economist
Supervision      6.95       5         14     Architect; Operations           S              S          DANIDA decides to phase out its support to FHP2 at
Analyst; Manpower; Public                                the end of 1995, one year early.
Health; Economist
Portfolio Status    6.95    0         0                                      S              s
Update
11,95     5         21     Architect; Operations           S              S          Need for greater use of "program" flexibility to achieve
Supervision (mid-                            Analyst; Manpower; Public                                 greater cornplementarity among the components.
tenn review)                                 Health; Economist                                         Manpower Component, which never really started, has
been canceled.
Portfolio Status    6.96    0         0
Update
7.96      4         14      Architect; Operations          S              S          Early indications are that Ministry of Finance may not
Supervision                                  Analyst; Public Health;                                   allocate adequate FY97 counterpart funds to cover
Economist                                                GOZ portion of construction costs.
Supervision      11.96      4         14     Architect; Operations           S              S          Midwifery training hampered by deployment issues;
Analyst; Public Health;                                  lack of venue in FHP2 districts resulting in less than
Economist                                                expected outputs in MCH/FP.
Need to train district staff in commissioning of
equipment.
Inadequate allocation of counterpart funds resulting in
________  _____  _______________________  _________  ________________  interest  penalties  for  GOZ.
32



PARTII StatisticalAnnexes
Zimbabwe
Second Family Health Project
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES - MISSIONS (CONTINUED)
6.97      4         14    Architect; Operations          S              S          Commissioning activities will need careful attention.
Supervision                                 Analyst; Public Health;                                 Funding gap for ZNFPC due to donor withdrawal;
Economist                                              supplementary funding sought from elsewhere.
Extemal factors: (a) inability of Ministry of Health to
retain health workers; (b) lack of counterpart funding
for some civil works activities.
11.97     3         14    Architect; Operations          S              S          Late payments to civil works contractor resulted in
Supervision                                 Analyst; Public Health                                  work stoppage and penalties.
Lack of manpower and posts had had and continues to
have an effect on the intended benefits of the project,
resulting in shortage of staff in hospitals constructed
under the project or hospitals, which are completely
unstaffed.
Supervision      6.98      3         14    Architect; Operations           S             S
Analyst; Public Health
ICR Mission      12.98     3         14    Architect; Operations           S             S          Delays in payment to contractors resulting from
Analyst; Public Health                                 IBRD' s unwillingness to disburse until around
US$232,000 sent to Special Account is located; under
investigation by Ministry of Finance. Equipment
maintenance and management component lagging; one
year extension of NORAD Grant to be sought. Loss of
project financial staff and Project Coordinator
negatively impacts Project financial management.
*'Between January 1998 and the present one member of the team was on an extended mission based in Zimbabwe. T'hese days have not been included as days in the field.
33



PARTII: Statistical Annexes
Zimbabwe
Second Family Health Project
TABLE 13: COMPONENT/DESCRIPTION/STATUS AND RATING
M;im '1k14g1S.
Family Planning  (1) the carrying out of a training program;                 (1) Done;                                   S
(2) improving the access to rural outreach services;        (2) Done;
(3) increasing the use of long tern contraceptive methods;  (3) Not as much increase as anticipated;
(4) carrying out an information, education and communications  (4) Done;
program;
(5) expansion of youth advisory services; and                (5) Started; and
(6) strengthening the management of the family planning program.    (6) not achieved.
Maternal and    (1) the acquisition of standard equipment for facilities in the Project  (1) Under implementation;       S
Child Health       Districts, vehicles and radio communication equipment;
(2) training and refresher courses for nursing staff;        (2) Training done, few refresher courses;
(3) training of primary school teachers, acquisition of equipment and  (3) Done;
provision of school health cards;
(4) carrying out a study to determine maternal mortality rates in  (4) Done;
selected areas;
(5) carrying out periodically, monitoring and evaluation surveys of   (5) Done;
health and nutrition services and immunization coverage and
acquisition of computer equipment including training therefor;
(6) training of health education officers in communications research,  (6) mostly done;
social marketing, planning and program management and training
of health workers in communications, and acquisition of
communications equipment for the Project Districts;
(7) training midwifery tutors and expansion of the capacity of eight   (7) tutors trained, no expansion undertaken
existing state certified midwifery training schools; and    under the Project, Government will fund
(8) strengthening of basic and in-service nursing training.     this activity; and
(8) done.                               _
34



PARTII: StatisticalAnnexes
Zimbabwe
Second Family Health Project
TABLE 13: COMPONENT/DESCRIPTION/STATUS AND RATING (CONTINUED)
U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ig 
Nutrition       the carrying out of training courses, study tours and planning  (1) Done;                                S
workshops;
strengthening and improving the targeting of the Borrower's  (2) done;
Community Food and Nutrition Programme;
acquisition of vehicles, bicycles and motorcycles;          (3) acquired but not dedicated to nutrition
development, testing and production of nutrition kits for use by village  only;
community workers;                                           (4) technical assistance required disallowed
carrying out a program to improve breast-feeding, including training  by management;
and information, education and communication activities;     (5) done;
carrying out research to facilitate more effective intervention for
diarrhea management and infant feeding;                      (6) not done;
acquisition of equipment and supplies for iodine testing and selection
of sentinel surveillance sites and development of a nutritional  (7) 12 sites established; and
surveillance system; and
acquisition of equipment and supplies, and training of institutional
domestic supervisors.                                        (8) equipment and supplies acquired but only
1 intake allowed by management.
Rural Health    (1) the construction or upgrading of district hospitals or facilities, staff (1) done; and              HS
Delivery           housing and training facilities in each Project District, including
equipment and furniture; and
(2) construction or upgrading of rural health centers and staff housing  (2) done.
in such Districts.
35



PART II Statistical Annexes
Zimbabwe
Second Family Health Project
TABLE 13: COMPONENT/DESCRIPTION/STATUS AND RATING (CONTINUED)
.iC.~*~   :bSe-trix.-,wn. A)..
Manpower        (1) extension and strengthening of the Borrower's in-service training  (1) not done.                  US
Development        system;
(2) strengthening basic training through development and    (2) modules developed but not used;
improvement of induction manuals and teaching modules;
(3) carrying out specific planning and management analyses and  (3) not done; and
undertaking provincial workshops; and
(4) decentralizing the personnel function and information system,  (4) done but program is currently non-
including training and acquisition of equipment and materials.  functional.
Health          (1) the development of skills and procedures for planning, ordering,   (1) under implementation;       S
Management         procuring, utilizing, maintaining and disposing of equipment and
Strengthening      materials;
and Project    (2) the implementation of health finance reform, including the  (2) studies undertaken, computers and
Management         carrying out of studies and acquisition of computers and    equipment procured, the health finance
equipment;                                                  reforms not implemented;
(3) integration of data for decision-making and acquisition of  (3) partially done; and
computers, printing of manuals and other training materials; and
(4) identification of training needs and carrying out of a training  (4) done.
program for staff.
(5) Coordinating and monitoring of the Project through the Project    (5) Done.
Management Unit, including the acquisition of vehicles,
computers and associated software and other office equipment.             _
36



PARTII: Statistical Annexes
Zimbabwe
Second Family Health Project
TABLE 14: DISTRICT HOSPITALS CONSTRUCTED
Manicaland                 |Buhera       XBuheraX         Murambinda  
Mutasa         Mutasa         Hauna
Mash- Central               Guruve         GUrTUVe         Guruve
Rushinga       Rushinga       Chimhanda
Mash. East                  Mudzi          Mudzi           Kotwa
UMP            UMP            Mutawatawa
Chikomba       Sadza
Mash. West                  Kadoma         Kadoma          Kadoma
Kariba         Kariba         Kariba
Kariba         Siakobvu
Masvingo                    Chivi          Chivi           Chivi
Mwenezi        Mwenezi        Neshuro
Mat. North                  Bubi           Bubi            Inyathi
Nkayi          Nkayi          Nkayi
Mat. South                  Bulilimamangwe Bulilimamangwe Plumtree
Kezi/Matobo    Kezi/Matobo    Maphisa
=_ _ _ \ _=_____________ _             Beitbridge      Beitbridge
Midlands                    Chivu                         I
Kwekwe         Kwekwe         Kwekwe
Kwekwe         Silobela
37



PART II: Statistical Annexes
Zimbabwe
Second Family Health Project
TABLE 15: RuRAL HEALTH CENTERS CONSTRUCTED/REHABILITATED
Manicaland           BMuhea            Mutiusinazita
Buhera          Muzokomba
Buhera          Bangure
Buhera          Chirozwa
Buhera          Chiweshe
Mutasa          Z indi
Mutasa          Mupotedzi
_ ~~Mutasa              Jombe              expected = 
Mutasa          Mapara             expected
Mash. Central         Guruve           Bepura
Guruve          Bakasa
Guruve          Kanyemba
Guruve          Musengezi
Rushinga        Mukonde
Rushinga        Chimhandau
Rushinga        Rusambo
Mash. East            Mudzi            Suswe
Mudzi           Masenda
Mudzi           Nyamatawa
Mudzi           Chimukoko
UMP             Chitimbe
UMP             Marembera
UMP             Chipfunde
UMP             Sowa
UMP             Mashambanaka
Chikomba        Musume
Chikomba        Gokomere
Chikomba        Masasas
Chikomba        Nhangabwe
Mash. West            Kadoma           Jompani
Kadoma          Geja
Kadoma          Jondale
Kadoma          Dondoshava
Kadoma          Muzvezve
38



PARTII: Statistical Annexes
Zimbabwe
Second Family Health Project
TABLE 15: RURAL HEALTH CENTERS CONSTRUCTED/REHABILITATED (CONTINUED)
Kariba          Negande
Kariba          Msampakaruma
.              ~~~~~Kariba      Gache Gache
Kariba          Kanyati
Kariba          Mola
Masvingo             Chivi            Chishave
Chivi           Chigwikwi
Chivi           Davira
Chivi           Madamombe
Chivi           Ngundu
Mwenezi         Rutenga
Mwenezi         Mushava
Mwenezi         Lundi
Mwenezi         Dhine/Maranda
Mat. North           Bubi             Mbembeswana
Bubi            Siganda
Bubi            Lukala
Nkayi           Mbuma
Nkayi           Gwelutshena
Nkayi           Zenka
Nkayi           Fanison
Nkayi           Dakamela
Mat. South           Bulilimamangwe Dombodema
Bulilimamangwe Matjingwe
Bulilimamangwe HEngwe
Bulilimamangwe Ndiweni
Bulilimamangwe Lady Stanley
Bulilimamangwe Lady Baring
Bulilimamangwe Madlambudzi
Kezi/Matobo     Mbembeswana
Kezi/Matobo     Natisa
Kezi/Matobo     Kezi
Kezi/Matobo     Matobo
Kezi/Matobo     Gulati            no water supply
Plumtree
Midlands
39



PARTII: Statistical Annexes
Zimbabwe
Second Family Health Project
TABLE 15: RURAL HEALTH CENTERS CONSTRUCTED/REHABILITATED (CONTINUED)
Kwekwe
Silobela        Silobela Jackson
Silobela       lExchange
TABLE 16: CuRRENT NURSING SITUATION AT RHCs9
Manicald                       52                   48                   92%
Mash. Central                  40                   30                   75%
Mash. East                     60                   40                   67%
Mash. West                     36                   25                   69%
Masvingo                       47                   43                   91%
Mat. North                     29                   13                   59%
Mat. South                     36                   31                   86%
Midlands                       52                   47                   90%
TOTAL                          352                 281                   80%
9Data from Human Resources Study by Initiatives, Inc., February 1999
40



PARTII: Statistical Annexes
Zimbabwe
Second Family Health Project
TABLE 17: DISTRIBUTION OF NURSING POSTS AND STAFF BY LEVEL OF SERVICE10
V                        sita.      V        <o~
Rural Health Center              1,234     4.7%        1,140     5.3%         630    6.2%        562     7.5%
Rural Hospitals                   864      3.3%         735      3.4%         494    4.9%       409      5 5%/6
District Hospitals               5,719    21.7%        4,602    21.2%       2,538   25.0%      1,970    26.4%
Provincial Hospitals            3,244     12.3%        3,043     14.0%      1,159   11.4%      1,160    15.5%
Central Hospitals               9,679     36.7%        8,379    38.7%       3,339   32.9%      2,821    37.7%
Special Hospitals                 859      3.3%         856      4.0%         273    2.7%       266      3.6%
Dental Centres                    112      0.4%          93      0.4%           0    0.0%          0     0.0%
Special Units                     759      2.9%         607      2.8%          27    0.3%        29      0.4%
Provincial Medical Directors     1,926     7.3%        1,883     8.7%         242    2.4%       245      3.3%
Head Office                      1,989     7.5%         327       1.5%      1,432   14.1%         12     0.2%
TOTAL                          26,385    100.0%       21,665    100.0%     10,134  100.0%      7,474   100.0%
Data from Human Resources Study by Initiatives, Inc., February 1999
41



PART II: Statistical Annexes
Zimbabwe
Second Family Health Project
TABLE 18: NATIONAL TOTALS FOR NURSING ESTABLISHMENT, IN-POST AND
VACANCIES"1
Nurse in Management                     -203              177               26     12.81
Nurse Tutor                               133             117               16     12.03
Registered General Nurse                 5,002          4,190              812     16.23
State Certified Nurse                   4,756           2,968            1,788     37.59
Student Nurse                           2,498           2,137              361     14.45
Student Midwife                            60              90              -30    -50.00
Unqualified Nurse Orderly                   1              17              -16  -1600.00
TOTAL                                   12,653          9,696            2,957     23.37
Data from Human Resources Study by Initiatives, Inc., February 1999
42



ZIMBABWE
Second Family Health Project
APPENDIX A: COMPLETION MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE NOVEMBER 1998
1.   A World Bank mission visited Zimbabwe to provide implementation support for
activities being funded during the extension period of the Second Family Health Project
(FHP2), as well as to begin preparations for the Implementation Completion Report for
FHP2. The team consisted of Hope C. Phillips Volker (Operations Analyst, Team
Leader) and Bengt Jacobson (Architect, Consultant from November 3-17). The team
appreciates the co-operation and support provided by the Ministry of Health, and to
officials from the National Economic Planning Commission and the Ministry of Finance.
2.   This Aide Memoire summarizes key findings and conclusions of the mission, as
well as discussions from a joint donor preparation mission undertaken from November
17-December 4. It also takes into account discussions held with component managers of
the activities funded under FHP2 and others involved in project implementation. Draft
terms of reference, including a time-bound action plan, have been drawn up by the
Ministry of Health for discussion with the National Economic Planning Commission in
order to meet the Ministry's deadline for preparation of their input into the
Implementation Completion Report (OCR.)
3 .  As the extended Project draws to a close, most of the activities funded by the Loan
have been completed (i.e., construction of district hospitals and procurement of
equipment). SIDA co-financing was completed in December 1997, and NORAD funding
continued during the extension period. The NORAD funds are being utilized to fund (a)
completion of civil works for rural health centers, (b) equipment, (c) water for health
centers, (d) radio communications and solar power at health centers, (e) training and
information, education and communication (IEC) activities at the Zimbabwe National
Family Planning Council (ZNFPC), (f) the equipment maintenance and management
component, and (g) running costs for the Project. The original source of funds for the
equipment maintenance and management component did not materialize, and NORAD
agreed to fund an abbreviated version of this component, which was expected to take 24
months to complete. As all of the activities have not been completed, written requests
have been sent by both the Ministry of Health and NORAD, to extend the closing date of
the NORAD Grant by one more year to allow for the completion of activities.
4.   During the last six months, civil works have been completed and the equipment
has, by and large, been procured and delivered. The status of water at health centers
awaits a report from the Department of Water. The installation of radio communications
and solar power is proceeding well, and expected to be completed by March 1999. Under
IEC, activities undertaken included the airing of youth and radio talk shows, production
of videos on family planning methods, male motivation campaigns in the provinces.
Training activities undertaken by ZNFPC included (a) district level training of trainers
refresher courses, (b) insertion/removal of diaphragm and female condom for service
delivery coordinators, and (c) refresher courses. Training and IEC activities will continue
through the end of the year, and the Council has been asked to provide proposals for
43



Appendix A: Completion Mission Aide Memoire
additional training and IEC activities which might be considered for funding, if the
NORAD Grant is extended. Some of the activities associated with the equipment
maintenance and management component have commenced, but progress on this
component has been slower than desirable. The bulk of the activities proposed for the
extension period relate to this component.
5.   Capacity of the project management unit has continued to decline over the last six
months, with the resignation of the Assistant Accountant in July, six months after the
Accountant's departure, and the sudden departure of the Project Coordinator during the
mission. While an accountant had been brought in, there appears to have been little
handover in procedures to be followed and the Assistant Accountant left a number of
outstanding issues for follow-up; there was at least 12 months worth of reimbursements
outstanding by September 1998. Delays in procurement have occurred which have
negatively impacted activities in the pipeline; currently no procurement can be
undertaken, or contracts entered into until an extension is granted. Given the experience
which the Unit had accrued over the life of the Project, these delays should not have
occurred. The mission has discussed with the Ministry the need for putting in place
project management mechanisms acceptable to the Bank if an extension is to be granted.
6.   Project accounts were reviewed during the mission, including back-up
documentation for statements of expenditure. At least one reimbursement submission
includes expenditures dating back to May 1997, and includes tax in some instances;
applications for payment have also been made to the incorrect account (i.e., the Loan
charged for activities which should have been paid for by NORAD). We have been
advised that the Ministry of Finance has refused to advance funds to the Ministry of
Health until the arrears in seeking reimbursement from the Bank have been cleared.
Concurrently the Bank is not honoring withdrawal applications until a missing sum of
approximately US$200,000 transferred from the Bank in July 1997 is located. The
matter is currently under investigation by the Government. An audit of the withdrawal
applications submitted since July of 1997 should be undertaken by the Bank to determine
the amounts which are either mis-charged or are ineligible for reimbursement, so that
appropriate actions can be taken.
7.   The audit reports for 1995/96 were received by the Bank in July 1998, and the
1996/97 audit reports are now 11 months overdue. Ministry has undertaken to have the
1996/97 accounts prepared by December 10 and delivered to the Comptroller by
December 12. The Ministry will also need to put appropriate mechanisms in place to
start work on the 1997/98 accounts.
8.   The Bank would need to be satisfied that the accounts have been delivered to the
Comptroller as promised, as well as receive an agreed plan of management/operation for
undertaking the outstanding activities prior to agreeing to extending the Norwegian Grant
closing date.
9.   The findings of the ICR mission are given below, and the agreed time-bound action
plan is attached as Annex 1.
44



Appendix A: Completion Mission Aide Memoire
MISSION FINDINGS AND CONCLUSIONS FOR IMPLEMENTATION
COMPLETION
10. Achievement of Project Objectives. The Project Development Objectives were to
provide the required financial and human resources for most of the Government's five-
year investment program (1992-96) for health/population/nutrition (H/P/N), and would
promote policy and institutional reforms in order to: (a) improve maternal and child
health and nutrition status; (b) reduce the rate of population growth; and (c) ensure that
households in the 16 worst-served districts (40% of the population) have access to basic
HIP/N services. To achieve these objectives, the project would increase the output and
effective utilization of trained Zimbabwean health, family planning, and nutrition
workers; enhance MOH's capacity to plan and manage H/P/N activities; and increase
efficiency and mobilize additional resources. The achievement of these objectives is
variable.
1 1. A confluence of events over the last 18 months has had an impact on many of the
sectors, and health has not been spared. The high prevalence of WV/AIDS has put a
strain on the health sector not only because of the cost to the sector in financial terms, but
its impact on staff morale, as well as the loss of staff to the pandemic. Government's
reaction to industrial action has resulted in striking staff being fired and the increasing
lack of human resources in the public sector is one of MOH's greatest concerns. This
loss has resulted in: district hospitals constructed and equipped but not staffed; loss of
ZNFPC staff, including trainers; attrition of key headquarters staff and the inability to
attract replacements. One of the contributing factors to the human resource crisis was the
decision by govemment early in the Project to abolish the training of State Certified
Nurses, the cadre which is the backbone of the rural health service delivery.
12. Family Planning. Implementation of the Family Planning Component was
interrupted when the co-financier pulled out. This resulted in a decision not to fund the
civil works. Due to a mix-up, almost a year passed before funds for training and IEC
was confirmed by the PMU, requiring an extension of this component. Some of the
indicators for the component have been achieved, most notably the reduction in total
fertility rate, but the target of users of appropriate long-term methods has not been
reached. It has only been within the last year that the Council has looked more closely at
the goal relating to its financial sustainability. This was partly due to Government's
continued reduction of its subsidy to ZNFPC, and the impending withdrawal of a major
donor to the Council. The Council faces serious challenges with the loss of its director
and acting director over the last six months, as well as the loss of almost all of their
trainers.
13. Maternal and Child Health. To reduce infant and child mortality (ARI, diarrhea
and malnutrition) and reduce maternal mortality and morbidity, as well as obtain reliable
estimates of maternal mortality. These would be achieved through:
(a)  Midwifery: increasing midwifery tutors and clinical instructors, increase the
supply of trained midwives, improving the quality of midwifery and MCH
services, as well as strengthening the Nursing Directorate's planning and
management of midwifery training. The shortage of midwifery tutors has been
45



Appendix A: Completion Mission Aide Memoire
addressed through training of more tutors on the DNE course at the University of
Zimbabwe, and the increase in tutors' posts. It should be noted that the number of
nurses trained in midwifery has increased, however, this can be attributed partly to
its previously being a requirement for advancement, however, surveys indicate that
although the numbers trained has increased, their deployment does not necessarily
involve utilization of this training. While it is clear that the number of nurses
trained in midwifery has increased, it has not been possible to ascertain the exact
numbers, and information on whether 60% of those trained in midwifery are
deployed in the rural areas is, at this point in time, not available. The Nursing
Directorate is currently exploring what training might be offered State Certified
Nurses (SCNs) who are ineligible for upgrading to become midwives, as there is
currently no midwifery training which is offered to this cadre who serves the rural
health center level. Implications of the decision by the Ministry to abolish the
training of an SCN cadre include a decrease in the total number of nurses which
are being produced annually.
(b)   Strengthening basic and in-service nursing training: review curriculum, and
develop a pilot distance learning program in MCH/midwifery, family planning and
young child nutrition. Curriculum review has been undertaken for midwifery and
the basic curriculum is still under review. Status of distance learning pilot
program to be obtained separately.
(c)   MCH/FP: training of SCNs and SRNs at district level in integrated family
planning and MCH services. Training in MCH/FP at the district level has been
on-going, not withstanding the delays in construction which has resulted in the
need to utilize alternative venues than originally envisaged. Cooperation between
MOHCW and ZNFPC trainers has improved over the years, although
collaboration at central level has not been as strong as it should be.
(d)   Health Education: by enhancing the communities' general knowledge of health
matters and support to the delivery of health services. A major achievement of the
Unit has been the preparation of a Health Education Strategy, in addition, the Unit
has developed protocols for the collection of information on TB, HIV/AIDS and
quality of care. Protocols for addressing knowledge, attitudes and practice (KAP)
in malaria has been developed, as well as undertaking a needs assessment on
reproductive health.
(e)   School Health and Nutrition Program: through support in training at least one
teacher in each school to do basic weighing, measuring height and screening for
hearing and vision defects; audiometers, scales and height meters and first aid kits
would be provided to all schools (including chloroquine in malaria areas, as well
as the printing of child health cards. Training was provided to the schools, but
problems encountered included those who had been trained being transferred, or
the inappropriate selection of trainees. In addition, the program at times was
derailed by programs supported by other donors. The availability of kits was
reportedly variable, although the printing of health cards was completed.
Currently a national policy on school health is being drafted.
46



Appendix A: Completion Mission Aide Memoire
14. Nutrition. Expand and strengthen nutrition activities through training, research,
involving communities, promoting breastfeeding and control of micronutrient
deficiencies. (Findings will be provided separately).
Rural Health Infrastructure (Details in Annex 2).
15. Civil Works. This component included the major part of the project civil works,
consisting of the construction and upgrading of 16 District Hospitals and the
construction/upgrading of a number of RHCs within a provincial budget ceiling. At the
time of project appraisal, 82 locations had been identified. This number finally came to
70, 58 of which were new constructions. Although there was some delay in the start-up
of activities (two year contracts commenced in June 1995), minimal delays were
experienced during construction, not withstanding a shortage of counterpart funds. One
of the lots was virtually completed within the original contract period and all of the
construction was completed within negotiated contract extensions, varying from 2 to 5
months, and the quality of the buildings is good.
16. Commissioning, medical equipment and supplies. The proper installation of
standard equipment which can be cost-effectively maintained for all of the upgraded and
new facilities under the Project. Short-term technical assistance was provided over a
long-term basis to train the relevant staff at HQ and district level, as well as assist in
designing a system for proper commissioning. While the commissioning has been
undertaken with minor hitches, of concern is that sensitive equipment remains unused in
facilities which have not opened due to lack of staff, water, or power.
Health Manpower and Management Strengthening.
17.  Personnel management. Improve the efficiency and effectiveness of MOH's
personnel management through decentralization of the responsibility to provinces,
districts and institutions, training of personnel and associated administrative staff,
installation of a computerized PIS at each province, and train the staff in its operation and
its use in decision- making. While computers were provided to the districts and staff
trained in the Personnel Information System's operation, there has been a great deal of
staff turnover. More fundamental though is the design of the system itself, which was,
from the outset, unable to provide the information managers required, and finally unable
to provide any information at all. This failure is attributed to disinterest on the part of the
Ministry who couldn't utilize the system for what they required, which was the result of
failure of the programmer. (More detail to be obtained).
18.  Management strengthening. Improve health management by developing systems,
procedures, skills for planning, ordering, procuring, storing, distributing and recording
medical supplies; implement health financing reform through improved accounting
systems and decentralization of budgeting and expenditure account; design, pilot and
implement nationally an integrated and computerized district health information system
to assist in decision-making; support the top management team develop and sustain
implementation of a result-led work culture in the Ministry; and identification,
development and implementation of management training at central and provincial levels.
(Findings to be obtained).
47



Appendix A: Completion Aission Aide Memoire
19.  Project Management Unit (PMU). During the life of the original project period, the
PMU was very strong, and satisfactorily managed the implementation of the Project.
However, during the last year of the Project, this has not been the case.
20.  Project Implementation. The Project was expected to be disbursed over a period
of 5 years, with an original closing date of December 31, 1997. DANIDA, SIDA and
NORAD co-financed the Project; however, in December 1995 DANIDA terminated its
support through FHP2. Support for some of the components relied upon parallel
financiers, but some of this did not materialize as had originally been planned (i.e., DfID
curtailed its original support, the EU counterpart funding was tied to IMF support).
Although there was a slow start to the construction activities, which necessitated a one
year extension of the Loan closing date to allow for their completion, as well as the
completion of procuring equipment for the 16 District Hospitals, these activities were
successfully implemented. The closing date for NORAD co-financing was also extended
to December 31, 1998. This was to allow for the completion of rural health center
construction, equipment, water and solarization, as well as training and information,
education and communication (1EC) activities to be undertaken by ZNFPC. SIDA co-
financing was increased during the Project, and the funds were utilized by the original
project closing date. NORAD agreed to increase its co-financing to cover some of the
activities to be funded by DANIDA and DfID, as well as to cover anticipated shortfalls
due to a freeze of bi-lateral funds.
21. A Project lmplementation Manual was utilized and included standard reporting
formats to be followed by those participating in the Project. Reporting by the districts
and component managers was thorough and followed this format during most of the life
of the Project. Quarterly review meetings were held with the staff from the Provinces,
Districts, ZNFPC, and the component managers from headquarters. The last three years
of the Project, the implementation review visits were timed to coincide with these, and
included implementors of IDA supported Sexually Transmitted Infections (STI)
Prevention and Care Project, and the Ministry of Finance and the National Economic
Planning Commission were also invited to attend. Reporting by the Districts included all
activities undertaken by them under the component headings, regardless of funding
source. This venue has allowed managers and the Bank to hear directly from the districts
constraints and/or progress being made on plans submitted the previous quarter, as well
as plans for the upcoming quarter. It also allowed districts to share problems which
others may have encountered and, in many instances, solutions which had been arrived at.
The quality of the reporting during the last year of the original project period began to
slip.
22.  Project Sustainability. While some of the activities initiated under the Project
have been taken up by the Government, there are a number of activities which would not
be continuing without donor support. In addition, the current situation in-country, from
not only from a macro-economic point of view, but also with the prevalence rates of
HIV/AIDS, is vastly different from the period when the Project was designed. This is not
the only reason why the wisdom of the "hard-ware" portion of the Project and its
sustainability has been questions, but also the current human resource constraints . The
Government's move towards decentralization and the sector's move towards health
48



Appendix A: Completion Mission Aide Memoire
reforms is raising questions relating to vertical vs. integrated management of programs,
and the function of the Ministry itself in a decentralized mode of operation.
23. Procurement. The Project Management Unit was responsible for procurement
under the Project, and the process by and large went smoothly during the first five years.
The major challenge faced by the Unit was the tendering for the civil works, and medical
equipment. For the former, the Unit benefited from technical assistance which was able
to ensure that the costs were by and large adhered to. For the medical equipment
technical assistance was utilized to train not only headquarters staff on commissioning,
but the provinces as well. Systems were developed and it is hoped that these will be
utilized in equipment activities by the Ministry in the future.
24. Disbursement. While disbursement under co-financing for the software portion
of the Project moved at a relatively steady pace, disbursement under the Loan was slower
than initially projected, with the bulk of the disbursements actually occurring in year 4-6
of the Project. The slow Loan disbursement was the result of delays in the
commencement of civil works activities, and the necessity of delaying procurement of the
equipment which was to furnish the health facilities. Disbursements during the extension
period from the NORAD Grant were not timely, with delays, in seeking reimbursement,
of up to 14 months.
25. Audits. Audit reports for the first three years of the Project were received in a
timely manner. However, beginning with the audit reports for 1995/96 delays of over a
year were experienced.
26. Legal Covenants. Aside from the audit reports, all of the legal covenants have
been met, except for the conduct of a 1994 Maternal Mortality Survey. In agreement
with the Bank team, a Quality of Care Survey was undertaken instead.
27. Borrower and Bank Performance. During the first four years of the Project, the
Ministry of Health performance was by and large exemplary; many of the problems
associated with the delays in civil works was the result of working with a sister Ministry.
Component activities funded under the Project and through co-financiers for the most
part were satisfactorily undertaken; the notable exception was the withdrawal of
DANIDA co-financing which resulted in delays in activities which they were to fund.
Once alternative sources of funding were accessed, the activities continued. During the
Project extension period, most of the delays experienced were the result of poor Project
Management Unit performance. The Bank undertook implementation reviews on a bi-
annual basis, with co-financiers joining the reviews annually. Good relations existed
between the Ministry and the Bank, with an atmosphere of partnership developing over
the implementation period. While the Ministry of Finance was visited during each
mission, during the last two years of project implementation they were also invited to
attend the review meetings.
28. Action Plan for Future Operation. The Ministry of Health is in the process of
finalizing its National Health Strategy, as a starting point for priorities in the sector and
discussions with donors on modalities for support. Aside from financial constraints being
faced by the Ministry, the human resource constraint is clearly of greatest concern to the
49



Appendix A: Completion Mission Aide Memoire
Ministry. As part of the preparation activities, a Human Resource Development Strategy
is being undertaken to provide qualitative, quantitative analysis, as well as
recommendations on the way forward to provide the necessary manpower to the sector.
Government's decentralization plans, and the Ministry's own plans for health sector
reform will have to be more clearly defined before responsibility for future operation of
the sector can be determined.
29. Plans for Government's Contribution to the ICR. The Ministry of Health has
agreed to prepare terms of reference for the preparation of the Government's contribution
to the ICR. These will be shared with the National Economic Planning Commission
(NEPC) and agreement will be reached on how each will proceed. The proposed terms of
reference, and the timing are attached as Annex 1.
30. Proposed Action Plan for Project Closing Activities.
No.  Agreed Action                        Due Date        Responsible
Agency
I    Preparation of 1996/97 Accounts      December 10,   MOH
1998
2    Forward 1996/97 Accounts to          December 12,   MOH
Comptroller                          1998
3    Audit Reports for 1996/97 received by
World Bank                          March 30, 1999  MOH
4    Agree with NEPC on modalities for    December 15,   MOH & NEPC
preparing Government's ICR           1998
5    Forward GOZ's ICR to World Bank      March 31, 1998  MOH & NEPC
6    Finalize and submit all withdrawal
applications eligible for financing to  April 30, 1998   PMU of MOH
World Bank
7    Preparation of 1997/98 Accounts      January 31,     PMU of MOH
1999
8    Forward 1997/98 Accounts to          February 7,     PMU of MOH
Comptroller                          1999
9    Submission of 1997/98 Audit Reports to
World Bank                          May31, 1999    PMUofMOH
10   Provide written comments on Bank's
ICR within two months of receipt    March 31, 1999  MOH & NEPC
11   Operational plan for activities funded by  March 31, 1999  MOH
FHP2
50



ZIMBABWE
Second Family Health Project
APPENDIX B: BORROWER'S EVALUATION REPORT
The Borrower did prepare its own evaluation of the project's execution and
initial preparation. Unfortunately, it was not completed by the time of publication.
51



ZIMBABWE
Second Family Health Project
APPENDIX C: CIVIL WoRKS AND RELATED ToPIcs
BACKGROUND
To fulfil the objectives of the project components, it was, at the time of appraisal, planned
that the following civil works were to be provided:
Family Planning
Construction of additional training facilities in Bulawayo and Harare, 3 Provincial Youth
Advisory Centers (YACs) and upgrading and expansion of ZNFPC Clinics.
As the project developed, priorities were, however, identified as follows:
-Training Center in Bulawayo
-ZNFPC Provincial Offices with a VSC facility in Marondera
-Youth Advisory Center in Masvingo
Considerable design work was carried out by a private firm of architects on the first two. It
was decided to delay work on the three YAC with a view to obtaining feedback from a similar
facility in Mutare, which was under completion. All were to have been funded by the Danish
Government. However, after DANIDA's withdrawal from the project, at the end of 1995, and
alternative sources of funding having failed to materialise, the planned civil works had to be
cancelled.
Maternal and Child Health
The project planned to expand the capacity of 8 existing nursing schools by 100 places in
all.
Needs were later revised by MOHCW to the construction of 3 new schools, each for 30
students, at existing hospitals. Drawings, based on the FHP2 Training Unit design, were prepared
by MOLGNH. However, as a result of a delay in the preparation of a training strategy, and the
approaching end of the project, these civil works were not funded under FHP2. The mission
understands that a construction contract has recently been signed and that the work will be funded
by GOZ.
Strengthening Rural Health Delivery
This component included the major part of the project civil works, consisting of the
construction or upgrading of 16 District Hospitals and construction/upgrading of a number of
RHCs within a provincial budget ceiling. At the time of project appraisal, 82 locations had been
identified. This number finally became 70, of which 58 were new constructions.
Much work was done at the provincial and district levels during the project preparation
stage, in identifying the specific needs for each location. This resulted in hospitals varying
considerably in size, from 34 to 104 beds. This was in contrast to the FHP1 hospitals which were
all built to the same size (140 beds). In several cases, this was found to be inappropriate. A
52



Appendix C: Civil Works and Related Topics
flexible approach was also taken to provision of staff housing. Rather than a fixed number of
houses of certain categories, as in FHP 1, districts and provinces were able to propose housing
according to actual needs, within a given budget. This generally resulted in a larger number of
smaller units, reflecting the fact that many staff have their families elsewhere.
The civil works under this component were all successfully completed.
Health Management Strengthening and PMU.
Materials and Equipment Management
A very small sum of Z$32,500 (atthattime, US$13,000) was allocated for the expansion
of the medical technician training school at Parirenyatwa Hospital. In October 1993, MOHCW
reported that the school had been closed down as a result of the zero-growth-in-staff policy.
Hence, no civil works were carried out under this component.
DISTRICT HOSPITALS AND RURAL HEALTH CENTRES
Briefing stage
District and provincial MOH staff were assisted in preparation by the Physical Planning
Officer from PMU together with a project consultant architect, acting as Planing Adviser to
MOH. Extensive travel took place to review suitability of sites and to help translate local
requirements into architectural briefs. Preliminary sketch designs were prepared for all the
different building types as well as sketch site plans for each hospital. These formed a very useful
basis for discussion and also to make medical staff aware of expectations at an early stage, when
it is still possible to influence the eventual outcome. This approach to planning was new to MOH,
which had previously had to rely entirely on MOPCNH. There was, in fact, considerable concern
from MOPCNH at that time, that their role as a technical service ministry, was being undermined
and that MOH was showing lack of faith. It was, however, later found that, having a technical
counterpart in the client PMU facilitated communications between the two ministries
considerably.
Appointment of consultants
As a result of MOPCNH not having the resources to undertake the work in-house, it was
decided that private consultants would be appointed and paid for by the ministry from its normal
budget allocation. As a result of this, the selection of consultants was considered to be an internal
matter requiring neither MOH nor Bank involvement. It was, however, successfully argued that
as the consultants would indirectly be responsible for a very large portion of FHP2 funds, MOH
and the Bank would need to give approval to the selected consortium of consultants. This was
done with some reluctance, particularly in view of what was felt to be a weakness in hospital
experience among some of the consortium members. The terms of contract between the
consultants and MOPCNH were not made known to MOH or the Bank, with the result that their
specific obligations were not clear. Funding from outside the project resulted in delays in
payment of fees, into which MOH and the Bank had no insight. This led to a reluctance by
consultants to make necessary site visits for inspection and supervision.
Design stage
Design work, which started in 1992, was based on the sketch designs and briefs prepared
by MOH. In spite of the unusually advanced and detailed nature of these, the design stage became
53



Appendix C: Civil Works and Related Topics
a very long, drawn out process, confirming the consultants' lack of sufficient experience of these
types of building. At the time of project appraisal, it was envisaged that consultants would require
about one year for preparation of stock type documents and adapting these for the first batch of
constructions. This would have enabled start on site in the early part of 1993. According to a
revised time schedule, prepared by MOPCNH in June 1993, all documents were to have been
ready to go to tender by the end of that year. That stage was, in fact, not reached until August
1994.
Packaging
It was the intention that the hospitals would be tendered in lots, with a staggered
implementation schedule. This was expected to have had the advantage of reducing peak work
loads at all stages, as well as giving the opportunity for application of feed-back from the first lot
to the later ones. Partly because of the political sensitivity of selecting priority hospitals but also
because of delays, making the staggered approach unrealistic to contain in the project period, all 4
lots were, in the end, tendered and built at the same time.
Construction of RHCS in FHP 1 had been through a large number of small to medium size
contractors. There were considerable problems of non-completion, poor performance, re-
tendering, completion through force account, etc. To avoid these, it was decided that RHCs would
form part of the hospital contracts giving large contractors the overall responsibility. GOZ
expressed some concems that this would not give the smaller contractors the opportunity of
participation in FHP2. It was, however, anticipated that the large hospital contractors would sub-
contract the small and not very lucrative RHC work to others. This did not work out in practice.
Tendering
Documents went out for tendering in August 1994 and were returned in November, the
same year. There were still shortcomings in the documentation. There were, for example, no
drawings at all for the training center in Kariba. Tendering was preceded by prequalification of --
contractors of which -- submitted tenders. Not all contractors tendered for all lots. Of those that
did, total sums varied considerably, from about Z$550 million down to the lowest and accepted
bid of Z$341.55. The successful tenderer had, in fact, put in the lowest bid for each one of the
lots. There had been hopes that an element of competition could have resulted by having different
contractors for different lots. To have achieved this, it would, however, have been necessary to
limit each contractor already in the tendering conditions. In retrospect, this would clearly not have
been of financial benefit to GOZ and would also have resulted in more complex project
management. MOPCNH expressed some reluctance in having to accept the lowest bid, which it
regarded as unrealistic in view of the consultants' estimated cost of about Z$441 million.
Construction
The 2-year contracts started on June 1, 1995 with a completion date of May 31, 1997. The
start was extremely slow, causing some considerable concern about the contractor's capacity to
undertake the work. His approach was unconventional and labour intensive, with minimum plant
and equipment on the sites, he did not produce any work programs and there were language
problems. There were also difficulties arising from the contractor's lack of familiarity with
Zimbabwe and the limited capacity of the brick industry, in particular, during a period of heavy
rains. Progress varied considerably between the different contract lots, which were under separate
management. By the time half the contract time had elapsed, the consultants estimated that only
about 30% of the work had been carried out. On analysing progress reports, it could, however, be
seen that the contractor was in fact making up for lost time , with indications that completion on
54



Appendix C: Civil Works andRelated Topics
time was a possibility. Late payments by GOZ caused stoppages on sites and delays in
procurement of materials. Negotiations led to agreed contract extensions varying from 2 to 5
months. A stage of virtual completion was, however, reached for one of the lots within the
original contract period. Other lots were completed within the agreed extensions. This was a very
good achievement and a rare event for government contracts.
At the end of the contractor's liability period of 12 months, virtually all snags had been
rectified to the satisfaction of MOLGNH (which had absorbed the former MOPCNH) and
MOHCW. Remaining rectifications needed are mainly in connection with faulty mechanical
installations resulting from design errors. As a result of the lack of transparency in the conditions
of contract, it is not known if there was a requirement for consultants to have professional
liability insurance coverage.
At the beginning of November 1998, just before the end of the extended project period, the
newly built kitchen at Kadoma hospital was gutted by a fire. It is understood that GOZ buildings
are not normally insured. It is, however, a matter of great urgency that funds for the
reconstruction an refumishing of this building should be found as soon as possible.
It was also reported that, while standing idle, under the protection of a security company,
there had been thefts of electrical items at Mutawatawa and Kotwa, amounting to about
Z$155,000 and Z$34,000 respectively. Among the stolen items are distribution boards, which are
now preventing connections to the ZESA supply from being made. The security company's
liability is under review.
MOPCNHIMOLGNH
The ministry clearly suffered from a lack of capacity to undertake this project, particularly
as it became more depleted of staff as time went by. However, the arrival of the Project Architect
and Quantity Surveyor, recruited by the project, in November 1995 had a very positive impact on
monitoring, reporting and project management. The steadily improving working relationship and
spirit of cooperation between MOLGNH, MOHCW and the donors, as the project progressed,
was noted with satisfaction.
MOHCW
Much of the work in connection with the review of drawings and other documents
prepared by the consultants was carried out by MOHCW in the absence of sufficient capacity for
this work at MOPCNH, in the early years of the project. This was made possible by the
availability of technical expertise through the hospital architect acting as planning adviser to
MOHCW. As a result of his tragic death, soon after completion of construction, MOHCW now
wishes to recruit the present project architect as its new planning adviser for a period of one year.
It is clearly an important function within the ministry and the proposal is being reviewed by the
Bank.
World Bank
A Bank civil works consultant participated in all regular missions during the project
preparation, appraisal and implementation stages. In addition, there were two interim civil works
missions during the most intense period of construction. It is felt by MOHCW that these
additional visits gave useful support and helped to maintain the momentum.
Cost
55



Appendix C: Civil Works and Related Topics
Financial reporting by the consultants was poor throughout the project, both pre- and post-
contract. Using the contract sum of Z$341.55 million as a basis, the consultant QS was projecting
final accounts rising from Z$43 9 million in February 1997 to more than Z$55 8 million in
October, an increase of more than 27% in less than eight months of the final stages of
construction. Reviews by the project QS and a private firm of quantity surveyors revealed that the
method of price adjustments for fluctuations using indices had not been properly understood and
as a result had been incorrectly applied. There were also large variations to the contract, in many
cases resulting from civil engineers failing to do sufficiently detailed work at the design stage.
Variations amounted to well above the limit of 15% of the contract sum which, as a result, had to
be amended to comply with Bank regulations.
According to latest estimates by the project QS, the likely final account will be to the order
of about Z$526 million. This must be regarded as being very reasonable, considering the, in some
cases, poor documentation by consultants.
A chance encounter with the contractor, gave the impression that the consultants were
attempting to stall the preparation of the final accounts by giving new variation orders for minor
works to the contractor. These are not being brought to the attention of MOHCW and are
therefore not approved. The cost of any work which has not been carried out by the end of 1998
will not be reimbursed by project funds.
It was noted with satisfaction that the indices system for fluctuations price adjustments,
which was introduced to MOLGNH under this project, will be adopted for future contracts.
Designs
FHP2 hospital designs are a big improvement on those used for FHPl, with much greater
attention paid to room and department functions, flexibility and possibilities for future expansion.
The credit for this lies with PMU, in its clearly illustrated requirements in the architect's brief. In
the case of the RHCs, an old design from the early 1980s, which had been found to work well,
was slightly modified and adapted for FHP2 requirements. It is understood that MOHCW is
already planning new constructions based on the FHP2 designs. Before doing so, it has been
recommended that an evaluation (technical and functional) should be made of the buildings
together with the users to make any minor improvements which could be made without any major
cost implications. There may in fact be savings, in some cases.
Quality of workmanship
Although no field trip was made during the final review mission, numerous other visits to
sites indicate that the quality of workmanship is generally good. There are, however, variations as
a result of different site management at the various locations.
Staffing of facilities
Although hospitals have now been completed since over one year ago, it is a matter of
great concem that, as the project comes to a close, several of these are not functioning, as a result
of lack of staff. Many of the others are functioning at a reduced scale with a small staff, inherited
from previous smaller facilities on the site. Apart from the service delivery implications, it is not
good for buildings to be standing empty. It is particularly important that mechanical and electrical
installations and equipment should be used to prevent deterioration.
56



Appendix C: Civil Works and Related Topics
Electrical installation
At appraisal, and indeed as recently as 2 years ago, it seemed likely that 3 of the hospitals
would require generators for electrical supply. It is therefore noted with pleasure that ZESA grid
extensions have in the last year reached both Kotwa and Mutawatawa, leaving only the very
isolated, small hospital at Siakobvu without mains supply. Very similar development took place
in the case of Tsholotsho in FHP 1, indicating that perhaps provision of a hospital acts as a
catalyst in the electrification of a community.
Water
In order to avoid RHCs being constructed in locations without water, it was decided that no
construction would commence before availability of an adequate water source had been
confirmed. The Department of Water Resources was therefore commissioned to carry out surveys
of all proposed sites, on a provincial basis. Following confirmation of availability and cost
estimates, DOWR was commissioned to provide supplies to be connected to the RHCs by the
building contractor. In spite of this, as the project draws to a close, it is reported that more than
25% (18 of 70) RHCs do not have a piped water supply. One year previously, in November 1997,
only 14 were reported as being without water and in November 1995, only 12 remained. In the
past 3 years, progress has not only been at a stand-still, but 6 facilities which then supposedly had
water, have since lost their supply. Bank missions have repeatedly urged DOWR to use low-tech
solutions to pumping where yields have been found to be inadequate for engine pumps. Work by
DOWR came to a halt in 1994 as a result of EU funds being frozen, leaving MOH unable to make
payments. Installation resumed after payments from NORAD funds, but came to a halt again with
claims from DOWR that MOH had outstanding debts of about Z$18 million. In 1996, DOW
submitted a progress report which included 89 locations. There are only 70 RHCs in FHP2.
Before any further payments can be made, MOHCW must insist on a report on where the money
has been spent as well as an explanation of why the number of facilities without water has
actually been increasing over the past 3 years.
A short meeting was held with DOWR during the mission. It was agreed that the following
information would be made available to MOHCW and the Bank before the end of November
1998:
- The original estimate by DOWR for surveying the sites as well as the agreed program of
installation.
- Current expenditure on a site-by-site basis.
- Details of payments made to DOWR.
- A detailed status report on the present water situation at each of the locations. This should
state what has been done and what remains. Not simply "work in progress".
- A time schedule for completion.
- A cost estimate for completion.
- An explanation of how it has been possible for the number of RHCs without water to
increase from 12 to 18 in the last three years.
Telecommunications
as a result of the considerable benefits to the referral system that were provided by the
FHP1 telecommunications installation, it was decided that a similar system should be provided in
the FHP2 districts. It was also decided that fixed essential lighting should be included on the
same solar system, rather than as in FHP1, where a separate mobile unit was provided. In
addition, it was decided to exclude ambulances from the radio system.
57



Appendix C: Civil Works and Related Topics
To achieve coordination with the civil works program, the telecommunications consultant
from FHP 1 was appointed in mid- 1995. By June 1996, tenders for installation were received
based on MOHCW requirements and the consultant's specifications. Although 34 firms had
collected the documents, only 5 responded. Tender valuation was not completed until December
1996, after which the contract was awarded to the same company that had carried out the FHP 1
installation, giving advantages of standardisation of equipment.
A survey of project districts was completed by the end of July 1997. This revealed some
locations where services were no longer required as well as a considerable number of additional
RHCs which had not been included in the original proposal. Additional funds to cover the balance
were made available from the NORAD grant. Installation started in mid- 1997 and was scheduled
for completion before the end of 1998. However, as a result of a lengthier than expected process
of making the addendum to the contract, completion is now not expected until March 1999.
Delayed foreign payments are being processed. Prompt payment will enable installation to
continue as soon as imported equipment is delivered. There are, however, also local payments
which are up to 6 weeks overdue which must be paid as a matter of urgency to avoid delays. The
consultant has drawn up a schedule of anticipated additional invoices for the remainder of 1998
as well as for 1999. This has been submitted to MOHCW. For Nov./Dec 1998, the total is about
Z$1.5 million, and for the early part of 1999, about Z$3.1 million.
A service delivery impact study is planned by MOHCW. Zimbabwe is well ahead of many
other developing countries in provision of telecommunications for its rural health services. The
results of such a study are therefore expected to be not only of local interest.
In a meeting with the contractor, it was learnt that its radio communications division is to
be sold to a newly established, local company. Although this firm would be taking over all
obligations and responsibilities as well as existing staff and other resources, it was agreed
between MOHCW, the consultant and the mission that completion of the installation would be
best carried out under the present contract.
Commissioning
The inefficient and burdensome procurementmethods which were used under FHP1,
resulted in the awareness of a need for the setting up of appropriate commissioning system which
could be applied to a project of this size and complexity. A medical equipment advisor was
therefore appointed to work together with PMU.
Starting with a review of the functions that are intended to be included at district hospitals
and RHCs, user staff, together with PMU prepared schedules of equipment and furniture needed
to perform these functions. Coordination between the commissioning and the physical planning
units resulted in appropriate room and department areas being designed to contain these. With a
very few exceptions, this approach proved to be highly successful, resulting in considerable
savings in construction costs. In the FHPl hospital design, there are many examples of rooms
which are inappropriate in size, generally too large for the intended function and equipment to be
housed.
A simple, but highly developed system of classification was used, whereby every item
could be identified. Through cross references, total numbers, locations and detailed specifications
for each can readily be found. Files containing details of each facility have been prepared and
distributed to ensure full control of equipment and fumiture.
58



Appendix C: Civil Works and Related Topics
Tenders were prepared in lots, rather than procurement on an item-by-item basis as in
FHP1. The number of contracts could, as a result, be limited to 15 with only 12 suppliers. This
reduced the burden of project management considerably.
Deliveries, for all major items, were direct to the locations where these were required,
rather than to central stores in Harare as was the case in FHP 1. This again greatly reduced the
burden on MOHCW and ensured that responsibility for correct delivery laid with the supplier.
Considering the size of the project and the scattered nature of facilities, the operation must be
regarded as having been very successful with only a few shortfalls and discrepancies noted.
Where suppliers have not yet entirely fulfilled their obligations, performance bonds have been
extended or final payments withheld.
The mission hopes that the methods and systems used in the commissioning of the FHP2
facilities and the skills and experience which have been developed by the staff of the
commissioning unit will be of future benefit to MOHCW in procurement.
The problems of staffing, which have prevented some hospitals and departments from
being taken into use for over one year could have serious results in deterioration of mechanical
equipment. It is therefore a matter of importance that items such as anaesthesia equipment,
diathermy units, incubators, spectrophotometers and many others should, on say, a monthly basis
be run to try to prevent such damage. It is also likely that, in a number of cases, guarantee periods
will pass without equipment actually having been used.
It has been noticed, with concem, on field trips during the past year, that old equipment
and furniture, which has been replaced, but is still serviceable has been discarded by simply being
thrown out. It is the intention that these items should be used in other facilities in the
district/province which have not benefited directly from FHP2. The mission sincerely hopes that
proper steps have now been taken to re-distribute to facilities in need.
VEHICLES
Performance by CMED in maintaining and keeping MOH vehicles on the road in FHP 1
was extremely poor. A condition of FHP2 project effectiveness was, therefore, that CMED
would, by March 31, 1992, present a maintenance and repair plan for MOH vehicles. Following
agreement with MOH and the Bank, the plan was to have been implemented by July 1, 1992.
The condition was never fulfilled. There were, however, discussions between MOH and CMED
and certain assurances were given. There was indeed an improvement in services provided and, as
a result, the condition was waived by the Bank.
In 1992, reports showed that about 50% of FHPl vehicles were off the road. It was agreed
that getting these back would have a major impact on MOH services at comparatively low cost.
CMED was therefore given a deadline until the end of that year to carry out an inventory of the
spare parts requirement. It was not completed until 1993, after plans had been made by MOHCW
to let the Automobile Association undertake the work. Z$1.5 million were provided from project
funds, being the CMED estimate for the cost of the needed items. It was, however, found that
these funds were grossly mismanaged and as a result had very little impact on FHP1 vehicles
coming back on the road. Bank management gave formal notice of the situation to the Senior
Secretary for Finance who, in turn, contacted the Secretary for Transport. Bank plans for taking
serious further action were, however, dropped as a result of a total change of management of
CMED and improved services.
59



Appendix C: Civil Works andRelated Topics
By May 1997, it was clear that the services provided had once again deteriorated to their
former level. One of the reasons was said to be staff losses to the private sector. CMED is now
being "commercialised" as a company under GOZ ownership rather than being a department
under Ministry of Transport. This will enable employment conditions to be competitive with the
private sector and may, possibly, result in improvements. Certain donors have insisted on
MOHCW vehicles being under the control of the ministry itself. Initially, problems were
encountered as MOHCW did not have a budget for vehicle running expenses. This has since been
solved and, in addition, the ministry now also has an account with CMED for fuel for these
vehicles. MOHCW has a fleet of over 1,000 vehicles, of which, close to 90%, still, come under
CMED. With a fleet of this magnitude, it is doubtful whether ministry control under the present
system would be a viable solution.
It was not possible to obtain details of vehicles during the mission. However, before the
ICR can be finalised, it is necessary that the following information be made available:
- Number of vehicles of different categories (cars, ambulances, trucks, fork-lifts,
motor cycles, boat, etc.) that have been provided under FHP2, including ZNFPC.
- When were these supplied?
- For which component were they supplied?
- Which donor agency provided funding for each procurement?
- Total cost?
- Current status of each vehicle: age, user, function and state of repair.
LESSONS LEARNED
The lessons learned from FHP2, include the following:
(a)   Close involvement by users at the district and provincial levels at the planning stage has
resulted in buildings which more accurately meet the actual functional needs than was the
case in FHIP1
(b)    The improvement in performance by MOPCNH on being strengthened by the arrival of
the Project Architect and Quantity Surveyor, emphasised the importance of adequate
resources for monitoring, supervision and project management.
(c)    The availability of a building advisor in the form of an experienced hospital architect in
the PMU provided invaluable assistance to MOHCW in the preparation of well illustrated
architect's brief. It provided the PMU with the ability to review technical drawings and
specifications as well as to understand the technical jargon used by consultants. The fact
that MOHCW now wishes to appoint the project architect to continue this work is
indicative of the importance of this support.
(d)    The appointment of consultants needs to be a transparent process to make everyone
aware of the terms under which they are engaged so as to be fully familiar with their
obligations, fee conditions, etc. It is felt that in any future project, these conditions could
most easily be fulfilled by payment of consultants from project funds, or as a condition in
the Credit Agreement.
(e)    Government staff involved in the project at an executive level should be required to
declare any family or business connections with consultants, contractors or major
60



Appendix C: Civil Works and Related Topics
suppliers to civil works components. It is felt that this would ensure that any tendency to
act in personal interests would be minimised.
(f)    The major cost increases to contracts resulting from variations were the result of
inadequate work by some of the engineers at the design stage. This is an illustration of
the importance of detailed documentation being available at the tendering stage as tool
towards maintaining tight cost control during construction.
(g)    The limited resources of the Zimbabwe building materials industry, brick manufacturing,
in particular, were illustrated by the difficulties of meeting the demands for all 16
hospitals following an almost paralel time schedule. A staggered start, as originally
envisaged would have eased the situation and avoided high peak loads at various critical
stages of construction. there would have been a similar beneficial effect on the work load
on consultants and ministry staff in connection with supervision, valuations, payments,
etc.
(h)    The construction of RHCs as part of the main hospital contracts was a success insofar
that all the problems of non-performance of small contractors in FHP 1 were avoided. It
had, however, been hoped that smaller firms would have been given the opportunity of
participating in FHP2 as subcontractors on the RHCs. The selected contractor, however,
chose to do the work himself.
(i)    One of the lessons leamed from FHP1 was that construction of RHCs should not start
until after availability of water has been properly investigated and confirmed. The lesson
has to be re-emphasised after experience from FHP2.
(j)    The system that was put in place for commissioning resulted in a smooth implementation
of this sub-component with comparatively few hitches considering the magnitude of the
exercise. It is hoped that the experience gained and the staff skills which have been
developed will be of future benefit to MOHCW.
(k)    The former structure of CMED was not able to meet its intended function of maintaining
GOZ vehicles. It is not yet known what effect "commercialisation" will have. Donors will
however need to be very vigilant in any future support to the transport needs of MOHCW
and require conditional assurances that maintenance and fleet management will be
properly carried out.
(1)    Donors should stick to their plans and not pull out of support to MOHCW in a non-
transparent and undocumented way.
61



ZIEBABWE
Second Family Health Project
APPENDIX D: BORROWER'S COMMENTS ON DRAFT ICR
.MEMORANDUM
From th   Ce of the Secn4ary ftr Heth andl
TO:         -    Ms E Ushewokunze, FHP
FROM:            Secretary for Health and Child Welfare
DATE:               June, 1999
SUBJECT:         COMMENTS ON THE DRAFT IMPLEMENTATION:
REPORT FHP It (Ln 3339 - Z1M)
My opinion is that the report concludes that the project did not achieve ts statd
objectives i.e. rated overall unsati3factory.
Item 11
Can we be specific -about the technical assistance that the Ministry of Heal
and Child Welfare did not allow wh,ich resulted in activities not being undertaen.
Item 14
The prmblem with the personnel information system that Was developed by a
Consultant was that despite the fact that staff had been trained it was not
possible to aceWss the package without contracting the Consultant ain  it iS
not true that the Ministry was "more interested in departments addressing feir
own hum resoures issues".
Item Is
There is an insinuaton that the Bank had expressed uconcsms relating to
possible inapproprate use of Project Funds and failure to follow procrement
procedures'. I think we need to discuss what exactly is ment her.
62



Item 19
Govemments decision to fire the majority of the junior doctors and nurses
(approx. 200) when they went on strike". Precisely 2 doctors were fired and
certainly not the majority of nurses (the Ministry has over 6 000 nurses in post).
Why the exaggeration?
Item 20
The MOHCW did not take a decision to stop the training of State Certed
Nurses. It ws a trade union issue (ZINA) leading to a political directive to the
Ministry to do so. Beyond the contrl of the MOHCW.
It is not true that "the Ministry has reduced its grant support to ZNFPC. For your
information the budget process for ZFPC is as foilows:
The ZNFPC prepares estimates, submits them to the Board for approval. Once
approved the Board requests that MOHCW to support its submission to Treasury
who determine the amount to be allocated. The MOHCW has no influence on
what Treasury decides to allocate.
'Failure to ensure fees collected could be retained at facilities resulted in a less
than anticipated cost recovery rate".
As the World Bank you should be aware that the non retention of Ifemonies
collected by government departments was a government revenue policy.
The MOCW was the first govt department to request fee retention and was
granted in 1997 and the rest followed.
There is need to explain clearly what is meant by the last statement in 20 -
decision not to utilise technical assistance
63



IYRD 22841
u            M 4AW r                                            28'                        2930 
ZAMBIA                                                                                                                                                 N-        5 )                      'r- it5
NAMIB A       ZIMBABW
UPGADE   UNE  FH<9l'DFP1                                 /\ .   i      ;              
BOT WAND                                                                                                                                                                                 A             * "
SOT                                                                       --                                                                                           Secndr 9):t Rod,  prdn  tt-,  0  X   ,7  f  V
Rrnilways___                            FX                   bIG  \   ;&/  >                                                                                                 /* 
25           R            sn                         271                                                               6 H                 4          ,                                0                          0
18'
_   _   _    _   28'                                                                                                              FE3RUARY ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~199
! 215Uo = t f ~~~~~/ \u  O C
20'                                                                                   VULWNV
ZIMBABWE
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT1 II
LOCATION  OF DISTYRICT HOSPITALS 
UPGRADED UNDER FHP I AN'D FHP II
-21'Mao,o Stote Roads                           PROJECT:                                   I21'
Secondary State Roads          ;,,    FHIP Phacse I Hospital
Other Roads                      ,I    Upgrading
Railways  ~ ~    ~     (D     FIHP Phose 11 Hospitals                                                          --   -        -'
Mai  Airports 
Rivers                  Ct~~~~ Ge-narI Hospitnls
Commori,ol La,nds               ID    District Hospitals
Pravince Capitals               A     Rirnl Hospitals                                                                                                                    /
lb   Rural Haalth Centers
-2'     Province Boonda,ies              11    Mission Hospitals
internosiann  Roondaires      irirusir-ini Clioics/1-ospitols                                                                                                                                           22
0             102 M LF,                                                                         P""~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                    o  e-r
25'         20'                       ~~~           ~          ~~~~~~~~~25'                                                                   31'                       3 2
1[   2,1'  26'               28'-                                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FEBRUARY 1991



