      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      5M-GEF Coordination&Capacity Bldg. NASA (P117170)



                                                                                                              Report Number : ICRR0020236


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                              Project Name
 P117170                                                 5M-GEF Coordination&Capacity Bldg. NASA

 Country                                                 Practice Area(Lead)
 Middle East and North Africa                            Water



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                       Closing Date (Original)                                  Total Project Cost (USD)
  TF-10251,TF-10252,TF-10253,TF-10254,TF-10263           31-May-2015                                                           5,644,545.00

  Bank Approval Date                                     Closing Date (Actual)
  09-Jun-2011                                            31-May-2015

                                                               IBRD/IDA (USD)                                               Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                                       0.00                                             4,594,545.00

  Revised Commitment                                                        0.00                                             4,470,278.36

  Actual                                                                    0.00                                             4,470,278.36




 Sector(s)
 Irrigation and drainage(79%):Public administration- Agriculture, fishing and forestry(21%)

 Theme(s)
 Water resource management(50%):Rural services and infrastructure(46%):Regional integration(4%)

 Prepared by                         Reviewed by                          ICR Review Coordinator          Group
 Ranga Rajan Krishnamani             Victoria Alexeeva                    Christopher David Nelson        IEGSD (Unit 4)




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives
    The project was financed by the Global Environment Facility (GEF) Trust Fund. The project development objective as stated in the GEF
    Grant Agreement (Schedule 1, page 6) and in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) was:
    “To improve water resources and agricultural management and planning within and across the Beneficiary countries based on
    quantitative and spatial-based decision making tools.”
    The GEO of the project was to better manage local and regional water resources and reduce the threat of land degradation and climate
    change to vulnerable agricultural production systems and water resources in and across the project areas while developing options to
    address land-based pollution affecting the Mediterranean Sea.
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          5M-GEF Coordination&Capacity Bldg. NASA (P117170)



     Following IEG procedures, this ICR Review is based upon IEG’s assessment of the achievement of the project objective as formulated in the
     GEF's Grant Agreement and it does not rate the achievement of GEF’s Global Environment Objective.
     This project with four countries – Jordan, Lebanon, Morocco and Centre Regional De Teledetection Des Etats D’Afrique Du Nord (CRETAN)
     for Tunisia – and the Arab Water Council (AWC) - was the first phase of a horizontal Adaptable Program Loan (APL-1). (The AWC is an
     established partner of the Arab League’s Ministerial Council for Water and other regional institutions across countries in the Middle East and
     North Africa Region (hereafter referred to as MENA) and a regional non-profit organization. The second phase of the project (APL-II) was to
     trigger Egypt once it had fulfilled its effectiveness conditions.




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     No



c.   Components
     Component 1. Improved Water Resources and Agricultural Management. Appraisal estimate US$2.45 million. Revised estimate
     US$2.58 million. Actual cost US$2.62 million. Sub-component activities included: (a) the purchase, installation and implementation of
     Water Information System Platform (hereafter referred to as WISP) tools and related ancillary equipment in the participating countries.
     (The WISP tools include remote sensing equipment, land surface models and land data assimilation systems that could be operated
     without relying on ground-based data and hence were not bound by geographical constraints and political boundaries). (b) Applying WISP
     tools to pertinent research issues in local and regional water resources (such as identifying drought and flood prone areas, estimating
     groundwater fluxes and evapotranspiration, monitoring climate change impacts and crop yield estimates).
     Component 2. Capacity Building and Project Management. Appraisal estimate US$1.75 million. Revised estimate US$1.62 million.
     Actual cost US$1.47 million. Sub-component activities included: (i) Capacity building for implementing WISP on local levels. (ii) Local
     workshops to share results with stakeholders. (iii) Participating in international conferences and study tours on environmental remote
     sensing. (iv) Funding graduate fellowships. (v) Developing a national online portal to share data across stakeholder institutions.(iv) Project
     management.
     Component 3. Regional Integration and Cooperation. Appraisal estimate US$0.39 million. Revised estimate US$0.39 million: Actual
     cost US$0.39 million. Sub-component activities included: (a) Organizing quarterly workshops with regional stakeholders. (b) Developing
     an online portal to share regional results, and (c) Generating yearly regional reports on applications of regional significance (such as
     estimating the recharge rates of regional oversubscribed shared aquifers, formulating response to droughts and floods at the regional level
     and encouraging a more coordinated approach to managing transboundary water resources).




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
     Project Cost. Appraisal estimate US$4.59 million. Actual cost US$4.48 million. The difference between the appraisal estimate and
     actual cost was due to exchange rate changes between the local currencies and the US$.
     Project Financing: The project was financed by a GEF Trust Fund. Appraisal estimate US$4.59 million. Amount disbursed US$4.48
     million. The difference between the appraisal estimate and amount disbursed was due to changes in exchange rate changes.
     There was co-financing from the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) for complementary activities such as
     making available the open-source Water Information System Platform (WISP) and technical assistance to the participating countries from
     the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA).
     Borrower Contribution. Although Borrower Contribution was not planned at appraisal, the participating countries contributed about
     US$0.64 million at closure.
     Dates: The second phase (APL II), which triggered on August 28, 2012, is still under implementation and expected to close by November
     30, 2016.
     The first phase was restructured on June 19, 2014, following the recommendations of the Mid Term Review on April 5, 2014. Although
     the project development objective remained unchanged, following the restructuring, the results framework was revised and monitoring
     indicators were scaled up for the three project development indicators, new intermediate indicators were added for measuring the specific
     outcomes for each sub-component and for monitoring the outcomes of the capacity building activities to the end-user agencies. There
     was also reallocation of funding between activities. The first phase of the project closed as per schedule on May 31, 2015.
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               5M-GEF Coordination&Capacity Bldg. NASA (P117170)



   3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

   a. Relevance of Objectives

       At appraisal, fourteen of the twenty MENA countries were classified as being in water deficit - defined as less than 500 cubic meters of
       renewable water supply per capita per year. Further, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change reported an expected precipitation
       decrease over the next century by over 20 percent, a likely increase in the frequency and severity of droughts and a reduction in groundwater
       recharge rates in large parts of the region. The need for regional cooperation was reinforced, given that 60 percent of the region’s water
       supply flowed across international borders.
       At appraisal, the project development objectives were consistent with the national priorities and the Bank strategy for the regional countries.
       The priorities of the participating countries identified the need for improving the sustainability of water resources management. At appraisal,
       the development objective was consistent with the focus areas of the Country Assistance Strategies (CAS) of the participating countries. The
       program was part of the Bank’s Arab World Initiative, which emphasized the need for cooperative regional solutions to major challenges such
       as water resource management, food security and climate change. The project development objective was also consistent with the Bank’s
       “Water Resources Sector Strategy – Sustaining Water All in a Changing Climate.”, particularly with respect to improving the client countries’
       access to technologies and dissemination of information for results-based decision making.
       The project development objective was in line with the “MENA Regional Water Security Initiative”, initiated recently by the Bank’s Water
       Global Practice. While the first pillar of this initiative identified the need for enhancing technical capacity and sharing information, the second
       pillar supported the development of a regional geospatial water database.
       The development objective was consistent with both the GEF’s (i) Long-term objective of GEF’s International Waters Focal Area to “foster
       international, multi-state cooperation on priority water concern.” And (ii) the GEF’s Strategic Program for International Waters “to balance
       overuse and conflicting uses of water resources in surface and groundwater basins that are transboundary in nature.”




       Rating
       High


   b. Relevance of Design

       The statement of the project development objective is clear and the causal links between project activities, their outputs and their outcomes
       were logical. and the intended outcomes were measurable. The combination of component one activities (installation of Water Information
       System Platform tools and applying these tools to water sector issues at the national and regional levels and component two activities (capacity
       building activities through academic education, working with international experts on project problems and project training) and component
       three activities aimed at regional cooperation can be expected to contribute to improving the management of water resources and agricultural
       management and planning both within and across the participating countries. Given the scarcity of water resources in the MENA region, the
       project design appropriately focused on regional cooperation to realize the economies of scale associated with installing low-cost techniques
       for measuring the presence and usage of water in the participating countries.




       Rating
       Substantial




   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                               Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      5M-GEF Coordination&Capacity Bldg. NASA (P117170)




To improve water resources and agricultural management and planning within and across beneficiary countries, based on quantitative and
spatial-based decision tools.

Rationale
Despite a Level 2 restructuring that included changes to the key associated outcome targets (revised upward), IEG has chosen not to
undertake a split evaluation as the changes would not make a material difference to the achievement of the project against the Project
Development Objective.
Outputs

   • 52 Water Information System Platform (WISP) tools were installed as compared to the original and revised targets of two and 50
   respectively.
   • 23 WISP tools were made operational at project closure. This exceeded the revised target of 19.
   • 32 modeling outcomes were reported to end user agencies in the local and regional remote sensing institutions and the ministries of
   natural resources, environment, water resources, agriculture and disaster management, at project closure. This exceeded the revised
   target of nine.
   • 14 technical and policy plans were developed by end users at closure as compared to the revised target of six.
   • 439 stakeholder staff were trained on use of WISP tools as compared to the original and revised targets of 15 and 252 respectively.
   24 scholarships for advanced study/work experience in environmental remote sensing and other appropriate fields were provided in
   each participating country as compared to the original and revised targets of four and 17 respectively.
   • 35 stakeholder training workshops were held by project closure as compared to the original and revised targets of six and 31
   respectively. 28 regional/international workshops and conferences were held by project closure. This exceeded the revised target of 20.
   • Seven regional workshops were held by the Arab Water Council (AWC) as compared to the original and revised targets of five and
   six respectively.
   • Seven regional reports on impact of climate change on regional water resources was published as compared to the target of
   four.


Outcomes

   • Seven WISP tools were operational in total (including one in Lebanon and two each in Jordan, Morocco and Tunisia respectively), at
   project closure. This exceeded both the original and revised targets of two and four respectively. The WISP tools included both: (i)
   common application areas in all countries (such as identification of flood and drought prone areas and related forecasting and
   monitoring, crop and irrigation mapping, climate change impact estimates to aid in water and agriculture management decisions. And (ii)
   addressing special country priorities, such as Lebanon using the project as the basis for developing disaster management programs and
   focusing on using the project data for forest fire and flood forecasting, Morocco using the data for guiding locust survey teams and
   Tunisia using the data to forecast floods and work on estimation of groundwater fluxes.
   • Ten major water resources decisions were made in total on improved agricultural and land use management across beneficiary
   countries, based on the recommendations of the technical assistance activities at project closure. This exceeded the original and revised
   targets of four and eight respectively. The decisions included:
   • Four water sector decisions in Morocco. (i) The real time monitoring data from the draught study was used by the Ministry of
   Agriculture and Marine Fisheries for conducting Morocco’s compensation program for draught affected farmers. (2) Morocco’s National
   Center for Combatting Locust launched a prevention plan in areas prone to locusts based on the conclusions of the locust study.
   (3). The Ministry of Water and Agriculture used the recommendations of the e climate change component study for implementing the
   national plan for climate adaptation. (4) The Ministry of Water and Agriculture used the water balance study for drawing a national water
   strategies plan.
   • Two decisions in Jordan. (1) An amendment to the groundwater law was enacted by Parliament following the recommendations of the
   Ministry of Water and Irrigation, based on the research results of the crop mapping component for selected pilot. (2) The Water
   Information System Platform installed through this project was used by the Ministry of Water and Irrigation for research studies on
   irrigation optimizations and water resource management..
   • Two decisions in Lebanon: (1) The Sustainable Management of Natural Resources and Early Warning Platform (SuNaR) developed
   for providing real time forecasting and monitoring information and maps showing hot spots for flood risk and forests fire prevention was
   launched in Septemeber 2014, by the Ministry of Agricutluture for the National Response Plan. (2) The Ministry of Water and Energy
   started the process of standardizing, harmonizing and sharing policy in climatic and hydrological data..
   • Two decisions in Tunisia: (1) The project outputs on climate change was used by the Ministry of Water and Agriculture in developing
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                    Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       5M-GEF Coordination&Capacity Bldg. NASA (P117170)



    mitigation actions to adapt olive production to future changes. (2) The results of the simulations models for flood forecasting was used
    for the Floodplain Management Plan in October 2015.
    • Five regional and country project data portal to the end user agencies in the agriculture and water sectors to improve the existing
    development strategy, policy and planning was developed and operational at project closure, as per the revised target. This exceeded
    the original target of three.




 Rating
 Substantial



5. Efficiency

 There was no formal economic or financial analysis both at appraisal and at completion. The ICR discusses potential savings that could result
 from the project investments. For instance, while past locust outbreaks are estimated to have cost Moroccan agriculture from US$50 –
 US$100 million, the project financing for the locust control activity in Morocco was about US$300,000. Similar comparisons of benefits relative
 to costs were discussed for flood forecasting in Tunisia and Lebanon, cessation of groundwater overdraft in Jordan, and improved forest fire
 mitigation in Lebanon. There are grounds to assume that the remote sensing technology supported under the project allowed better
 performance results in terms of efficiency compared with the use of traditional methods.

 Administrative and Operational issues. There were initial implementation days in the first 18 months due to a combination of factors,
 including unclear responsibilities of the different project related agencies, lack of clear incentives and activities for end user to participate in
 project implementation, the limited knowledge and capacity on Bank’s implementation procedures and policies and lack of needed technical
 capacity for innovative activities. However, these were rectified over the course of project implementation through targeted training and
 international technical assistance where consultants worked side-by-side with local staff. Despite the slow start of implementation, all main
 components and activities were fully implemented and completed as per schedule and with full disbursement in the participating countries in
 the first phase of the program.




Efficiency Rating
Substantial


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                                Rate Available?              Point value (%)                    *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                                0
 Appraisal                                                                   0
                                                                                                                Not Applicable

                                                                                                                0
 ICR Estimate                                                                0
                                                                                                                Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         5M-GEF Coordination&Capacity Bldg. NASA (P117170)




The project development objective was highly relevant to the participating countries, in the regional context, to the Bank strategy for the region
and to the GEF objectives. Relevance of Design was rated Substantial. Efficacy was rated Substantial: all intended outcomes were either
realized or surpassed. Efficiency was assessed as Substantial, due to cost effectiveness and completion of all the activities by project closure.



a.     Outcome Rating
       Satisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

Technical Risk. The risk associated with the weak technical capacity is rated as Modest. At completion, the participating countries had a good
cadre of staff knowledgeable in remote sensing technologies and their applications in various aspects and new developments in the field due to
a combination of factors including, training provided as part of this project and general rise in higher education standards in the countries
involved and the return of people from higher study abroad.



a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Modest


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
     The project was prepared in collaboration with country stakeholders, international donors, implementation partners and in close collaboration
     with National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) scientists and affiliated academic partners. NASA provided the Water Information
     System Platform and technical assistance to participant countries. Several risks were identified including risks associated with slow
     cooperation among the various stakeholders in sharing hydrological information. Risk mitigation measures were incorporated and the overall
     risk of the project was rated as Medium. Appropriate measures were included for ensuring compliance with financial management and
     procurement management issues (discussed in Section 11). The indicators chosen for monitoring were appropriate (discussed in section
     10a).
     The project had a complex project implementation design, covering several thematic areas in several disconnected countries in the Region
     and in coordination with other development partners (including the US Government, USAID and NASA). The project intended to introduce
     highly sophisticated, customized models and scientific tools for timely decision making. Most of the participating countries were at different
     levels of capacities for adopting such technologies based on their specific priorities. This caused unnecessary delays in the initial years of the
     project. These issues were rectified during implementation through both targeted training and international technical assistance
     with consultants working alongside local staff.
     At preparation, there were no detailed implementation plans such as an operational manual with associated annual detailed investment,
     procurement and disbursement plans and annul physical and financial targets and a detailed training plan for each modeling study. This
     resulted in initial implementation delays.




     Quality-at-Entry Rating
     Moderately Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
     Seven Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) were filed over a five year period. The supervision team was proactive and responsive to
     the national needs (Borrower’s ICR, page 51) and worked closely with the NASA team, the Project Management Unit and end-users and this
     aided in tailoring the project activities to the priorities of the participating countries. Following the recommendations of the Mid Term Review,
     key indicators were appropriated revised and targets were revised upwards to reflect the final adjusted and agreed activities and additional
     indicators were included to monitor the outcomes of capacity building activities and training programs. This aided in instilling wider project
     ownership and cooperative work within the countries.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       5M-GEF Coordination&Capacity Bldg. NASA (P117170)




  Quality of Supervision Rating
  Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating
   Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
   The government’s of the respective countries were highly committed to the project and the Ministry of Finance in all countries provided
   complete support during the design and the implementation phase. The Project Management Units in each participating country was
   sufficiently staffed and there was sufficient counterpart budget allocation. At Bank’s suggestion, all the Project Management Units' signed
   Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with relevant line ministries and end users for the application of the remote sensing studies and this
   aided in appropriate collaboration with the Bank and other development partners.



   Government Performance Rating
   Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
   There were five implementing agencies: The Counseil National de la Recherche Scientific for Lebanon, the Ministry of Water and Irrigation
   for Jordan, the Centere Royal de Teledection Spatiale for Morocco, the National Authority for Remote Sensing and Space Sciences for
   Egypt, the Centre Regional De Teledetection Des Etats D”Afrique Du Nord for Tunisia and a regional coordination agency - the Arab Water
   Council (AWC). The AWC had national and regional links and was able to ensure efficient coordination and help in knowledge sharing and
   exchange at the regional level. The implementing agencies actively participated in the project through the execution phase. Workshops
   and conferences held under the supervision of AWC aided in project progress and its implementation. The initial project delays were due to
   the lack of knowldeg of the Bank's procurement and financial procedures.



   Implementing Agency Performance Rating
   Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating
   Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
   The three key outcome indicators – implementation of WISP tools in the implementing agencies, number of major water resources decision
   made using WISP tools and development of regional project data portal – were appropriate. The implementing agencies were required to
   submit information on physical and financial progress to a regional coordination office of the AWC.




b. M&E Implementation
   Following the recommendation of the Mid Term Review, the indicators were revised upwards and additional indicators were added for
   monitoring capacity building activities. The input data from remote sensing and stakeholder’s feedback during the local workshops helped in
   fine tuning the national indicators and tailoring the project activities to meet the end users demands.
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          5M-GEF Coordination&Capacity Bldg. NASA (P117170)




c. M&E Utilization
   The M$E results were utilized for identifying key implementation issues and recommending adequate remedial actions and monitoring
   implementation progress.




   M&E Quality Rating
   Substantial


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   The project was classified as a Category C project and no safeguard policies were triggered. The ICR (page 7) notes that there was
   compliance with safeguards during implementation.




b. Fiduciary Compliance
   Financial Management and Procurement. The Bank Financial and procurement specialists were located in the country offices of the
   respective countries and this aided in providing timely support to the Project Management Units in addressing financial management and
   procurement issues. The ICR (page 7) notes the audits were unqualified and procurement planning and procedures were in compliance with
   Bank policies.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
    ---



d. Other
    ---




12. Ratings
                                                                                                          Reason for
Ratings                                ICR                                IEG
                                                                                                          Disagreements/Comment
                                                                                                          IEG agrees with the project
                                                                                                          outcome rating of Satisfactory as
                                                                                                          outlined in the actual ICR
                                                                                                          document. The 'Moderately
Outcome                                Moderately Satisfactory           Satisfactory
                                                                                                          Satisfactory' rating provided here
                                                                                                          electronically is a system
                                                                                                          generated error and should be
                                                                                                          corrected by OPCS.
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         5M-GEF Coordination&Capacity Bldg. NASA (P117170)



Risk to Development Outcome                Modest                             Modest                             ---
                                                                                                                 IEG agrees with the actual ICR’s
                                                                                                                 rating of Bank Performance as
                                                                                                                 Moderately Satisfactory, due to
Bank Performance                           Satisfactory                       Moderately Satisfactory            moderate weaknesses in Quality at
                                                                                                                 Entry. The ‘Satisfactory’ rating
                                                                                                                 listed here in this section is a
                                                                                                                 system generated error.
Borrower Performance                       Satisfactory                       Satisfactory                       ---
Quality of ICR                                                                Substantial                        ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons

The ICR draws the following main lessons from implementing this project.

     1 A regional operation can help when there are common problems across several countries. In the case of this project, countries excelled in
     various aspects of the project and hence could learn from each other. This aided in assimilating new technologies. Workshops and training
     courses were also more efficient with the participation of four countries.
     2 Detailed project implementation plans are necessary even for technical assistance projects. In the case of this project, lack of detailed
     implementation plans delayed implementation in the initial years of the project. The marked improvement in project performance highlighted
     the importance of applying Bank protocols during project preparation even for technical assistance projects, so that the project starts well and
     quickly.
     3 A good coordinating body can be extremely useful, particularly for a regional project. In the case of this project, the regional coordinating
     agency – the Arab Water Council - played a crucial role in coordinating with all participating countries and this aided in the implementation of
     the project by the Project Coordination Units in each country.




14. Assessment Recommended?

No


15. Comments on Quality of ICR

The ICR is well written and provides a reasonably good description of the project. It is also clear on how issues were resolved following the
recommendations of the Mid Term Review. Lessons are derived from the project experience.
The ICR could have provided deeper insights and details into the important implementation issues for a project with a regional dimension that
are complex by nature. On a minor note, the ICR could have provided a glossary of terms used at several places in the text.




a.    Quality of ICR Rating
      Substantial
