                                        Document of
                                  The World Bank

                                                       Report No: ICR00003517


            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                (TF-10251 TF-10252 TF-10253 TF-10254 TF-10263)

                        ON FIVE GRANTS FROM THE
                GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$1.05 MILLION
                          TO THE LEBANESE REPUBLIC

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$1.05 MILLION
                   TO THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$1.05 MILLION
                        TO THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$1.05 MILLION
                TO THE CENTRE REGIONAL DE TELEDETECTION
                       DES ETATS D’AFRIQUE DU NORD

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$394,545
                         TO THE ARAB WATER COUNCIL

                                FOR A
                THE FIRST PHASE OF THE MULTICOUNTRY
        REGIONAL COORDINATION ON IMPROVED WATER RESOURCES
            MANAGEMENT AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROGRAM


           IN A GLOBAL AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$4.59 MILLION

                                      March 29, 2016


Water Global Practice
Middle East and North Africa Region
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective December, 2015)

                     Currency Unit = Lebanese Pounds (LBP)
                            LBP1507.5 = US$1
                            US$ = SDR 0.7103

                      Currency Unit = Jordan Dinars (JOD)
                            JOD0.709 = US$1
                            US$ = SDR 0.7103

                     Currency Unit = Egyptian Pounds (EGP)
                             EGP7.83 = US$1
                            US$ = SDR 0.7103

                    Currency Unit = Moroccan Dirham (MAD)
                            MAD9.74 = US$1
                            US$ = SDR 0.7103

                      Currency Unit = Tunisian Dinar (TND)
                            TND2.027 = US$1
                            US$ = SDR 0.7103

                           FISCAL YEAR 2016

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


APL      Adaptable Program Loan
AWC      Arab Water Council
CRTEAN   Centre Régional de Télédétection des Etats d’Afrique du Nord
CRTS     Centre Royal de Télédétection Spatiale
CNT      Centre National de Télédétection
CNRS     Conseil National de la Recherche Scientifique
CQS      Consultant Qualifications
DA       Designated Account
EIA      Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP      Environmental Management Plan
FM       Financial Management
FMS      Financial Management Specialist
FO       Financial Officer
IPCC     International Panel on Climate Change
IFR      Interim Financial Report
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

                                     i
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
ICBA       International Center for Biosaline Agriculture
ICARDA     International Center for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas
IDA        International Development Association
IPSAS      International Public Sector Accounting Standards
IW         International Waters
GEF        Global Environment Facility
GRACE      Gravity Recovery and Climate Experiment
LCS        Least Cost Selection
LADS       Land Data Assimilation System
MENA       Middle East and North Africa
METAP      Mediterranean Environmental Technical Assistance Program
MODIS      Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectro-radiometer
MOPIC      Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
MOU        Memorandum of Understanding
MOWI       Ministry of Water and Irrigation
MTR        Mid-Term Review
NARSS      National Authority for Remote Sensing and Space Science
NASA       National Aeronautics and Space Administration
NCB        National Competitive Bidding
NGO        Non-governmental organization
ORAF       Operational Risk Assessment Framework
PDO        Project Development Objective
POM        Project Operations Manual
PMU        Project Management Unit
RPMU       Regional Project Management Unit
QCBS       Quality and Cost Based Selection
QBS        Quality Based Selection
SBD        Standard Bidding Documents
SOE        Statement of Expenditures
SSS        Single Source Selection
TAC        Technical Advisory Committee
TOR        Terms of Reference
UN         United Nations
USAID      United States Agency for International Development
WA         Withdrawal Application
WISP       Water Information System Platform

         Senior Global Practice Director: Jennifer J. Sara
                        Sector Manager: Steven N. Schonberger
                   Project Team Leader: Qun Li
                      ICR Team Leader: Qun ICR Primary
                   ICR Primary Author: Joseph Goldberg




                                        ii
              THE FIRST PHASE OF THE MULTICOUNTRY
       REGIONAL COORDINATION ON IMPROVED WATER RESOURCES
           MANAGEMENT AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROGRAM



                                                           CONTENTS


Data Sheet

B. Key Dates ...................................................................................................................... iv
C. Ratings Summary .......................................................................................................... iv
D. Sector and Theme Codes ................................................................................................v
E. Bank Staff ........................................................................................................................v
F. Results Framework Analysis ......................................................................................... vi
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ....................................................................... ix
H. Restructuring (if any) .................................................................................................... ix
I. Disbursement Profile ...................................................................................................... ix
1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design ........................................1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ...................................................4
3. Assessment of Outcomes .................................................................................................8
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome .............................................................16
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..........................................................17
6. Lessons Learned ............................................................................................................18
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ...............19
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ...............................................................................20
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ......................................................................................22
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ......................................................................27
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .................29
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ................................................................................33
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results .......................................................34
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..........................49
Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome .................................................................55
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ............................56
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...........................................................................57
Annex 10: Project Photos ..................................................................................................58

MAP 1 (IBRD 42240) ........................................................................................................... 66




                                                                 iii
A. Basic Information
                                                                            5M- Regional
                                                                            Coordination on
                                                                            Improved Water
                        Middle East and North
Country:                                      Project Name:                 Resources Management
                        Africa
                                                                            and Capacity Building
                                                                            in Cooperation with
                                                                            NASA
                                                                            TF-10251,TF-
Project ID:             P117170                   L/C/TF Number(s):         10252,TF-10253,TF-
                                                                            10254,TF-10263
ICR Date:               03/30/2016                ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                            GOVT OF
Lending Instrument:     APL                       Borrower:                 LEBANON/JORDAN/
                                                                            TUNISIA/MOROCOO
Original Total
                        USD 4.59M                 Disbursed Amount:         USD 4.48M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 4.59M
Environmental Category: C                         Global Focal Area: I
Implementing Agencies:
Center for Remote Sensing, CNRS (Lebanon) – Dr. Talal Darwish
Ministry of Water and Irrigation (Jordan) – Dr. Rania Abdel Khaleq
Centre Royal de Télédétection Spatiale (Morocco) – Dr. Driss El Hadani
Centre Régional De Télédétection Des Etats D’Afrique Du Nord (‘CRTEAN’) (Tunisia) – Dr. El
Hadi Gashut
Arab Council – Dr. Mahmoud Abu Zeid
Co-financiers and Other External Partners:
B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process              Date             Process               Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:         09/15/2010   Effectiveness:                                 08/15/2011
Appraisal:              12/01/2010   Restructuring(s):                              06/19/2014
Approval:               06/09/2011   Mid-term Review:             03/27/2014        04/05/2014
                                     Closing:                     05/31/2015        05/31/2015
C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Satisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome                Moderate
Bank Performance:                                 Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Satisfactory


                                             iv
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower                    Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:                      Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision:     Satisfactory                                         Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                                  Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                               QAG Assessments
                              Indicators                                          Rating
      Performance                                     (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                  Quality at Entry
Project at any time       No                                              None
                                                  (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                          Yes                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
GEO rating before         Moderately
Closing/Inactive status   Satisfactory
D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Irrigation and drainage                                              79                  79
Public administration- Agriculture, fishing and forestry             21                  21


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Regional integration                                                  4                  4
Rural services and infrastructure                                    46                  46
Water resource management                                            50                  50
E. Bank Staff
        Positions                        At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:           Hafez M. H. Ghanem                   Shamshad Akhtar
Country Director:         Franck Bousquet                      Jonathan D. Walters
Practice
                          Steven N. Schonberger                Francis Ato Brown
Manager/Manager:
Project Team Leader:      Qun Li                               Claire Kfouri
ICR Team Leader:          Qun Li
ICR Primary Author:       Joseph R. Goldberg




                                                v
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The Project Development objective was to improve water resources and agricultural
management and planning within and across beneficiary countries, based on quantitative
and spatial-based decision making tools.

The Global Environment Objective of the Project was to better manage local and regional
water resources and reduce the threat of land degradation and climate change to vulnerable
agricultural production systems and water resources in and across the project areas while
developing options to address land-based pollution affecting the Mediterranean Sea.

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
and Key Indicators and reasons/justifications

(a) GEO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target         Formally       Actual Value
                                             Values (from           Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                               approval              Target        Completion or
                                             documents)              Values        Target Years
Indicator 1 :      WISP operational (number)
Value
(quantitative or   0                         2                  4              7
Qualitative)
Date achieved      05/30/2015               05/30/2015        05/30/2015     05/30/2015
Comments           % achievement of revised targets: 175. WISP tools to be implemented under
(incl. %           the project include the establishment of remote sensing techniques, digital
achievement)       image analysis tools, land surface models
                   Number of major water resources decisions made on improved agricultural and
Indicator 2 :
                   land use management taking into consideration outputs of WISP tools
Value
(quantitative or   0                         4                  8              10
Qualitative)
Date achieved      05/30/2015               05/30/2015         05/30/2015    05/30/2015
Comments           % achievement of revised targets: 125. Major water resources decisions have
(incl. %           been made across all participating countries to improve the agricultural
achievement)       and land use management
                   Regional and country project data portal developed and operational (according to
Indicator 3 :
                   IW: LEARN guidelines)
Value
(quantitative or   0                         3                  5              5
Qualitative)
Date achieved      05/30/2015                05/30/2015         05/30/2015     05/30/2015
Comments
                   % achievement of revised targets: 100. Regional project data portal has been
(incl. %
achievement)       developed and is operational in all countries

                                                 vi
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                            Formally
                                            Values (from                          Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                        Revised
                                              approval                           Completion or
                                                          Target Values
                                             documents)                          Target Years
Indicator 1 :      WISP Hardware Purchased and Installed
Value
(quantitative or   0                        2                  50              52
Qualitative)
Date achieved      05/30/2015               05/30/2015         05/30/2015      05/30/2015
Comments
(incl. %           % achievement of revised targets: 104
achievement)
Indicator 2 :      Total number of WISP tools adapted and models operational
Value
(quantitative or   0                        NA                 19              23
Qualitative)
Date achieved      05/30/2015               05/30/2015         05/30/2015      05/30/2015
Comments
(incl. %           % achievement of revised targets: 121
achievement)
Indicator 3 :      Modeling outcomes reported to end users
Value
(quantitative or   0                        NA                 9               32
Qualitative)
Date achieved      05/30/2015               05/30/2015         05/30/2015      05/30/2015
Comments
(incl. %           % achievement of revised targets: 356
achievement)
Indicator 4 :      Expected technical and policy plan developed by end-users
Value
(quantitative or   0                        NA                 6               14
Qualitative)
Date achieved      05/30/2015               05/30/2015         05/30/2015      05/30/2015
Comments
(incl. %           % achievement of revised targets: 233
achievement)
Indicator 5 :      Number of remote sensing and stakeholder staff trained on use of WISP tools
Value
(quantitative or   0                        15                 252             439
Qualitative)
Date achieved      05/30/2015               05/30/2015         05/30/2015      05/30/2015
Comments
(incl. %           % achievement of revised targets: 174
achievement)




                                                 vii
                   Scholarships for advanced study/work experience in environmental remote
Indicator 6 :
                   sensing or other fields as appropriate selected in each beneficiary country
Value
(quantitative or   0                         4                  17              24
Qualitative)
Date achieved      05/30/2015                05/30/2015         05/30/2015      05/30/2015
Comments
(incl. %           % achievement of revised targets: 141
achievement)
Indicator 7 :      Local stakeholder training workshop
Value
(quantitative or   0                         6                  31              35
Qualitative)
Date achieved      05/30/2015                05/30/2015         05/30/2015      05/30/2015
Comments
(incl. %           % achievement of revised targets: 113
achievement)
Indicator 8 :      Number of regional/international workshops and conferences
Value
(quantitative or   0                         NA                 20              28
Qualitative)
Date achieved      05/30/2015                05/30/2015         05/30/2015      05/30/2015
Comments
(incl. %           % achievement of revised targets: 140
achievement)
Indicator 9 :      Number of Regional Workshops held by AWC
Value
(quantitative or   0                         5                  6               7
Qualitative)
Date achieved      05/30/2015                05/30/2015         05/30/2015      05/30/2015
Comments
(incl. %           % achievement of revised targets: 117
achievement)
                   Number of Regional Reports on Impact of Climate Change on Regional Water
Indicator 10 :
                   Resources Published
Value
(quantitative or 0                        4                     4               7
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/30/2015                  05/30/2015            05/30/2015      05/30/2015
Comments
(incl. %         % achievement of revised targets: 175
achievement)




                                                  viii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                         Actual
       Date ISR
No.                         GEO                      IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                     (USD millions)
  1   09/09/2011       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                     0.00
  2   07/01/2012   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory              0.15
  3   05/17/2013   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory              0.69
                                                Moderately
  4   12/31/2013   Moderately Satisfactory                                     0.80
                                              Unsatisfactory
  5   06/28/2014   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory             1.33
                        Moderately
  6   02/27/2015                           Moderately Satisfactory             2.39
                      Unsatisfactory
  7   05/30/2015   Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                    3.27

H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board    Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                              Key Changes Made
              GEO Change GEO      IP      in USD
                                         millions
 06/19/2014               MU     MS           1.33



I. Disbursement Profile




                                         ix
1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design

1.1 Regional Context at Appraisal

1. The scarcity of freshwater in most countries of the Middle East and North Africa
(MENA) region is an increasingly acute problem, particularly as populations grow, rapid
urbanization continues and the pressure to shift away water from agriculture (which
consumes over 84% of the region’s water resources on average) as domestic and industrial
uses increase. Fourteen of twenty MENA nations are classified as being in water deficit,
defined as less than 500 cubic meters (m3) of renewable water supply per capita per year.
The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) further reports an expected
precipitation decrease over the next century by over 20% for large parts of the MENA
region, a likely increase in the frequency and severity of droughts and a reduction in
groundwater recharge rates.

2. Modern advances in technology (including geographic information systems, data
assimilation, and modeling techniques among others) and space based remote sensing
techniques now enable the collection of accurate water data. Data collected in this manner
can provide measurements over areas where no data have otherwise been available and at
greatly reduced costs as compared to traditional methods. Such data can also easily be
turned into valuable information through modeling tools, maps and graphs that allow
stakeholders and water managers to make better and more informed decisions for water
management and planning.

3. The Water Information System Platform (WISP) is designed to provide estimates of
rainfall, runoff, soil moisture, evapotranspiration, among others at a variety of time and
space scales (from 25 km to 1 km and 6 hours to 1 hour) and merges state of the art tools
to operationally obtain high quality land surface storages and fluxes. The WISP tool is thus
particularly relevant to the MENA region, which is characterized by a lack of traditional
water balance data, high temporal and spatial variability in precipitation, large aquifers and
intensive irrigation. Furthermore, WISP is able to incorporate in-situ data traditionally
collected by local and regional water institutions.

4. The Regional Coordination on Improved Water Resources Management and
Capacity Building Program was conceived as two-phase Adaptable Program, with a first
phase supporting Jordan, Morocco, Lebanon and Tunisia (APL 1); and a second phase
supporting Egypt to be triggered once negotiation conditions were met (APL 2).

5. The Program was developed in close coordination with National Aeronautics and
Space Administration (NASA) scientists and affiliated academic partners. NASA made
available the open-source WISP and provided technical assistance to participant countries.
The United States Agency for International Development (USAID) financed the costs of
NASA staff and NASA delivered technical assistance activities.

6. This Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICRR) is for APL 1 (herein the
Project), for which the Arab Water Council (AWC) played a critical role as the Regional
                                              1
Project Coordination and Management Office to coordinate project country activities and
implement the regional integration and coordination activities under Component 3. APL 2
is still under implementation and is expected to close by November 30, 2016.

7. The Project was consistent with the national priorities of Lebanon, Jordan, Morocco
and Tunisia to improve the sustainability of water resources management. It was also
consistent with Centre Régional de Télédétection des Etats d’Afrique du Nord
(CRTEAN)’s goals and priorities. Furthermore, the Program formed part of the World
Bank Arab World Initiative, which emphasizes cooperative regional solutions to major
challenges such as water resource management, food security and climate change nexus.
Finally, the Program was fully consistent with the World Bank “Water Resources Sector
Strategy – Sustaining Water for All in a Changing Climate”, particularly in improving
client countries’ access to technologies to increase the availability and dissemination of
water resources information for results-based decision making.

1.2 Original Global Environment Objectives (GEO)/Project Development Objective
(PDO) and Key Indicators

8. The GEO of the Project was to better manage local and regional water resources and
reduce the threat of land degradation and climate change to vulnerable agricultural
production systems and water resources in and across the project areas while developing
options to address land-based pollution affecting the Mediterranean Sea. The Project was
in line with both (i) the long-term objective of the GEF’s International Waters Focal Area
“to foster international, multi-state cooperation on priority water concerns,” and (ii) the
GEF’s Strategic Program for International Waters “to balance overuse and conflicting uses
of water resources in surface and groundwater basins that are transboundary in nature.”

9.    The PDO was to improve water resources and agricultural management and planning
within and across beneficiary countries, based on quantitative and spatial-based decision
making tools.

10. Achievement of the GEO and PDO were assessed through the following key
performance indicators:

      WISP operational in at least 3 of 4 implementing agencies
      Number of major water resources decisions made taking into consideration WISP
       tools
      Regional project data portal developed and operational (according to GEF
       International Waters (IW): LEARN guidelines)

1.3 Revised GEO/PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key
Indicators, and reasons/justification

11. The GEO/PDO and the Project scope as described in PAD remained unchanged.
However, during the Mid-Term Review (MTR), key indicators were revised to meet
specific needs of each country. Expected target values for all 3 PDOs indicators were
increased to reflect the final adjusted and agreed activities, and intermediate indicators


                                            2
under Components 1 and 2 were added including an indicator to monitor the outcome of
identified end-users and capacity building activities.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

12. The direct beneficiaries of the Project were the local and regional remote sensing
institutions and the ministries of water, irrigation, agriculture and planning, regional water
stakeholders, local farmers and the citizens of Lebanon, Jordan, Tunisia and Morocco
(approximately 136 million people, half of which are estimated to be women), which will
benefit from improved access to real-time drought and flood monitoring outputs, improved
crop yield monitoring, and local and regional groundwater estimates, among others.

1.5 Original Components

13. The Project had three components that were implemented at the country and regional
levels (in Lebanon, Jordan, Morocco, Tunisia and AWC).

Component 1: Improved Local Water Resources and Agricultural Management
(US$3.06 million)
14. Component 1 comprised of: (a) the purchase, installation and validation of various
WISP tools and other ancillary equipment to remote sensing centers and stakeholder
agencies and institutions in each of the project countries; and (b) application of WISP tools
to pertinent research issues in local and regional water resources, agricultural, and
environmental management.

Component 2: Capacity Building and Project Management (US$1.14 million)

15. Component 2 comprised of: (a) capacity building (workshops and consultants) to
implement WISP tools; (b) local workshops to share results with local stakeholders; (c)
participation in international conferences and study tours on environmental remote sensing;
(d) funding graduate fellowships; (e) development of an online national portal to share data
across stakeholder institutions; and (f) project management of the Grant.

Component 3: Regional Integration and Cooperation (US$394,595)

16. Component 3 comprised of: (a) organization of quarterly workshops to share results
with regional stakeholders; (b) development of an online regional portal to share regional
results; (c) generation of once-yearly regional report on applications of regional
significance. These applications were expected to include estimating the recharge rates of
regional oversubscribed shared aquifers, optimizing the response to droughts and floods at
the regional scale, and encouraging a more coordinated approach to management of
transboundary water resources among others.




                                              3
1.6 Revised Components

17. The Project components remained mainly unchanged.

1.7 Other significant changes

18. To ensure the achievements of the GEP/PDO by the Project closing date, the Bank
MTR mission reviewed and discussed the country proposals with all recipient countries
and Arab Water Council and USAID/NASA teams, and agreed on the following MTR
adjustments: (i) change in results framework and monitoring indicators (see Paragraph 9);
(ii) change in component cost estimates, with more focus on end-users and capacity
building activities; (iii) changes in reallocation of funds between disbursement categories;
(iv) change in procurement; and (v) changes in disbursement estimates.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

19.     The PDO and Project design responded to the government priorities. Strengthening
water resources management is a high priority in all participating countries, in particular
developing solid management tools to plan and manage scarce water resources. Project
design was consistent with the strategic focus areas of all the Bank’s Country Assistance
Strategies (CASs). Project components were well designed towards achievement of PDO.
Remote Sensing (RS) data and products when used in combination with in-situ data can
make significant contribution to have a better understanding and management of water
allocation, water use/consumption, flood and drought monitoring and climate change
impacts.

20.      However, the project preparation lacked some important elements of
implementation readiness for such a complex and multi stakeholder’s project. This resulted
in initial implementation delays in the first 18 months. One of the main observations and
findings following the 2013 Bank supervision mission, also highlighted in the AWC First
Regional Report, was the unclear roles and responsibilities of different Project related
agencies, the lack of clear incentives and activities for end-user to participate in Project
implementation, and the limited knowledge and capacity on Bank’s implementation
procedures and policies.

2.2 Implementation

21.     Project implementation was initially very slow due to the deficiencies identified in
paragraph 20, the delayed project effectiveness in respective countries and the lack of the
needed technical capacity for innovative activities. The latter was rectified over the course
of implementation through both targeted training and international technical assistance
where consultants worked side-by-side with local staff. Indeed, project managers stated
that “the international consultants did not work for them, rather worked with them and their
colleagues.” The most serious deficiency was the initial lack of the detailed implementation
plans or an operational manual with associated annual detailed investment, procurement
and disbursement plans, and annual physical and financial targets, especially a detailed

                                             4
training plan identified for each modeling study indicating which agency was responsible
for which activity and on what time schedule. This deficiency was only addressed through
intensive Bank supervisions, especially during the MTR mission.

22.     With a change to more intensive supervision and the MTR adjustments, the
implementation progress started to accelerate, through: (a) various developed and
conducted training programs, including (i) the hands on training in the field for all country
Project Management Unit (PMU) managers and staff on the Bank procurement,
disbursement, financial management and project M&E procedures and policies; (ii) the
specific technical training for all PMU and end-user expert teams on each modeling study
theme with a solid training program arrangement provided by NASA team; and (iii)
knowledge sharing and exchange workshops; and (b) the additional new intermediate
indicators to enable detailed monitoring of progress by each sub-component. The Bank
team emphasized capacity building of end user agencies, for which budget was allocated
for end-users’ participation in each modeling study as well as the staff of the (RS agencies.
This seems to have instilled wider project ownership and more cooperative work within
the countries.

23.      Project implementation accelerated with intensive support from the World Bank’s
supervision missions, the timely technical assistant from the NASA and other international
remote sensing agencies, and all country scientist and local expert teams’ extra hard work
with clearer output results and time frame. Training workshops that helped the PMUs to
reach solutions to all their issues that were affecting the project implementation were also
critical to accelerate implementation. Also the stakeholders’ close participation (as the
member of each modeling study team) in each country positively affected Project
implementation and helped PMUs and end-users to achieve Project targets.

24.     A key factor for implementation success was the strong buy-in from the
participating countries, as evidenced by the setting up of PMUs in each participating
country with sufficient technical staff and counterpart budget allocation. As suggested by
the Bank supervision, all PMUs signed Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with
relevant line ministries/end-users for the application of the remote sensing studies, which
paved the way for policy changes based on study results and facilitated collaboration with
the Bank, NASA/USAID and the other partner organizations.

25.     The strong technical support and contributions from international RS agencies,
especially from NASA (financed by USAID), were crucial for the transfer of technical
resources and RS application tools, which had significantly improved technical capacity in
all country implementation agencies. The initial and hands-on-training under each study
theme provided by NASA with its external contractors was essential for the success of the
Project.

26.     It should be noted that the AWC played a pivotal role in the coordination of the
project activities with the participating countries. It was very important to select a regional
coordination agency with national and regional links and influence, able to ensure support
and efficient coordination and to help in knowledge sharing and exchange at the regional
level. Workshops and conferences held under the auspice and supervision of the AWC
positively affected Project progress and its successful implementation.

                                              5
27.     Completion. Although this was a complex multi-country project with complicated
implementation arrangements, two donors and advanced RS technologies, experienced a
slow start of implementation, all main components/activities were fully implemented and
completed successfully as scheduled (without any extension). All expected outcome and
output targets/results had been successfully achieved or exceeded, except the groundwater
study in Tunisia, where expected results were not able to be fully achieved due to the
limited implementation period and the complications with the transfer of available NASA
models. The Project financial account was closed by the original project closing date with
a full disbursement. This was 98 % of the total grant, the difference due to changes in the
exchange rates in respective countries, and the actual disbursement amount in local
currency had been more than the appraisal estimates.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

28.      A comprehensive M&E framework was set up to keep track of implementation
progress of all project activities. Almost on a quarterly basis a regional supervision was
organized by AWC in coordination with the Bank, where a comprehensive financial and
physical progress report was requested to be submitted by the implementing countries to the
Regional Coordination Office (AWC). Information on physical and financial progress for
all activities was later assessed and reported based on the content of these reports.

29.     The implementation of the M&E framework was adequate and effective and clearly
showed that working closely with end-users allowed the PMU to know better their needs,
assess their weakness and strengths, and identify the gaps and ways for improving capacity
building. The input data from remote sensing and stakeholder’s feedback during the local
workshops helped fine tuning the national indicators and tailoring the Projects activities to
meet the end users’ demands.

30.     The activities and indicators were adjusted during the supervision missions and
MTR. More specific indicators were introduced to meet national needs and monitor the
output for each detailed modeling study. The utilization of the M&E results contributed to
identifying key implementation issues, recommending adequate remedial actions, and
enhancing the physical and the financial implementation progress. All indicators were
achieved and some were exceeded, based on the expected targets identified and presented
in the Results Framework.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

31.     Safeguard. The Project was not expected to have any adverse environment or social
impacts as it would introduce remote sensing software/hardware and would provide
capacity building and technical assistance needed to operationalize these tools. The Project
was categorized as Environmental Category C, and no safeguard policy was triggered.
Since the PDO and the Project scope remained unchanged, no change in the environmental
category was made during the project implementation. The Bank team monitored
safeguards compliance during regular supervision missions. Project interventions had been
applied for better use of water resources and higher adaptive capacity to climate change,
which will have a higher level positive environmental impacts in the participating

                                             6
countries. At completion, the Project had showed positive social benefits, particularly for
local stakeholders, who depend on reliable water data for irrigation management, drought
and flood risk management, among others.

32.    Financial Management: Financial management system including reporting and
auditing arrangements was adequate and satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank financial
management specialists were based in the country offices, so the Bank was able to provide
timely and efficient support to the PMUs. Supervision of financial management
arrangements was carried out semi-annually as part of the Project supervision missions.
All Audits were fulfilled according to the World Bank rules, procedures and had
unqualified opinions.

33.    Procurement: Procurement planning and procedures were in compliance with the
Bank policies. Procurement reports were updated and submitted to the Bank after each
supervision mission. Procurement supervision was carried out on a timely basis as required
by the client. The Bank procurement specialists were based in the country offices, so the
Bank was able to provide timely and efficient support to the PMUs.

34.     Disbursement: All disbursement procedures were in compliance with the Bank’s
client connection policies and were presented in a physical and financial progress report
that was updated and submitted to the Bank after each supervision mission. Almost all the
grants were fully disbursed by the Project closing date, reflecting a remarkable turnaround
from the MTR period, with a minor unused balance (2% of the total GEF grant) due largely
to exchange rate fluctuations.

2.4 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

35.      Since the Project was successful at the regional and national levels and proved to
be an excellent step towards concrete regional cooperation, and given that the all
participating countries appreciated and valued the Project, participating countries have
expressed a keen interest in a second project in order to continue the transfer and adaptation
of cutting-edge technology of RS in water resources management and agriculture
management in the MENA region and in extending and upgrading the current Program
activities through a follow-up Program.

36.     Accordingly, AWC had already requested a second phase Program on behalf of the
participating countries. The Bank project team has received country GEF focal point
endorsement letters and is seeking funding for this new phase under the GEF-6, particularly
the window on International Waters. A draft PCN has already been prepared and reviewed
by the Bank GEF coordination office and GEFSEC.




                                              7
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

37.      Relevance of Objectives (high). At the time of appraisal, the GEO/PDO were
relevant to the MENA region’s development strategies and also the national development
priorities of the participating countries aiming to improve the sustainability of water
resources. This regional Project was part of the World Bank’s Arab World Initiative (AWI),
which emphasizes cooperative regional solutions to major challenges such as water
resource management, food security and climate change nexus.

38.     The GEO/PDO still remains highly relevant in the MENA region and is in line with
both (i) the long-term objective of the GEF’s International Waters Focal Area “to foster
international, multi-state cooperation on priority water concerns”, and (ii) the GEF’s
Strategic Program for International Waters “to balance overuse and conflicting uses of
water resources in surface and groundwater basins that are transboundary in nature.”

39.    The project GEO/PDO is still consistent with the Country Partnership Strategy
(CPS)/CPF goals and all project countries’ national priorities of strengthening local and
regional capacities in sustainable water resources management, and also fully consistent
with the World Bank “Water Resources Sector Strategy – Sustaining Water for All in a
Changing Climate”, particularly in improving client countries’ access to technologies to
increase the availability and dissemination of information for result-based decision
making.

40.     In addition, the project objective has be in line directly with the new “MNA
Regional Water Security Initiative (RWSI)”, which has been initiated by the Water Global
Practice recently. The RWSI is a Programmatic Approach with two broad pillars: (i)
“increasing access to and sharing of technologies and policy options; and (ii) building
consensus for action on water security in MENA.” This project contributed to the first pillar
of the RWSI as it seeks to enhance technical capacity and sharing of information and to the
second pillar of RWSI by supporting the development of a regional geospatial database on
water that is hosted at the League of Arab States.

41.      The rationale for Bank involvement in the program lay primarily in its ability to
apply innovative solutions to development challenges in the water sector by collaborating
with renowned specialist technical institutions - such as NASA and top academic
institutions in the field of remote sensing and hydrology. Furthermore, the Bank has been
extensively involved in many of MENA’s water resources management-related technical
assistance and investment projects and reforms – many of which of transboundary nature.

42.     Relevance of design and implementation (substantial). The Project design and
implementation focused around regional cooperation and technical excellence was and still
remains substantially relevant. Nothing could be more relevant to the future development
of the most water-stressed area of the populated world, than introduction of a set of low-
cost techniques to accurately and quickly measure the presence and usage of water. That is
what this project accomplished, and the technical outputs of this effort are listed below and
in Annex 2. The first step here had to be the establishment in each country of a strong cadre

                                             8
of expertise in remote sensing (RS) technologies, some through academic education, but
mainly through working with international experts on practical problems, and associated
project training. This step has been achieved. The second step has been the application of
satellite monitoring to actual water management, here largely irrigation and flood
control. The third was the application of RS technology to other areas of high priority to
each country, where hydrometric parameters play a key role. Here the results have been
remarkable in drought monitoring and guidance of compensation programs (Morocco),
guidance of forest fire monitoring and fighting (Lebanon), control of illegal groundwater
extraction (Jordan), monitoring and control of locust outbreaks (Morocco). Where more
needs to be done is in irrigation management, which will likely take another operation to
accomplish. But this will now be possible given the basis established by this project. What
has already been achieved testifies to the relevance of the project and its design.

43.      Overall: (i) the project PMUs and the Bank Team demonstrated a flexible and
programmatic approach that mobilized the international and regional expertise required to
operationalize various WISP tools with the valuable technical support from the NASA
team (the implementation partners), and allowed interventions to adapt to the changing
realities on the ground and the needs of the participating countries; (ii) the fact that project
covered four participating countries with some specific activities for each country and a
regional component necessitated commensurate implementation arrangements (PMU in
each country and AWC to handle the regional component).

3.2 Achievement of the Development Objectives
Rating: Substantial

44.     The project achieved its main development objectives. Given the attainment or
surpassing of virtually all of the specific PDO outcome and intermediate indicators in
general as discussed below in detail (and presented in the Datasheet and Annex 2). The
PDO outcomes is assessed as substantially achieved within a relatively short
implementation period (about 3.5 years implementation period, especially with a slow start
at the early stage of the implementation).

45.     The project development objective was to improve water resources and agricultural
management and planning within and across beneficiary countries, based on quantitative
and spatial-based decision making tools. Recipient countries were supposed to benefit from
the expected project outcome of enhanced capacity in remote sensing and would be able to
better:
     Operationalize various WISP tools and validate output data on water availability
        and compile past and current water conditions to inform improved water policy
        decisions;
     Generate crop/irrigation/ET maps and estimates of irrigation water requirements
        and water use for large scale agricultural productivity assessments and planning;
     Estimate current water storage conditions in the uplands of river basins to
        improve river flow predictions, and provide water balance data to identify short
        and long term trends in water anomalies;
     Monitor and forecast extent and severity of droughts and flood with climate change
        impacts; and


                                               9
      Evaluate potential increases/decreases in irrigation water requirements under
       various climate change scenarios to inform the planning of agricultural policies.

46.      But the various countries went beyond assimilation of new analytical techniques
based on new remote data sources. They actually applied them to a wide range of issues
and problems of high priority to them. In Morocco the two novel and unpredicted areas
were locust control and estimation of drought damages to farmers for compensation
purposes. Various types of locusts breed in southern Morocco, and occasionally morph
from the solitary to the gregarious state, such stages triggered by parameters captured by
project technology, particularly soil moisture and temperature. Once the Moroccans
realized this connection, and their new ability to keep track of these parameters in virtually
real time, they turned this into a strong technical protocol (including production of bi-
weekly maps) to monitor the locust populations. These now guide field teams to areas of
high probability for the massing of locusts prior to the migrations across the whole of North
Africa, which have devastated regional agriculture since antiquity. The teams then have
the task of ground truthing the presence of swarms and destroying them. The second novel
application came from formation of a Comprehensive Drought Index, developed under the
project with the help of the U.S. Drought Mitigation Center at the University of
Nebraska. The novel use of this was to guide Morocco's very large compensation program
for drought-afflicted farmers, an objective and accurate approach far removed from
political trading. In Lebanon, similar project-generated hydrometric data was used to guide
forest fire monitoring and control teams, as well as thorough flood forecasting for the entire
country In Jordan ET monitoring in large areas without surface water, was used to pinpoint
violations of regulations on groundwater extraction, and then to write a new Groundwater
Law. These applications created by the countries themselves are a testament to the efficacy
of the project, in creating critical masses of expertise, of supplying those units with
effective new tools, and in providing the right international expertise to speed them on their
way in applying them.

47.      At the Project completion, the expected benefits were achieved in the participating
countries with each country’s own emphasis areas. Also, with the attainment or surpassing
of all of the PDO and intermediate indicators, outcomes are assessed as substantially. The
details are as follows:

Original PDO1: WISP operational in at least 3 of 4 implementing agencies

48.      The expected PDO outcome was exceeded since 7 WISP or 175% of original and
125% of the MTR target were established (Lebanon: 1; Jordan: 2; Morocco: 2; and Tunisia:
2). WISP tools to be implemented under the project include the establishment of remote
sensing techniques, digital image analysis tools, land surface models, and the land data
assimilation system (LDAS) or other relevant software developed and widely used by
NASA and its partners. The main themes under WISP tools included: (a) several common
application areas: (i) identification of flood and drought prone areas and related forecasting
and monitoring, (ii) crop, irrigation and ET mapping, (iii) climate change impact estimates
to inform water and agriculture management decisions; and (b) special country priorities
which were differed widely between countries, such as (i) Lebanon essentially treated the
project as the basis for their disaster management programs, focusing on using project data for
forest fire and flood forecasting, both on a continuous national basis; (ii) Morocco used the
                                              10
data to provide guidance to locust survey teams, through maps on a bi-weekly basis, since the
locust breeding and metamorphosis stages are largely dependent on soil moisture and
temperature, which continue to allow early detection and disruption of outbreaks which
have plagued not only Morocco but all of North Africa for millennia; (iii) Tunisia has used
their data to forecast floods upstream of the Bisri Dam and also work on the estimation of
groundwater fluxes.

49.    Original PDO2: Number of major water resources decisions made taking into
consideration WISP tools, which directly supported the achievement of PDO and the
improvement of local water resources and agriculture management.

50.     The major water resources decisions have been made to improve the agricultural
and land use management “taking into consideration the outputs of WISP tools” (by 125%
of the target value). These decisions were divided by countries as follows:

Lebanon: (2 decisions)
    The Sustainable Management of natural Resources and Early Warning Platform
      (SuNaR) was developed by the project and launched in September, 2014 in the
      Ministry of Agriculture. The Disaster Risk Management Unit at the presidency of
      council throughout its connection with the SuNaR is now using the outputs of the
      SuNaR for the National Response Plan. The SuNaR Platform provided real time
      forecasting and monitoring information and maps showing hot spots for flood risk
      and forest fire prevention to enhance decision making and national preparedness.

      A decision was made by the Ministry of Water and Energy to start the
       standardizing, harmonizing and sharing policy in climatic and hydrological data.
       Similarly, the Ministry of Environment MoE started updating the “Adaptation to
       Climate Change Strategy” in the water sector based on the project results under the
       Climate Change component in May 2015.

Jordan: (3 decisions)
    In Jordan, the Parliament issued an amendment to the groundwater law following
      the recommendation of the Ministry of Water and Irrigation (MWI) that was based
      on the research results of the ET and Crop mapping components for selected pilot
      areas. The amendment indicated that remote sensing tools will be used for
      calculating groundwater abstractions and irrigation requirements. RS is now
      authorized as an official source for verification and uncovering violations and
      estimating water consumption in amended “Water Authority Law No. (2) of 2014”
      issued in May 2014.
    Another decision made by the Ministry of Water and Irrigation was to start using
      the WISP tools that were installed as part of this project to calculate the Water
      Balance in the entire ministry upcoming research studies for irrigation
      optimizations and water resources management and monitoring. Finding from the
      project were included in the National Water Strategy, which was recently
      developed for the time horizon (2016-2025) and released in March 2016, used
      information obtained through project products of crop map and estimated water
      used in agriculture as a main inputs.

                                             11
      Reference was made to the output report of the Climate Downscaling component
       of the project in the recently published “Climate Change Policy for a Resilient
       Water Sector”- (March 2016): Abdulla (2015): 21st century projections for
       precipitation and temperature change in Jordan.

Morocco: (4 decisions)
   The decision made by the Ministry of Agriculture and Marine Fisheries on the large
     drought compensation program for farmers - the current agricultural campaign
     (2015-2016), used the real time drought monitoring data from the Drought Study
     Component. This program in the amount of 5 million MAD was to face the drought
     socio-economic impacts, proposed to cope with the ongoing drought season, and
     support the farmers for crop loss.
   For the Locust component, the National Center for Combatting Locust decided to
     use the project RS outputs from the Locust Component to start prospecting
     campaigns in areas with probability of locust presence and launch an
     operational/prevention plan in the field to fight locust. Concerning the locust the
     system helped to better guide the field campaigns on the ground since early 2015.
   For the Climate Change component, the Ministry of Water and Agriculture decided
     to use the project output results as a baseline in implementing the national plan for
     climate change adaptation.
   The outputs of the LIS platform and the Water Balance Study have been used by
     the Ministry of Water and Agriculture used as a baseline in reforming the current
     national water strategies plan. The national water plan will be updated and is
     already at the parliament level for negotiations and will be voted in 2016.

Tunisia: (2 decisions)
   The project outputs on Climate Change high resolution projection (for future
       trends) helped the Ministry of Agriculture, Water resources and Fisheries in Tunisia
       in understating the climate variability and supported in developing mitigation
       actions in July 2015 to adapt olive production to future changes and to build
       adaptive strategies, in order to reduce the socio-economic impacts of these changes.
   For flood forecasting, the results of the simulation models for the Medjerda River
       watershed were satisfactory by 89% and contributed to the Floodplain Management
       Plan in October 2015.

51.     It is also to be noted that all country PMUs have been working closely with all
related end-user agencies to generate the practical modeling results for the possible
applications in agriculture and water sectors, especially to improve the existing
development strategy, policy and planning based on the various scientific study outputs in
each country. More information about this is shown Annex 2.




                                            12
Original PDO3: Regional project data portal developed and operational (according
to GEF International Waters (IW): LEARN guidelines)

52.     Regional project data portal developed and operational in all countries (according
to IW: LEARN guidelines), a total of 5 Portals were developed and are operational against
the target of 5 Portals or 100% achievement (1 in each countries and 1 by the AWC).

Output by Component

53.      Under Component 1, the following output targets were achieved: (i) WISP
hardware was purchased (100 percent of target value), but some of expected output targets
were delayed mainly because of NASA DisAlexi model that was still under development
at that stage and could not be transferred by NASA team as initially planned. However, the
alternative plans were being implemented by all country PMUs to work on the ET and
drought monitoring studies, although that caused the delayed implementation, but
eventually completed’ and (ii) 23 WISP tools were acquired and were operational (121%
of the targets, with the implementation of the alternative plan for the groundwater, ET and
drought monitoring studies).

54.     Under Component 2, the following output targets were achieved: (i) WISP
hardware was purchased, and           the output targets of the number of research
fellow/scholarship selected was reached by 124%, that is because all PMUs had used more
research assistants and consultants, but not the formal research fellow/scholarship as
needed for each modeling study; (ii) total number of remote sensing stakeholders and staff
trained is 257 (by 148% of the targets); (iii) about 61 experts and PMU managers had
participated in the international and regional workshops/conferences (achieved by 153%
of the expected target); and (iv) about 18 international and regional conferences and
workshops had been conducted and participated by the project PMUs (achieved by 95% of
the targets). All country PMUs had organized the necessary trainings/workshops at local
and regional levels and worked actively on sharing knowledge between countries (e.g.
between Tunisia/Morocco and Lebanon/Jordan).

55.     Under Component 3, the following output targets as agreed in MTR in 2014 were
fully achieved. The regional technical coordination had been strengthened by increased
number of regional and country workshops and country PMU’s active involvement in the
field. By May 2105, 7 regional knowledge sharing and exchange workshops had been
organized by AWC (117% of the targets), and participated by officials and experts from
all country PMUs and technical line ministries to enable the regional knowledge transfer
and capacity building on WISP tools and project management; and also 7 regional reports
completed (175% of the targets) on local and regional study results, and outputs of the
workshops.

56.    Achievement of the GEO. According to the overall project achievements discussed
above, the project had contributed to the achievement of the GEO, which had better
managed local and regional water resources and reduced the threat of land degradation and
climate change to vulnerable agricultural production systems and water resources in and
across the project countries, through (i) the developed country crop/irrigation and ET
mapping for better measurement, monitoring and management of the irrigation water, to
                                            13
reduce inefficiency water use and agriculture water consumptions at the irrigation district
and on-farm levels, which will increase the freshwater flows and reduce the agriculture
non-point pollutions entering the Mediterranean sea; (ii) the established measurement and
monitoring system for the flood forecasting and drought resilience, with improved
adaptation capacity to the extreme events for all beneficiaries; (iii) the CC impact study on
water and agriculture production, which improved land degradation and enhanced climate
smart agriculture production; and (iv) further strengthened regional integration and
cooperation with the established regional project data base/platform, which supported the
decision making and planning in the respective country.

57.      Changing the management of a country's water resources, with real aggregate
savings of water as the outcome, is a long-term plan. But this small software project did
lay the groundwork for such an achievement, if the countries remain committed to saving
water in agriculture, increasing clean flows to the Mediterranean, and satisfying expanding
needs for other uses, particularly human direct consumption. The project did improve
irrigation management in pilot areas, with real water savings. Jordan estimates that 80
million cubic meters were saved over the past three years, of which 20 million m3 (worth
about $1/m3) may be ascribed directly to remote sensing means, largely due to this
project. The other countries, with much more water and agriculture, probably saved
more. So while national irrigation systems have not yet been refocused, enough has been
achieved on a pilot basis to justify this project many times over. This is in addition to the
non-irrigation benefits of all the other work done by the countries. Achieving the lofty
environmental goals on a national basis, will require a series of projects, eventually in each
country.

58.    Although the development objectives were achieved on at least a pilot basis, all
PDOs outcome results were fully achieved or exceeded as indicated above and important
goals were achieved outside the project projections. Thus this achievement should be rated
Substantial (S) given that full achievement of project objectives will likely require far more
time and far greater expenditure than the appraisal document projected.

3.3 Efficiency

59.     The project, consistent with other technical assistance, was not amenable to
standard quantifiable rate of return or cost/benefit analysis due to the difficulty of
attribution. In this case, however, the benefits of the application programs do appear to be
significantly greater than the relatively small project costs. For example, past locust
outbreaks are estimated to have cost Moroccan agriculture from $50 - $100 million, while
the project financing for the locust control activity in Morocco only about $300,000
hundred thousand. Similar comparisons of very high estimated benefits relative to the
project costs were identified for flood forecasting in Tunisia and Lebanon, cessation of
groundwater overdraft in Jordan, and improved forest fire mitigation in Lebanon, and
equitable drought compensation in Morocco (see Annex 3). All of these were direct
beneficiaries of the project’s activities, and together they have been worth many times the
cost of the project to the countries concerned.




                                             14
60.     Beyond the economic benefits resulting from the applications, the remote sensing
technology also allowed for significant savings relative to traditional terrestrial
investigation approaches. For example, in the absence of using satellite imagery, SUV
caravans were required to cross the desert to monitor the few observation wells, or
suspected locust breeding sites, and teams had to walk through forests to assess dryness of
vegetation and quantities of fire fuel, or undertake visits to farms to assess drought impacts
or water usage. In addition to being more economical, remote sensing often provided
improved accuracy and timeliness of observations.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

61.     Overall, the project implemented the intended project objectives, met and exceeded
all implementation outcome targets, as such the project can be considered as successful in
reaching all of its PDOs indicators. In addition, the project objectives and design were and
continue to be highly relevant to the participating countries’ priorities and needs in
agriculture and water sector development and management. Even though the project, like
all technical assistance projects, was not amenable to standard quantifiable rate of return
or cost/benefit analysis, examples of the benefits of applying such technologies, as well as
avoidance of large costs does present a case of efficiency gains. Thus, a satisfactory rating
is proposed for the overall outcome.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

62.    Although the project was not targeting an impact on poverty; improving the water
monitoring process through new sources of information and WISP models to better
characterize water resources conditions is crucial for implementing the countries’ National
Water Strategies and the Green economy Plans that are widely focusing on sustainable
socio-economic development at the country level.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

63.     The overall project TA and technical training plan had been fully implemented as
expected by all country PMUs and AWC. The various international and regional technical
training workshops and conferences had been fully conducted, and the total number of
trainees from the stakeholders and end-users has reached approximately 439 persons which
exceeded the target with about 174%, while the number of local training workshops that
were organized for the end-users and stakeholders exceeded more than 35 workshops and
approximately 113% of the original target. All country PMUs and AWC had organized the
necessary technical and stakeholder trainings/workshops at local and regional levels and
worked actively on sharing knowledge between countries (e.g. between Tunisia, Morocco,
Lebanon and Jordan), which strengthened technical and institutional capacity for all project
PMUs and the end-users/line ministries in all project participated countries.




                                             15
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

64.     Morocco-Decision Support Platform. The dissemination of that platform aimed to
provide users, project’s partners and the scientific community, with a powerful
infrastructure, that offers easy access to geo-spatial data, results and tools developed in the
framework of LDAS-MOROCCO Project, as well as, a user friendly access to set of online
“geo-services”. More details are shown in Annex 2.

65.      Lebanon- SuNaR Plateform. The National Disaster Risk Management Unit was
launched on May 30, 2015, which adopted SuNaR Plateform as technical arm for the
DRMU. The SuNaR system provided the real time monitoring information on the forestry
fire and flood in Lebanon. The system can be accessed by all end-users/line ministries,
project’s partners and the scientific community, with a powerful infrastructure. Predicting
forest fire and flood potentiality was crucial in reducing damages. A good example was the
fires that took place last May 2015. Around 53 fires took place between 19-20 May 2015,
where the humidity dropped 15% and the temperature reached the 40 C. The SuNaR system
issued a fire weather warning and reduced significant economic losses.

66.      AWC Regional Portal. In 2014, AWC launched the project regional portal to serve
as a repository of programmatic tech info and events for the project (i.e. reports, case
studies, snapshots of national results, training schedules and material, news on upcoming
workshops). On the national level also, update their own information and results directly
through country accounts created under the project, and a technical manual was provided
to all countries. Portal Link: http//www.rciwrm-awc.org.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

67.     N/A for Beneficiary survey.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

68.     The project risks, which were identified at appraisal, mostly centered on weak
technical capacity in remote sensing and an anticipated unfamiliarity with Bank
procurement and financial management guidelines. The overall project risks were rated
Medium - Low Impact, and were considered manageable with mitigation measures in
place. At project completion, each country had a good cadre of staff (mainly centered in
the PMUs, their host agencies, and end-user agencies) knowledgeable in remote sensing
technologies and their applications in various aspects, and indeed in new developments in
the field. This is in large part due to the project itself, but it was helped by the general rise
in higher education standards in the countries involved, and the return of people from
higher study abroad. The countries seem capable of continuing sufficient budgeting of the
relevant agencies and teams, and willing to do this as long as they see concrete applications
with useful results. Thus contributions of these technologies to practical policy-making
and investment programs should increase over time, especially if a follow-up project
consolidates the achievements and focuses on implementation of their use in agriculture
and environmental management. Therefore, the risk to project outcome is rated Moderate.


                                               16
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

5.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

69.     The project identified the key sector issues and aligned the project objectives with
country priorities. It also incorporated lessons from good practices, strengthened the focus
on regional cooperation, promoted innovative design and flexibility to adapt to country
needs. The right issues were targeted, with good technical solutions. Teams in each country
were also well chosen and motivated. However, given the complexity of such a multi-
stakeholder project, the Bank should have done more to ensure that institutional
coordination and readiness issues were addressed during preparation, including a detailed
project implementation plan and adoption of an agreed operational manual. On balance
therefore, the rating of the Bank performance at entry can be considered Moderately
Satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

70.    During supervision missions, the WB staff acted in an efficient and proactive way
and worked closely with NASA team, the PMUs and end-users to detail project activities
and their cost estimates as well as adjustment and review of PDOs target to confirm to the
needs and priorities of each of the participating countries. The MTR was a good chance to
discuss and agree on those adjustment and revisions which enabled the PMUs to complete
successfully all project activities by the original project closing date. Accordingly the Bank
performance can be considered Satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

71.     The overall rating of the design, implementation and outcome of the project is
satisfactory. With the efficient and effective supervisions, the project was completed
successfully and achieved or even exceed its original expected PDO and intermediary
outcome and output targets. The rating can be considered Moderately Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

72.     Ministry of Finance in all countries provided complete support during the project
design and implementation phases. Other ministries (MoA, MoWE) endorsed the project
objectives and expected outputs. Based on the achieved results, the performance can be
considered as Satisfactory.




                                             17
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

73.     All implementing agencies actively supported participated in the project design and
implementation and created the PMUs and national steering committee. The Government
also provided in kind contribution to support the involvement of the national experts in the
project implementation. Based on the achieved results, the Implementation Team
performance can be considered Satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

74.     The borrowers were committed to the project objectives and design and continued
to provide financial support in order to maintain different project applications which would
secure the sustainability of the established national systems. The borrower implementation
teams provided support to national institutions and end-users and continued the production
of recent maps for most applications after the project closure. Accordingly, the rating for
the borrower performance can be considered Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

75.       Some of the key lessons learned are as follows:

         Where problems are shared, try to design a regional operation. On balance, the
          fact that the project handled a group of countries rather than a single one was
          probably a strong positive factor in its success. The countries excelled in various
          aspects of the project, and thus they could truly learn from each other. This is an
          important element in assimilating new technologies. Workshops and training
          courses were also more efficient for four countries than they would have been for
          one, and probably also higher quality from the interaction point of view. In this
          case, the countries all spoke the same language, and shared many common
          geographical problems. The latter was probably more important than the former
          (although the shared culture was probably a plus), as would be the case for example
          in typhoon forecasting and protection in Southeast Asia (5-6 languages) or the same
          for hurricanes in the West Indies (3 languages). Thus a regional approach should
          probably be pursued where possible.

         Even TA projects should follow project management disciplines. Project
          performance, and its marked improvement from the initial stage to the later, shows
          the importance of applying World Bank protocols during project preparation, so
          that the project starts well and quickly. This includes proposing detailed project
          implementation plans (especially the specific training plan for a quick initial
          implementation for this type of capacity building project) with specific budget
          allocation and timeline, and possibly an operational manual, holding procurement
          and disbursement training for staff designated to perform this task, and a project
          launch workshop immediately after project approval to ensure all staff know
          required tasks for the first 3-6 months of the project implementation.


                                              18
       Do not build long education courses into short focused TA projects. For
        projects other than specifically education or training projects, fellowships for very
        long courses of study (e.g. PhD programs) should not be a major project
        component. All project-related education and training should be related to project
        execution, with perhaps a maximum term of six months so that valuable (or
        necessary) staff are not taken away from the project. Other, perhaps more research-
        oriented operations may include long-term capacity building, but with suitable
        length of project duration to accomplish this.

       A good coordinating body can be extremely useful, particularly for a regional
        project. Part of the success of the project was due to the coordination by the Arab
        Water Council, which a played pivotal role in coordinating with all participating
        countries (with trained and improved capacity on the Bank project implementation
        procedures and policies) on the project procurement, disbursement and
        implementation plan preparation, project physical and financial progress and M&E
        monitoring, and identifying risks and action plans for the overall regional project.
        They had led the country PMUs in improved implementation, and organized and
        conducted regional knowledge dissemination and exchange among project
        countries. For future projects of this type, the lesson probably should be to select
        a coordinating body without an agenda of its own, that would be trusted by the
        various countries, and then to train them as well as the country units in
        project implementation procedures and tool.

       The capacity enhancement efforts supported by the NASA and international science
        teams to train and strengthen national teams are also worth highlighting. Capacity
        enhancement that can quickly impact the quality of support to local decision and
        policy making is often an early outcome relative to other desired outcomes.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

76.     Each of the participating countries submitted its own ICR and the AWC compiled
all these reports in one Report (on files).

(b) Co-financiers

N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

N/A




                                             19
                            Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

   (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                         APPRAISAL
COMPONENTS                                             MTR      ACTUAL/LATEST   PERCENTAGE
                                         ESTIMATE
                                                       REVISED  ESTIMATE (USD   OF MTR (%)
                                       (USD MILLIONS
                                                                  MILLIONS)
                                                            (USD million)
COMPONENT 1: IMPROVED LOCAL
WATER RESOURCES AND
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT                         2.45       2.58          2.62          123
1-A- Climate Change Modeling
Study                                           0.57       0.47          0.73          155
1-B- Drought Modeling Study                     0.30       0.25          0.30          121
1-C- Groundwater Modeling Study                 0.02       0.07          0.01           15
1-D- Flood Modeling Study                       0.12       0.10          0.06           66
1-E- Crop & Irrigation & ET
                                                                                       112
Mapping                                         0.99       0.84          0.94
1-F- Locust Study                               0.08       0.00          0.09          120

1-G- Forest Fire Modeling Study                 0.11       0.11          0.11          100
COMPONENT 2: CAPACITY
BUILDING AND PROJECT                            1.75       1.62          1.47           90
MANAGEMENT
2-A: Capacity building (workshops
and consultants) to implement WISP                                                      86
tools on local level                            0.38       0.65          0.56
2-B: Participation in international
conferences and study tours on                                                          93
environmental remote sensing                    0.19       0.31          0.29
2-C: Funding graduate fellowships               0.31       0.18          0.09           51
2-D: Development of an online
national portal to share data across                                                    81
stakeholder institutions                        0.19       0.19          0.16
2-E: Project management of the
                                                                                       103
Grant                                           0.55       0.52          0.53
COMPONENT 3: REGIONAL
                                                                                       100
INTEGRATION & COOPERATION                       0.39       0.39          0.39

Total Project Costs                             4.59       4.59          4.48           98




                                               20
(b) Financing
                                                    APPRAISAL        ACTUAL       PERCENTAGE
                                     TYPE OF
           SOURCE OF FUNDS                          ESTIMATE        ESTIMATE           OF
                                    FINANCING
                                                  (US$ MILLION)   (US$ MILLION)   APPRAISAL %
IBRD (GEF Grant)                    GEF
     APL-1                          Grant        4.59             4.48

Total Bank Financing                             4.59             4.48               98.00

Notes:

    (i)       Actual disbursements were a total of US$4.468 million, compared to US$4.594
              million at appraisal, with the difference due to the exchange rate difference in
              the respective countries, and the actual expenditures in local currency had
              disbursed more than the appraisal estimates;
    (ii)      The total Bank financing (GEF grant) estimated in the PAD was US$5.644,
              including APL-1 (US$4.594), and APL-2 (US$1.05). This ICR is only for APL-
              1 (for Morocco, Tunisia, Jordan, Lebanon and AWC subprojects). Therefore,
              the above cost and financing tables were included only in the APL-1 project
              information;
    (iii)     At project completion, total local counterpart funds for APL-1 from all
              participating countries is about US$645,000, which was is not reflected in the
              above table, as it was not included in the original financing table of the PAD;
    (iv)      The actual total USAID co-financing estimated at project completion was
              US$988,152, which financed the WISP TA activities provided by NASA team
              and its external contractors; and
    (v)       The total project financing at project completion was about US$6.11 million for
              APL-1.




                                                21
                                                          Annex 2. Outputs by Component

                                                  Table 2.1: Output Results Achieved by Component

                                                                PAD Target
                                                                                                                    MTR Budget Completed
                                                                                             MTR Target                                       MTRBudget Completed
Component/Subcomponent                                                                                                    At ICR
                                                                                                                                                   At ICR%
                                                        Quantity      Amount         Quantity      Amount         Quantity     Amount

Component 1: Improved Local Water Resources and
                                                                   2,447,839.00                 2,576,616.19                 2,614,218.77                101.46
Agricultural Management

Lebanon                                                   37          691,839.00        19         788,616.19        36         788,580.19                100.00
Jordan                                                    n/a           680,000.00      4            740,000.00      4           739,587.00                 99.94
Morocco                                                   13          610,000.00        13         561,000.00        13         588,573.98                 96.49
Tunisia                                                   13          498,000.00        13         487,000.00        4          497,477.60                102.15

Component 2: Capacity Building and Project Management              1,752,161.00                 1,623,383.81                 1,477,652.80                 91.02

Lebanon                                                    8          358,161.00        4          261,383.81        60         260,984.73                 99.85
Jordan                                                    n/a         370,000.00       n/a         310,000.00       n/a         254,650.00                 82.00
Morocco                                                   71          440,000.00       105         489,000.00       105         397,265.61                 90.29

                                                          134                          131                          159
Tunisia                                                               542,000.00                   563,000.00                   564,752.46                100.31
Component 3: Regional Integration & Cooperation
                                                          10         394,545.00        10         394,545.00        10        394,502.72                  99.99
(AWC)

                      TOTAL                                        4,594,545.00                 4,594,545.00                 4,486,374.29                 97.65




                                                                               22
Output by Component

     Under Component 1, covered all specialized and country specific research studies.
      Under this component, the role of NASA team and other research institutions was
      significant in providing technical support to the selected stakeholders on the
      application of WISP tools and capacity building activities to pertinent research
      issues in local and regional water resources, agricultural, and environmental
      management for decision making and societal benefits. By the end of the project,
      all countries has already purchased the required equipment and completed the
      research study for this component, this component has reached up to 101.46 % of
      total implementation by the end of the project. The following output targets were
      achieved: (i) WISP hardware was purchased (100 percent of target value), but some
      of expected output targets were delayed mainly because of NASA DisAlexi model
      that was still under development at that stage and could not be transferred by NASA
      team as initially planned. However, the alternative plans were being implemented
      by all country PMUs to work on the ET and drought monitoring studies, although
      that caused the delayed implementation, but eventually completed’ and (ii) 23
      WISP tools were acquired and were operational (121% of the targets, with the
      implementation of the alternative plan for the groundwater, ET and drought
      monitoring studies).

     Under Component 2, the overall project TA and technical training plan had been
      fully implemented as expected by all country PMUs and AWC. The various
      international and regional technical training workshops and conferences had been
      conducted, including for example: (i) the irrigation mapping, crop mapping, ET
      mapping and flood forecasting and management modelling studies organized by
      NASA team in US; (ii) the regional training workshop on CC downscaling
      conducted in Dubai, and the hands on trainings for the transferred and installed LIS
      model for Morocco PMU, with the technical assistance from ICBA team in the
      field; and (iii) the regional and local training workshops on the groundwater, the
      drought and ET monitoring and modelling studies arranged/conducted by each
      country, and jointly participated by all other. This component has reached up to
      91.02 % of total implementation by the end of the project. The following output
      targets were achieved: (i) WISP hardware was purchased, and the output targets of
      the number of research fellow/scholarship selected was reached by 124%, that is
      because all PMUs had used more research assistants and consultants, but not the
      formal research fellow/scholarship as needed for each modeling study; (ii) total
      number of remote sensing stakeholders and staff trained is 257 (by 148% of the
      targets); (iii) about 61 experts and PMU managers had participated in the
      international and regional workshops/conferences (achieved by 153% of the
      expected target); and (iv) about 18 international and regional conferences and
      workshops had been conducted and participated by the project PMUs (achieved by
      95% of the targets). All country PMUs had organized the necessary
      trainings/workshops at local and regional levels and worked actively on sharing


                                          23
       knowledge between          countries    (e.g.   between     Tunisia/Morocco       and
       Lebanon/Jordan).

      Under Component 3, the expected output targets in 2015 have been fully achieved
       for Component 3. The regional technical coordination has been strengthened by
       increased number of regional and country workshops and country PMU’s active
       involvement in the field. By May 2015, 7 regional knowledge sharing and exchange
       workshops had been organized by AWC (117% of the targets), and participated by
       officials and experts from all country PMUs and technical line ministries to enable
       the regional knowledge transfer and capacity building on WISP tools and project
       management; and also 7 regional reports completed (175% of the targets) on local
       and regional study results, and outputs of the workshops. AWC also issued a
       regional report that discussed the national outcomes of the drought application on
       all counties and on the regional level. The main objectives of the drought study was
       the development of a methodology that is based on analysis drought indicators at
       national scale, and assess the possibility of using it to build a regional system. The
       regional report outcomes indicated that The use of metrological data and remote
       sensing for monitoring drought and for building drought early warning systems is
       essential and that remote sensing could be considered a very strong tool, but at the
       meantime all discussed approaches still requires butter utilization of the used data
       and on-line source for providing daily data, This component has reached up to
       100% of total implementation by the end of the project.

Output by Participation Countries

The following are the main output achievements by participating countries:

Morocco:
   The relevance of the development of NASA LIS system was largely checked by the
     goal of acquiring new technologies developed by academic centers and renowned
     institutions, able to significantly increase the frequency, relevance, consistency and
     water data collection applications (satellite receiving stations, numerical analysis
     software maps, surface models of the earth, and land data assimilation systems.
   The integration of Earth observation data, in situ data and models of land for the
     production of key hydrological parameters to better characterize and optimize the
     use of water resources.
   Improved management of changes in the availability of water resources capabilities
     including surface water, groundwater and changes in land use associated with them.
   Contribution to the estimation of the water used by irrigated agriculture for better
     planning and assessment of water productivity.
   The contribution to the evolution and determination of the main trends in terms of
     climate change impacts and consolidation of existing knowledge.
   Strengthening national capacities for operational use of the possibilities offered by
     new information technologies.



                                              24
Jordan
    Compile past and current water conditions to inform improved water policy
      decisions;
    Generate maps of soil wetness and estimates of irrigation water use for large scale
      agricultural productivity assessments and planning;
    Provide water balance data for a regional and temporal perspective to identify
      local, short term and long term trends in water usage anomalies;
    Monitor extent and severity of droughts;
    Estimate current water storage conditions in the uplands of river basins to
      improve river flow predictions and;
    Evaluate potential increases/decreases in irrigation water requirements under
      various climate change scenarios to inform the planning of agricultural policies;

Lebanon
    The hydrological data for the entire Lebanon was collected and investigated, and
      thus illustrations for stream flow in rivers and springs have been established;
    Previous crop statistical analysis in Lebanon were investigated and showed
      inaccurate and discontinuous results based on ground surveys;
    A large part of farmers’ plots limits are created from very high resolution images;
    Crop yields were estimated with the help of evapotranspiration
    Evapotranspiration maps were provided by NASA with resolution of 3 kilometers
      for the past years. Evapotranspiration maps from Alexi could be used for
      monitoring drought and other purposes. To fit the conditions of small countries,
      Alexi product can be downscaled;
    An automated system for SPI and VHI was developed using precipitation generated
      by climatic stations from TRMM satellite and MODIS sensor;
    Drought maps published, on a monthly basis, were published through its geoportal
      funded by the project;
    Performing hydrological modeling using two different distributed hydrological
      models: CREST, and Continuum;
    Flood Plain Delineation using Earth Observations;
    Implementation of the Hydrological Model in the DEWETRA platform;
    A national forest fire database was created by the project where 134,000 fire event
      was recorded since 2003 including forests, grass, shrubs, and fruit trees;
    The project improved the current RISICO model by using satellite images and
      implemented RISICO system within DEWETRA.

Tunisia
   Understanding the climate variability and assessing its future impacts on regional
       and local scale will allow end users mainly the Ministry of Agriculture, Water
       Resources and Fisheries and the Ministry of Environment to assess the vulnerability
       of their activities to such changes.
   Establishing reliable models for flood forecasting of Medjerda major hydrometric
       stations and to set-up methodologies of flood mapping based on Remote sensing
       techniques using free radar and optical images

                                           25
   Validation of evapotranspiration maps provided by NASA: and development of
    evapotranspiration maps by the METRIC model:
   Provide reliable and easily exploitable information characterizing spatial and
    temporal extension of drought (duration, intensity, scale, etc.) and drought impact.
   Development and calculation of Vegetation monitoring indicators (standardized
    vegetation index, vegetation condition index, temperature condition index,
    vegetation health index, vegetation drought index, water stress vegetation index)
   Soil moisture prediction using radiometric signal changes of terrestrial surface
    temperature
   Conducted by DGRE a study on evaluation of groundwater withdrawals in Kebili
    aquifers (South of Tunisia).




                                        26
                      Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Under this project, several operational applications were developed using remote sensing
data and products, which provide more timely and comprehensive information than
through the use of conventional monitoring methods, and more importantly, less costly
analysis than traditional approach involving the processing of survey data. The economic
and financial benefits have been estimated based on the possible information collected
from some pilot cases in Jordan and Lebanon as below:

In the case of Jordan: the project was able to generate accurate and timely
crop/irrigation/ET maps to identify the groundwater use. They are critical for assessing
water demand in the agricultural sector, and monitor water over-extraction. In the past, the
Ministry of Water used to rely on data collected through questionnaires and farmers’
interviews (estimated cost of JD240,000 per year). Data accuracy was depended on
answers provided by farmers, which tended to be biased. As a result of the project, the
Ministry of Water is able to generate high accuracy crop maps with limited human errors
that are produced in record time, because less time is needed to analysis the data and
prepare the maps. Furthermore, maps can be prepared more frequently – from annual maps
to semi-weekly maps. More frequent maps in turn support close monitoring of water used
by farmers, in particular identification of illegal use of groundwater. Similarly, the Ministry
of Water incurs a substantial amount of its budget in groundwater monitoring (estimated
cost of JD1,000,000 per year). Based on the assumptions that the remote sensing techniques
will allow the Ministry of Water to save 40 percent of the actual annual survey and
monitoring costs, estimated at US$351,600, and the cost of the project was US$1,260,000
including 10 percent of operational costs on an annual basis, then the project was able to
generate an internal rate of return 12 percent. This is a conservative estimate since it does
not put a higher value on more accurate and timely data. The additional cost saving could
be also generated through the reduced labor, energy and replacement of materials due to
the reduced groundwater pumping costs (reduced groundwater over-extraction based on
the updated national water law).

In Lebanon case: the project supported the establishment of the SuNar platform, which
provides the real time forecasting, monitoring and measuring information, the flood and
forestry fire risk early warning, assessment and evaluation. The system can be accessed
by all end-users/line ministries, project’s partners and the scientific community, with a
powerful infrastructure. Predicting forest fire and flood potentiality were crucial in
mitigating risks and reducing damages. Based on the information collected by Lebanon
PMU on the application of the SuNar platform on flood monitoring, the total damage cost
of a 10-year flood in the agricultural sector is estimated at US$82 million. Several measures
could be implemented with early warning information provided by SuNar platform that
could result in economic gains of US$78.1 million. This is equivalent to expected annual
gains of US$7.81. This is about seven time the investment cost in Lebanon (the total project
investment was only about US$1 million for the Lebanon project). The application of the
SuNar platform on forestry fire monitoring also generated significant economic impacts.
A good example was the fires that took place last May 2015. Around 53 fires took place

                                              27
between 19-20 May 2015, where the humidity dropped 15% and the temperature reached
the 40 0C. The SuNaR system issued a fire weather warning in advance, and all related
stakeholders took the risk mitigation actions according to the early warning information,
which contributed and reduced significant economic losses directly.

Another interesting application in Lebanon was the piloting of water applications based on
remote sensing evapotranspiration in a 5,000 ha potato farm. This resulted in energy
savings due to reduction of pumping, with a monetary value between US$2.0-2.5 million
per year. This is twice the level of investment in Lebanon. In addition, the farmer was able
to improve fertilization and save 1,500,000 cubic meter of water. The environment also
benefitted with reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and chemical contaminants flowing
to water bodies.

Overall, while the project, consistent with other technical assistance, was not amenable to
standard quantifiable rate of return or cost/benefit analysis due to the difficulty of
attribution, the benefits do appear to be significantly greater than the relatively small
project costs.




                                            28
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                 Responsibility/
       Names                        Title                Unit
                                                                   Specialty
Lending/Grant Preparation
                       Senior Water and Sanitation
Claire Kfouri                                           GWA06 Task Team Leader
                                Specialist
Julie Rieger                 Senior Counsel             LEGAM        Legal
Jean Charles De
                             Senior Counsel             LEGAM        Legal
Daruvar
Anjum Rosha                   ET Consultant             LEGAM        Legal
Ignacio Jauregui             Senior Counsel             LEGLE        Legal
Sergio Margulis             Program Manager             MNSEN     Environment
Kanta Rigaud          Lead Environmental Specialist     GCCPT     Environment
Edwin Engman           Senior Technical Consultant      MNSSD
Song Li                       ET Consultant             MNSEN     Environment
Sanne Agnete Tikjoeb          ET Consultant             MNSEN     Environment
Samia Al Duaij            Safeguards Specialist         MNSEN      Safeguards
Zaileen Rahim                  Consultant               MNSSD
                                                                 Country Team
Magalie Pradel          Language Program Assistant      GFM01
                                                                   Assistant
                       Project Manager and Overall
Shahid Habib                                           NASA Project Management
                               Coordination
David Toll               Deputy Project Manager        NASA Project Management
                     Hydrology and Subterranean Water
Matt Rodell                                            NASA
                                  Expert
                        Land Surface Modeling and
John Bolten                                            NASA
                               Assimilation
Anthony Bigio                 Peer Reviewer             FEU
Maged Hamed                   Peer Reviewer           MNSEN
Parameswaran Iyer             Peer Reviewer           MNSWA
Raja Iyer             Consultant/Operations Adviser   MNSSD      Operations
Heba Yaken Aref
                             Operations Analyst         GWA05      Operations
Ahmed
Dambudzo Muzenda             Young Professional         GWA05
Ahmedou Ahmed            Lead Procurement Specialist    GGO05     Procurement
Salim Benouniche         Lead Procurement Specialist    GGODR     Procurement
Sepehr Fotovat          Senior Procurement Specialist   GGO05     Procurement
Lina Fares              Senior Procurement Specialist   GGO05     Procurement
Mikael Mengesha         Senior Procurement Specialist   GGO05     Procurement
Badr Kamel                 Procurement Specialist       GGO05     Procurement
Walid Dhouibi              Procurement Specialist       GGODR     Procurement

                                        29
                                                                  Country Team
Georgine Badou               Program Assistant          GWAGS
                                                                   Assistance
                                                                  Country Team
Jocelyne Jabbour             Program Assistant          MNCLB
                                                                   Assistance
                                                                  Country Team
Angeline Mani           Language Program Assistant       GEE05
                                                                   Assistance
Rima Abdul-Amir        Senior Financial Management                  Financial
                                                         GGO23
Koteide                          Specialist                       Management
                       Senior Financial Management                  Financial
Mona El Chami
                                 Specialist                       Management
                       Senior Financial Management                  Financial
Anas Abou Al Mikias
                                 Specialist                       Management
                                                                    Financial
Wael Eshanrawy        Financial Management Specialist
                                                                  Management
                                                                    Financial
Rock Jabbour           Financial Management Analyst      GGO23
                                                                  Management
Jad Raji Mazahreh     Financial Management Specialist    GGO23
                                                                    Financial
Moez Makhlouf         Financial Management Specialist
                                                                  Management
                                                                    Financial
Laila Moudden          Financial Management Analyst      GGO23
                                                                  Management
Hyacinth Brown                   Manager                WFALS     Loan Systems
Hassine Hedda                 Finance Officer           WFALS     Loan Systems
Ghada Shaqour                   Consultant              GSU05
(b) Supervision/ICR
Qun Li                 Senior Agriculture Economist     GFA05         TTL
Heba Yaken Aref
                            Operations Analyst          GWA05      Operations
Ahmed
                       Water Supply and Sanitation               Water Specialist
Sally Zgheib                                            GWADR
                               Specialist
                                                                 Water/Irrigation
Liping Jiang             Senior Irrigation Engineer     GWA02
                                                                   Specialist
Lina Fares              Sr. Procurement Specialist      GGO05     Procurement
                                                                   Financial
Jad Raji Mazahreh     Financial Management Specialist GGO23
                                                                  Management
Badr Kamel               Procurement Specialist         GGODR     Procurement
Abdoulaye Keita         Sr. Procurement Specialist      GGO05     Procurement
                                                                   Financial
Laila Moudden         Financial Management Analyst      GGO23
                                                                  Management
                                                                   Financial
Rock Jabbour          Financial Management Analyst      GGO23
                                                                  Management



                                        30
                                                       Country Team
Jocelyne Jabbour        Program Assistant      MNCLB
                                                         Assistance
Walid Dhouibi         Procurement Specialist   GGODR    Procurement
                                                       Senior Water
Usaid I. El-Hanbali        Consultant          GWADR
                                                         Specialist
Joseph goldberg            Consultant                   ICR Author




                                   31
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                              Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                  USD thousands (including
    Stage of Project Cycle
                             No. of staff weeks     travel and consultant
                                                            costs)
Lending
  FY10                                                  51,180.61
  FY11                                                 124,423.60
  FY12                                                  64,310.05
  FY13                                                       0.00
  FY14                                                       0.00
  FY15                                                       0.00
  FY16                                                       0.00
Total:                                                 239,914.26
Supervision/ICR
 FY10                                                        0.00
 FY11                                                        0.00
 FY12                                                        0.00
 FY13                                                  161,603.51
 FY14                                 28               125,994.26
 FY15                                 29               101,491.66
 FY16                                  4                17,389.68
Total:                                 61              406,479.11




                                 32
        Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results


(N/A)




                        33
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results


During the project implementation, various stakeholder workshops had been conducted at
the country and regional levels, including the technical training on remote sensing
technologies and related applications in each study theme, the knowledge sharing and
exchange workshops among countries, the results dissemination workshops for all end-
user stakeholders, etc. The detailed workshop reports and results from each country
program had been presented as follows:

LEBANON

During the implementation of the project the following training workshops and sessions
were organized:

      Training workshop on the usage of the remote sensing techniques and modeling
       approach in the planning and management of irrigation.
      National Council for Scientific Research Headquarter, Beirut-Lebanon, 9-11
       December 2014.
      Training Manual for Cultivated Area and Crop Type Mapping With Remote
       Sensing Dr. Mutlu Ozdogan, April 14, 2014.
      Update of National Adaptation Plan to Climate Change of Water Sector in Lebanon
       Dr. Nadim Farajalla, December 12, 2014.
      Establishment of Sustainable Natural Resources Management Platform and Early
       warning system Between the National Council for Scientific Research and CIMA
       Research Foundation – Centro Internazionale in Monitoraggio Ambientale, July 8,
       2014.
      Main research themes conducted at the CNRS Remote Sensing Center that feed
       into agriculture and rural development, August 10, 2014.
      Regional scale yield data variability for potato and wheat crops in Lebanon
       Wim Bastiaanssen, May 2014.
      Remarks updated crop classification Spring 2014 crops Bekaa Valley, Wim
       Bastiaanssen, 14 July 2014.




                                         34
                   International & Regional Conferences / Trainings

Figure 1: Number of training days and participants in international and regional
conferences per country




Figure 2: Number of local training days according to the topic discussed




                                         35
JORDAN

During the implementation of the project the following training workshops and sessions
were organized:
    A kick off workshop was held in 12-13/11/2012. The workshop included a
       presentation on the project overview and expectations. NASA scientists attended
       the workshop and gave a technical presentation related to the components of the
       project.
    Use of “Remote Sensing in Water Management” was held for two weeks from
       December 30, 2012 to January 14, 2013 at the premises of the RJGC.
    Fifteen participants from MWI, RJGC and NCARE attended the course.
    Two weeks of intensive training was prepared and delivered on the use of ERDAS
       Imagine Software 2013. The training course was delivered by the GCE Company,
       the authorized dealer of this software in Jordan. The training was delivered from
       November 10 to November 21, 2013.
    Two participants were trained in US at Wisconson University on “Crop Mapping.”
    An international expert was recruited for a training course on crop mapping in
       Jordan. Twenty participants attended the training from both Jordan and Egypt, and
       a training manual was prepared.
    The national expert provided on-the-job training, and the required technical
       knowhow in remote sensing technology and digital image processing required for
       cropping mapping and estimating evapotranspiration for agricultural areas.
    Also, training manuals were provided and steps were followed by the expert to
       ensure that the staff members would be able to carry out the work and to extend the
       approach to other areas in Jordan.
    An Evapotranspiration (ET) regional workshop was held in Cairo on 12 October,
       2014
    Training on SEBAL software was delivered by UNESCO-IHE and attended by 15
       participants.
    A 3 day Climate Downscaling workshop provided a theoretical training course on
       climate modeling. The workshop was attended by 30 participants for various
       institutions.
    DSSAT and Crop Mapping training was held in Dubai and attended by three
       participants. The main objective of this course was to enhance skills in using
       satellite imagery for crop mapping and to do crop modeling using DSSAT for
       exploring management and climate change impacts on production systems.

Workshop on Crop Mapping and Evapotranspiration Hotel, 18-19/3/2015
   The project organized a two-day workshop during the period 18-19 March, 2015,
     in the Corp Hotel in Amman with approximately 50 participants. The workshop
     included several presentations on Crop mapping for Mafraq-Azraq using remote
     sensing and geospatial techniques, and drought assessment for Mafraq area using
     high-temporal resolution remote sensing data:
         - Hyperspectral remote sensing: future tools for crop mapping
         - Several training sessions we held on using equipment procured. This
            included training on GPS, hyperspectral instruments


                                           36
      Project closing workshop at the Dead Sea
      Project dissemination to farmers

                          Workshops and Capacity Building

                                    Local training
   Workshop Title                 Date                        Place               No of
                                                                                attendees
  First National               12+13/11/2013 Kempinski Hotel                        40
  Workshop- Kick
  off workshop
  Use of Remote         30/12/2013-14/1/2014 Royal Jordanian                        15
  Sensing in Water                           Geographic Centre
  Management
  ERDAS Imagine       10/11/2014-21/11/2014 GCE company                             15
  Software Training
  Arc GIS software                      2014 Info Graph Company                      5
  Training
  Regional training   15/6/2014 to 21/6/2014 GCE company                            20
  on crop mapping-
  Mutlu Ozdogan
  Climate            14/12/2014 – 16/12/2014 Crop Executive Hotel                   30
  Downscaling
  workshop
  Crop Mapping and              18-19/3/2015 Crop Executive Hotel                   50
  Evapotranspiration
  Training on         19/4/2015 to 23/4/2015 GCE company                            20
  SEBAL software-
  Wim
  Closing Workshop                6+7/5/2015 Movenpick Hotel-Dead                   45
                                             Sea
  Dissemination                    28/5/2015 Crop Executive Hotel                   80
  Workshop for
  farmers

MOROCCO

To ensure an efficient and sustainable capacity building process, several actions have been
undertaken; namely:

      Group-training activities at the CRTS run by national and international experts for
       the project teams and expanded to other national institutions that have the same
       focal interest.
      Training sessions in international institutions for the project teams.
      The CRTS annual training program was open to participants from the project
       partners’ institutions.


                                            37
     National workshops gathering potential users, researchers and the scientific
      community.
     Participating in regional workshops to help exchange of expertise among the
      countries involved in the regional LDAS projects, namely, Lebanon, Tunisia Egypt
      and Jordan.
     Participation in international conferences.

                    Capacity Building Dispensed in LDAS Project
                                                         NUMBER OF
  ACTIVITY                     SUBJECT
                                                        PARTICIPANTS
                Land Data assimilation                                     12
                Remote sensing for Environment                             19
                Soil Moisture mapping                                      16
                Remote sensing for Drought                                 12
  National
                CREST                                                       5
 Workshops
                Irrigation mapping                                          5
                Composite Drought Index                                    34
                Risk locust                                                 4
                Soil Moisture mapping                                      16        123

                ET Mapping / Egypt                                          2
  Regional
                Ground Water / Tunusia                                      2
 Workshops
                Agriculture Statistics / ICBA                               4          8
                                                        S/Total                      131
                LIS /JHU                                                    2
                CREST / NASA                                                2
                Drought / Maryland University &
  Training /    NDMC                                                        2
   Project      Irrigation mapping / Wisconsin
 components     University                                                  4
                ET mapping / Wisconsin University                           2
                Soil Moisture mapping / Vienna
                Technical University                                        3            15

                China Study Tour                                           2
                Gespatial World forum                                      2
 Conferences
                FAO / Locust Unit                                          3
  and Study
                Arab Water Forum / Egypt                                   2
    tours
                World Water Forum                                          1
                Final Regional Workshop                                    8          18
                                                                         160         164
Kick off
Seminar                                                                               70
Final Seminar                                                                        130



                                         38
    Training Workshops

    The themes that the training sessions dealt with in the Capacity Building component are
    related to remote sensing domain and modeling applied to water resources and agriculture.
    Various international institutions specializing in these fields have participated in these
    training sessions, both in Morocco and abroad.

    In addition to our project partners such as DRPE, DIAEA, CNLAA and ABHBC, many
    other national institutions have benefited from the training sessions offered. Among these
    institutions were the Hydraulic Basin Agency, ORMVA, DMN, Fire Department,
    Department of environment, universities, etc.

    These training sessions have allowed 131 participants to acquire the basic notions and
    practical methods for image processing of terrestrial physical modeling.

                             Number of Persons Trained by Topic
                                                                                     Humi Risque
                       Hydro           Irrigation            Sécheresse                           Total
                                                                                      dité Locust
 DESIGNATIO
        N      LIS     CRES                 Par
               au LIS T            A        expert Par      F     F
               Ma NAS NAS CREST l'étrang    /      experts/ group group A
               roc A   A    Maroc er        CRTS CRTS* e 1        e2    l'étranger
Département de
                 2   2    2      2                             1      2                 2            13
l'eau
Agences de
                 2   1    2      3                      3      1                                     12
Bassin
Direction de
                                       1            3   3      2      3         1       2            15
l'Irrigation
ORMVs                                               2   4      2                                      8
Direction
                                                                                        2             2
Stratégie /MA
HCEFLCD                                                 6                                             6
Direction de la
                                                        2      2      2                 1             7
Météorologie
CNLA/MI
                                                                                        2       1     3
ANDZOA
                                                        4                                             4
INRA
                                                        4                                             4
Protection
                                                                                        1             1
Civile/ MI
Département de
l'Environ-                                                     2                                      2
nement




                                                39
L'Université
                     3                1                  3     3                    1              11
CRTS                 5   2     1      1     2      6     5     6    5       2       5      3       43


                                                                                                   0
Total               12         5      7     3     11    34    19   12       3      16      4      131
                         5

    TUNISIA

                 Workshop on Determination of CREST Model Parameters Values
                                       Tunis, June 11-12 2014

    I. Purpose of Workshop

    The objective of this workshop is to define the parameter values of CRSET model used to
    predict floods Medjerda.

    II. Workshop Participants

    Workshop participants included specialists from:
      1. National Center of Mapping and Remote Sensing (CNCT),
      2. General Directorate of Water Resources (DGRE),
      3. Regional Department of Agriculture (Kef, Jendouba, Beja, Siliana and Manouba),
      4. The National Institute of Meteorology (INM),
      5. General Directorate of dams and main hydraulic works (DGBGTH),
      6. National Institute of Research on Rural Engineering,
      7. Water and Forests (INRGREF), and
      8. The National Institute of Agronomy of Tunisia (INAT).

    III. Overview of CREST Model

    After the presentation of LDAS project by Mr Sinan BACHA, Engineers Ahmed EZZINE
    (CNCT) and Aymen LAZREG (DGRE) presented the CREST model applied in the flood
    axis. Indeed CREST is a hydrological model developed jointly by the University of
    Oklahoma and NASA SERVIR. It is constructed for:

              providing real-time regional and global hydrological forecast by executing
               simultaneously on multiple basins with relatively cost effective computing
               efficiency; it is also very applicable for small to medium-sized high-resolution
               basins.
              simulating the spatial and temporal variation of surface and underground water
               flows and storage, cell by cell simulation.




                                                  40
The CREST model requires hydrometric and rainfall data in addition to map data. To run
the model, the values of the following 12 parameters have to be estimated.

     Module        Symbol                                   Designation
                     W0                            initial value of soil moisture
     Initial
                     SS0                        initial value of overland reservoir
   conditions
                     SI0                        initial value of interflow reservoir
                     Ksat                      soil saturate hydraulic conductivity
                   RainFact                    multiplier on the precipitation field
    Physical         WM                                Mean Water Capacity
                      B                     exponent of the variable infiltration curve
   parameters
                     IM                                 Impervious area ratio
                     KE                   The factor to convert the PET to local actual
                    coeM                       overland runoff velocity coefficient
                    expM                          overland flow speed exponent
                                multiplier used to convert overland flow speed to channel flow
                     coeR
                                                               speed
                                multiplier used to convert overland flow speed to interflow flow
   Conceptual        coeS
                                                               speed
   parameters         KS                     Overland reservoir Discharge Parameter
                      KI                    Interflow Reservoir Discharge Parameter

IV. Discussion of Model Parameters

The discussion of the parameters of the CREST model was moderated by Professor Hamadi
Habaieb (INAT).

At the end of this workshop, the CREST model parameter values were defined and tested
by simulation of the flood of January 2010. Following this workshop, the team is able to
work on simulation and calibration of the CREST model.




                                          41
             Workshop/Training on Flood Mapping by Remote Sensing
                        and Impact of Climate Changes

                              Tunis, January 27-30, 2015

I. Purpose of Workshop

This workshop was organized for the benefit of partners and end users in order to transfer
their know-how on the following topics:
1. Introduction to remote sensing;
2. Flood Mapping optical imaging;
3. Flood Mapping radar imagery;
4. Impact of climate change.

II. Workshop Participants

Workshop participants included specialists from:
  1. National Center of Mapping and Remote Sensing (CNCT),
  2. General Directorate of Water Resources (DGRE),
  3. Regional Department of Agriculture (Kef, Jendouba, Beja, Siliana and Manouba),
  4. The National Institute of Meteorology (INM),
  5. General Directorate of dams and main hydraulic works (DGBGTH),
  6. National Institute of Research on Rural Engineering,
  7. Water and Forests (INRGREF), and
  8. The National Institute of Agronomy of Tunisia (INAT).

III. Workshop Contents

   1. The physical basis of remote sensing
   2. Exercises: Flood Mapping
         Downloading Landsat image
         Getting Started with ENVI software
         Flood mapping by optical image
         Flood mapping by radar image
   3. Impact of climate change

IV. Results
     This workshop brought together around thirty managers from institutions
       specializing in the field of management and flood forecasting of Medjerda. This
       workshop allowed exchanges on new approaches to flood management using
       remote sensing as a decision support tool. It focused the attention of
       developers/researchers on the needs of developing research and data exchange to
       better meet the challenges of monitoring and evaluation of flood risk in the
       Medjerda watershed.
     Flood mapping from optical and radar imagery is a valuable aid to the decision tool.
       They enable bearing the information gap and to better know the environment, even


                                           42
       in areas difficult to access, the extremely harsh natural conditions. The exploration
       potential of the cartographic radar images has a significant advantage over optical
       imaging not be disturbed by the cloudiness.
      Climate change has a direct impact on the water cycle and hence on extreme events.
       The methods of statistical and dynamic adaptation have been studied and discussed
       by the participants to better mitigate the risk of flooding in the Medjerda watershed.

    Workshop/Training on Flood Modeling and Forecasting by Remote Sensing

                              Tunis, February 17-19, 2015

I. Purpose of Workshop

This workshop was organized for the benefit of partners and end users in order to transfer
their know-how on the following topics:
    1. Hydrological modeling
    2. Methods of flood forecasting: Muskingum and regressions
    3. Flood management in Tunisia
    4. The CREST model
    5. Flood forecasting

II. Workshop Participants

Workshop participants included specialists from:
  1. National Center of Mapping and Remote Sensing (CNCT),
  2. General Directorate of Water Resources (DGRE),
  3. Regional Department of Agriculture (Kef, Jendouba, Beja, Siliana and Manouba),
  4. The National Institute of Meteorology (INM),
  5. General Directorate of dams and main hydraulic works (DGBGTH),
  6. National Institute of Research on Rural Engineering,
  7. Water and Forests (INRGREF), and
  8. The National Institute of Agronomy of Tunisia (INAT).

III. Workshop Contents
      Methods of flood forecasting
      Flood management in Tunisia: the case of the February 2012 flood
      Hydrological modeling
      Presentation of the CREST model
      Flood forecasting by the expert system method

IV. Results

M. John L. David from SSAI/NASA presented the CREST model. This workshop allowed
exchanges on new approaches to flood forecasting using modeling as a decision support
tool. He focused the attention of developers/researchers on the needs of developing


                                            43
research and data exchange to better meet the challenges of monitoring and evaluation of
flood risk in the watershed Medjerda. Participants were familiarized with the modeling and
the different methods of flood forecasting. CREST, a model of regional and global
prediction was simulated and stalled, and flood forecasting by the expert method was
applied.

The participants expressed that the duration of the workshop was not enough to become
familiar with the CREST model and recommended the organization of a training session
in order to simulate and calibrate the model with events observed in the watershed of
Medjerda.
 Advanced Training on Modeling and flood forecasting by remote sensing

                                 Tunis, May 7-8, 2015
I. Purpose of Workshop

This workshop was organized for the benefit of partners and end users in order to simulate
and calibrate the model with events observed in the watershed of Medjerda.

II. Workshop Participants
Workshop participants included specialists from:
  1. National Center of Mapping and Remote Sensing (CNCT),
  2. General Directorate of Water Resources (DGRE),
  3. Regional Department of Agriculture (Kef, Jendouba, Beja, Siliana and Manouba),
  4. The National Institute of Meteorology (INM),
  5. General Directorate of dams and main hydraulic works (DGBGTH),
  6. National Institute of Research on Rural Engineering,
  7. Water and Forests (INRGREF), and
  8. The National Institute of Agronomy of Tunisia (INAT).

III. Contents
     Presentation of the CREST model
     Simulation and calibration of the CREST model with events observed in Medjerda.




                                           44
      Training Workshop on Monitoring of Irrigated Crop by Remote Sensing

                           Tunis, March 30 - April 02, 2015

I. Purpose of Workshop

This workshop is organized for the benefit of partners and end users in order to transfer
their know-how on the following topics:
1.     To promote newest technologies with Tunisian researchers on the crop and the
irrigated state mapping using Remote Sensing.
2.     To produce regional crop mapping along the phenological state of crops to allow
monitoring of irrigated areas and optimize crop water use.
3.     To exchange experiences and ideas based on lessons learned from different national
services and researchers working in the field of remote sensing and in agriculture
administrators.

II. Workshop Participants

Workshop participants included specialists from:
  1. National Center of Mapping and Remote Sensing (CNCT),
  2. General Directorate of Agricultural Prodcution (DGPA),
  3. Regional Department of Agriculture (Jendouba, Kairouan, Nabeul),
  4. The National Institute of Meteorology (INM),
  5. General Directorate of Rural Engineering and Water Use (DGGREE), and
  6. The National Institute of Agronomy of Tunisia (INAT).

III. Results

This workshop allowed exchanges around new technologies on the crop and the irrigated
state mapping using Remote Sensing. Participants are now able to produce regional crop
maps along the phenological state of crops to allow monitoring of irrigated areas and
optimize crop water use.




                                           45
             Workshop on Geomatics for Ecosystem based Adaptation
                       in the Dry Areas of North Africa

                          Djerba, Tunisia, June 22-24, 2014

1- Presentation

The workshop had more than 60 participants who were experts, specialists and PhD
students from the following countries: Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Libya, Sudan, France,
Italy, Romania, and OSS - OSS (Attachment 1 list of attendees).

2- Objectives and Themes of the Session

   1. Proposals for modern applications and experiences of countries in the field of
      ecosystems adapted to dry areas using Geomatics.
   2. Exchange experiences and learn about working in this area networks.

The course included the opening ceremony, four specialized sessions with five keynote
speakers, discussion and conclusion about the prospects for the optimal exploitation of
Geomatics in the field of development in general, and in particular to fight against
desertification efforts. The sessions, were in accordance with the following themes:-
     land and departments degradation.
     vegetation and crop monitoring.
     drought and water sources.
     integrated decision-making tools.

3- Recommendations

After the completion of the four sessions, the closing session and extensive scientific
discussions, the following recommendations were suggested:

      Focus on capacity building and support the exchange of visits by specialists for the
       benefit of all the Arab region programs.
      The participants stressed on the grounds of scientific culture development and
       dissemination of research results among all segments of society, a strategic
       objective and called on the Federation of Arab Scientific Research Councils in
       cooperation with the Regional Center for Remote Sensing of the North African
       States to embrace this issue and offer programming demonstrations and training
       courses in purpose to achieve this goal.
      The recommendation to hold such specialized courses and private use of space
       applications and other sciences, including research and meeting the requirements
       of those interested in the various environmental and developmental areas, regional
       and international.
      Invite the Regional Center for Remote Sensing of the North African States and
       centers and the National Institutes concerned, to share the same concern for the
       environment and water at the level of North Africa and other Arab countries with


                                           46
        specialized regional projects, and to meet the aspirations of development in this
        region and contribute to shared appropriate scientific proposals Using modern
        space technology and science Upstream to overcome the phenomenon of water
        scarcity and drought.
       Valuation of local knowledge in the fight against desertification, especially in the
        field of rainwater harvesting, and organizing a workshop for the subject matter
        during 2015, in cooperation with the Regional Center for Remote Sensing of
        countries North Africa States.

AWC Regional Workshops

 Project Kickoff Meeting (October 19-21, 2011)
USAID funded a three day workshop through ICBA in Dubai. The focus of the workshop
was to share the results of ICBAS’s work in remote sensing to help participating countries
kick off their own World Bank funded project.

   1st Regional Workshop (May 7-9, 2013)
    The Arab Water Council launched its first regional workshop in Dubai, May 7-9, 2013.
    The main objective of this workshop was mainly to discuss the current implementation
    plans of each country (Egypt, Lebanon, Jordan, Tunisia, and Morocco); learn about the
    running activities, current constraints, and reach out an agreement for follow-up actions
    among implementing agencies.

    Representatives from each participating country were present during the workshop
    presenting their country and the implementing agency working on this project. Also
    present were the World Bank Team, NASA representatives as well as representatives
    from ICBA-UAE (International Center for Biosaline Agriculture), who are considered
    the backbone for implementing this project.
    Number of Participants: 38
   Regional Financial & Procurement Training (December 11, 2013)
    The Arab Water Council (AWC) organized a Procurement and Financial Training in
    coordination with the World Bank on December 11, 2013 in Amman-Jordan. The main
    objective of this training was to enhance the Project Management Units’ (Composed of
    5 Countries: Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon, Morocco and Tunisia) capabilities in handling
    the project’s procurement and financial issues according to the World Bank’s policies
    and procedures to ensure a solid and efficient follow up on all PMUs project documents
    and processes.
    Number of Participants: 13
   Evapotranspiration (ET) Regional Workshop (October 12-14, 2014)
    The main objective of this workshop was to review current practices for ET
    measurements and ET modelling across the MENA region.
    Number of Participants: 53




                                             47
   3rd Arab Water Forum (Project Session: Integration of Space Technology and
    Remote Sensing for Water Management- December 10, 2014)
    The objective of this session was to present the achievements of this project and to
    share the knowledge and experience of the use of remote sensing techniques in water
    resources management to end-users and interested parties, as well as to present the
    technical and administrative efforts of the WB, NASA, USAID, AWC and PMUs to
    achieve efficient and sustainable outcomes. Also, this session aimed at drawing the
    attention of more donors and institutions to support and sponsor projects/programs
    related to this topic/field.

    This session was held during the 2nd day of the 3rd Arab Water Forum to shed the light
    on the latest remote sensing technologies used in Water Resources Management and to
    share the knowledge and experience of the use of this technology in defining national
    and regional strategies.

    The session helped in creating a link between scientists and regional policy makers as
    they further develop their strategic planning, highlighting recent research advances in
    conceptual thinking and regional modeling using remote sensing and coordinating
    regional responses needed to face the expected impacts.

   Ground Water Regional Workshop (April 6-8, 2015)
    The objective of this workshop was to review current practices for ground water
    modeling, storage, quality indicators and monitoring technologies which are common
    to the region and related to water resource management. It has also shed light on the
    importance and high sensitivity of groundwater management, particularly in the period
    of extreme phenomena, such as droughts, and floods by using the latest advanced
    remote sensing and space technologies in Hydrological investigations and
    Hydrological maps applications.
    Number of Participants: 37

   Regional project Completion Workshop (May 16-18, 2015)
    The main objectives of this Project Completion Workshop was to present the final
    technical study results and the overall project implementation completion status and
    agree on specific actions to complete all remaining works by the project closing date,
    with all project implementation parties. It also discussed the overall achievements of
    the target output and outcome results and impacts, and exchanged and shared the
    project implementation experience of the application of the remote sensing
    technologies and modeling study results by the end-users, and lessons learned in
    implementing the Regional Coordination on Improved Water Resources Management
    Project (P117170), among all project countries. The workshop also included
    brainstorming session and discussing further cooperation with the World Bank in
    supporting national priorities in agriculture and water sectors that might be included in
    a possible follow up Project (PHASE 2).
    Number of Participants: 46




                                             48
       Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

    Regional Coordination on Improved Water Resource Management and Capacity
                                 Building Program
                         Summary of Countries’ ICR Report

Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design

Regional Context at Appraisal

The scarcity of freshwater in most countries of the Middle East and North Africa (MENA)
region is an increasingly acute problem, particularly as populations grow, rapid
urbanization continues and the pressure to shift water from agriculture (which consumes
over 84% of the region’s water resources on average) to domestic and industrial uses
increases. Fourteen of twenty MENA nations are classified as being in water deficit,
defined as less than 500 m3 of renewable water supply per capita per year. The
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change further reports an expected precipitation
decrease over the next century by over 20% for large parts of the MENA region, a likely
increase in the frequency and severity of droughts and a reduction in groundwater recharge
rates.

Under this project, various WISP tools were transferred and implemented in each of the
remote sensing agencies and/or water ministries of Lebanon, Jordan and Morocco. The
CRTEAN, an international organization headquartered in Tunisia 1 with the mandate to
further the use of remote sensing across North African States, has furthermore partnered
with the Tunisian Ministry of Agriculture and Hydraulic Resources, and Tunisian National
Center for Remote Sensing, to apply the regional WISP tools (such as NASA’s GRACE
Satellite outputs) to assess regional water resources management issues on shared regional
aquifers.

The program was consistent with the national priorities of each of Lebanon, Jordan, Egypt,
Morocco and Tunisia to improve the sustainability of water resources management. It was
also consistent with CRTEAN’s goals and priorities. The program formed part of the World
Bank Arab World Initiative, which emphasizes cooperative regional solutions to major
challenges such as water resource management, food security and climate change nexus.
Finally, the project was fully consistent with the World Bank “Water Resources Sector
Strategy – Sustaining Water for All in a Changing Climate”, particularly in improving
client countries’ access to technologies to increase the availability and dissemination of
information for results-based decision making.




1
  The CRTEAN was established as an international organization pursuant to the October 6, 1990 constitutive act by
five North African states of People's Democratic Republic of Algeria, Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Kingdom of Morocco, Islamic Republic of Mauritania and Republic of Tunisia.




                                                        49
Original Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The GEF Global Objective of the proposed project was to better manage local and regional
water resources and reduce the threat of land degradation and climate change to vulnerable
agricultural production systems and water resources in and across the project areas while
developing options to address land-based pollution affecting the Mediterranean Sea. The
project was in line with both (i) the long-term objective of the GEF’s International Waters
Focal Area: “to foster international, multi-state cooperation on priority water concerns”
and (ii) with GEF’s Strategic Program for International Waters “to balance overuse and
conflicting uses of water resources in surface and groundwater basins that are
transboundary in nature”.

PDO Level Results Indicators

Achievement of the development objective were assessed through the following key
performance indicators:

      WISP operational in at least 3 of 4 implementing agencies
      Number of major water resources decisions made taking into consideration WISP
       tools.
      Regional project data portal developed and operational (according to GEF
       International Waters (IW): LEARN guidelines).

Main Beneficiaries

The direct beneficiaries of the proposed program are the local and regional remote sensing
institutions and the ministries of water, irrigation, agriculture and planning, regional water
stakeholders, local farmers and the citizens of each of Lebanon, Jordan, Egypt, Tunisia and
Morocco (approximately 136 million people, half of which are estimated to be women)
which will benefit from improved access to real-time drought and flood monitoring
outputs, improved crop yield and local and regional groundwater estimates among others.

Original Components

The Regional Coordination on Improved Water Resources Management and Capacity
Building Program consisted of three components described below and implemented in
Lebanon, Jordan, Morocco, AWC and CRTEAN under Phase 1 (APL1) and Egypt in Phase
2 (APL2).

Component 1: Improved Local Water Resources and Agricultural Management
(US$3.06 million)

Component 1 comprised of: (a) the purchase, installation and validation of various WISP
tools and other ancillary equipment to remote sensing centers and stakeholder agencies and
institutions in each of Lebanon, Jordan, Morocco and the CRTEAN and its partners; and
(b) application of WISP tools to pertinent research issues in local and regional water
resources, agricultural, and environmental management.


                                             50
Component 2: Capacity Building and Project Management (US$1.14 million)
Component 2 comprised of: (a) capacity building (workshops and consultants) to
implement WISP tools; (b) local workshops to share results with local stakeholders; (c)
participation in international conferences and study tours on environmental remote sensing;
(d) funding graduate fellowships; (e) development of an online national portal to share data
across stakeholder institutions; and (f) project management of the Grant. APL1 covered
activities under Components 1 and 2 for each of Lebanon, Jordan, Morocco and CRTEAN.
APL2 covered the same activities under Components 1 and 2 for Egypt.

Component 3: Regional Integration and Cooperation (US$394,595)
Component 3 comprised of: (a) organization of quarterly workshops to share results with
regional stakeholders; (b) development of an online regional portal to share regional
results; (c) generation of once-yearly regional report on applications of regional
significance. These applications were expected to include estimating the recharge rates of
regional oversubscribed shared aquifers, optimizing the response to droughts and floods on
a regional scale, and encouraging a more coordinated approach to management of
transboundary water resources among others.

Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The project preparation phase didn’t live up to the level of preparations required for such
a complex multi stakeholder’s project. This resulted in severe implementation delays at the
first year. One of the main observations and finding following the first supervision mission
that were also highlighted in AWC 1st regional report was the Unclear roles and
responsibilities of different project related agencies in the project and the Lack of clear
incentives and activities for end-user to participate in the project implementation.

Implementation

With the implementation of the project, the WB staff was very responsive to all national
needs and notably during the MTR meeting in Cairo where we were supported to make
some adjustments and restructuring of the budget.

The project implementation process developed and accelerated during the project last year
and a half due to the World Bank support as well as the several supervision missions and
workshops that helped the PMUs to reach solutions to all their issues that were affecting
the project implementation. Also the stakeholders’ participation in several workshops
positively affected the project implementation and helped PMUs to reach great results with
end-users and achieve the project targets.




                                            51
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) of the project activities took place at regular intervals
by AWC, the regional Coordination office according to the M&E frameworks that was
developed at the beginning of the project by the Arab Water Council in coordination with
the World Bank.

The M&E study showed that PMUs reached great results in one of their adjusted indicators
which is the “technical impact and the development of policy implementation plans by end-
users”. (Examples in Lebanon, CNRS launched their SUNAR platform and for Jordan the
development of new water policy by the Jordanian Parliament.)

The M&E clearly showed that working close with end-users allowed the PMU to know
better their needs, assess weakness and strengths and identify the gaps and way for
improved capacity building. The input data from remote sensing and stakeholder’s
feedback during the local workshops helped fine tuning the national indicators and tailoring
the projects activities to meet the end users’ demands.

Assessment of Outcomes

Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The program was consistent with the national priorities of each of Lebanon, Jordan, Egypt,
Morocco and Tunisia to improve the sustainability of water resources management. This
regional initiative was part of the World Bank’s Arab World Initiative (AWI), which
emphasizes cooperative regional solutions to major challenges such as water resource
management, food security and climate change nexus, is consistent with the Bank’s “Water
Resources Sector Strategy – Sustaining Water for All in a Changing Climate”, particularly
in improving client countries’ access to technologies to increase the availability and
dissemination of information for results-based decision making

Achievement of Global Environmental Objectives

Project results comprise outputs, outcomes and impacts. At the end of the last year of the
project implementations, it was clear that the project has achieved a remarkable progress
towards the project development objectives (PDOs) that were indicated in the PAD.
Also a remarkable number of direct projects outputs were achieved and presented during
the workshop including (installation of WISP tools, reports, training events, end-users
capacity building workshops etc…..).For the project outcomes, several policy decisions
were made by the end-users and line ministries based on the project research results that
aimed to improve water resources and agricultural management and to optimize water
allocated to improve the efficiency of irrigation.

For the project impacts, for some of the projects activities it was clear during the last ICR
presentations that some of them could be seen clearly since some of the project studies
were fully completed. Also special type of results monitoring under the RCIWRM project



                                             52
is related to activities that were jointly coordinated between the implementing agencies
and the end users. All these results are captured in Annex 1 “Physical Progress Table.”

Efficiency N/A

The whole purpose of using remote sensing technologies through this project was to cut
off the terrestrial costs and achieve cheaper and higher quality, and that in particular shall
have an impact on social and economic returns. Therefore the Project outputs allowed
obtaining great performance results in terms of efficiency, time saving and cost reduction
compared with the use of "traditional methods."

Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

Overall at the completion, the project implemented the full intended project objectives, met
and exceeded all implementation targets, the project can be considered as successful in
reaching all of its PDOs indicators. Because of that, the overall outcome is rated
Satisfactory.

Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Although the project was not targeting an impact on poverty; improving water monitoring
process through new sources of information and WISP models to better characterize water
resources conditions was crucial for implementing the countries’ National Water Strategies
and the Green economy Plans that are widely focusing on sustainable socio-economic
development at the countries level.

Ten major water resources decisions have been made to improve the agricultural and
land use management “taking into consideration the outputs of WISP tools” (by
125% of the target value). These decisions were divided by countries as follows:

Lebanon: (2 decision were made)
   1. A decision was made by the Ministry of Water and Energy to start the
      Standardizing, harmonization and sharing policy in climatic and hydrological data.
   2. Another decision was taken by the Ministry of Environment MoE to startUpdating
      the “Adaptation to Climate Change Strategy” in the water sector based on the
      project results under the Climate Change component.

Jordan: (2 decision were made)
   1. In Jordan, the ministry of water and irrigation MWRI has issued an amendment to
      the groundwater law based on the research results of the ET and Crop mapping
      components for selected pilot. The amendment indicated that remote sensing tools
      will be used for calculating groundwater abstractions and irrigation requirements.
   2. Another decision that was also made by the Ministry of Water and Irrigation was
      to start using the WISP tools that were installed as part of this project in calculating



                                              53
       the Water Balance in the entire ministry upcoming research studies for irrigation
       optimizations and water resources management and monitoring.

Morocco: (4 decision were made)
   For the Climate Change component, the Ministry of Water and Agriculture decided
     to use the project output results as a baseline in implementing the national plan for
     climate change adaptation.
      For the drought and forest fire component, the high Authority of Forest and Water
       Affairs decided to use the project results in updating the delineation of vulnerable
       areas to prevent possible incidents and to update their mitigation measures against
       Forest fire.
      For the Locust component , the National Center for combatting locust of the
       Ministry of Internal Affairs, decided to use the project outcomes to start prospecting
       campaigns in areas with probability of locust presence and in to start an operational/
       prevention plan in the field to fight locust.
      For the LIS platform and the Water balance study, the Ministry of Water and
       Agriculture decided to use the project results as a baseline in reforming the current
       national water strategies plan.

Tunisia: ( 2 decision were made)
  1. The production of Climate Change high resolution projection future trends helped
       the Ministry of Agriculture, Water resources and Fisheries in Tunisia in
       understating the climate variability and helped them in developing some mitigation
       actions to adapt olive production to future changes and to build adaptive strategies
       to reduce as much as possible the socio-economic impacts of these changes.
   2. For Flood forecasting, the results of the Simulation models for the Medjerda River
      watershed were satisfactory by 89% and contributed to the Floodplain Management
      Plan.

Institutional Change/Strengthening

The overall project TA and technical training plan had been fully implemented as expected
by all country PMUs and AWC. The various international and regional technical training
workshops and conferences had been fully conducted, and the total number of trainee from
the stakeholders and end-users has reached approximately 439 persons which exceeded the
required target with about 174%, while the number of local training workshops that were
organized for the end-users and stakeholders exceeded more than 35 workshops and
approximately 113% of the original target. At this stage, all country PMUs are organizing
the necessary trainings/workshops at local and regional levels and worked actively on
sharing knowledge between countries (e.g. between Tunisia/Morocco and
Lebanon/Jordan).

Under this component also the number of research fellow/scholarshipwas reached by
59%,that is because all PMUs have used more research assistants and consultants, but not
the formal research fellow/scholarships as needed for each modeling study, also some


                                            54
contracts are still on-going for the time being, and not finally accounted; (i) total number
of remote sensing stakeholders and staff trained is 257 (by 148% of the targets); (ii) about
61 experts and PMU managers had participated in the international and regional
workshops/conferences (achieved by 153% of the expected target); and (iii) about 18
international and regional conferences and workshops had been conducted and participated
by the project PMUs (achieved by 95% of the targets). At this stage, all country PMUs are
organizing the necessary trainings/workshops at local and regional levels and worked
actively on sharing knowledge between countries (e.g. between Tunisia/Morocco and
Lebanon/Jordan).

Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

The project risks, centered mostly on weak technical capacity in remote sensing and an
anticipated unfamiliarity with Bank procurement and financial management standards, is
mitigated by the extensive capacity building anticipated under the project. The overall
project risks are rated Medium - Low Impact, and are considered manageable with
mitigation measures in place. Potential risks and mitigation measures are summarized in
the Operational Risk Assessment Framework.

Lessons Learned

     The Project represented a unique model in the Arab region which emphasized the
      Importance of the regional coordination and communications role, in exchanging
      knowledge, identifying common issues, discussing regional solutions, coordination
      between on-going regional initiatives and enhancing capacity building.
     The project really proved the advantages of having a regional project, in
      strengthening the regional scientific applied activities, bringing the focus on data
      gaps, knowledge needs and regional information required to provide effective
      mechanisms towards sustainable developments and risk reductions/ Management.
      The Organizations of regional events and training workshops really helped the
      countries in identifying new technologies and comparing between different
      techniques, therefore they were able to select the best technologies and achieve the
      best results based on each countries’ requirements and based on the required
      resolution for each applications. Therefore it was always very important during this
      project, to leave the door opened for the world’s leading organizations in this domain
      and not to narrow done the selection on just one or two organizations.
     The project contributed in raising awareness on the use of such advanced technology
      in the water sector by the line ministries, and in building the link between the
      scientific research and the real life applications for water.
     The project showed the importance of using new products to guide the farmers to a
      better management of water use and higher water productivity in Agriculture by
      pointing out where there is deficit or excess in water use.
     The Project emphasized the importance of having a defined training plan for such
      advanced technologies at the national and regional level during the project
      preparations and prior to the start date of the project, which really helped the
      countries in building capacities and in getting up to speed with the implementation
      requirements to successfully achieve the project results on time.


                                            55
      Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


N/A




                                     56
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1.   Implementation Completion Report – Lebanon, February, 2016

2.   Implementation Completion Report – Morocco, February 2016

3.   Implementation Completion Report – Jordan, February 2016

4.   Implementation Completion Report – Tunisia, February 2016

5.   Implementation Completion Report for Overall Project – AWC, February 2016

6.   Project Appraisal Document – May 18, 2011

7.   Project ISRRs

8.   Supervision Missions’ Aide Memoires




                                        57
                             Annex 10: Project Photos

                                     LEBANON




Ceremony of the launching of the Sustainable Management of natural Resources and Early
Warning Platform “SuNaR” by CAPWATER Project at the Grand Serail on September 30,
2014 under the patronage of Mr Akram Chehayeb, the Minister of Agriculture.




Launching of the National Disaster Risk Management Unit, created by a Decree 41/2013,
at Grand Serail on May 30, 2015. Dr Chadi Abdallah from the Lebanese Project
Management Unit presenting the Sustainable Management of Natural Resources and Early
Warning Platform SuNAR system in front of Mr. Tammam Salam, the Prime Minister, Dr
Mohamad Machnouk, the Minster of Environment, Mr. Rachid Derbas, the Minister of
Social Affairs, Mr. Ramzi Joreige, the Minister of Information, Deputy Mohammad Qobbani,
Ambassadors, UN Agencies, Director Generals, Civil Defense and Media. He demonstrated
on the SuNaR Platform and the built by the project technical capacities to interact and
provide maps showing hot spots for flood risk and forest fire prevention to enhance
decision making and national preparedness.




                                          58
                                      JORDAN




Farmers Workshop




Training on Hyperspectral Equipment




                                        59
                                      MOROCCO




Training sessions on the WISP tools at CRTS for the End-users




 Mid-Term Review – Morocco 2014




                                            60
                              TUNISIA




     Workshop on “Identification and analysis of users’ needs”– Tunis -
     November 2013




International Workshop on “Geomatics for Ecosystem based Adaptation
in the Dry Areas of North Africa” - Djerba Island, Tunisia, June 2014




                                  61
Training workshop on Flood mapping with remote sensing and impact of
climate change – Tunis, January 2015




Project Dissemination and Closing Seminar – Tunis, May 2015)




                                 62
                               AWC




Project Kickoff Meeting




1st Supervision Mission preceded by a procurement & Financial Training
– Amman 2013




                                 63
Regional ET Workshop – Cairo 2014




Presenting the Project at the 3rd Arab Water Forum – Cairo 2014




                                     64
         Project Completion Regional Workshop – Cairo 2015




Regional Groundwater Workshop – Cairo 2015




                               65
                             MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
REGIONAL COORDINATION ON IMPROVED WATER RESOURCE                                                                                                    Blac k   Se a




                                                                                                                                                                                               Ca
   MANAGEMENT AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROGRAM




                                                                                                                                                                                                    sp
                                                                                                                                                                                                    ian
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Sea
                                                             Mediterranean            Sea


   ATLANTIC                                                                                             Me                                                      SY R IA N
                                                                                      TUNISIA   MALTA        dite
                                                                                                                    rranean
                                                                                                                                Sea                              A. R.
      OCEAN                                                                                                                                   LEBANON
                                                                                                                                                                             IRAQ                        ISLAMIC REP.
                              OC
                         MO R O CCO                                                                                           WEST BANK AND GAZA
                                                                                                                                                                                                               OF IRAN
                                                                                                                                                             JORDAN
                                                                                                                                                                                          KUWAIT
                                                   A L G E R I A
                                                                                                L I B Y A                          AR AB R E P.                                                       BAHRAIN
                                                                                                                                      OF E G Y PT                             SAUDI                      QATAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              UNITED
                                                                                                                                                                              ARABIA                                          ARAB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EMIRATES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OM A N




                                                                                                                                                                    Re
                                                                                                                                                                    d
                                                                                                                                                                      Se
                                                                                                                                                                         a
                                                                                                                                                                                    REP. OF
                                                                                                                                                                                    YEMEN
                   IBRD 42240 | MARCH 2016                                                                                                                                                               d   en          Arabian
                   This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                              f   of A
                   The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                                          Gul                             Sea
                   shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                               DJIBOUTI
 GSDPM
 Map Design Unit
                   Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                   endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
