612 A§77- H/+
Dotn of
The World Bank
FOR O TCAL USONLY
Requ No. P-6248-ZA
REPORT AND RECOMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPtDEIT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUITIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED  RDIT
OF SDR 108.9 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
TO SUPPORT
ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ADJUSTHNT
FEBRUARY 15, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
RePort N~o: p-    6248 ZA
Type: PR
This document has a restited distribution and may be nsed by recipients only In the perfonrance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwbe be disclosed witbou World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Zambian Kwacha (K)
US$1 - K660 (January 1994)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOZ            Bank of Zambia
CG             Consultative Group for Zambia
DCA            Development Credit Agreement
EC             European Community
ESAC           Economic and Social Adjustment Credit
ESW            Economic and Sector Work
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development
IDA            International Development Association
IFC            International Finance Corporation
IMF            International Monetary Fund
MMD            Movement for Multiparty Democracy
NCDP           National Commission for Development and Planning
NGO            Non-governmental Organization
Ppp            Policy Framework Paper
PIRC I         First Privatization and Industrial Reform Credit
PIRC II        Second Privatization and Industrial Reform Credit
PPM            Programme to Prevent Malnutrition
PTC            Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
SDR            Special Drawing Rights
SIDO           Small Industries Development Organization
UNDP           United Nations Development Programme
ZA             Zambia Airways
ZCCM           Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines
ZESCO          Zambia Electricity Supply Corporation
ZIMCO          Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation
ZIMOIL         Oil Import Parastatal
ZPA            Zambia Privatization Agency



ZAMBIA                 FOR OmCIAL UsE ONLY
ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ADJUSTINT CREDrT
Table of Contents
SUMM%ARY ..............................................1 i-i
PARr I COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRAT3GY
A.   RECENT ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL PERFORAANCB .... ........... 1
B.    BXKI ENAL ENVIftONM1ENT  ...................................... 5
C.   ZAMBIA'S DEVELOPMENT OBJECTES AND POLICES ........ 8
D.   BANK GROUP'S ASISTANCE STRATEGY  .             ............. 9
E.    AGENDA FOR BOARD CONSIDERATION ................... 17
PART It THE PROPOSED OPERATION
A.   POUCY AGENDA ...................... ............. 19
1.    Restoring Macro-economic Stability ....... ....... 19
2.    Private Sector Supply Response .......  .......... 22
3     Restructuring Social Services ................... 25
B.    FEATURES OF THE PROPOSED OPERATION   .           ............... 30
C.   BENEF n  ANn D R1S   .............................. .. .  .     33
D.   RECOvENDATION  .....          ......................... ..     . 34
.~~~~~A  ;Wi Lg G
;pa,ea>esrsea.:te pn eponsistin.
Lwien MeunDenninsg  AP6D O),istheemanaogengen (Senior 
This docement has a redt*ed ditibution and may be ued by recipients on in the pedbrmaum
|of ther of&il duties. rs contents may not otherwis be ditbsed without Woma i  Banis authodate M



ZAMBIA
ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Table of Contents (cont'd)
ANNEXES
ANNEX I Leter of Development Policy
ANNEX II ESAC Policy Matrix
ANNEX m    Development Objectives and Instruments
ANNEX IV 1. Selected Indicators of Portfolio Performance and Management
2. Bank Group Fact Sheet
3. Priority Poverty Indicators
4. Resources and Expenditures
5. Poverty Indicators
6. Key Indicators
7. Note on GDP Estimates
8. Balance of Payments
9.  Balance of Payments
10. External Financing Requirements
11. Debt Stock
12. Key Exposure Indicators
13. Status of Bank Group Operations in Zambia
14;. Statement of IWC Investments
15. List of Closed SALs and SECALs
16. Supplementary Data



ZAMBIA
ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
SUMMARY
Borrower/Beneficiary:   Republic of Zambia
Amount:                 SDR 108.9 million (Ub$150 million equivalent), on standard
IDA terms, with 40 years maturity.
Description:            The objective of the proposed credit is to support
implementation of the next phase of Zambia's structural
adjustment program. Building on good progress In
implementation of the three adjustment credits approved for
Zambia over the past three years, the proposed credit would
provide balance of payments financing, and would support
reforms in the following areas: (i) continuing efforts to
restore macro-economic stability; (ii) further actions to
generate a supply response through the removal of
bottlenecks to exports and agricultural expansion, including
development of a market for state land, and (lii) basic policy
changes removing structural obstacles to the delivery of vital
social services.
Benefits:               Zambia's ongoing adjustment program is vital to achieving
macroeconomic stability, restoring economic growth through
a supply response from the private sector, and meeting its
external financing requirements. Given Zambia's heavy
debt burden, there are no simple, easy or quick solutions to
its economic problems. The measures agreed under the
proposed credit for maintaining macro-economic stability are
essential to consolidate the progress made In containing
inflation and lowering interest rates. The measures agreed
under the proposed credit for encouraging agricultural
expansion and export production remove basic constraints
hampering a supply response and if accompanied by macro-
economic stability will contribute to a restoration of
economic growth, which is projected at 5% per annum over
the next five years. The measures agreed under the
proposed credit for restructuring social service delivery are
essential not only for beginning the longer-term process of
increasing investment in human capital, but also for
assuring political sustainability of the overall structural
adjustment program.



-ii-
Risks:                    As with any structural adjustment program, Zambia's
program carries with it important risks, including the risk
that the program will not be implemented in full and on
schedule, and the risk of adverse exogenous factors,
particularly weather, low copper prices, low external
assistance or Inadequate debt relief. Although the program
has caused significant hardship for some sections of the
Zambian population, a full-scale political reversal as in 1987
is unlikely, since commitment to adjustment is strong at the
highest levels of Government, and the alternatives are not
obvious. However, mid-level disagreements and
implementation difficulties could cause slippage or even
policy impasses. The program requires extraordinary levels
of support from the international community, which will
only materialize if donors continue to perceive Zambia's
overall performance in a highly positive light. In the
medium term, a greater degree of sustainability wrill require
significant debt relief, including debt forgiveness.
DIsbursement:             The credit would be disbursed in two tanches of US$75
million each. The first tranche would be disbursed
Immediately after effectiveness. The second tranche Is
expected to be disbursed six months later, subject to
satisfactory fulfillment of the specified conditions.
Disbursement would follow standard Bank procedur*.. Sor
Imports.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a
proposed International Development Association (IDA) credit of SDR 108.9 million
(US$150 million equivalent), on standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity, to the
Republic of Zambia, in support of its structural adjustment program (SAP). Part I of the
document discusses the Borrower's development prospects, economic and social
performance, and priorities under the program and presents the Bank Group's country
assistance strategy. Part II of the document discusses the proposed operation.
2.    The proposed Economic and Social Adjustment Credit (ESAC) would be the
fourth structural adjustment credit to Zambia since the clearance of arrears in March
1991. The 1991 Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) emphasized macro-economic
stabilization and market liberalization. The June 1992 and June 1993 Privatizatlon and
Industrial Reform Credits (PIRC1 and PIRC2) strengthened the stabilization effo;t and
shifted the emphasis to privatization and parastatal reform. All three credits contained
minor elements for strengthening social services and safety-net programs. This fourth
operation is aimed at supporting (i) continuing efforts to restore macro-economic
stability; (ii) further actions to generate a supply response to the adjustment program,
through the removal of bottlenecks to export production and the development of a
market for state land; and (iii) basic policy changes to remove obstacles to the delivery of
vital social services that are essential not only for beginning the longer-term process of
Increasing investment in human capital, but also critical to assuring the sustainability of
the overall structural adjustment program.
PART I: COUNTRY ASSISANCE SIRATR GY
A. RECENT ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL PERFORMANCE
3.    At the time of Independence in 1964, Zambia was one of the more prosperous
countries in Africa. However, a combination of deteriorating copper prices, an
unwillingness on the part of the Government to adjust, and excessive public sector
dominance resulted in a dedine of nearly 50% In per capita Incomes and a dramatic
increase in poverty. The Govemment used up its intemational borrowing capacity to
support unsustainable levels of consumption and unproductive public sector
investments. This left the country with an inappropriate economic structure and an
extremely high level of external debt. Various reform efforts were attempted in the
1980s, but were abandoned when the Government abruptly changed course in early
1987. After a two-year hiatus, a policy dialogue with the Bank and IMP resumed in
1989, culminating in resumption of normal relations in March 1991, with the clearance of
arrears and approval by the Bank's Board of Executive Directors of the ERC of US$210



-2-
million. The commitment of President Kaunda's government to the program was short-
lived, and disbursements had to be suspended again In September 1991 because of a
policy impasse at mid-year on maize subsidies, resulting in a new accumulation of
arrears to the Bank. With the election of the Movement for Multi-party Democracy
(MMD) in November 1991, the new Zambian Government under President Chiluba re-af-
firmed its commitment to policy reform, cleared arrears to the Bank in January 1992, and
agreed a new Policy Framework Paper (PFP) with the Bank and IMP for the period 1992-
94. Consequently, normal disbursements under IDA operations resumed in February
1992.
4.    Adjustment Since November 1991, President Chiluba's Government has
accomplished an extraordinary turnaround in economic policy. In just a few years,
Zambia has dimantled nearly all controls and moved to market-based pricing
throughout the economy. Price controls are gone. The exchange rate is based on supply
and demand. LWort ad export licgnlg have been eliminated. Interest rate- have
been decontrolled. All f       including maize, are set entirely by market forces.
An ambitious program of privatzation has been launched that has already brought 10%
of the commercially oriented parastatals to sale or final negotiations. Tariff rates have
been lowered and compressed. Service delivery ministries are being decentralized, and
the size of the dvil service is being reduced.
S.    Considerable progress has also been made in the allocation of public spending.
Consumer and producer subsidies which claimed over 10% of the budget just a few
years ago, have been eliminated. Subsidies implicit in parastatal pricing have also been
eliminated. Parastatals are now self-financing, and their prices are market-determined.
The share of expenditure on defens and secr'rity has also been reduced (from 19% in
1990 to 10% in 1993), and the allocation for defense is now shown explicdtly in budget
documents. Efforts are also underway to doentat the management of public
expenditures to the local agencies of central ministries to improve the delivery of
services, as a first step to the full decentralization to district councils. The results of de-
centralizing the revenue-generation aspects have been mixed, however, because while
some larger coundls have managed to mobilize resources from local sources of taxation,
the smaller ones have found the transition difficult and continue to receive subventlons
from the central government.
6.       l rfm is a vital element In the Government's effort to raise efficiency
and restore economic growth. The privatization program covers all parastatahls,
approximately 160 companies. All are potentially for sale, with no restrictions on
ownership other than those needed to curtail monopolies and encourage broad-based
ownership. At least ten of the larger parastatals will be sold through public flotations.
In copper mining, Government policy is to rely on private Investment to develop new
reserves. A study of the options to privatize the copper company (ZCCM) has just been
completed, and the Government expects to use the results to develop a plan setting out
the future role of the private sector in copper mining. To date, six parastatals have been
fully privatized and flnal negotiations have been cou.pleted on another ten. A further 32
companies have been offered for sale. In 1994, the Government expects to complete
sales oi 25 enterprises and to bring another 20 to the point of sale. Z:MCO has been
transformed Into a holding company with a limited mandate and will be phased out.



-3-
The management of parastatals in the process of privatization will be tranfred to a
new unit at the Zambia Privatization Agency to ensure that privatization proceeds
expeditiously. ZIMCO's former holding companies - INDECO, NIEC and NHDC -
ceased operation in March 1993 and are being legally wound up. The public utilities are
expected to remain in the public sector for the next few years but since mid-l993 have
been freed of political interference in their pricing poilcies and management and rceive
no public subventions.
7.    Drought: The resourcefulness of the new government was amply demonstrated in
their response to the severe drought which struck the region in 1992. Zambia's maize
crop fell to one-third of domestic requirements, necessitating additional external
assistance of US$300 million and presenting a daunting challenge to external and internal
transport and distribution. Zambia, with considerable help from the International
community, did well on all counts. The donors responded quickly. The food was
distributed on time, transported to where It was needed, and made available to all the
population, including those without resources of their own. Working through local
committees consisting of NGOs, public servants, and other civic leaders, the Program to
Prevent Malnutrition (PPM) was able to reach nearly all vulnerable groups. The result
was that famine never happened and there was renewed confidence in the ability of the
public and private sectors to work together toward a common goal.
8.    StabiIation: Progress on stabilizing the economy has been uneven. In 1992,
Infiation was very high (191%) and in the first half of 1993 was increasing at an annual
rate of over 200 %. But the money supply has been well contained since June 1993, and
inflation has dropped sharply. After July 1993, when the effects of the monetary
contraction took hold, the Inflation rate over the next four months fell to below 20% on
an annual basis. This was accomplished by holding fast to a cash budget system in the
face of considerable political pressure. The accomplishment was not without cost. The
resultant monetary contraction created a severe recession just when the economy was
struggling to recover from the drought, and even resulted in a short-term appreciation of
the exchange rate. The latter was corrected by reducing foreign exchange sales, and the
exchange rate has returned to more appropriate le ;els in recent months. As a result,
inflation increased somewhat to 4% in December, and 6% in January, but taking an
average of the past six months, the annualized rate has dropped to about 40%. Interest
rates also fell sharply from over 200% during the summer to below 70% by the end of
the year, but are still positive in real terms.
9.   Investment: The Government's commitment to adjustment is paralleled by
dramatic progress in developing new approaches to investment lending. In agriculture,
the Agriculture Sector Investment Project (ASIP) represents an innovative approach to
resolving the problem of fragmentation of donor investment assistance. In this
integrated sector approach, the entire sector investment program constitutes the project.'
It is prepared entirely by local stakeholders and supported by all donors active in the
sector. Procurement, accounting, auditing and reporting procedures are being
standardized for use by all donors. A similar approach is under preparation in the
health sector. It is expected that this approach will become the model for improving
implementation and coordinating investment assistance In all sectors. Zambia is also
playing a leading role in incorporating systematic beneficiary consultation as a normal



-4
part of lending operations, as one of the follow-up activities to the Wapenhans Report.
Under this approach, potential beneficiaries from development activities are consulted
and their views taken Into account both in developing the activity and during
implementation, and the feedback is built into the design of future programs. These
initiatives reflect the understanding and commitment of the new government to the
principles of a liberalized economy to foster private sector growth and a revitalized
public sector aimed at providing services and not employment.
10.   Key social indicators worsened during the eighties. School enrollment fell from
96% of school age population in 1985 to 85 in 1991, and infant mortality increased from
95 per thousand live births in 1980 to 107 in 1990. This was due to poor sector policies
and declining spending in the social sectors. In early 1993, the Government decided to
make demonstrable progress in the delivery of social services a top government priority -
- a decision not only warranted by the steqdily worsening poverty throughout the
country, particularly in urban areas, but also essential for the sustainability of the overall
adjustment program. Already, some key input indicators have improved, such as the
number of school places (the rehabilitation of at least 400 schools has been undertaken in
the last two years) and supplies for education (300,000 new text books were distributed
in 1993) and primary health (funding for drugs have more than doubled in the 1994
budget). Improvements In output indicators are expected as budget allocations and
service delivery Improve. Por example, the number of new cholera cases dropped by
more than 50% in the 1993/94 rainy season compared to previous years.
11.   Overall, since November 1991, Zambia's performance record has been one of
strong accomplishment, particularly considering the Government's limited im-
plementation capacity, a catastrophic drought in 1992, failing copper prices in 1993, and
continued hardship for the bulk of the population. Much remains zo -e done, but the
Government has shown a persistent commitment to a strategy of nu..woeconomic
stability, economic growth, and pov'vrty reduction based on a dynamic private sector as
a source of output and employment growth and a restructured public sector as a source
of supporting infrastructure and social services.
12.   Sustainability. There are four interlocking determinants to achieving long-term
sustainability. First economic growth needs to resume. Domestic policies to maintain
the dedine in inflation, improve public sector implementation capacity, and foster the
productive potential of both rural and urban areas through improved infrastructure and
social services remain central to Improving the prospects for growth. Increased
domestic resrouce mobilization, through pro-savings policies and the restructuring of
Government revenues and current expenditures, will be critical in increasing domestic
savings from its current level of 11% of GDP to 17% by the end of the decade. If Zambia
can consistently pursue these policies, it should be able to break inflationary expectations
and initiate a virtuous drcle of lower interest rates and higher investment and exports,
leading to lower inflation and increased growth.
13.   Second continuing political support for the program in Zambia will be needed.
This will not be easy to achieve, as the tightness of the resource constraints and the
political demands for improvements in living standards will challenge the political ability
of the Government to stick to the reform program. The Government continues to enjoy



-5-
broad political support, but there is growing uneasines3 over the slow response from the
economy, aggravated by the drought and the difficulties in containing inflation. Politial
sustainabllity will require Improvements in living standards and demonstrable progress
towards improved delivery of social s rs ices.
14.   Third until growth and adjustment eliminate the external financing gap, the
Zambia program will continue to require extraordinary financial support from a broad
coaliticn of donors. Given Zambia's debt burden, even the maintenance of economic
activity requires very large inflows of foreign aid. The balance of payments position,
under the most optimistic scenarios, is expected to remain tight because even under
generous Paris Club rescheduling, Zambia will continue to transfer between 10% and
15% of its domestic production abroad as debt service for the remainder of this decade
and beyond. Maintaining this external support will require continued strong policy
performance. For those bilateral donors whose levels of support are heavily Influenced
by governance considerations, it will also require a strong performance by Zambia in
these areas. These requirements have been met to date, but there is little margin for
error.
15.   Finally, if Zambia is to draw back from living perpetually on the brink of
unsustainability, debt relief, including debt forgiveness, will be needed. Ju terms of
reducing the debt burden, the commercial buy-back operation scheduled for early 1994
wll help, but the major creditors are the Paris Club and the multilaterals. Most donors
at the December 1993 CG recognized that further debt relief, including forgiveness of
debt, would be needed for the Zambia program to achieve a more robust sustainability.
Innovative approaches will need to be examined to ensure that Zambia can make a
transition to self-sustaining economic growth wk.le phasing down the currently
exceptional levels of external assistance. The basis for such innovative approaches in
debt relief will remain Zambia's own efforts to redress its economic problems through an
aggressive adjustment program and maximum reliance on its own resources.
B. EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT
16.   Zambia's economy remains part;cularly vulnerable to the external environment,
including the weather, regional developments, the price of copper, debt-service
obligations, and the inflow of foreign capital and aid. Changes in these parameters will
continue to influence significantly Zambia's development prospects.
17.   Weather: With agriculture playing a key role in the economy, overall growth and
rural incomes will continue to be greatly affected by variations in the weather. This was
highlighted by the effects of the 1992 drought, which required massive food imports,
following, as it did, several years of poor agricultural production. Improving the
country's food security depends partly on operating and maintaining an efficient early
warning system with respect to grain production and availability. Such a system is
currently in operation on a regional basis in collaboration with other members of the
Southern African Development Community (SADC). Moreover, with the current policy
of encouraging agricultural production, Zambia should normally be a surplus food
producer with significant stocks to be used in the case of a national emergency.



-6-
18.   Regonal development.: As a lnd-locked country, Zambia relies heavily on
transport routes through neighboring countries. Thus, collaboration with neighboring
counties is of crucial importance. Such issues are being addressed in the context of the
SADC and the Preferential Trade Area for Eastern and Southern Africa. Efforts are
being made by thes- regional organizations to achieve greater regional Integration. An
initiative to encourage cross-border investment and trade is under preparation with the
sponsorship of the African Development Bank, the European Community, the IMP, and
the World Bank.
19.   Copper price: A sharp fall in the price of copper In mid-1993 exerted considerable
pressure on the balance of payments. The drop in export eamings created debt-service
problems and necessitated higher levels of external assistance. Overall, prices have
followed the general trend of the projections, but the present price Is below projections
made at the time the World Bank arrears were cleared in 1991, and the price is now
projected to remain 648% below previous projections for the remainder of the decade (as
shown in the Figure below). A price rebound is now projected to occur in 1995, but
turning points are notoriously difficult to project. Even though non-copper expors are
projected to grow at nearly 10% in real terms, copper still accounts for over 75% of
Zambia's merchandise exports, and Zambia's overall financing requirements will remain
critically dependent on the price of copper for the next several years.
Figu: Cppe Prie (Currn Us$)
1.4
1.3-
1.2         A   (1980-92A
11.1                                             10 redn
90.
0.8                                                    u
0.7
0.0
0.5                                             .      .   . .   .  
1980  1982  1984  1980  1958  1990  1992  1994  1990  1998  200
20.   External assistanice: Over the next five years.. substantiall foreign aid will be
needed to finance Zambia's public investment. In later years, however, a larger
share of the Investment will be financed out of domestic savings, whic-h are projected
to increase from 11% of GDP to 17%/ by the end of the decade. These targets are
achievable because there Is scope for increasing public sector saving by increasing



-7-
revenuea and restrair.ing expenditure on consumption and because non-traditional
export growth should eventually permit a better balance between exports and
imports. However, policies to stimulate private saving will take time to have an
impact, though an increasing share of domestic saving will eventually come from this
sector. External assistance needs are particularly difficult to predict in Zambia's case
because of the heavy dependence on copper, the large debt service burden and the
practice of major creditors of dealing with debt relief issues in a short-term time
horizon.
21.   Bilateral donor support for Zambia: The maintenance of extraordinary levels of
bilateral financial support depends on those donors perceiving Zambia as performing
strongly not only on economic issues but also on non-economic issues. This was the
case following the successful democratic transition in November 1991. However, the
introduction of a state of emergency early in 1992 caused a number of bilateral
donors to see Zambia in a different light. In the latter half of 1993, bilateral donor
concerns about corruption, particularly allegations of drug trafficking at high levels of
government, threatened to reduce donor support substantially. In January 1994, the
Government made a number of personnel changes and proposed new procedures for
handling such issues in the future. These include changing the Anti-Corruption
Commission procedures so that it will report to Parliament as well as the President
and making public the substantive findings of the Commission, including where no
basis has been found for legal action. Bilateral donors have expressed willingness to
participate in a Consultative Group meeting in March 1994 aimed inter aliU at closing
the remaining financing gap for 1994 of some US$100 million.
22.   Debt reliet When Zambia approached the international community in 1989, it
was clear that exceptional measures would be needed if Zambia were to meet its
international obligations and still have sufficient imports to achieve sustainable
growth. Rather than reduce the stock of debt, Zambia's creditors opted in 1991 to
deal with the immediate financial needs with exceptional levels of balance-of-
payments assistance and a Rights arrangement which would defer payment of the
IMF arrears until 1995. The Paris Club added generous debt rescheduling. As a
result, Bank arrears were paid in full, and most Fund arrears ($1.2 billion) were
deferred under the Rights arrangement. This allowed the resumption of assistance to
Zambia's adjustment program without an exceptional (and potentially time-
consuming) alteration in international debt policies.
23.   With an outstanding debt of about US$7 billion, Zambia is one of the most
indebted countries in Sub-Saharan Africa. In 1990, only Mozambique, Tanzania and
Somala had higher debt-to-GNP ratios in Sub-Saharan Africa. Zambia's position has
deteriorated further since 1990 due to the fail in national output and the depreciation
of the local currency. The debt-to-export ratio is about 6 to 1. Since 1991, Zambia
has benefitted from debt relief and rescheduling opera'ions, but the debt-service ratio
is still high, particularly in light of the dwindling export earnings from copper. In
1991, the debt service ratio was exceptionally high - 51.4% of exports - due to the
need to clear arrears with the World Bank to facilitate the resumption of operations.
In 1992 and 1993, the debt service ratio still amounted to an average of a third of
export revenues, even after rescheduling.



-8-
24.   About 43% of Zambia's debt is owed to multilateral creditors, including the
World Bank Group and IMP. The Fund, with 43% of total multilateral debt, stands
as the major creditor, while IDA and IBRD account for 24% and 11%, respectively.
The rest is shared by nine other multilateral creditors. Most of the non-multilateral
credit is owed to bilateral donors mainly belonging to the Paris Club. USSR, China,
Saudi Arabia and Iraq are the major non-Paris Club creditors. Short-term credit
accounts for about 12% of the total debt. On the other side, 77% of the debt is owed
by the Government; borrowing by public corporations, including ZCCM and
ZIMOIL, amounted to 12%.
25.   When In 1991 the World Bank arrears were cleared and the IMP's Rights
arrangement was set up, no decisions were taken as to how Zambia's debt situation
would be addressed later in the decade when Paris Club debt repayments are
scheduled to increase and when the IMF Rights disbursement will need to be repaid.
Options for this next round of debt policy decision-making will need to be assessed
over the coming year and a dialogue resumed on these topics.
26.   The arrangement made in 1991 is still functioning, but it has been strained by
the 1992 drought, the 1993 fall in the copper price, and the growing donor difficulty
of justifying increased aid budgets to their legislatures. Keeping this external
financing strategy in place will be one of the biggest challenges to the success of the
program. On the one hand, Zambia needs all of this assistance just to keep going.
Any substantial shortfall would lead to debt service arrears, further reductions in aid,
and eventual suspension. On the other hand, the exceptional levels of support being
asked of IDA and the donors will require an equally exceptional level of performance
by Zambia, both in terms of policy and implementation. The Bank will monitor both
the degree of donor support and the progress on debt discussions. Our efforts will
be directed at helping to clarify the choices for the International community between
assistance and debt relief while keeping an open dialogue between these partners
and the Zambian authorities to ensure that the quality of the government program
merits the external support being requested.
C. ZAMBIA'S DEVELOPMENT OBJECIIVES AND POLICIES
27.   The objectives of Zambia's development program are to achieve sustained
economic growth while alleviating poverty. To achieve these objectives, the
Government is pursuing a policy of structural adjustment that combines trade policy
reforms, deregulation, and exchange rate adjustment aimed at enhancing the
competitiveness of the non-copper sectors with stabilization policies designed to
restore fiscal and balance of payments equilibrium and price stability in one of the
most comprehensive adjustment programs in Africa. Efforts are being made to
downsize the public sector and to enhance its efficiency, while stimulating private
sector development. The Government eliminated subsidies, decontrolled prices, and
revised business-related laws, rules and regulations. Zambia has completely decon-
trolled the exchange rate with the establishment of bureaux de change, freed interest



-9-
rates, reduced the budget deficit (excluding grants and Interest) from about 7% of
GDP in 1991 to 3% in 1992, and retrenched 12,000 redundant public employees.
These achievements were made despite the devastating drought of 1992.
28.   Given the substantial deterioration in the living standards over the past 18
years, the Govemment has recognized that it cannot continue to undertake the
necessary stringent economic measures without ensuring that the bulk of the
population begin to experience an improvement in welfare levels. Initial findings
from the ongoing Poverty Assessment indicate that the adverse Impact on the urban
poor has been particularly severe. The welfare decline, combined with the
expectations associated with political liberalization, means that the political
sustainability of the whole nform program still hangs in the balance.
29.   The Government's sector strategies reflect how sectoral issues can help to
address the problem of growth with poverty alleviation. Agriculture is pursuing a
dual strategy of clearing remaining obstacles to commercial farming (such as
developing a market for State land) while helping small-scale producers with
inproved access to research and extension. Infrastructure is focusing on two critical
bottlenecks for Zambia's development: urban service delivery and improvements in
road infrastructure. Industry and energy will focus on the remaining policy areas for
reform in mining, financial sector and the public utilities while aiming to help
rehabilitate key supportive services such as power and energy supplies.
30.   While the measures taken to promote agriculture, exports, and the private
sector generally should lead to sustainable and indeed rapid growth in key sub-
sectors of the economy, this impact will neither be widely spread nor dramatically
apparent in the short term. Focusing on improvements in delivery of urban and
social services can provide some short-term alleviation. More broadly, a safety-net
that builds on the successful approach to alleviating the impact of the 1992/93
drought (a combination of labor-intensive infrastructure rehabilitation with transfers
for the indigent poor) with a reorientation of social services to provide responive
services at the delivery point (the health center, the primary school, the community
water system), will offer tangible evidence that less government can also mean better
government in precisely those areas that are critical to the welfare and economic
prospects of the poor in Zambia. Budget restructuring and a reorientation of
Government delivery capacity to getting results in the field through decentralization
and a partnership with successful NGOs and the private sector will improve the
distribution of social welfare significantly and quickly and will lay the basis for the
longer-term economic participation of the poor in Zambia's recovery and growth.
D. BANK GROUP'S COUNTRY ASSIANCE STRATEGY
31.   The goal of the Bank's strategy for Zambia is to assist the Government to
achieve sustainable economic growth and to reduce poverty. This transates Into a
three-pronged strategy of direct asistance aimed at: (a) supporting policy reform
and providing balance of payments support through adjustment operations; (b)
improving the enabling environment for private sector growth through project



-10-
investments in infrastructure and human resources; and (c) targeting the poor and
vulnerable groups with speclfic programs in agriculture and sodal services. These
interventions are mutually supportive and reinforcing. The Bank has supported the
formulation and implementation of Zambia's SAP through a combination of
adjustment and project lending, and formal and informal economic and sector work.
In addition, the Bank strategy includes a leadership role in aid coordination in terms
of catalyzing and facilitating constructive solutions to Zambia's external financig
problems with other donors and financing partners. To help achieve a sustainable
external balance, the Bank is both a major provider of assistance and is chairman of
the Consultative Group.
32.   Status of Policy Daogue. The policy dialogue since 1991 has been excellent
due to the new govemment's understanding of, and commitment to, an economic
reform program based on private sector market allocation of resources and by the
new government's willingness to move boldly where the previous government had
been tentative. There have, however, been occaslonal differences of view on timing
and emphasis. In some cases, as in the early days of parastatal reform, when the
Government was considering the repeal of whole secdons of regulatory law, the
Bank found itself counseling a slower pace of reform. In some cases, as with the
wage decisions in 1992, the Bank felt that the Government went further than was
necessary to assure political support for the program. In some cases, as with the
social dimensions of adjustment discussions In 1992, the Bank was Initially unable to
persuade the Government of the critical importance of the issue for the overall
success of the adjustment program. In some cases, there were differences in
viewpoint as to how quickly reforms could be effectively implemented or how
quicldy mid-level disagreement within Government as to the implementation of
policies could or should be overcome. Overall, however, the policy dialogue is frank
and extremely collaborative.
33. Portfolio Implementation: As of January 1994, there were a total of 14 Bank-
financed projects and 2 IFAD-financed projects under implementation. Of the total
portfolio of US$545 million, there was an undisbursed balance of US$298 million as
of December 31, 1993, including US$183 million of investment credits. The overall
portfolio performance ratings improved slightly in the past year. Most of the projects
in the portfolio were approved over the past three years following the clearance of
arrears in 1991. The remainder (those approved before 1987) were seriously delayed
by the suspension of disbursements. The start-ups of two recent projects were
considerably delayed because of the Government's failure to meet effectiveness
conditions in time.
34.   The implementation of the IDA-financed projects is being carried out with
maximum Govemment and beneficiary involvement and ownership to ensure the
sustainability of the intended development impact. The first Country Portfolio
Performance Review (CPPR) was held In February 1993, and the recommendations
are being implemented. A second CPPR Is scheduled for March 1994. The main
reasons for ineffective implementation are procurement difficulties, non-availability of
counterpart funds and general weak capacity of the civil service. To address these
Issues (1) a seminar for project staff on procurement and disbursements was held



-11-
and regular follow-up visits by Bank procurement staff are taking place; (2) Bank
guidelines have been distributed and discussed with all project implementers; (3) the
number of higher level staff in the Bank's Resident Mission have been increased,
with more specific responsibility for facilitating implementation; (4) computerized
project management is being promoted and task managers and project staff trained
in ItU use; and (5) complex projects have been restructured (e.g. Railways IV and
Agicultural Research and Extension) and non-performing project cancelled (e.g.
Fisheries).
35. Portfolio management strategy aims to (1) Improve supervision of ongoing
operations and (2) promote Government leadership in design and implementation
through joint Government/Bank/donor reviews, either annual or mid-project, and
through the integrated sector approach. The Zambia program is also consistently
applying systematic beneficiary consultation to ensure the relevance of planned and
ongoing project interventions to the poor, and to achieve better results on the
ground. To strengthen Implementation capacity, projects are designed with the
object of drawing on and developing local resources to the maximum extent. To
strengthen the public sector more broadly, the Government has adopted a Public
Service Reform Program with support from several donors. For its part, the Bank i8
financing the Financal and Legal Management Upgrading Project and the Bank
(following a Government request) is considering adding a Public Sector Management
Project to the lending program.
36.   For the future, adjustment lending will continue to be a major part of our
program (along with donor coordination) because of the extensive macro-economic
reform agenda and the pressing balance of payments requirements. We expect to
submit an average of one adjustment operation a year. Over time, given strong
economic performance by Zambia and appropriate debt relief, the amount of adjust-
ment lending can be scaled down gradually.
37.   The tining and sequencing of Zambia's reform program reflects steady
progress in dealing with a huge bacldog of problems:
MAt the outset of the program in 1991, the Government gave priority to macro-
economic stabilization and market liberaliiation, and thiswas the focus of
IDA!s ERC.
The Government's reform efforts then shifted to privatization and parastatal
reform, while attempting to strengthen the stabilization effort in the midst of
the century's worst drought. These efforts were supported by PIRCI (1992)
and PIRC2 (1993).
While continuing efforts to restore macro-economic stability and encourage a
private sector response, the Government during 1993 launched a major effort
to deal directly with structural constraints to the delivery of social services
and the strengthening of the social safety net, as well as to develop sector
investment programs in agriculture and health. These efforts would be
supported by the proposed ESAC and by sector investment credits from IDA.



-12-
a    In the coming year, the Government plans to focus on policy reforms In
mining and the financial sector, in particular to assist the Government to
attract private capital and management Into the mining sector through privat-
izatlon of ZCCM and new private sector ventures and to provide support for
broadening and deepening the capital market by reforming policies on
development finance and contractual savings institutions. It also plans to
expand the sector investment approach to environment and education.
PFor 1995, It Is expected that the reform agenda will continue with reforms in
sectors already covered, with Increased emphasis on removing the regulatory
and institutional constraints to labor absorption, including expanding
opportunities for the informal sector and self-employment, and further
expansion of the sector investment approach to other sectors such as water
supply.
38.   Continuity of balance of payments assistance plays an unusually important
role because Zambia has limited capacity to adjust to a shortfall in external financing.
Liquid reserves are only about one month's worth of Imports, and sometimes less.
Reducing the level of Imports is not easy because a large fraction is needed for the
minimum requirements of the copper mines. Imports not needed for copper
production and not funded by donor project funds are only about US$700 million.
Thus, a shortfall of US$100 million in external financing - with no change in debt
service - would force a 15% decrease in available imports, which would put the
economy in a tailspin. Therefore, any substantial and prolonged shortfall in extemal
financing can be expected to result in debt service arrears which will, in tum, lead to
an unraveling of the remaining external support.
39. The short-run policy measures supported by adjustment operations will be
followed up and deepened in economic and sector work (ESW). For instance, the
policy measures proposed under ESAC to improve social service delivery are based
on prior preparation work in the health and education sectors and will be
supplemented by sector work and sector investment operations in health and
education to taclde the intra-sectoral longer-run measures. Similarly the export
measures and the land reform measures supported by ESAC will be followed up in
the agriculture sector investment program.
40.  In moving to a greater reliance on the private sector, the Bank has supported
considerable sector work on how to remove and improve business regulation and has
provided considerable policy and financial support to the privatization program. To
help promote greater private sector response (including for the poorer segments of
society), ESW will be carried out on agriculture, small-scale enterprise development,
employment services and natural resource management. On the broader issues of
public sector management, the Bank will contribute sector work and projects both
across the board and in specific sectors. Support for improved social services will be
through support of major 'break-through" policy changes in budget allocations and
ministerial organizations (such as in the proposed ESAC) followed up by sector work
and sector investment projects. In support of the program of targeted Interventions,
ESW will also be carried out on the impact of AIDS and education sector reform.



-13.
41.   Poverty alleviation is being integrated into most operations and the
participatory Poverty Assessment will provide more detailed recommendations for
overal strategy and individual operations. The cross-cutting nature of gender issues
in Zambia have been analyzed in a gender Issues paper. This work has Important
implications for education, health, agriculture, urban services and entrepreneur
development. For example, the curriculum development being supported by the
IDA-financed Education Rehabilitation Project is analyzing the existing curriculum for
gender bias. Environmental issues have been addressed in an informal natural
resource study and in the ongoing environmental action plan process. A draft Is
currently undergoing a participatory review involving stakeholders at local and
regional levels. The priority areas are water and land management. Water issues
include industrial pollution from the mines, urban water supply and sanitation, and
watershed management. Environmental concerns have been built into several
projects, e.g. the Education Rehabilitation Project (sanitation and hygiene education),
and the Social Recovery Project (e.g. the requirement of latrines in school
rehabilitation) and the Mining Technical Assistance Project (e.g. the review of mining
pollution and regulation issues). Based on this review the draft will be revised and
finalized in PY94. The Environmental Action Plan will ensure that environmental
concerns are incorporated into al future operations, including a proposed integrated
environment sector project that would also follow up directly on the findings of the
action plan. Improvement in publc service performance will be followed up by
sector-specific activities in agriculture, social sectors and local government (included
In the respective sector investment projects), as well as in a possible Public Sector
Management Project. Targeted interventions wil form an integral part of the
agriculture and social sector projects, supplemented with financing for community.
based interventions in the follow-up to the ongoing Social Recovery Project.
42.   A lending program for the period FY94-98 of US$816 million for 18 operatiom
is proposed. On a per capita basis, IDA lending to Zambia was only $12 for the
period 1988-92 because of the suspension in the early years, but it was $26 for the
period 1991-93 because of the arrears clearance and the drought. This was well
above countries of comparable size and level of program development. This is
projected to fall to $18 for FY95-97 which is comparable to the lending programs of
Ghana, Gambia, Mozambique, and Uganda on a per capita basis. The high level of
IDA lending proposed is related to the large scale of Zambia's financing
requirements, which in turn derive from Zambia's high debt service burden and
declining copper revenues.
43.   The high level of lending proposed is predicated upon strong performance by
Zambia, including continued satisfactory macroeconomic policy performance, imple-
mentation of structural reform, and steady improvement of portfolio performance.
Macroeconomic policy performance would be measured against the benchmarks
agreed with the IMP. In the structural reform area, the key expectations in defining
good performance are that Zambia will continue to rely on markets for the setting of
all prices, including exchange and Interest rates, acAelerate the privatization program
so as to divest most of the parastatal sector over the next four years, liberalize the
market for state land, develop infrastructure, improve the delivery of social services,
increase the operating efficiency of remaining utilities, broaden and deepen capital



-14-
markets, and move to an integrated sector approach for donor-funded investment
projects. The impact of these structural reforms would be more difficult to measure,
since progress will only become perceptible over the long-term, but the focus wiJl be
on exports, investment, and the business dlimate. The main measure of portoio
performance will be the trend in disbursements.
44.   The high level of IDA lending proposed is also predicated on other donors
also providing equivalently high levels of assistance. Zambia's exceptional needs wil
gradually be phased down as export growth and debt relief gradually estabLsh a
more sustainable balance of payments. No high or low lending scenarlos are
presented in Zambia's case, since the only realistic scenarios are (O) a strong Zambia
performance accompanied by large-scale international support, indluding IDA's, or
(ii) a performance that does not warrant, or is not accompanied by, large-scale
international support, In which case there will be an inability to meet external debt
service payment, including IDA's, and a cessation of international assistance,
including IDA!s.
45. Aid coordination is thus central to IDA's strategy, and IDA has played a key
role in the coordination of donor assistance since 1989. This effort has been pursued
In the context of Consultative Group meetings, the SPA meetings, and regular
contacts with individual donors. The CG provides a forum for reviewing program
performance and financing requirements. The integrated sector approach will
provide a vehide for coordinating donor assistance initially in agriculture and health,
and eventually all sectors.
46.   The downside scenaio: Bilateral donor support for the Zamblan program Is
currently strong, but the sustainability of external financing remains fragile, since
with Zambia's heavy debt burden, full financing of the program requires both
extraordinary performance by Zambia and extraordinary levels of bilateral donor
support. A significant risk exists that the program could at some point face an
unresolvable financing gap, due to plunging copper prices or donor cutbacks. In
such a situation, IDA would try to work with ail parties to resolve the crisis and to
minimize the long-term harm. Discussions would be held with the Zambian
government to resolve any policy disputes holding up external assistance, to keep as
much as possible of the adjustment program in place despite funding shoralls, and
to manage external debt service so as to minimize further disruptions in assistance.
Assuming the economic program continued to merit support, IDA would review
with donors their decisions on funding levels to ensure that donors understood the
difficulties of yet another arrears workout. Finally, as in previous years, there would
be close consultation with the IMP as to whether prudent and timely action by the
IDA or the IMF could resolve the financing gap. If these efforts were to fail, and
international assistance was insufficient to enable Zambia to continue its adjustment
program and meet extemal debt obligations, Zambia would start to accumulate
arrears inter alia with IBRD, IDA and the IMP, most new assistance would effectively
cease, and a fresh effort to develop a debt workout for Zambia would be necessary.



-15-
47.   Exposure. Zambia's total external debt has decreased slightly in recent years
as most assistance has been on grant terms and some bilateral debt has been
forgiven. Zambia plans to eliminate nearly US$500 million In private sector debt
through a buy-back operation expected to begin in the coming months. The
composition of Bank debt has changed dramatically in recent years. In 1990, Zambia
owed US$376 million to IBRD and US$346 million to IDA. Assuming the lending
program described above, Zambia's debt to IBRD by end-1995 will be reduced to
below US$150 million while the debt to IDA will have increased to about US$1.3
billion.
48.   Growth prospects: The Zambian economy has the potential to generate a
positive rate of growth in 1994 if stabilization measures succeed. A growth rate of
about 5% is possible over the next five years, provided that the constraints to
bringing more land under cultivation are reduced, the balance of payments needs are
met, and the policy environment continues to improve. In the short-term,
improvements in allocative efficiency and increased land utilization will be major
contributors to this growth. In the longer-term, continuing this rate of growth will
rest on increased investment and human resource development, including
Investment in new mines, such as Konkola Deep.
49.   Most of the growth In the early years will come from increased production in
agriculture and services, including tourism and financial services. As the
privatization program gets underway, manufacturing should follow in the later years.
Accelerated agricultural growth will require removal of existing constraints to
increasing productivity, viz., inadequate technical support services, neglected rural
infrastructure, and poor access to inputs, especially for women. Making available
additional land will be essential for the high rate of economic growth assumed in the
projections. Government strategy in agriculture emphasizes promotion of increased
productivity and diversification, particularly in the smallholder sub-sector, by
redirecting research and extension services to drought-resistant crops, increasing
access to financial services, Improving rural infrastructure (especially feeder roads),
strengthening agricultural information services, and rehabilitating and expanding
veterinary services. Some parts of the manufacturing sector may not be profitable
with the new price structure, but some existing and new manufacturing sector
capacity can be expected to contribute to economic growth, provided sufficient credit
is available to the private sector and constraints to exports are addressed. Mining
output from existing mines, especially of copper, is expected to grow modestly in the
early years as efficiency increases, but keeping mining output from falling in the
longer-term will require substantial investments in opening up new mines.
50.   The chart below shows the turn-arounds that will be required in investment,
domestic savings, the budget deficit, and the current account balance in order to
achieve this level of growth.



-16-
Zambia's Adjustment Path
25
20 iI - - 'nvetmetIGOP
15         _,,     so    'Doamneo savin.s p
10-
*~Iftsls SurplusJGDP
0 
.5
-10                                                 *..Curret Acouont
O2     I     I     I     I AotU            PI,   i     I     Id
.20
1980  1988  1980  1090  1991  1992  1993  1994  1906  2000
51.   Overall, total investment is projected to rise from 13% of GDP in 1991 to 22%
and domestic saving from 11% of GDP to 17% by the end of the decade. These are
ambitious targets, but both of these increases are essential. The increase in
investment will be necessary for long-term economic growth since increases in
efficiency can only go so far. The increase will not be easy. While the overall
investment level is similar to levels reached in Zambia's past, the increase in private
investment would be unprecedented. However, the targets are consistent with the
higher efficiency, profitability, and retained earnings expected in the private sector
(including newly-privatized parastatals), and with continued progress in fiscal
performance. The projected Increase in domestic savings will be equally essential to
achieving long-term, sustainable growth if Zambia is to gradually decrease its
reliance on external assistance and foreign Investment. Zambia has been takdng
strong measures to increase the rate of domestic savings, including decreasing the
federal deficit and moving to market-determined interest rates, which have become
strongly positive in real terms. Improvements in domestic financial institutions are
also underway, starting with the decontrol of the domestic insurance industry in 1993
and the establishment of a small stock market expected early in 1994.
52.   Assuming that the annual rate of population growth declines from the current
3.2% to 3.0% during this period, average GDP per capita consumption could increase
by at least 1.0% per annum, even with the projected increase in savings and
investment. While this in itself would not result in dramatic improvements in living
standards, it would reverse decades of economic decline and start a process of long-
term sustainable economic growth.
53.   Coordination with the 1   is dose. Balance of payments needs are jointly
agreed among the Bank, the IMP and the Zambian Government as part of the CG



-17-
process. Bank proposals on trade and investment incentives are kept consistent with
the program's fiscal targets. Exchange rate and foreign exchange management
policies are determined in part by periodic Joint Evaluation Mission in which IDA,
IMP and key bilateral donors participate. Fiscal and monetary targets are agreed
with the IMP and the Bank. There is broad agreement that controlling lnflation is an
essential precondition for making progress on economic growth and poverty
alleviation, and these targets are accepted as essential by all parties.
54.  FC and M1GA Activities: The existing portfolio of IPC is US$39 million in five
projects. In recent years IPC activities have concentrated on restructuring the
existing portfolio. There are still a number of investments that require restructuring
and IPC's first priority is to ensure that existing companies are operating on a
satisfactory basis. The Gcvernment's current strategy of emphasizing the role of the
private sector and of embarking on a privatization program should allow a
resumption of IPC investment activity. In the first instance, IPC will support, where
appropriate, the privatization program. IPC could potentially provide privatization
and restructuring advisory services, play a role In attracting appropriate sponsors and
technical partners and contribute direct equity and loan finance. As the investment
climate improves, IPC will selectively investigate new opportunities, espedally new
foreign exchange-earning projects. IPC has an existing investment In the mining
sector, and if Government allows private capital investment in the sector, there will
be opportunities for additional IPC participation. The Govemment requested FLAS to
undertake an Investment diagnostic study focusing on the Investment Code and
institutional impediments to investment. A PIAS mission visited Zambia during
October 1992 and provided preliminary recommendations to Government for a
review of the Investment Code and conducted a follow-up mission in April 1993. A
report on the overall investment environment is under preparation.
B. AGENDA FOR BOARD CONSIDERATION
55.   The recent Bank assistance program in Zambia has been exceptional for
several reasons, including the complex process of clearing over US$300 million in
debt service arrears to IDA/IBRD, the launching of the Rights arrangement with the
IMP, additional support to help Zambia cope with the catastrophic drought of 192,
the extraordinary balance of payments financing needed to meet Zambia's heavy
external debt burden and the decline in copper prices. These special characteristics
are vital to understanding and evaluating the Bank Group's strategy for Zambia.
56.   Level of Support. Assuming continuing strong performance by Zambia, the
level of balance-of-payments assistance required by Zambia is expected to remain
high for several years, even with strong efforts to promote exports and to use
imports more efficiently, due to the high level of debt service and the limited
prospects for copper revenues in the near term. This was recognized by the
international community when the financing plan for Zambia was formulated in
1990. To reach self-sustaining development in the next decade, Zambia wDI need to
encourage substantial new private investment in exports, including new copper
mines, and the external creditors should consider innovative approaches to reducing



*18-
Zambia's debt burden. In the meantime, the Bank will continue its role as leader of
the donor community to ensure that both the total amount and the relative shares of
external assistance are appropriate, and to facilitate constructive discussion of debt
relief issues.
57.   Adjustment Effort. Does Zambia's performance warrant the extraordinary
level of support from IDA and the international community? Zambia's living
standards fell dramatically between 1975 and 1990, while the pace and scope of
domestic policy reform in the last three years has been exceptional. Many of these
measures have been poliffcally difficult. The ending of all price subsidies and
controls, the severe monetary crunch of 1993 (on top of the drought in 1992), and the
paring down of formal sector employment in government and parastatals have all
exacted a high personal price for economic adjustment. It is unlikely that Zambia
would be able to continue this strong reform program if living standards were to be
depressed further. At this time, most of the key stab{ilzation and liberalization
measures have been taken or ambitious programs in these areas have been launched.
What is needed now Is the slower-paced but equally essential process of improving
public sector capacity, accelerating the privatization process, and repairing and
extending infrastructure. These may entail less dramatic and visible "strokes of the
pen", but they are just as important in achieving a healthy climate for economic
growth.
58.   Balancing Zmphasi on Economic and Social Policies. Achieving sustainable
economic growth is essential if meaningful progress is to be made against poverty in
Zambia, but Zambia will also need to give priority to improving social service
delivery. It is the most effective way to bring widespread and dramatic
Improvements in living standards, especia.iy for the poor, and the quality of these
services has deteriorated markedly in recent years. In addition, without increased
Investment in human resources, it will not be possible to achieve significant increases
In per capita production.
59.   DA's share of the financing burden: It is expected that IDA's share of external
assistance will continue in the 35% - 45% range (25% - 30% if rescheduling Is counted
as assistance). IDA's stance is that of being willing to meet a reasonable share and to
take a leadership position in helping solve Zambia's external financing requirements,
but IDA is not willing to fill in for every shortfall in donor assistance to keep the
program financed. Unexpected developments, either adverse Oike a drought) or
favorable (such an unexpected increase in copper prices) would entail proportionate
increases or declines in proposed IDA assistance.
60.   Risks. There are considerable risks in the Zambia program. The high level of
reliance on balance of payments assistance and the high debt service burden mean
that any significant policy shortcoming or disagreement with donors could result in
an Interruption In assistance causing an interruption in debt service and a complete
unraveling of international support. The long and steep decline in living standards
means that the population will not be patient for long If the present Government
does not deliver some immediate tangible benefits, and this could result either in
Government relaxing the fiscal restraint or reduclng civil liberties, either of which



.19-
could be disastrous for continued donor support. Zambia also remains vulnerable to
external developments, such as a decline In copper prices or an interruption in the
southern transport corridor. With the help of the international community, Zambia
is taking strong measures to address these sources of risk, and performance to-date
has merited the exceptional levels of support it has received, but the Zambia program
will continue to need very close monitoring. On the positive side, Zambia has
accomplished an unprecedented peaceful political transition, managed to deal with
the worst drought of the century, and dramatically transformed the economy from
state domination to private markets in three years. The opportunity is now at hand
to begin to see some positive results from these efforts, and the Bank can play a
critical role in this transition.
PART m THE PROPOSED OPERATION
61.   The purpose of this fourth adjustment operation since the clearance of Bank
arrears in 1991 is to provide critical balance of payments support and to assist policy
reforms In three priority areas:
(i) continuing efforts to restore macro-economic stability;
*ii) further actions to generate a supply response to the adjustment program,
through the removal of bottlenecks to export production, and the
development of a market for state land; and
(ii) basic policy changes to remove obstacles to the delivery of vital social
services that are essential not only for beginning the longer-term process of
increasing investment in human capital, but also critical to assuring the
political sustainability of the overall structural adjustment program.
A. POIICY AGENDA
1. Restoring macro-economic stability
62.   Fiscal and Monetary Management: A key flaw in Zambia's macro-economic
performance has been a failure to contain inflation, which reached 191% in 1992 and
was increasing at an annual rate of over 200% through July of 1993 when the effects
of the monetary contraction took hold. The rate over the next four months fell to
below 20%o on an annual basis. This was accomplished by holding fast to a cash
budget system in the face of considerable political pressure. Maintaining a stable
price regime is central to improving Zambia's competitive position in the
international market, promoting investment in productive activities, and improving
the social well-being of the people. Reducing the annual inflation rate is one of the
most effective instruments for protecting the most vulnerable groups in the society.
This will require a concerted and sustained effort. If Zambia can make this
adjustment smoothly and hold to its current course, it should be able to break
inflationary expectations and initiate a virtuous circle of lower interest rates, higher
investment, and export growth, leading to even lower inflation.



-20-
63.   As with previous adjustment credits, there is agreement on mactoeconomic
aggregates, including the size of the fiscal deficit and the speed of reserve money
growth. These are consistent with agreements reached between the IMP and the
Government. The primary deficit (excluding grants and interest) was below .1/2% of
GDP for the second half of 1993 and is expected to be about zero for the first half of
1994.
64.   Expenditure control Previous periods of macro-economic stability have been
achieved, only to have inflation resume because of unplanned spending, such as
subsidies to parastatals or wage increases. To the extent that potential sources of
fisal indiscipline can be identified in advance, specific agreements with the Bank on
limiting these increases can strengthen the Cabinet's resolve in holding to a fisal
strategy. Subsidies to public utilities were a major problem in 1992 and early 1993,
and agreements under the previous adjustment operation strengthened the hand of
those working to limit such subsidies. Expenditure control will focus on four areas.
(a) Government is no longer interfering in the commercial zrice settingAo
parastatals. Automatic price adjustment mechanisms have been put in place
in key parastatals, such as ZIMOIL, ZESCO ad the Posts and
Telecommunications Corporation to ensure that collections cover costs.
(b) To remove the possibility of indirect subsidies to parastatals, the
Government has eliminated ZIMCO's access to dividends from the profitable
parastatals and thus forced all future subsidies to go directly through the
budget and hence to be consistent with the agreed fiscal and monetary
program. The Government agreed to limt spending on Zamba Aira
(including Government loans) to Kwacha 2.5 billion in 1993. It will be critical
to limit future public support of Zambia Airways, to make all such support a
transparent part of the budget process, and to move rapidly to upgrade the
management and efflciency of the airline to achieve commercial viability or to
discontinue operations. The Government has already provided IDA with a
short-term financing plan for Zambia Airways that includes preliminary
financial and operating accounts for 1993 and 1994. A condition of second
tranche release is that Government has adopted a financial plan for Zambia
Airways that is satisfactory to IDA, and consistent with the need to avoid
direct and indirect support for the airline from public funds.
(c) The containment of public sector wage increases remains a priority. In
1993, after a long and difficult negotiation, Government agreed to a 50%
increase for all Government workers effective September 1. Even when
combined with previous income tax reductions, the increase was well below
the rate of inflation and was offset by additional taxes and expenditure
changes. Continued restraint will be needed. A Presidential Commission to
review public sector salaries and conditions of service submitted its report in
November 1993. Implementation of its recommendations are the subject of
fiscal targets agreed with the IMP.



-21-
(d) While maize subsidies are no longer a budgetary drain, pubic it1vvment
in ro marketing still needs to be reduced. The Government has decided
that the requirements of the agricultural sector should be met largely from the
commercial banking system, now that the marketing system has been fully
liberalized. The Government does not set consumer or mill prices for this (or
any other) crop, although a minimum Indicative floor price was set for maize
in 1993. Further efforts will be made to facilitate private storage and
marketing arrangements for maize to avoid substantial crop spoilage. Some
limited Government purchase will be needed, but this will be met within
existing fiscal and monetary targets.
65.   Efforts to increase revenues will also be Important, including the full payment
to the Treasury of all parastatal dividends payable to government. ZIMCO Is now
legally required to endorse directly to Treasury all parastatal dividend checks
received, and a separate monitoring section of the newly-constituted Revenue
Authority Is being established to monitor those payments.
66.   Fiscal monitoring and control procedures. As part of its efforts to control
Inflation, the Government adopted a cash budgeting system in 1993. Uxnder this
arrangement, the Government incurs expenditures only when It has the necessary
revenue, and all spending departments must adhere to the budgeted expeniditure
levels. In the event that additional expenditure is required, it has to be fully financed
by additional tax revenue or by cuts in expenditure elsewhere. This system has
worked well in controlling the aggregate level of spending. Other changes in
monitoring and audit procedures have reinforced this cash budgetary system. For
the coming year, as agreed in the Letter of Development Policy, the Government
plans to build on recent progress and attack the remaining problems including delays
In producing audited statements; difficulties In reconciling sub-head budget
allocations and releases; and incomplete Integration Into the budget of resources from
donor projects and some countervalue funds. Specific measures include:
The budget format has been revised in the 1994 budget .o facilitate the
adoption of a uniform system between budget presentation and budget
monitoring.
*    A system has been put in place to permit the Budget Department to
track ministerial expenditure on major categories within two weeks of
the completion of a month.
*    To introduce improvements on an ongoing basis, a Task Force on
Improving the Efficiency of Government Expenditure will be formed
early in 1994. The Task Force will include high-level representation
from key ministries and a full-time secretariat, with a mandate to
identify ways to conduct essential public business more efficiently.
Implementation of those recommendations will begin during the
second half of the year and continue during the preparation of the
budget for 1995.



-22-
2. PrIate Sector Supply Response
67.   The Government is committed to a policy of relying primarily on the prlivate
sector as the source of economic growth. To facilitate this, it needs to do less of
those things that hamper or compete with the private sector and more of those
things that complement and assist the growth and efficiency of the private sector,
including aligning relative prices with actual costs and benefits. Considerable
progress has been made in this area, and as a result, the climate for the private
sector has improved dramatically in the past few years with decontrol of prices,
deregulation of markets, and the beginning of disengagement of Government from
commercial activities. A number of current reform efforts are under way, induding a
new Companies Act, decreased regulations and increased access to credit for small-
scale producers, and a major effort to reform business taxation. The supply response
has been disappointing, however, In part because It was impeded In 1992 by the
exceptional drought and in 1993 by the belated fiscal and monetary crunch. In spite
of the progress that has been made to liberalize the economy, however, it has
become apparent that some constraints on private sector growth remain. Reforms
supported by this credit are aimed at the two most critical of these - developing a
market for State Land and improving incentives for non-traditional exporters.
68.   Land Markets: Although Zambia has an abundance of land, difficulties in
securing appropriate land continue to be a serious constraint for new Investments in
manufacturing, tourism and agriculture. Over 93% of available land is held under
"customary tenure", primarily through the tribal and local government structures.
Putting this land to commercial use will take time and will require thorough
consultation. Most of the rest of the land is "State Land". Ownership resides in the
State, but Individuals and companies can acquire various forms of long-term
leaseholds. Therefore, the short-term agenda for making more land available for
investment, and the focus of this operation in this area, will be on improving the
efficiency and liquidity of the market for leaseholds on State Land, while longer-term
efforts address the politically and socially more complicated subject of customary
land. The proposed measures supported by this credit aim at providing a short-term
stimulus to developing land markets on State Land while building up institutional
capacity for longer-term reforms. The ongoing parallel market transactions on State
Land clearly indicate that market forces already exist and only need to be freed from
Government intervention to operate more efficiently and pervasively. This alone
should have a significant impact on output as available estimates Indicate that
Zambia's land requirements for investment can easily be met from under-utilized
"State Land" for the foreseeable future.
69.   Legal and Regulatory Framework: Existing laws do not recognize any value
to undeveloped land. They also require State consent before any transaction in land
can be carried out, and transaction prices are subject to Government approval.
These provisions prevent leaseholders from using undeveloped land as collateral and
inhibit investments. The proposed credit would support preparation and enactment
of a package of land market reforms to improve these markets. (Condition of second
tranche release.) Currently, the underlying principles of land taxation are not clear,
and its contribution to Government's revenue is minimal. The level of the property



-23-
transfer tax discourages investors from investing in property development for resale
and has entailed the mushrooming of illegal transactions, depriving the State of
significant tax revenue. To fadlitate the development of markets for State Land
leaseholds, the Government has announced in the 1994 Budget that the transfer tax
will be reduced and a comprehensive study of land taxation begun.
70.   Government arms: It is estimated that the Government and parastatal
companies own enough under-utilized and poorly managed farms in prime
agricultural areas to satisfy the current demand for land. The proposed credit would
support the privatization and sub-division of State-owned farms. (Condition of
second tranche release.) Given the weak institutional environment and the
constrained budgetary resources of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of
Lands, the Government has decided to launch its land privaftzation effort on a pilot
basis. The lessons derived from this pilot scheme would then be used to extend the
privatization of State-owned farms to the rest of State Land. Areas of special
concern to be addressed in the pilot scheme are: laying out plots according to sound
land-use principles and commercial viability; introducing market forces in land
valuation and allocation; and setting up mechanisms to ensure participation of
various categories of land users, including women.
71.   Setflement; Development of land markets as well as further integration in an
orderly fashion of the traditional land users into a more modern agriculture will
require the design of a comprehensive settlement policy. Past settlement programs
and land allocation have been undertaken on a large scale without clear objectives
and in the absence of adequate financial resources for program management. The
Government has embarked on a program to clarify priorities, develop criteria for
opening up new farm blocks, and identifying targeted beneficiaries.
72.  Instfttonal Capacity Building: The most critical step in any land delivery
system is to identify vacant and/or under-utilized land. As of now, there is no
proper registry of land available to investors, for agricultural, commercial or
industrial use. Furthermore, the land allocation procedures set up by the Ministry of
Lands ignore important land uses, such as tourism, wildlife and national parks, to
the detriment of the environment. The Land Identification Committee will be made
operational by April 1994 and its membership enlarged to include other key
Ministries. Finally, a central administrative structure will be made responsible for
developing a comprehensive land policy based on national consultation.
73.   Promotion of Non-Traditional Exports Improving the efficiency of
international trade and promoting non-traditional exports are policy priorities for
restoring economic growth in Zambia. The current US dollar value of copper exports
is below that of 1970, and copper still accounts for 75% of total exports. From the
beginning of the 1990s, the Government has initiated a number of trade-supportive
reforms. They include a more appropriate macroeconomic policy framework,
particularly with regard to the exchange rate and the foreign exchange allocation
system, and also trade-specific measures, mainly the expansion of the export



-24-
retention scheme for exporters of non-traditional goods; the simplification, reduction
and narrowing of the tariff structure; and the parallel improvement of the tax
structure.
74.   However, in spite of these achievements, some policy constraints faced by
Zambian exporters have not been corrected. First, the remaining protection still
makes it more attractive to produce for the domestic market than for export,
although the adjustment of the exchange rate has brought about a better balance in
this regard. Second, import duties and sales tax paid on inputs Increase the cost for
domestic producers and exporters compared with producers in other countries who
have access to inputs at world prices. Finally, an exporter has to go through
cumbersome procedures without export financing mechanisms. The need of
Zambian exporters for access to export finance is being addressed in separate
operations funded by the European Union to create an export revolving fund.
75.   Government has reduced the level and dispersion of tariff rates. The
maximum rate has been reduced from 100 to 40 percent. The govemment has
adopted a long-term action plan in this area under which the maximum rate will be
zeduced to 20 percent by 1997. This gradual approach is necessitated by the need to
avoid sharp revenue reductions and to ease the manufacturing sector into the new
price environment. In the meantime, improving the duty draw back system and
moving to a value added tax will help exporters to avoid any added penalties from
these remaining tariffs.
76. Introducing a system to rebate taxation for exporters (customs duties and
sales taxes) on imported inputs will enhance the competitiveness of Zambia's non-
traditional exports and increase the attractiveness of export-oriented investments.
Many exporters rely heavily on imported inputs for their activity (e.g. spare-parts,
seeds, fertilizers and packaging materials). Most of these inputs are not covered by
Zambia's caTrent duty drawback scheme. Even for those inputs which are covered,
the system is cumbersome, so that very few producers actually claim the drawback.
Under this credit, the coverage of the duty drawback system will be extended to
include all imported raw materials and intermediate inputs for exporters. Procedures
for claiming the drawback will be simplified and the computation changed to a credit
system based on physical input/output coefficients rather than a refund system.
(Condition of second tranche release.)
77.   Reforming domestic taxation on production is also a priority. As there is no
value-added tax system in Zambia, producers cannot always get rebate for the taxes
they pay on domestic goods and services incorporated In their output. Since many
other countries apply that type of system, Zambian producers are put in a
disadvantageous position. The adoption of a value-added system is also urgently
needed to (a) increase the tax-base in Zambia (producers have to be registered to get
tax deduction), (b) avoid double-taxation on productive activities, and (c) shift the tax
burden from producers to consumers. An implementation plan for introduction of a
value-added tax system, as proposed by the Tax Policy Task Force, has been
adopted.



-25-
78.   Minimizing the use of discretionary exemptions on Imported capital goods Is
also necessary to consolidate the reforms and to protect the revenue base. The
existence of widespread discretionary exemptions on payment of customs duties and
sales tax in Zambia renders the tariff structure inefficient with regard to revenues and
resource allocation objectives. The granting of Ministerial exemptions to industrial
and commercial organizations was discontinued in 1990. However, a significant
number of exemptions are still granted as a result of the 1991 Investment Act. The
new Investnent Act, enacted in August 1993, also entitles a wide range of activities
to exemption from customs duties and sales taxes on machinery and equipment.
While exemptions are necessary to promote investment, they will no longer be
granted on a discretionary basis. As agreed in the Letter of Development Policy,
ministerial exemptions will continue to be limited to charitable organizations, and
industrial and commercial exemptions will be dealt with in the contexi of the
Investment Act. Strict criteria have been defined so that all such exemptions will be
automatic and transparent. The awards of all exemptions will be published in the
Government Gazette by Statutory Instrument. The broader issue of limiting further
exemptions granted to new businesses is being addressed in the context of the
Regional Cross-Border Initiative.
3. Resructuring Social Services
79.   Background: Throughout 1992, as the new Zambian Government
implemented an aggressive program of trade and monetary liberalization and
deregulation of the economy, the Bank and the other donors urged the Government
to give more attention to improving the delivery of social services and to
strengthening the social safety net. The Government's response to these urgings was
limited and the impact of the stabilization and adjustment measures was severe,
particularly on the urban poor.
80.   By early 1993, however, the Government had concluded, in agreement with
the Bank, that the political sustainability of the overall adjustment program depended
in part on making demonstrable progress in social service delivery and strengthening
the social safety net. The Government therefore decided to give high priority to
making visible progress in improving the delivery of social services, particularly to
vulnerable groups, and asked the Bank not only to assist in longer term institution
building and capacity enhancement but also to explore -in the context of the next
adjustment operation (i.e. the currently proposed ESAC) the possibility of identifying
and removing structural constraints to the delivery of social services. Throughout
1993, progress was made on both fronts. Longer-term sectoral programs are being
developed in education, health, water supply and sanitation. In addition, basic
policy constraints to the improvement of social service delivery, on which progress
could be made in the short run, were also identified, including:
a. the decentralization of budgetary and implementation authority to lower
levels of Government;



-26-
b. devolutlon of some activitles to existing community groups or NGOs;
(based on the recent successful drought relief program);
c. budget restructuring for health, education, water supply and existing
safety net activities;
d. the revision of Implementation polides in selected social sectors; and
e. selective implementation of the civil service reform program.
The comuton theme of the changes is to ensure decision-making authority and
resources are shifted from central administrators to service providers who are in a
better position to see what needs to be done. Thus in the same way that policies
and structures and regulations governing macro-economic decision-making and the
productive sectors had become centralized, top-down, rigid and unresponsive to the
real needs of the economy, social service delivery was hampered by an analogous set
of constraints, with a similar set of vested Interests committed to preserving the
status quo. The Government has therefore undertaken, with the Bank's assistance
under the proposed credit, to remove these basic constraints.
81.   Improving the delivery of social services is part of an integrated strategy of
adjustment, growth and poverty reduction. The inclusion of structural change
rela' d to social sectors In an adjustment operation is appropriate In the particular
drcumstances of Zambia because significant structural improvements in service
deliveiy are both feasible and necessary in the short-term. The actions involved are
structural in nature: the actions already taken and the agreed conditionality were all
developed by the sector ministries in question by Identifying obstacles to the ongoing
reform program requiring action outside their ministry's purview, whih could be
accomplished in the short-term and still have long-term Impacts. The actions agreed
are feasle because a combination of revised budget allocations in 1994 and break-
throughs In improving delivery mechanisms, particularly in health and water supply,
has good prospects of making a dramatic difference in the quantity and quality of
these vital services. Such short-term Improvements are necessary for the success of
the overall adjustment -program because the benefits of a resumption in economic
growth will be modest and unevenly shared at the outset, yet the political
sustainability of adjustment depends in part on demonstrating benefits to a broad
spectrum of Zambians.
82.   Achieving long-term sustainable Improvements in social services will requie
more than changing budget shares and delivery mechanisms. Long-term
investments in physical facilities and implementation capacity will also have to be
made. For that reason, actions taken under this credit will be supplemented by
sector investment operations in health, education, water supply and local
government management.
83.   Actions for decentralization of responsibty for service delvery have been
decided in three sectors:



-27-
a. In order to move decision-maldng authority In health doser to service
providers, the Government has undertaken a major re-orgnization of the
Ministry of Health. The re-organization Included shifting the responsibility
for delivering health services to autonomous District Health Management
Boards and changing the role of the Provincial level of the Ministry to one of
support to these Boards and provision of technical and financial audits.
District staff have been trained In bo*tom-up planning techniques, accounting,
and budgeting. A pilot program is currently underway using donor funds
allocated to all districts based on simple health plans.
b. In education, where decentralization is proceeding more slowly,
deconcentration from the center to the Provincial level is being deepened with
increased budgetary authority for Provincial Education Officers.
c. In water and sanitation, the Government has established a Progam
Coordinating Unit responsible for coordination and policy development,
ensuring the separation of water resource management and water supply and
sanitation functions; separation of regulatory/supervisory and executive
functions; devolution of responsibility for service delivery to local authorities,
inc!uding the establishment of autonomous public-owned enterprises; and
promotion of user and community participation, hygiene education; and
Improved cost recovery.
These changes are reflected in the Letter of Development Policy and in the 1994
budget.
84.   Devolution to non-governmental organizations: In the area of protecting
vulnerable groups, Zambia had great success in delivering relief services in response
to the 1992/93 drought through the Program to Prevent Malnutrition (PPM). That
Program worked through committees at local levels consisting of NGOs, public
servants and other civic leaders. Other positive experiences In reaching vulnerable
groups have been accomplished by the Program for Urban Self Help and the Social
Recovery Program. The Ministry of Community Development and Social Services
has set up a Public Welfare Assistance Scheme to serve the indigent poor that also
relies on local committees for its implementation. The Government has decided to
institutionalize PPM and the use of NGOs to enhance the capacity to deliver services
related to the social safety net. These programs and their implementation
mechanisms have been endorsed in the letter of Development Policy and have been
allocated funds in the 1994 budget.
85.   Budget Restructurig: To ensure that the decentralization of decision-making
authority is accompanied by access to budget resources, major budgetary changes
have been made. The principal problems in the past have been (1) an Insufficient
share of social sectors in total spending, as social sector ministries have tended to
lose out in the annual inter-ministerial budget struggle; (2) a tendency for sodal
sectors to suffer disproportionately when budget cutbacks are made; (3) a tendency
for primary services to receive a smaller share of already-low sectoral allocations; (4)
within recurrent expenditures, a crowding-out of non-salary expenditures; and (5)



-28-
Insufficlent priority to rehabilitation programs in the capital budget. The agreed
actions to deal with these problems involve a fundamental restructuring of the
Government budget, including:
a. Level: Inter-ministerial agreement has been reached to maintain an
appropriate share of the budget for social sectors as a matter of national
priority. This agreement is reflected in the Letter of Development Policy and
in the 1994 budget. Implementation of these decisions is a condition of
Second Tranche release.
b. Composition: Within the overall budgets for health education and safety
net activities, the 1994 budget allocation supports critical inputs into the
delivery of social services such as money for drugs and other non-personnel
recurrent costs for primary education and district health services (primary
health care), and for operation and maintenance in the water and sanitation
sectors.
c. Process: Budget management procedures are being revised to reflect the
developments taking place in the decentralization program. In the past, even
when money was allocated to the social sector ministries, service delivery has
been hampered by an unreliable flow of resources from the Budget Office to
service delivery points. This is being addressed in the 1994 budget by sub.
warranting budget for recurrent departmental charges to provincial education
officers, specifying line items for budgetary independent district health boards
and providing funds for grants to units that have a positive track-record of
supporting community-based safety net activities such as the PPM and the
Social Recovery Program.
86.   To help ensure that these decisions are not only implemented but become a
normal feature of the budget decision-making, it is a condition of Second Tranche
release that actual budget releases to the social sectors in 1994 be in accordance with
the Letter of Development Policy and in particular:
(a) that expenditur.ts In the health, education and water supply and sanitation
sectors and for soc.al safety nets do not drop below the shares set out in the
budget; and
(b) that at least half of the budgeted amounts for the following budget sub-
heads have been released to the implementing agencies, that is: (i) the public
welfare assistance scheme; (ii) the Social Recovery Program; (iii) recurrent
departmental charges or sub-heads related to primary education in the
provinces; (iv) grants to district health management teams; (v) recurrent
Departmental charges for drugs, and (vi) operation and maintenance
expenditures in the water and sanitation sectors.
87. The Government is also taking steps to ensure that the socal sectors become
self-financing to a greater degree. In health, work is ongoing on social health
Insurance schemes, and tertiary facilities have been made independent entities with



-29-
full managerial and financial autonomy. With the improvements in primary health
care through the delivery of the basic district package and Improved management
and cost-recovery, these facilities will no longer be the drain on budgetary resources
that they have been in the past. In education, the Government is committed to
increasing cost-recovery at tertiary facilities to cover at least one third of the cost.
And in water supply and sanitation, the principle of cost-recovery has been accepted.
88.   Revisions to implementation policies in social sectors
a.    Sdal Services. To support the reforms outlined above, the
Government is revising policies to improve coordination as the systems
become more decentralized. These policy revisions are included in the Letter
of Development Policy. In health the Government is in the process of
revising the health code and sub-sectoral policies relating to human resources
and drugs to reflect the ongoing reform program this is likely to be completed
by mid 1994. In education the Govemment is revising sub-sector policies
including that for vocational and technical education. In the water sector, the
major principles of future sector policies are generally agreed and will be
formally adopted in 1994. In nutrition regulations relating to micronutrient
deficiencies, including iodine, Vitamin A and iron deficiencies, are being
revised . The national coordinating body, the National Food and Nutrition
Commission has received substantial increases in funding for 1994, which,
along with filling the senior staff complement, will facilitate the fulfillment of
its mandate.
b.    Safety Nes. The Ministry of Labor is reviewing the activities of the
National Provident Fund with a view to establishing a National Social Security
System for formal sector employees. The new program under the Ministry of
Commerce, Trade and Industry, geared toward providing training and
counseling for retrenched civil servants and parastatal employees has begun,
and will be reviewed in 1994.
89.   Public Sector Management Reform: While civil service reforms would improve
the efficiency of all public services, including agriculture and infrastructure, there is a
unique opportunity to link elements of the ongoing Public Service Reform Program
with the changes taking place in the social sectors. Two specific items of the Public
Service Reform Program will be key to improving service delivery in the short run
and are addressed under this credit: (1) levels of severance pay, and (2) linking pay
to performance and retaining skilled professionals. To ensure better pay and service
conditions for those that would remain in a more efficient civil service, there is a
need to protect the budget from the potential impact of severance pay for those laid
off. Therefore, the Government has agreed (as a condition of Second Tranche
release) to develop a revised package of severance benefits for public servants that
will permit the efficient restructuring of employment within the public sector.
Another major obstacle to improved service delivery is the lack of incentives for
better performance for civil servants and the fact that highly skilled professionals are
leaving the public sector. To address this, the Government (as a Second Tranche
condition) has agreed to adopt, and begin to implement, a program pertaining to



-30.
incentives to attract and retain highly skilled professionals and to linldng
performance to pay, and, where appropriate, a revised job classification system in
order to reconcile it with such program.
B. FEATURES OF THE PROPOSED CRED1T
90.   Borrower and Credit Amount. The Borrower for the proposed Credit is the
Republic of Zambia, and the credit amount proposed is SDR 108.9 million (equivalent
to US$ 150 mUlion). This amount is necessary to maintain the momentum of the
reform program and to provide sufficient imports to permit some resumption in
economic growth. It is based on an overall external financing plan worked out with
the Government and the IMP for 1994 and complements the substantial assistance
already pledged by donors during the Consultative Group meeting in December
1993. Several donors expressed an interest in co-financing or parallel financing this
operation in December.
91.   The relatively large allocation of IDA resources proposed for this operation is
justified given Zambia's large external financing requirements as a result of
depressed copper prices and high debt service obligations. This continued leadership
role for the Bank will be essential if the remaining external financing gap for 1994 is
to be filled. No disbursement would be made from this credit until the Bank is
satisfied that the external financing needs in 1994 will be fully met (CondLitin of
e-ffectfyeaWs.
92.   DIsbursement and Procurement: This credit in the amount of US$150 million
will assist Zambia in meeting its external financing requirements during 1994. The
credit will be disbursed through the Bank of Zambia. The Government will establish
a Special Account in a commercial bank into which US$20 million of the credit will be
deposited. The disbursement will be in two tranches. The first tranche, at
effectiveness, will be in the amount of US$75 million. The second, which will be
disbursed approximately six months after the first, will consist of the remaining
US$75 million. (The release of the second tranche will be contingent upon the
fulfillment of the monitorable conditions listed below and displayed in Annex 3.)
93.   This credit will reimburse Zambia for 100 percent of the foreign exchange
costs of general imports, exclusive of those on the negative list. The Procurement
processes are standardized, with an emphasis on competition in tendering and
strengthened pre-shipment inspection system (PSI). These factors should achieve
conmpetitive price results. All procurement for values of US$2.0 million and above
will follow simplified ICB procedures with mandatory use of standard tender
documents. Procurement by the public sector below US$2 million will follow
sttindard government procedures which have been found acceptable by the Bank.
Private sector procurement within the same range of value will be undertaken In
accordance with established commercial practice, provided that such procedures are
acceptable to IDA. Procurement of imported commodities will follow special
si:uplified competitive bidding procedures. The public sector procedure calls for bid
prices linked to the market price on the shipment date. The private sector may



-31-
import commodities directly from a broker using spot or market prices depending on
delivery date requirements. Pre-shipment inspection will be required for all
procurement. Any exceptions to the above procedures will require a waiver agreed
to by the Government and the Bank. The Bank of Zambia will be responsible for
coordination and monitoring of procurement and will submit quarterly status reports
to IDA for review. All procurement following simplified ICB procedures will be
subject to prior review in accordance with IDA guidelines. The Bank of Zambia will
maintain relevant documents for all procurement. These documents representing
other methods of procurement will be made available to IDA upon request for ex-
post review. The project account, special account and statements of expenditure will
be independently audited and the resulting audit report submitted to IDA within six
months of the end of Zambia's fiscal year.
94.   Poverty and Environmental Impact: The proposed operation helps remove key
obstacles to poverty reduction. The operation sets the stage for growth without
inflation by providing the necessary framework for poverty reduction, especially as
the reforms proposed will help ensure increased economic activity and help remove
past biases in favor of capital-intensive growth. The proposed land reforms will help
ensure an efficient land market which would help the small-holder farmers (who
constitute almost 90 percent of the poorest Zambians). These reforms would also
help women who are discriminated against by the current system. Non-traditional
exports promoted by the proposed changes in the trade regime include agricultural
products and should therefore help the continued improvement in the terms of trade
for small-holder farmers, as even the poorest farmers grow significant amounts of
cash crops. Finally, the improvement of essential social service delivery would be
the first step towards an integrated poverty reduction strategy. The improvements in
social service delivery with a special emphasis on primary services will help close the
gender gap that has opened up over the eighties. The impact of the operation on
the environment would be limited but positive. The improvements in land policy are
likely to lead to better land management practices. Similarly, improvements in
health services and water and sanitation policies and institutional set-up would help
address the most severe environmental problems of the peri-urban slum areas.
95.   Program Management and Monitoring: The reform program would continue
to be managed by the Economic Affairs Monitoring Unit, which is chaired by the
Minister of Finance and composed of members from the Ministry of Finance, the
National Commission for Development Plannin& Cabinet Office, Bank of Zambia,
ZCCM, Central Statistics Office, and other Government ministries and agencies. The
management of the program would be assisted by a coordinator. At each stage, the
overriding condition would be that Zambia retains satisfactory overall performance
on the macro-economic program, including compliance with specific monetary and
fiscal targets set after review and agreement with the IMP. The choice and wording
of tranche release conditions for this operation have been based in part on lessons
reflected in the Project Completion Report for the Economic Recovery Credit,
particularly the advisability of avoiding unnecessary specificity. Systematic client
consultation will be conducted under the operation using the 1993 Participatory



-32-
Poverty Assessment as a baseline and carrying out a beneficiary assessment of the
impact of the measures envisaged under the Credit. The assessment would involve
both suppliers and users cf social services, and the private business community.
96.   There is one condition of effectiveness: i.e. that the Government has provided
evidence of having secured sufficient commitments to cover substantially Zambia's
external financing gap for 1994.
97.   Conditions for release of the Second Tranche funding are:
a. SLveance Bgnefts: The Government has furnished to the Association a
revised package of severance benefits for public servants that will permit the
efficient restructuring of employment within the public sector.
b. Duty Draw-back Scheme: The Government has furnished to the Association
evidence that the Government has adopted a revised duty drawback scheme
with the following features: (a) simplicity, automaticity and transparency of
procedures; (b) a shift from a refund to a credit system based on input/output
coefficients (c) expansion of product coverage to include all imported raw
materials and intermediate inputs; (d) a plan to ensure dissemination of
information and publicity about the revised system; and (e) a time-bound
action plan satisfactory to Association for implementing the scheme.
c. Spending in the Social Sectors: The Government has satisfied the
Association that its spending in the social sectors in 1994 has been in
accordance with the Program and in particular
I. that expenditures in the health, education and water supply and
sanitation sectors and for social safety nets have not dropped below
the shares set out in the budget; and
ii. that at least half of the budgeted amounts for the following budget
sub-heads have been released to the implementing agencies, that Is: (a)
the pubkic welfare assistance scheme; (b) the Social Recovery Program;
(c) recurrent departmental charges or sub-heads related to primary
education in the provinces; (d) grants to district health management
teams; (e) recurrent Departmental charges for drugs, and (f) operation
and maintenance expenditures in the water and sanitation sectors.
d. Public Service Incentives: The Government has adopted and started to
implement a program acceptable to the Association pertaining to incentives to
attract and retain highly skilled professionals and to linking performance to
pay, and where appropriate has revised its job classification system in order
to reconcile It with such program.
e. Amendments to Land Laws: The Government has (a) enacted amendments
to land laws whose objectives shall be to (i) remove the notion that land has
no value, (ii) facilitate the sub-division of land, (iii) failditate real estate trading



-33-
and other related transactions, and (iv) reduce land and property transfer tax;
and (b) implement policy measures to provide for the sub-division and sale of
State farms.
f. Financial Plan for Zambia Airways: The Government has adopted a
financial plan for Zambia Airways satisfactory to the Association, consistent
with the need to avoid direct and indirect support for the airline from public
funds.
C. BENEFBIS AND RISKS
98.   The proposed credit would have a major short-term impact on Zambia's
growth and poverty reduction prospects. The policy reforms supported would help
lower inflation, improve private sector incentives, and improve social service
delivery, measures that would help private sector growth. Social service delivery
improvements will improve the delivery of social services directly and together with
the expansion of financing for existing, proven, safety net activities would directly
benefit the majority of the population. This is important both in its own right to
begin to reverse the negative trends of the past but also to help ensure the political
sustainability of the program. The past deterioration in living standards and the
expectations generated by the successful political transition could lead to major social
disruptions if the general population does not see short-run positive impacts of the
program. These changes are expected to benefit women relatively more, because
they entail the reversal of discriminatory practices in land tenure issues and social
service delivery.
99.   The operation would help fill Zambia's financing gap for 1994. Without this
credit it is unlikely that other donors would continue their extraordinary levels of
support, and debt service arrears would re-emerge, resulting in further cut-backs in
donor support pushing the economy into a sharp reverse. At the Consultative
Group meeting in December, Zambia's total external financing needs were esfimated
at US$1.2 billion for 1994. Existing rescheduling agreements will provide US$275
million and projects and commodity assistance US$350 million, leaving a need for
balance of payments support of US$575 million. With this credit, total IDA balance
of payments support will be US$225 million. At the December CG, donor balance-of-
payments support was estimated at US$200-250 million, leaving an unfinanced gap of
about US$100-150 million. Donors agreed to meet again in March to search for ways
of closing the financing gap. Filling the external financing gap for 1994 is a conditiot
of effectiveness of the proposed Credit.
100.  Because the proposed operation is so closely related to the overall adjustment
process, its risks are very much of the same nature as those for the adjustment
process as a whole. In summary, the operation faces political, external and
implementation risks. The political risk arises from the pressure on the Government
that will grow as more people are affected by restructuring to slow down or reverse
some of the reforms. Nevertheless, the Govemment has demonstrated conviction
and determination in reforming the economy. Their ownership of and commitment
to this program is obvious and genuine and has been demonstrated frequently and



-34-
consistently in the past few years by the enthusiastic pace and scope of ti .lr reform
program. The Government's comprehensive program of improving social service
delivery will also help to mitigate this risk. The external risk relates to Zambia's
precarious external financing position and large debt burden. The Bank is playing a
key role in mobilizing the donor resources required to support Zambia's reforms, but
there is always a risk that a substantial donor shortfall will make debt service
payments impossible. Finally, the proposed operation faces technical risks, such as a
possible revenue slump in the early stages of implementation of VAT; or a lagging
supply response due to a fluctuating exchange rate or other export constraints not
addressed (for administrative capacity reasons) by this credit. Although corrective
action would be initiated, fiscal or foreign exchange imbalances could develop before
the corrections became effective.
D. RECOMMENDATION
101.  I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 15, 1994



ZAMBIA
ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(ESAC)
ANNEXES



ARM  I
OFFCE OF THE MINIbER °f 21
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
P.O. BOX 50062
LUSAKA
MFAL/102/12/734
18th January, 1994
Mr. Edward V.K. Jaycox
Vice President, Africa Region
The World Bank
1818 H Street NW,
WASHINGTON DC 20433.
Dear Mr. Jaycox,
RE: ZAMBIA-ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (ESAC) -
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY.
1.   In early 1992 the Government reached agreement with the World
Bank and the IMF on a Policy Framework Paper (PFP) setting out the
main objectives of restoring Zambia's economic growth prospects by
moving the economy towards private sector initiative and free
market principles, and reversing the progressive decline in the
performance of Zambia' s social sector, s delivery system of the past
two decades. We outlined the extensive reforms necessary to achieve
these aims, including a sharp reduction in the size of the public
sector and a comprehensive programme of privatisation.
2.   Despite initial delays, progress is being made in implementing
the privatisation and parastatal reform programme. This was the
focus of the First and Second Privatization and Industrial Reform
Credits (PIRC I and PIRC II) approved by IDA in June 1992 and June
1993 respectively. Structural improvements in delivering social
services are underway, but progress has been affected by the need
to reduce Government spending to control inflation. We recognise
that the task of reforming the Zambian economy, including its
social sectors, will require determined and persistent effort on
our part, as well as continued support from the donor community,
including from the World Bank Group.
3.   The purpose of this Letter is to up-date you on progress made
on the implementation of the Economic Recovery Programme, and to
inform you about our policies and programmes, particularly in the
areas of macro-economic stability, private sector promotion and
improving social service delivery for which we seek IDA assistance
through the ESAC Credit.



AEX I
Page 2 of 21
Recent Develoments
4.   Much has been accomplished in the two years since the MMD
Government  came  to  office.       However,  in  the  midst  of
liberalisation, Zambia experienced the worst drought in this
century which made it difficult for the economy to stabilise in
1992. This notwithstanding, Government made the reduction of
inflation again its main priority for 1993. Recent evidence shows
that the Government is finally succeeding in reducing inflation:
monthly rates have dropped from 15 percent in June to 2.5 percent
in August, 3.7 percent in September, 0.1 percent in October, and to
a negative 1.6 percent in November, 1993. Macro-economic stability
is at last within reach.
5.   Reaching financial stability has not been easy. The decline in
the real supply of credit reduced the demand for imports and
domestic goods. This process was reinforced by the sharp rise in
yields on Treasury Bills which began to divert demand to kwacha-
denominated financial assets. With the sharp reduction in inflation
in August 1993, real interest rates on these assets became highly
positive. The combined effect of the credit squeeze and the
increase in interest rates then led to fluctuation in the value of
the kwacha. These developments placed strains on farmers,
exporters, manufacturers and ZCCM. The Government has started the
process of easing credit somewhat with the result that interest
rates have declined significantly. The market for foreign exchange
also reacted swiftly by a significant depreciation of the Kwacha,
thus easing strains on the productive and export sectors.
6.   The credit squeeze is being deepened by ZCCM' s payments
difficulties following the decline in copper and cobalt prices,
forcing the mining company to accumulate payment arrears to
suppliers and to Government which have a multiplier effect. With
Government operating on a Cash Budget basis, the decline in revenue
led to cuts in expenditure. The Zambian economy is undergoing a
severe contraction. Government recognises this and is implementing
measures to ease the supply of private sector credit. This will
begin to unlock the unpaid debts which will ease the serious
financial diff -ulties experienced by otherwise sound companies.
7.   The policies that the Government intends to follow in 1994
will center around promoting growth with stability. Our strategy
continues to emphasise the market-determined allocation of
resources and putting in place conditions necessary to stimulate
private sector activity. The Government will continue to disengage
from areas where the private sector has a comparative advantage.
Reforms in the financial and exchange rate systems introduced in
1993 will have a positive impact on business and consumer
confidence giving impetus to private sector investment. In order
for Zambia to reverse its long economic decline and restore growth
on a sustainable basis, national savings and investment will have
to increase. This requires a further reduction in the public sector



AEX I
Page 3 of 21
deficit and to encourage private sector savings.
8.   Government has made a major effort to deal with the poor state
of the country's infrastructure. The Public Investment Programme
(PIP) 1993-1995 gives emphasis to the rehabilitation of existing
capacity and infrastructure. The Government's intention is to
restore positive per capita growth in 1994, and encourage labour-
intensive activities, such as smallholder agriculture and small-
scale industry, so that employment will grow along with GDP. The
latter will require improvements in productivity, continued
liberalisation to encourage capital inflow, and further opening up
of market opportunities so that all Zambians can participate to the
limit of their resources and abilities. Critical to this effort
will be the generation of confidence in the sustainability of the
Government's programmes.
9.   The Government believes that better delivery of social and
economic services is important and feasible. To make this possible,
Task Forces for Social Sector Rehabilitation and Roads' Maintenance
were created. However, budgetary cutbacks of 1993 curtailed the
Government's ability to implement its social programmes. To
overcome this problem, the Government is committed to improving
budget  allocations  in  1994.    Government  is  also  requiring
beneficiaries to contribute through payment of user fees in order
to further augment resources to these sectors.   The low income
population will be protected from these fees.
10. Reversing inflation was the most challenging policy issue for
1993.  The 1993 budget set the Government's objective to reduce
inflation through a combination of fiscal and monetary policies. To
achieve this, sales and excise tax rates were raised and tax
holidays on investment removed.   Expenditures were cut.   As a
result, inflation which reached an annualised rate of 280 percent
during the first half of 1993 dropped to an annualised rate of 47.8
percent in the July-September, 1993 period. The annualised rate in
the last quarter of 1993 was 10.5 percent.   This was achieved
through a continued deceleration of reserve money -- driven by
continued tight fiscal policy and the reduction of Bank of Zambia
credit to parastatals.
11. The sharp reduction in inflation occurred because Government
disavowed printing money to cover its revenue short-falls.   The
introduction of the cash budget in 1993 saw for the first time a
Government in Zambia imposing strict financial restraint on itself.
The results were salutary. The primary budget balance (excluding
interest payments and grants), programmed to be zero percent of
GDP, turned into a surplus in the first ten months of 1993. The
Government is committed to maintaining similar budgetary restraint
for the foreseeable future.   This means that any expenditure
request outside the budget will only be met after equivalent
revenue measures have been taken.



AM= I
Page 4 of 21
12. Improvement irn fiscal management was also a result of other
measures. First, the cash budgeting system was supplemented by
c'.ose monitoring of revenues and expenditures. Second, the 1993
budget introduced comprehensive tax reforms. Third, improved audit
of parastatals led to higher tax revenue.
13. The fiscal management and monitoring system will need further
strengthening. For instance, while the Treasury has operated on a
cash basis, it is evident that elsewhere, especially at provincial
and district levels, this has not been the case. Commitments in
excess of available cash resources have been made. It is
Government's intention to correct these weaknesses in 1994. Further
improvements will include reviewing the format of the Yellow Book
with a view to: (i) ensuring completeness in capturing donor-funded
projects; (ii) unifying budget codes with release numbers so as to
facilitate comparison of releases and expenditures with budgeted
amounts by head and sub-head; (iii) eventually presenting operation
and maintenance expenditures separately from other recurrent costs;
(iv) providing adequate sectoral and sub-sectoral breakdown of
budgeted amounts, releases and expenditures; (v) bringing domestic
debt service and similar expenditures "above the line", thereby
improving the way the budget reflects Government commitments; and
(vi) adequately planning the seasonality of inflows of revenues and
of expenditures. It is intended that much of this work will be
completed in 1994.
14. The Government has started to implement the decentralisation
component of the Public Service Reform Programme. This is being
done by assisting ministries with significant operations in the
provinces, i.e. Education, Health, Works and Supplies, Agriculture,
Food and Fisheries, Home Affairs, Energy and Water Development and
Local Government and Housing to plan the deployment of their
resources to ensure equitable spatial distribution. It will also
entail the development of allocative criteria based on the levels
of service provision and infrastructure endowment. The criteria
used in the draft budget for 1994 to determine spending provisions
to provinces constitute a first step in this direction.
15. Several public utilities made large losses in 1992/1993 which
had a negative impact on the budget and money supply. Measures to
reduce losses were taken and we have required our public utilities,
including the Zambia Electricity Supply Corporation (ZESCO), the
Posts and Telecommunications Corporation (PTC), Zambia Railways
(ZR) and municipal water companies to adjust their prices. ZESCO
and ZR have increased their tariffs significantly in June, 1993. In
addition, parastatal companies have adopted a policy of frequent
price adjustments. Both petroleum and electricity prices were
adjusted several times in 1993.
16. Government also introduced a broad programme of financial
liberalisation. Since January 1993, interest rates have been
decontrolled through the operations of a Treasury Bill tender



AM=K I
Page 5 of 21
system. This mechanism is working well. Interest rates rose rapidly
up to July 1993, due to reserve money increases. Once that was
brought under control, nominal interest rates have fallen. Market
forces are determining interest rates. After peaking at around 379
percent in early July 1993, the annual compound yield on 91-day
Treasury Bills had declined to 79 percent by mid-November 1993.
Interest rates are now strongly positive in real terms, This
development which is normal during the early phases of economic
stabilisation   is  encouraging   institutional   investors   and
individuals to hold Kwacha-denominated financial assets. By
encouraging a switch from consumption to savings, the rise in real
interest rates has also had a positive impact on inflation. The
exchange rate system has also been liberalised over the year.
Conditions now exist for the complete removal of the remaining
exchange controls in early 1994.
Revenues
17.  Domestic revenues did not perform as expected in 1993.  In
spite of the tax changes introduced in 1993 as part of a phased
programme to broaden the tax base while instituting broad-ranging
tax reductions, tax compliance remained weak. The credit squeeze
in the economy also contributed to the weak revenue position as
most companies were not able to meet their tax obligations due to
financial difficulties.  The appreciation of the Kwacha between
August and October also meant lesser revenues coming in than
originally expected. As a result, the tax/GDP ratio declined,
dropping from about 19 percent in 1991 to 15.5 percent in 1992, and
to an estimated 13 percent in 1993.
Zganditures
18. With the cash budget in place, the brunt of fiscal adjustment
in 1993 was borne on the expenditure side. This was required to
accommodate higher expenditures for maize purchases and a 50
percent salary increase within a budget in which resources fell
short of expectations. While Government has not succeeded in
shifting expenditures away from personal emoluments towards
recurrent departmental charges and capital expenditure to the
extent it had anticipated, for the first time in many years, the
shortfall in Government expenditure on these items has not been
covered by printing money. This policy will be maintained in 1994.
19. Government had intended to transfer responsibility for running
.and financing local government affairs to the district councils,
while maintaining limited support only to smaller councils,
beginning in mid-1992. Because of their limited resource base, this
could not be fully achieved.    It is,  however, Government's
intention to pursue its original objective in 1994. District
councils are now free to set charges for the services they provide.



AM= I
Page 6 of 21
Objectives and Nacroeconomic Frameworks 1994-1995
20. The Government's objective is to achieve GDP growth of 4
percent in 1994 and 5 percent in 1995 and 1996 which will permit a
modest increase in per capita income. The higher level of growth
should be possible because Zambia has in place policies to
stimulate increased investment. There is also adequate good quality
agricultural land and unutilised capacity in the industrial sector.
Access by the private sector to credit and foreign exchange is
improving. These factors are being supplemented by improvements in
the allocation and efficiency of public spending, continued market
liberalisation, and reductions in Government regulation.
Public Service Reform.
21.  The Government's aim is to have a smaller, more efficient, and
better paid civil service. To achieve this, the Public Service
Reform Programme (PSRP) was launched on 2nd November, 1993. The
process of re-organisation of Cabinet Office has begun. For the
PSRP to be meaningful and have a positive impact, the Government
will attempt to re-negotiate with unions the severance pay packages
to the retrenchees. Once the costs of retrenchment are met, the
savings realised from personnel reductions will be used to improve
the conditions of service, especially for skilled and professional
officers. For this purpose, the Government intends to adopt in 1994
a programme to enhance incentives to attract and retain these
highly skilled officers and linking performance to remuneration.
The recently-completed report of the Presidential Commission to
Review Civil Service Salaries and Conditions of Service can also
help in this regard. Finally, Cabinet Office has begun to review
the institutional reform initiatives of the Social Sector Task
Force under which the social sector ministries have initiated their
own reform programme.
fxoort Growth and Private 8ector Develgmnet
22.  The objective of our macroeconomic policy is to achieve
financial stability and sustainable growth so as to raise living
standards in Zambia. The Government considers that the structural
transformation of the Zambian economy requires an export-friendly
macroeconomic   environment,    sound   social   and   economic
infrastructure, and efficient Government. The ESAC will focus on
policy reforms for export development, macro-economic stability,
private sector growth and improved delivery of social services.
Export Dpvelomg  t and Trade.
23. Stimulating   non-traditional   exports   is   critical   to
diversifying the Zambian eoonomy and promoting job creation. Hence,
we accord high priority to improving incentives for exporters. We
began by liberalising the exchange regime through the introduction
*1



AMNU I
Page 7 of 21
of bureaux de change, widening the export retention market and
converting the OGL into a negative list. Exchange rates are now
unified and market-determined.   There is virtually unrestricted
access to foreign exchange for current transactions. Lastly, to
make foreign investment more attractive in Zambia, the full outward
transfer of dividends has been allowed. The result of these efforts
has been a return of confidence in the Kwacha. Government is now
preparing the repeal of the Exchange Control Act. The severe credit
squeeze contributed to the appreciation of the Kwacha for some
time.   More recently, the value of the Kwacha has depreciated
again.
24. Zambia will continue to work with SADC and PTA to promote
regional trade. The PTA preferences are already being applied.
Vigilance is needed, however, to ensure that these preferences are
not abused. In this connection, efforts will be made to co-ordinate
within the Southern Africa region incentives for investment. The
Government recognises that the benefits of these trade arrangements
will be of a longer term nature as the whole economy of southern
Africa expands. For Zambia, the principal short and medium-term
objective is to reform its own system of trade and exchange.  This
will provide Zambia's miners, farmers, and industrialists with the
capacity to compete effectively in the sub-region and more broadly
in the international community.
25. Since promoting non-traditional exports is viewed as important
for restoring economic growth, the Government initiated a number of
reforms.    These  include  the  export  retention  scheme;  the
simplification, reduction and narrowing of the tariff; and a
revision of trade taxation. These reforms represent progress, since
the general level of protection had been significantly reduced and
the tax base for import sales taxes and local sales taxes has been
harmonized, thus, eliminating discrepancies between domestic and
trade sales taxes.
26. Nonetheless, steps are needed to create a better system of
incentives for exporters. Four main issues are being addressed:
(i) the impact of tariff and fiscal reforms on effective
protection; (ii) the incapacity of the duty drawback system to
ensure duty-free access by exporters to imported inputs; (iii) how
to cope with a loose system of exemptions of duties paid on capital
goods; and (iv) lack of institutional capacity to manage trade and
related issues, such as the reconciliation of customs duties with
customs revenue collected. We have already simplified the schedule
of external tariffs and reduced the highest tariffs to 40 percent.
The new reforms will have the effect of stimulating greater
competition and efficiency.



AM=   I
Page 8 of 21
27. In specific terms, the Government intends to:-
a)   strenathen the management and administ-ation of the
Customs Department:
The   Government   has   started   to  strengthen   the
administration of tax collection of the Customs
Department which should not only lead to higher revenues
but also deal effectively with those who attempt to evade
the payment of import duties. The newly-established
Revenue Authority will absorb the Customs Department and
should permit attracting high-quality staff. Technical
assistance has been requested to supplement the
Authority's efforts. The already more vigorous tax
administration efforts began to show their results in
October, 1993.
b)   improve the system of tax rebate for exporters (customs
duties and sales taxes) on imported inputs:
The Government intends to extend the coverage of the duty
drawback system to include all the physical inputs, and to
include both direct and indirect exporters and will simplify
the  procedures  for  claiming  the  drawback  by  giving
responsibility to a single and autonomous institution within
the Customs and Excise Department, and changing the
computation procedures through a move towards an exemption
system rather than a re-fund system.
c)   Minimise the use of discretionary practices in the
granting of exeptions on imported canital aoods:
The existence  of widespread discretionary exemptions  on
payment of customs duties and sales tax renders the tariff
structure inefficient with regards to fiscal revenues and
resource  allocation  objectives.   While  exemptions  are
necessary, they will no longer be granted on a discretionary
basis. Ministerial exemptions will continue to be limited to
charitable organisations, and industrial and commercial
exemptions will be dealt with only in the context of the
Investment Act.   Strict criteria will be defined so that
exemptions under the Investment Act will be automatic and
transparent. The awards of all exemptions will be published in
the Government Gazette by Statutory Instrument.
d)   reform domestic indirect taxation:
As there is no type of value-added system in Zambia, producers
cannot always get rebate for the taxes they have to pay on
domestic goods and services incorporated in their output. The
Government will design a value-added system suiting Zambian
conditions in 1994 to be implemented in 1995.
8



AM=  I
Page 9 of 21
Private Sector Development.
28. The Government attaches great importance to policies for the
development of the private sector. Recent measures include full
remittance of profits and  guarantees against interference and
expropriation. The Investment Centre has become operational. We
intend to review its operations to ensure that it focusses on
investment promotion and operates effectively as a facilitator for
prospective investors. Guidelines have been published to help
investors understand Zambia's regulations. In 1993 export and
import licensing requirements were abolished.
29.   We are also completing a comprehensive revision of key laws
governing business activity which were outdated and restrictive. In
this respect, the Companies Act and the are being amended and the
bills will be presented at the next sitting of Parliament. A
Securities Act has been enacted and came into force on 17th
December, 1993 while the Bank of Zambia Act has already been
amended. It is hoped that a competition bill to forestall the
emergence of private monopolies as the extensive network of public
momopolies is dismantled through the privatisation process, will be
presented at the next sitting of Parliament.
30. The Economic Recovery Programme will open new opportunities
for Small-Scale Enterprises (SSEs) so they can help absorb layoffs
likely to result from the privatisation process. The Government has
initiated a review of the constraints hampering these enterprises.
The objective is to develop a programme of specific measures to
reduce and streamline the regulatory requirements for SSEs -
including for small-scale mining - and for providing access to
credit. The organisation and set-up of the two promotional bodies
for SSE development - the Small Industries Development Organisation
(SIDO) - and the Village Industries Services (VIS) will be
reviewed.
Land Policy.
31. The Government recognises that the issue of the legal status
of land is important for new investments in our country where one
of the most abundant resources is land. Currently, the law does not
permit freehold possession of land. Unimproved land is regarded as
having virtually no value and is, hence, of little use for the
purpose of collateral. About 90 percent of the land is subject to
customary communal usage rights, the remainder being effectively
owned and administered by the Government. The issue of land tenure
is complex. Although leasehold will likely remain the mode of land
tenure, there are some aspects of land ownership and land
registration and transfer which have to be addressed in order to
facilitate the development of an efficient market for state land.
32. The land reform programme which the Government intends to
carry out aims at achieving the twin objectives of developing the
9



ANJUE I
Page 10 of 21
land markets o0h State Land and building institutional capacity for
land delivery and land reform. The Government has begun
implementation of a pilot scheme on subdivision of State-owned
farms for commercial use. In addition, the Government has approved
draft amendments to land laws and regulations, to allow valuation
of land, free transfer and subdivision of land under statutory
leasehold, and reduction of the land property transfer tax.
33. The Government is currently preparing, and in early 1994 will
(1) approve the terms of reference for a study of a comprehensive
land settlement policy which will include minimising involuntary
resettlement and payment of appropriate compensation; (2) fully
operationalise the Land Identification Committee: (3' approve terms
of reference for a study which will assess ways of decentralising,
at District Council level, the issuing of urban and rural title
deeds, the registration of land transfers and the collection of
land fees; and (4) introduce changes in the law to abolish the
distinction arising from the classification of Land Reserves and
Trust Land on the one hand and State land on the other, recognise
the holding of land on customary tenure, and establish a land
Development Fund.
The Fiancial SyAtem.
34. The success of our efforts to develop a robust private sector
depends on the ability of the financial system to mobilise and
allocate resources efficiently. For this reason, the Government
accords high priority to modernising the banking sector and putting
in place a small capital market. A good start has been made on the
legal reform side with revisions to legislation related to the
banking system. In the area of monetary policy we expect the recent
introduction of the. Treasury-Bill tender system and the growth of
secondary markets in these instruments will assist in providing
greater depth to the money market. In addition, the Government has
launched reviews of the Development Bank of Zambia (DBZ), Lima Bank
and Eximbank to identify how these institutions can be restructured
to meet the need for sound term-financing. We intend to act on
these reviews by early 1994.
35. Government has taken steps to develop a small but efficient
capital market. With the help of the International Finance
Corporation (IFC), and financing from the Privatization and
Industrial Reform Technical Assistance Credit (PIRCTA), we engaged
consultants to identify the requirements for a simple over-the-
counter (OTC) type market. We expect to have this in operation
early in 1994.
The PrLvatimation and Parastatal Reform Prourume.
36. The reform of the parastatal sector is vital to the
Government's strategy to restore efficiency and growth -in the
economy. The privatisation programme covers nearly all parastatals.
10



AM=  I
Page 11 of 21
The scheduled programme is spread over a five-year period involving
150 commercially-oriented companies. In addition, we plan to offer
for sale ZCCM and the Metals Marketing Corporation of Zambia
(MEMACO) as well as the public utilities. We expect at least 10
companies over the period of the programme will be sold through
public flotations in Zambia.
37. With regard to the copper sub-sector, Zambia wi'll rely on
private investment to develop new copper reserves. We have started
a study of the options for privatising ZCCM and MEMACO. Based on
the results of this study, we expect to adopt a strategy and plan
of action for this purpose by May, 1994.
.38. As regards privatisation, sales agreements for six tranche I
companies have been signed and legal transfer arrangements have so
far been completed for 2 companies. Progress in preparing a further
eight companies for sale is on schedule. Invitations for bids for
the last five companies have to be re-advertised as bids for these
companies were not found acceptable. Twelve tranche II companies
are also in the process of privatisation. These include large and
profitable companies such as breweries, cement and metal
fabricating companies. They also include three companies to be
handed back to their former owners. Overall, in 1994 ZPA intends to
complete the sale of at least 1S enterprises, and to bring a
further 20 enterprises to the point of sale.
39. ZIMC0 has been transformed into an investment holding company
responsible for representing the State's interests in public
enterprises until their sale. ZIMCO no longer establishes companies
itself, nor will it authorise or finance new investments or lend to
subsidiary companies or guarantee their borrowing from third
parties, including from other companies within the ZIMCO group. The
role of ZIMCO is being phased out. Thus parastatal dividends are
paid directly to Government. The role of ZIMCO is being reviewed
further. Steps are being considered to further restructure the
management of ZIMCO parastatals consistent with the objective of
achieving a more rapid completion of the privatisation programme.
In  particular,   the  supervision  of  parastatals  undergoing
privatisation will be transferred from ZIMCO to a new unit in ZPA.
40. Companies that are not expected to be financially viable will
be closed down. Government is now commissioning in-depth viability
reviews of the more important loss-making enterprises. We are
particularly concerned to resolve the problems of Zambia Airways
(ZA) which is in critical financial condition. In this regard, the
Cabinet decided that ZA will not close but should be restructured
so that it becomes a viable airline. The restructuring is
addressing the need for increasing the operational efficiency of
the airline, reducing the routes to be operated as well as
equipment and retrenchment of staff and management. ZA is presently
preparing a comprehensive financial plan for 1994/S and a complete
statement of its 1993 financial operations that will permit the
11



ANN I
Page 12 of 21
Government  to. consider the options  for continued direct  and
indirect public sector support in early 1994.
41. Government attaches great importance to the reform of those
public utilities that are expected to remain in the public sector.
Government will ensure that these enterprises are free of all
outside interference in their pricing policies and management and
that they do not receive any public subventions. To this end, the
adoption of an automatic price and tariff adjustment mechanism will
allow the public utilities to become financially viable. They are
expected to bring their prices, within 12 months, to a level where
they cover all costs, including cost of capital, and provide an
acceptable return.
42. However, to ensure that the automatic price adjustment
mechanism is not abused by the utilities at the expense of
consumers, because of their natural monopoly position, we plan to
establish a regulatory framework for reviewing pricing policies on
the basis of incentive-based formulae that incorporate efficiency
measures and performance targets. In this regard, tenders are now
being invited for a study on the establishment of regulatory
framework for the major utilities like ZR, ZESCO and Posts and
Telecommunications   Corporation   (PTC).   Long-term  regulatory
arrangements for the public utilities will be put in place by
December, 1994.
The Social 8ector Reform Proarame.
43. Social conditions in Zambia have declined substantially over
the past twenty years. As examples, infant mortality which had
declined to 80 per 1,000 live births by 1981, increased to 107 in
1987-91, and primary school gross enrollment ratios have fallen
from 96 percent in 1985 to 88 percent in 1991. A number of factors
are responsible for impeding effective delivery of social services.
Among them are the excessive centralisation, organisational
probl..ms, limited implementation capacity in Government ministries,
shortage of qualified personnel, poor regional distribution of
staff (80 percent of all physicians work in 4 provinces along the
line of rail), shortage of financial resources and inadequate
maintenance.
44. The Government has taken steps to reverse the declining trend
in social sector service delivery. The basic thrust consists of
decentralisation of service delivery, including de-concentration of
service delivery in health and education, devolution of safety net
measures to local groups, mostly NGOs, and re-structuring the water
and sanitation sector.   In order to prepare Government efforts
toward more effective delivery of social services, a study was
commissioned to review the policy and regulatory framework, and
issues of implementation of programmes in health and nutrition,
water supply and sanitation, and for women, children and youth.
12



ANEX I
Page 13 of 21
45. The Government believes that there is substantial opportunity
to meet social goals by restructuring the pattern of expenditure.
To accelerate the delivery of social services, the Government will
increase expenditure in the social sectors to restore and maintain
their share to the level of 1984, the last year for which their
shares were at an acceptable level. Education has suffered
significantly from decline in resource allocation, even though the
number of children has risen sharply. Similarly, in the fields of
water supply and sanitation critical expenditures - such as those
for maintenance - declined very significantly. It is also
Government' s intention to increase real expenditures on social
safety net activities. A larger proportion of safety net programmes
funding will be grants to NGOs.
46. Thus, in the 1994 budget, the Government will ensure an
allocation of resources, in accordance with its priorities,
especially: -
i)  increase the share of the total budget allocated for
health to at least 13 percent; and the Ministry of Health
will allocate 9 percent of its budget as grants to
district health management teams, and 9 percent for drugs
under RDCs;
(ii) increase the share of the total budget allocated for
education to at least 15 percent, including special
allocation for ensuring distribution of books; and the
Ministry of Education will make allocation of 5 percent
of its budget to primary education RDCs under a sub-
warrant to Provincia' Education Officers;
(iii) allocate at least 2 percent of the total budget to the
Ministry of Community Development and Social Welfare for
financing such activities as the Public Welfare
Assistance Scheme, the Programme Against Malnutrition,
and the Peri-Urban Self-Help Programme catering to
vulnerable groups.   The resources will be channelled
partly through qualified NGOs which are able to account
accurately and responsibly for the use of public funds.
The latter requirement will be included in agreements
which the Government will enter into with NGOs.
(iv) increase the share of the total budget allocated for
Water Supply and Sanitation in the Ministry of Local
Government and Housing to at least 1.8 percent and in the
Ministry of Energy and Water Development to at least 1.4
percent, of which at least 4 percent will be allocated to
operations and maintenance.
47. These allocations will require a major reorganisation of
expenditure. Accordingly,  the share in the budget of personal
emoluments, grants and other payments, missions abroad, and
13



ANNU I
Page 14 of 21
overseas travel and purchases will be reduced.   In 1993 the
Government established budget heads for each of the defence and
security wings to introduce transparency and permit better control
of these expenditures. This is achieving its purpose.   It is
Government's intention to keep military expenditure under control
and it will aim at reducing it in real terms over the next three
years. Capital expenditure will be expanded in 1994, with resources
concentrated on a core programme of rehabilitating economic and
social infrastructure and on completing ongoing projects.
48. Furthermore, attempts will be made in 1994 to initiate pilot
programmes in several ministries to move away from incremental to
programme budgeting. This will be achieved by linking budgetary
allocations with well-defined objectives and targets, and by
introducing realistic norms for costing. By 1995, the budgeting of
these ministries will be based on this approach and in 1996 will be
framed in a forward budgeting context, thereby taking into account
the projected financial implications of programmes and projects two
years in advance. Assistance will be provided to these ministries
from 1995 onwards to facilitate the evaluation of the effectiveness
of the implementation of their budget in achieving their objectives
and targets.
49. Within each sector, significant intra-sectoral, geographic and
age-specific reallocations will be made. Thus, emphasis is being
placed on basic education, primary health care and preventive
health services. Maternal and child health and family planning
services are also given high priority. More effective delivery of
services in rural areas will be achieved through allocating more
resources to  local  health  service outlets  and district  and
provincial health institutions.
50. Due to the crucial role that primary education plays, the
Government  plans  to  raise  the  share  of  primary  education.
Strengthening vocational/technical training is critical to
equipping labor-market entrants for gainful self-employment. To
achieve this objective, the share of such trade schools will rise.
These measures are critical for the achievement of the objectives
of the Economic Recovery Programme as well. The Government is re-
casting the Public Investment Programme (1994-1996) to give more
emphasis to rehabilitation of technical education and vocational
training institutions.  The above phanges in resource allocation
represent the first step in giving high budgetary priority to
delivering social services.
51. Measures will be taken to address domestic resource
mobilisation. A large proportion (36 percent) of educational and
health expenditure is currently borne by households, donors and
NGOs. There is, however, still room to expand the non-government
share by instituting cost-sharing schemes. Existing schemes will be
strengthened, while the Government will also promote the role of
the private sector in providing social services. In the case of the
14



AMNX I
Page 15 of 21
health sector, cost recovery will not continue to be pursued in the
current ad hoc manner, but only as an integral part of the
implementation of the health reforms.
52. In higher education, the Government is implementing a scheme
of cost-recovery such that student contributions make up 25 percent
of the financing of higher education. As part of this plan, the
Government will institute loan schemes and community work schemes
to help students from lower income groups meet this financing
requirement.
PoDulation Policy.
53. Zambia's population was 8.3 million in 1990 and growing at an
annual rate of 3.2 percent. A high fertility rate of 7.2 coupled
with a declining mortality rate estimated in 1990 at 11.7 per 1,000
accounts for the high rate of population growth.   These trends
suggest that Zambia's population could double in the next twenty
years if the rate of growth remains constant. With half of the
population being under fifteen years of age, there is a high
dependency ratio and a greater demand for school places and health
services than the country can afford. Moreover, the widely
dispersed population makes it difficult to provide social services
in a cost-effective manner.
54. In recognition of these problems, the Government has adopted
a national population policy. Its components include measures for
reducing the rate of population growth; supply of information and
contraceptives to ensure that couples make informed decisions about
the size of their families; and the provision of maternal and child
health services to help reduce infant, child, and maternal
mortality.
55. The Government will accelerate the implementation of the
policy through the action plans that have been developed with the
support of UNFPA and several bilateral donors. Family planning
services will be included in the basic package of services under
the health programme.
Eduuation.
56. Success in education and training is central to the Economic
Recovery Programme. Revitalisation of the educational system is
being accorded high priority. The strategy includes the increased
provision of resources for rehabilitating schools; providing desks,
adequate textbooks and other educational materials; improving of
pre-service and in-service teacher training; reforming the
examination system; improving the management of education; and
promoting community involvement in curriculum development.
57. The main areas of concern are financing of education, the
shortage of qualified teachers, the rehabilitation of facilities,
15



AM= I
Page 16 of 21
increasing access, and improving quality. This requires increased
allocation of resources for education. Liberalisation of the
printing and supply of textbooks is being encouraged.
58. The process of decentralisation in the education sector will
start shortly. By December, 1993 the Government will have completed
the revision of its education funding mechanism so that funds
released for provincial education will be sub-warranted directly to
Provincial Education Officers. In addition, during the first half
of 1994 the Government will complete a process of establishing
autonomous School Management Boards as part of the decentralisation
of responsibility, resources and authority.
oalh
59. In addition to a run-down physical infrastructure, cholera,
dysentery, malaria, tuberculosis and AIDS epidemics have become a
major threat to the health of the people. Both infant and child
mortality rates have risen in recent years. Among the constraints
militating against service delivery are shortage of drugs and other
medical supplies, and organisational weaknesses. Most health
activities are carried out at the District level. However,
decisions were made at the central level.
60. Government policy gives high priority to primary health care,
Cost-sharing will be introduced in rural areas so that the revenue
collected can supplement Government resources. Private sector
involvement in the development of health services will be
encouraged. A health insurance scheme is to be introduced for those
with ability to pay. A program to prevent malnutrition is underway
for distribution of free or subsidized food to the needy.  Non-
governmental organizations are involved in the distribution through
food-for-work activities. Our medium-term plan focusses on
restructuring the Ministry of Health with a district focus;
rehabilitating health training institutions and providing teaching
aids to meet the needs of field staff; rehabilitating hospitals and
health centers; controlling the epidemics of cholera, dysentery,
malaria, tuberculosis, immunisable communicable diseases, and AIDS;
and providing drugs, medical supplies, and contraceptives.
61. The Government will pursue the process of decentralisation in
the health sector with vigour. To this end, the Government has
-established full budgetary autonomy for District Health Boards and
Hospital Boards. The Government will also alter the method of
disbursing funds to the health sector in line with the
decentralisation programme; especially, the District Health
Management Boards will submit plans for their activities to the
Ministry of Health for consolidation. Based on the consolidated
plan, the Ministry of Finance will allocate resources to a control
account  specifically  for  district  health  activities,   the
controlling officer for which will be the Permanent Secretary for
Health, the latter becoming responsible for disbursing these funds
16



ANEX I
Page 17 of 21
directly to the District Health Management Boards.
62. During the first half of 1994, the Government intends to
initiate the process of streamlining the Public Health Acts and
other relevant medical acts to reflect the Government's new
approach to health and health care. By mid-1994, the Government
expects  to  complete  guidelines  on  health  financing  and
restructuring of the Ministry of Health, complete the development
of its drug policy, the human resources strategic plan and policy,
and its nutrition policy.
63. Previously, AIDS was considered to be only a health issue, but
the spread of the disease and the resulting disability and death
are making it clear that multi-sectoral interventions are
necessary. The Government is currently developing its Medium-Term
Programme (MTP) for AIDS prevention and alleviation. Implementation
of the Programme will involve both public and private sector
agencies. The Government will ensure sufficient funding for the
Programme's implementation.
Nutritign
64. Nutrition activities have suffered from a serious lack of
policy guidance and coordination. Several worthwhile programs are
ongoing, implemented mainly by NGOs, including the PAM network (see
below), local nutrition groups an volunteer agencies. Policy
.development and changes in regulations are ongoing in the area of
micronutrient deficiencies, including iodine and iron deficiencies.
The national coordinating body, the National Food and Nutrition
Commission (NFNC), suffers from a shortage of funds and personnel,
and unclear mandates and terms of reference. To rectify these
weaknesses, the Government will develop and adopt a National
Nutrition Strategy, ensure sufficient funding for NFNC and
resolutions of its personnel problems, and consolidate the progress
made on iodination of salt.
Water and Sanitation.
65. The water supply and sanitation sector is in disarray and
service delivery is inadequate. The number of people served is
limited: some 55 percent have safe water, while about 48 percent
have reasonably adequate sanitation facilities. The results include
cholera epidemics and dysentery. The sector suffers from unclear
and overlapping responsibilities of various organisations using a
highly centralised approach, lack of institutional and financial
capacity, and insufficient human resources.
66. In order to address these shortcomings in the sector, the
Government plans to pursue the following policies for the future:-
-    separation of water resources management and water supply
and sanitation functions;
17



AMK I
rage 18 of 21
-    within the water supply/sanitation sector, separation of
regulatory  and  supervisory  roles  from  executive
functions;
-    devolution of executive functions (planning of programmes
and projects, their implementation, and operation and
maintenance)   to  local  authorities,  which  include
autonomous publicly-owned enterprises, the formation of
which the Government is encouraging;
-    more user and community participation, including hygiene
education;
-    full cost recovery for commercial users and high-income
consumers; and
-    training and  incentive measures  for human resource
development.
67.  The Government has already initiated steps leading to a
reorganisation  of  the  sector  and  a  deconcentration  of
responsibility for service delivery. The Government supports the
formation of commercially-managed water and sanitation enterprises.
68. To address the general structural and policy problems of the
sector, an Inter-Ministerial Programme Coordination Unit (PCU) and
a supporting Water Sector Development Group (WSDG) have been
established. They will develop operational plans, strategies and
investment programmes to guide the future development of the
sector. The Government is also addressing the issue of operation
and maintenance. For this purpose, the Water and Sanitation
Committee of the Social Sector Task Force is taking steps to
accelerate rehabilitation and maintenance.
69. Following the adoption of the principles for future sector
policy and an increase in the sector's share of the national
budget, the Government's next step will be the implementation of
the first phase of the PCU-WSDG work programme by mid-1994. The
first phase emphasises the development of the sectoral strategy,
assessment of needs, preparation of an indicative medium-term
investment  programme,  assistance  to  the  Ministry  of  Local
Government and Housing to monitor construction programmes and
operational support to local authorities, and detailed planning of
technical assistance for institution building. During the second
phase, emphasis will shift to assistance in institution building,
training and technical assistance, that is the transformation of
the WSDG into a central service organisation for local authorities
and enterprises requiring assistance.
70. The Government has also adopted a policy for increasing the
share of domestic financing of investment. With the shares of thec
national budget devoted to water zupply and sanitation rising as
18



AM= I
Page 19 of 21
foreseen, 25 percent of the sector's investment programme will be
financed from internal revenues. This should help in ensuring a
better integration of projects in the sector into the Government's
budget than is normally the case when domestic revenues finance a
smaller percentage of the project costs. This integration will
stimulate the provision from the budget of adequate funding for
project operation and maintenance.
Social Safety Net and Poverty Alleviation.
71. While economic adjustment measures will in the long-run
benefit all sections of the population through the general
improvement in economic growth, it is recognised that in the short-
run some measures may increase economic hardship. For example, the
retrenchment in the civil service will cause dislocation. There is,
therefore, need to cushion vulnerable groups from the adverse
effects of adjustment. There is also need to help the most
disadvantaged, which include widows, the handicapped and orphans.
Other programmes to   mitigate the transitional costs of the
Economic Recovery Programme tend to improve access of vulnerable
groups to social and economic services and food. These Social
Safety Net Activities are being pursued by the Ministry of
Community Development and Social Services, Cabinet Office, and by
NCDP and several of them are already supported by donors and NGOs.
Public Welfare Agssitance Scheme.
72.  An amount of K1  billion was allocated to the Ministry of
Community Development and Social Services for expenditure in 1992
as targeted assistance to the needy. K449 million was spent through
local non-governmental organisations with had the capacity to
identify the needy. This relatively low disbursement rate reflected
the new Ministry's start-up problems. Sufficient experience has
been gained since then on which a smooth implementation of the
Public Welfare Assistance Scheme (PWAS) from 1993 onwards can be
based.
73. The PWAS will be strengthened enabling outreach from district
capitals and improving target. Disbursements will be higher in real
terms in 1994 compared to 1993.
NOO and Comuiity-ba&ed Activities
74. The Programme to Prevent Malnutrition (PPM) coordinates the
distribution of food to the needy and reflects collaborative
efforts between the World Food Programme, the Government and NGOs.
During 1992, over 58,000 tons of maize were distributed. Many NGOs
are distributing food through "food-for-work" programmes which have
the benefit of improving rural infrastructure. The Government has
restructured PPM into a semi-independent agency, the Programme
Against Malnutrition (PAM). The implemented structure of PPM will
19



ANNE I
Pase 20 of 21
be maintained while PAM will change the focus from drought relief
to drought recovery and development. A similar programme has been
run by the Project Urban Self-Help (PUSH) in urban areas which will
continue beyond 1993. PAM, PUSH and other NGOs providing support to
vulnerable groups have received funding through the Ministry of
Community and Social Welfare. This funding will increase in 1994
and coordination among programmes will be improved. The successful
Social Recovery Programme implemented by the Microprojects Unit of
NCDP finance community-based social, rehabilitation in more than
400 infrastructure communities across Zambia. The disbursements
from the programme will be increased in 1994 and the Fiscal Funding
to the programme will increase.
Xntreprezeurial Develg2nt_ and Training for Retrenched  nlovees.
75. The Government recognises the need to prepare retrenched
employees through training to take up alternative self employment
and business ventures. The Establishment Division at Cabinet Office
is implementing the training programme which includes pre-training
to identify those who could be developed as entrepreneurs; a
training phase which includes business opportunity identification,
project formulation and management; and a post-training stage of
helping trainees to launch and consolidate their ventures. A
similar programme is ongoing for employees laid-off due to the
privatization programme. Fund are being sought from the donor
community to augment Government resources in 1994.
Overal Proame KNamenont
76. The Economic Recovery Programme imposes formidable challenges
for successful implementation. For these reasons, and due to the
need to coordinate the multiple policy initiatives from the
different ministries and agencies of Government, we have entrusted
the management of the overall programme to the Technical Committee
of Economic Ministers which is chaired by myself.
77. Arrangements are being made to enhance the Government's
capacity to coordinate effectively the various arms of Government
in achieving the economic and social objectives under the ESAC. An
example is the ongoing review of safety net activities, developing
recommended for a better coordination including an institutional
reform of the Ministry of Community Development and Social Welfare.
Impact Monitoria@
78. The Government intends to monitor periodically the impact of
macro-economic and social sector reforms at the community level
through conducting a series of qualitative and participatory
appraisals, a methodology which was beneficially applied under the
Social Recovery Project. Beneficiary assessments and rapid rural
appraisal methods will be used for this purpose. The former will
permit combining conclusions derived from a single locally-specific
20



AM=U I
Page 21 of 21
Impact Monitoring
77. The Government intends to monitor periodically the impact of
macro-economic and social sector reforms at the community level
through conducting a series of qualitative and participatory
appraisals, a methodology which was beneficially applied under the
Social Recovery Project. Beneficiary assessments and rapid rural
appraisal methods will be used for this purpose. The former will
permit combining conclusions derived from a single locally-specific
experience to one at the national level.
78. The ESAC will help meet an important portion of Zambia's
external financing needs for 1994 and stimulate reform and economic
revitalisation.   IDA's support is also essential to help us
mobilize the assistance of other donors.
Yours sincerely,
Ronald D. S. Pensa, MP
MINI     0P IXNINCO



ZAMBIA - ESAC MATRIX OF SPECIFIC PERFORMANCE IMICAIORS
ObJsetlWlAmea                                  status                                                                Supported by ESAC                 Thnig
A. INmo nand Sta_zatlon
F%16~n objeorfwme am f toontral kiNfltin and
omuateesawgsnarsconond franawoxk fow
The pdna, fisa deficit dowm tm 3S  In 92 toS 1%  OP In 93. Oa:Wvd     Pftepa  a ew anred ef|            Dowd
1.  ontm  and ficd polpo                      by e8rnatkv mobs subsidies. seducnin subsddes ito prastatale and me    financ   ln tfor ZambA Airwa    P_ enatbn
r-wd.0moupubdic mtr ne             in.cs  ugtgsyemad                  that voxdd kidcude preibmniiy
nw fisc   mtng  e         s Iw_ed b eona l   oatsg  ate f
meonoafftion of Truesty and BOQZ ecownits  rcsswesing paemsta         l     t thwex quata  of 1994.
audits. dflaton ratexoeded tbain       st half of 993 but snce         icluding detal on tbs sot_ce of
01n    annud ratea ofiaonhs com  down t  ust o wr 20 peret            flawn        nt a tkne- u*d actiOn
p-   oows*u at best lb rnt two
Vwam that wm I inclde dataled
with spec_d s      of external
Adopt  inanil PI  fwr Zambia      Sod
Alway satsc       ob              T_rnow
support for lbtshe   fro8    m pubfic            I
ndto    d ct
2. Exe al omt                                 Exchange ratb now      -dw    e                   iof e,IaNe
lection and th _meban, of Suwass de Chln_  Trade n  m to
complement exchang rateao  fa      belaw. fRsn*nt ap,reiatio of
e and     rto due to impact of n tesy onmob o     amaui but mucloddse
un*ed to reesre dwet  lgtW r fiscal polsy and rduced empha Ist
mnem      I biaoffuxsals
Exteal Istn  neef hewbn hh  d w say atomne lb. currant   P d                     e1 PNof  in seamed    Effectiwns
lel in lb. fomeessAIe fu*_ax.                   #uffitiant aca-Ien to cow
Io 194 extra financi   g
Cl-#



u II
Pa8e 2 of 5
.'   S            ]]~II  11" III        i   111
1;it11111                   1 



C app_tOa off (an              to       d
ld lw  whoa oWbctis shl be to    P _tin
il rmov-eithe notion tuit land has no
end,.    factatel estate    at
SWd other relad tranactimons  n 0'.
educe lendIW and pipes   nbraw n
snd (b) poloy neasure tD prvie for
tMe sub-dsonn sale of stat
fanuL
Enact a _mmuab to ud  las as _ n     Second
above.                               Trench.
Trade Pelonv                               Foregn Troia ha bea proorsevly Meaizad.         t __asna Mquramat
haw been aboda. lTh aveage twiff, dipeaond  _dioretonsy walve
habn bwduced. We*oet duse and es tax haw bean  rtnunad.
Export basishave been aboisadW.exceptfor healhssM loin.E s            Renmov all rwhestions on make        Negotiaton
reteion a     ms  been Intiuted an ths exange r   sXPerts.
Adopt a rovwled duty dfrawbkscem    Second
with the folowing ftu (a             Tfanche
abuplolty. auuomdotiy mid
anepasency of prceduaes lb) a dft
from a ufumd to a credit syteim based
on bwut ooffts; I
expnsion ef product oag tD
tmdiat  ps II      l a plbn to
en  disseaftelon of infonadn
and pub§y abot doe    ed tec
end (a) a thnss4ound action plan
sdeatl      IDoyt the Asociation for
Sub_nt a  _mebm   acnn for Bfad r
adoption of vwineadded tax.P U~enami
dsf_d;    -- I  41~~~~~~~aU



AINKIl II
Pag. 4 of 5
. j        .   .    .        .. . IL
,gIIiII          IS.
I~~dg  uii  I! *) I 



a f P,*b Wefa  AssiBtw_
Sal.  id NSO. INl 8eebl
SRs    PC   " fomsol
PAsowmy Plegm (W tuoemmo
d.putnwntald  I  nor su4ieads rilted
to pim  aeduasim  In the omAncS  CM
r -its to  iitd i "D a    s aoid M
awrcant Depintmuta chage fwr d4mg
expaiutmau in doe water supply NWd
App ssctoC
Appeuw li tie ,uorgs*atbio of Cd*wit   Neigoth  itn
Office MMd I) mote mlanunusmu   for
Cabwt 011. to pmaii saappt for ti
dooentba*n bitNwe of th easd
sot_*ebf tto 
Gowimnsut wEM adapt mi stwrtto         Secn
Impm a a pof a  acepta Xtols           Tfane
Assookstlon pu,tahdn to hiootlasdto
pretsulsmi mid to Iucngf prfuw eew
to pay. mid reied lbs job dnciasliatn
systm. In adrto Aucnnl twt  aa
II
Ft_                                  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~U



AIEIII
Page 1 of 2
i   i  4  1       t))i 3      '        i 
i3l~I    i3)ii i
Ik. 



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
:I          21                & 
U~~~ di
AN~ Ii ~
I. in   ii~~~~v



pagp I of 16
SELECED INDlCATORS OF FOWRLIOl FERFOMANCE AND MANAGIMNUt                                      -
IadImUor                                              PY91               FY92                 FY93             FY94
Porqclit Pa~~~~~~~~~~~I7muPaPnP
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(wg
Nwmbet o projects under buplemena                          17                 14                   U                1
AVera bnAPlentatlo perid (yearvt                          7.9                 6.9                 6.1              c8
Pecent of projects ated 3 at 4
Develmopent Objectves                                   29.4               14.3                 7.1               7.1
Overal Status5                                          35.3               21.4                 7.1              7.1
Caned daing PY                                              0                  2                   0                 1
Avg. ratngs
Development *ectist                                    2.06               1.93                1.K6              1.K6
Ovell Status                                           2.19                2.07                1.86             1.86
Dbbuement ratio (%)                                        17                  8                  8.7              13.2
DVb nsemet sla (%)                                        31                  52                  21                36
M    Orum  item: V% competed projects rated unsatifactory'
Phffa  M4_ genia
Supervisio resources (total aw)'                         A22.4              203.7                226.6            323.4
Avrae suporv   swsor4et                                    7.2               14.6                 16.2             23.1
Supervisinrsoc  by ltio (in)
Percent headquarters                                   20                96.4                  98.9              82
Peret esdent mwssin                                      0                 3.6                   lI               18
Supvn esou  by atng cate    (swsoject)'
Projects rated 1 at 2                                   9.9               15.8                  18.6            23.2
Projects ated 3 at4                                     2.3                10                   21.9             21.6
Memorandum tem: date of neot CPPR                                                                                 Al  194
t    Avea  age of prtjcts in to Bank's co y portflio.
2   Etent to whib  the poj  will moot its de pmt objcd    (so OD 13.05, Annex DQ, hf vm*x 4f
bhpk     um. n samary (Amwt 590).
3   Aessent of overall performan  of the pjct bae on the ratings given to indivil atso of proect
implemnn            man(agmet, availab y of fiud, complia  with la cvena ) and to
d&eloxm     bjecdva (se OD 13.05, Annex D2, 1rparon of WWwvo  S                  bmnwy (Fow S90).
The overl swn is not given a better ratng dn that O        to project devlopmet objees.
4   RAWo of di_$       W  ftduing th yar to 0th un tw  bance of the BaWcks portf    at the begolng
of the year   vesm at p    ts on.
5  Por aU    p       compig th Bak's country portbo, th peretg diffe e bowee adual
cum tv dumntsM nd the cumutiv dsursOMen   ates as SWCAi in do 'OdSl                      SARIM
Forcas  or, if the la  aots hv ben mode, In th "Rvised Fbqor tWo ((Comptd am
(((Cumave Estmae - Cumultiv Acua  /CumUde                            Mm e ty pot
didsrsemnt lag is efihlb   the weogtd avep of disburement lag for projats   eag               dao aks
ountry potlio, wbhre the wegts us  ar th rec v proje  sa s in th tA cmulae
d isbursement  a i it,
For current PY only  fm the OED dataase.
7   paed Y(P94).



ZAMBA - BnkGp Fa *Sed
nRiDA Lending PFpa,Fe P       98
pust                         Comnst                               Planned
FY91          PY92          FMY93         FY9           PY95          PY96         FY97           FY98
Coumdbns mnWNone)
AgcJ4ui e                                              17.0                       21.1                                      22.2
Indshyzy& ThL              7.5           4.5                                        0
Pwerg                                                                15,
Pom                                                                                               7.7
lablic SecrMang.                                                      9.0                                                   11.1
and                                         4.4                       10.5                         24.5
Hu1n Rescus                7.2                         16.4                       I5.8           23.1          153           14.8
Euvhormnet                                                                                                     11.1
263
_ Multi-Sector            85.3          9S.S           62.2          75.8          52.6           C9.2        49.1            51.9
TOTAL                       100,0         100.0          100.0           .0            00          10.0         100.0          100.0
1-ha  hubmw  M%)
Ad)antz   Crdits              853           95.5           62.2         75.8           2.6           69.2        49.1            51.9-
Invstme Credt                 14.7           4.5          37.8          24.2          47.4           30.8        509             48.1
OTHE                            -            -             '             '              '             -             '                                g
Paymuts (UN_M M)                 164.4         51.9           57.0          541           49.1           42.0         34.3            28.0            N
h     n_d mi( mi ns)            180.1         35.5           29.1          272           29             23.0        207              19.4            o



Page 3 of 16
2yW~~~~~~~Aa sow p                      w-  m- W
sm          4DIA 6
POVERT
Lppw pevaty                               lmi b.                 ..         t-30
L4e povaty Us                             bolt.                  ..          -         9..
H.dm ui                                  %dP*                                     ..                            * 54
GNP papt1                                     S                20s          50         40          310         330        1.610
SHORT TERMO ICONM  IICATORS
tasullod urba W*p                         kw    .                ..                      ...
Runr otrn ..u..
C4nAunw mprk ina                          19*-100                3           9        1,43.
44W4                                                            ..          -         7.....9
t tb..n                                                                    ......
14wan
SOCIAL IDICATORS
public V*Uwmm on bo       l MW soc        %*(GDP                                         3 .,
PiWAuy                                 %51A.97                                          95          70         113          100
Ma                                          *                  59         105          9           ?4          12          106
Fae.                                        *                  46           3          91          40          106         9
.Uaulity
Wtammtt tsliIh                                                121           f         104         104          70          40
t ndwS mw*                                                      -           -         176          17          9            53
Maul.                                   %apwSAp                                        s o0        40          73          70
DPIr                                        *                               -          4           35           1          74
Cluld .nIAu M (wAwS)                                                        24          23
LAfe  _ fAn
ToWl                                                           44          49          49          St          a           67
?a.aJmfualm                                iul                10          1.07        L O         1.06        0.95        1.03
TOa &4 ra                              b                                             .              6.4         3.7         3.3
.mesri ..talky 0 t                     100.0   s    t                        - ,
Population  rot         s                    nt  at uQtaty rat                          Priuuy enmet
(p)                                    (ef IMbk)                                      (lnS
6--                                       250                                        120+ 
200                            ~~~~~~~~~100
4                                                                                  80
3                                                                                     60
- ~~~~          20
0       -    -     --                      0  hI I                            
nTudWe 'O7s                 mid O           160.   .1470.          mmaod6f                        id 70s
-  LAW g=



Pape 4 of 16
Zasubia Rtesewm AndEpmlr
1 =_~~~~~~~~~~ Si                                                          ..     _      .        -
Md~~ae'                                                      9~~W'~     4MM         L~~~       apsd
IV.MA.W ay O(Rm
Popmwa4. (Mf_tu9)                                          3A14        4.61       2t19      48JV2    3.127,36      773.83
AP. *ipe.cy Vo                                              0.32        0.97        1.07      0d          0."        0 71
I.Awn                                   I%dP                23J        234.2        $1.0       28.        40.1        3.9
PwaiMaan p1w4                            mwl                 2.9         it         33      v   3.9        i9          1.9
I.,';:                                     *                33          5 6         5.5        5.0        $:          3 .
LAbor forn (IS.6)                                          1*7         1AS        2,76      203.94    t.441404     343
4.rsAhiUW                              % (b'(o                79 ..                   .. . 
Fe-we                                      3*                 U                      29          27         33         31
,,vj                                  "                                   _..  12.   ..
.fNAtUVL  OLt,Czs
.Arm   *J a. Lkm RCZS                                                     2         753      2324        2t2 3=2    23.90
Wi?                                  pup,w     l            5.0 I.n               I0.0        20.0       77.0        31.0
A.W d laU   A                          %(l*fln 5                        47.1        47.4        51.0       47.4       41.8
ch unp a4s wmft       WA                 Now%0.1                         0.0         0.1        0.0         0.0        0.0
*iAti*'taM ,tws unP                                          0.0         0.1         0.1        5i         13.7        1'6
Fn   so wadl                             *     k             306        299         28        445?        9.197      3394
DCAao (ftK)                                _%                4          4.1         4.0           .
M'COMZ
$mof top :0f  _(oaw                                                     43 
Sa   tm 40% tbemoadMI                                              it~   4      -           --
Sham a(bo     20%  (b                      *                  ..4*                   ...
.%(  5. mis. *L                                               - lOOI20             12., _
C£   -F,                             dm      isu              45.                   to00      78         34.00i      A.81
Food Aid in * -                                                           S           3       2A71    69             4.047
Food pnwu~ por w0ft                    1979;1-100            100         U3s         2           94        122         lo0
tr_uizx inin maoo                                             2.0       1ltO        I          14t4        47.        9A.2
Shw otu=famarw  a GOP                    %adb-F              143        13.1        15.7       29.3        38.7
Hmg                                     %oop                             5.8         .6 .                    .           _
A'04ZS b.i    d ux                  pm   b.e                   ..         4           -, 
tu^u_ ~~~~%dOD?                               _                4.         0.3          ..          -
Tudanel                                                                  L -  i    9  3.1
L-mvsx          _t m                   kg4(      .           464        133         379         I          350        149
moumb" Wft -War;&a-                                                               -          .
U~~~~                                               ~    ~     ~    ~~~ S    *   _           _          _
TrtmpoA   d co__                         %SD?                  -9                    38 % t  3.  3..
fix  wr     tr           i                  *                            4 .0        1.7.....
7OW 'W a41b *                                                                     37.259                     -
csi-STmT LY4 HLWAN CAr,fAL
HaMi
'Am= to haa" ae em                                             .                                    
?PwAgm Pw *tU 1.401                                                   13.486      lu              .          .
?wu=eaga pw                                                 sv         LM    *      on 1a3 
?smmta&m pu    havol b1S                    *300                                              t132S        l0          309
&-VW to u&                               %                     -        42.0        520        3.          74
Ltm                                                                    S _"0       I"0         74.3       79.
RuM                                                                    I" *  _4    41.0       24W          2
Orald                                    *_tk y('W)            _                      n7         35         32
Sa,iday                             % dwd.4p Ps                7          1i         20          IS         44
FmrJ                                       *              .3             10          14         14         27
Pupskat4iN W .1  prinay               PV1 pilw                5t          4          44          39         39          25
.N" P4  row: '"d                            *                 19         23          2.                     20
Pupi1a mdw mgAm 4                       %a          _               f f. 94 _
REMWru :MW7                           %uftmal a"                           2          2           .          .
Uliqa4 %% 4 p (AV   -)                                         ..          .         27          Si         39
Fbtois                             c% afplSatI)               .           .         32          a          52
N4ewmaocnWCAi  1nL Pt L                                        7          217                                .
S.>DA: Watd Soni !1a  Em  t_D. .Ap_il 1593



POVERTY INDICATORS
IW15m U                                                                             iWI
mura  u,m   :.ss              mc   wsu-tOtl             m,tuss_ in*   ftaEl l    itel|l e, Warn  Ja-
VtW tL. #o
_UP rgtrLm                    St n          ..            as1 6          ..            ..    ..    ..              j   ,.
Face  _tuoebgdd  tsubi" T1.S .     .    5M.A  .. ..                                                                      S
"so a Fe    ..et         .           n                                   a .. ..*  *                               0      0
Poem -siiad           Y   Sl.l    42   35.9              *.    *.    *.              ..    .*    ..            S4.Z  42r   49.4
Perm  of f*bMMV l.mm/               kusm                         Se                          tem                        Esiau
al e ta                                                          _ *                                           _
*_tea  1                    u.  V  U.  ..  ..              ..    ..    ..              ..    ..    ..                     ..
Leoset                         4      6      3             ..    ..    ..              ..    ..       .7 tA    6.4
omt 4a                 ..   t.                          .     4       j;  szt 0.  10.                            lt       .4   ISt.
*ese 1_                       ..   7.1      ...                   ..      ...                         .
slont m                       S0S     9      4             ..     .      H             ..   3.1
stomt m     Ss     Ss     St                          ~~~~~~61 ("a)                            44.3   3.1S  43.
ot_t t                        aS      5     as              ..         ..     ..       ..           ..             00            .0
Urn UUSSMt 1eein~l~ per Pus    74    5 M      m                                                                      du    an      as
Usd1. Usrdtmelap per            1 US?    49    46                                                                    so    m       Sm2
slid GofflumeP   6.46   6.40    .59                                                              4                   .    0.226
Life E*ptwq  at Uiet                         40.1                         S.5                         40.3                        49.?
vomm l_ ofmmel                              W  (1m Mt.)                                              W   (1
lint* ArIa itSty                              1W (1974 set.)               9                            .0
Uawwmt mom,                                    W.v
ii                          2S
ibild Uaieerilieun 2(197)                                                   6142
cildbI  mmialIas if                            *0                          4?                           6("M1                       de
"mm                                                    W~~~~~~~~~~~~69            32633
*~~~~~~~~~~~1                                                    ..                        91.               B0
Umr's=        :                                                           am n
or      t      . t)                       4               U                                        3                           4 20
r ~ *:i sa *:i s XW r  5"0 64 s
et_ hW                                 W                                                       so             U#...
IN to  --    ~        4.0    5.A      5           4.?    5.4'     S30S.2    S:A   5
noears. laAtdt                CPS a          1sw 3A Size.
WI "S    1    I time  I  e-tl_m  etam   w _ per atd..
ah *mte em seteIme we IIm Wm  d__fer    mu              . *a
Wt Aver'so of mm"", PT    ib PS
ocot Cm, oo w  wtpt swvw lAM4w5  hl                           "nor
C0ID ::o::C'le d 111_OW tmm
CID,e     I is it od   wth sm1 mm   Pretls ,uss tUS.
_m. cmwi'v       a Z     sw   Ime"-. _y n9tt2.   ,*,   t
Lw  ~     ifa- keto heCk   m    s
asp0 Same ht I     ltewtr liWi thdow khveritv Poes. keend O.*.*  92
AclU. ithe State ,O she VnEe ,Ii*m  "go. eferd lbiverltv Pram ,   tad a... ".g
eem*. lidw   ead Csua*iem    adj A tng to6le, Fee SNOOD &W*,                  Pqa  ft. 2, 19.
reed Stedim 6rap,  olaasaq  em Pover tw. int_lSt O ptM  CsWM   1.; J` 1   4.



PO 6 of M
ZANSIA--KEY INDICATORS
Sase Case ProJection
..................................... .................................................................................... 
....-    - *-Actuat .................   Pre ..     Piojected..
1980    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1M9    ?00.)
Real Growth Rates:
Gross Domestic Product (COP)             3.0X    o 6.3X  *1.0X    0.5X   -1.8J  *10.0X   12.3X    5.3X    4.37    5.TS
Gross Oomest1c trome (cDy)               Z.87X  11.4X  *14.0X    5.9X    2.3X  11.8X    7.0S   *0.7?    4.4X   6.67
Real Per Capita la"Ath Ratess
Gross Domestic Product (GOP)            -0.3     2.5X    4.7X    4.1X    5.0X  .13.27    9.1X    2.1X    1.4X    2.7%
Total Consutption                       -4.1X    2.4X   -6.17  -18.5X   12.2X   13.2X   *2.9S1   0.6X   -1.8X   -0.4X
Private Consumpti0n                      9.3X    6.8X  -13.1X  -22.1X   16.2X   12.3X   -1.2X    4.07   -2.271   1.9X
Debt Service (LT+ST1f F): I/
Debt Servfce (USSN) 2                      ..    3 1.9   711.3   801.0   791.0   743.0   652.0   617.0   588.0   687.0
Debt Service / Exports (CUPS) 2/           ..    61.97   47.6X   59.7X   67.0X   62.3X  60.7X   67.6X   58.5X   39.3X1
Debt Servico / GOP                         ..    20.7X   16.4X   21.6A   20.6X   1T.5%   14.9X   11.9X   9.7X    8.4X
Interest Burden (LT+ST+INF)s
Interest (USS)                          221.2   423.4   427.0   318.9   378.0   315.0   314.0   250.0   200.0   211.0
Interest I Exports (GNCS)                13.8X  34.9X   28.6X   23.8X  3M.4X   26.4X   29.2X   27.4X   19.9X   12.1X
Interest / GDP                            5.7X   11.7X   9.8X    8.6X    9.9S    7.47    7.2X    4.8X   3.37    2.6X
Gros  Investment / GOP                   23.3X   11.4X   9.91   15.57   13.07   15.0X   14.1X   17.2X   18.37   Z1.AX
ICORs (5-yr end1ng year shown) 3/       77.00    5.90    6.40    8.00   12.40   .8.70  -28.80   15.80    4.80    4.10
Domestic Savings / GOP                   19.3X   16.4X   14.8X   14.8X   11.67    6.47    9.1X    7.9X   10.9X   I7.2X
SOP Resource oalance / GOP  4/           -4.0S    5.07    4.9X1   0.7X    1.47   *8.6X   *5.0S   *9.31   *7.46    4.4X
SOP Current Account  alance / GOP  5/  -14.0X   -7.2X   -5.1X  -10.5X  *12.0S  *16.8   -12.9X  -14.7X  -10.87   -7.17
Marginal Domestic Savings Rate           0.78    0.54    0.86    1.84    2.20    2.10    O.9f    S.9        0.71    0.65
Govorraunt Investment / GOP                ..     4.7S    4.77    5.5X    4.7X    5.AX    4.8S    6.1X    6.77    7.6X
Gcverrunt Savings    GOP                 -9.87   -8.01   -4.11   -1.0X    0.5       S.97X    6.67   12.47   14.21   13.07
Private Investment / GOP                   ..     6.7X    5.3X   10.07    8.3       9.4X    9.37   11.1X   11.67   14.07
Goverrment Rev    e/ GOP                 24.07   18.87   19.27   21.97   23.5X   31.7    22.07    2.7    27.37   24.77
Goverant Expenditures / GDP              44.31   27.37   28.87   29.3X  30.4    28.4X   21.27   22.17   20.37   19.67
Sudg. Def. (-) or Surplus / GOP         -20.3X   -8.57   -9.61I .7.41   -7.1X      3.37    0.8X    5.6X    7.0X    S.1X
Consumer Price Index (7 growth)          11.7X   55.67   96.37  109.X  93.X 226.11  147.571   46.8    10.0           5.07X
GOP Deftator (7 growth rate)             11.87   42.81  102.07  113.77   97.5   226.1   147.57   46.87   10.01    5.07
Real Exchane Rate (1987.100)            232.3   155.7  205.8  173.4   153.6  161.6   170.?  179.6   179.6   179.6
Term  of Trde  index (1987100)             ..   136.1   150.1   132.7  114.1   106.6    88.8    81.0    80.5    99.2
Export (GNFS)/Voluse Growth bate 6/      .3.1X -5.9X   -1.4X  15.9X  -16.61   9.17X-2.0X   -2.2X    2.7X   16.1X
Exports COUFS) / GOP                     41.4    34.2X  32.07   34.77   30.4    2.1X  24.    17.4X  16.57   21.37
imports GOUfS) Volu   Growto at           ..      0.2    25.0      1.17X1  10.171  24.17117.87      5.2X   -1.63    5.8X
tIports COGFS) / GOP                     45.4X  26.97   27.61  35.47   32.27   37.X  30.17   27.4X  24.57   25.a
SOP Current Balance, CUS)              -544A.6  -23.2  -222.4  -388.2 -461.1    14.0  .568.0   466.0  -658.0  58U.0
Met Reserves CUSSN)                                                 ..
Reserves LeveItUSSM)                     78.0   134.0   116.0   1"9.0   185.0  280.0   290.0   330.0   410.0   570.0
Net Reserves (months fupsts)              1.0      t.0     1.0     1.6     1.6      1.?     2.1     2.3     2.9      3.0
........................... .................................................................. 0.-.--.-.-
Note: All ratios are caceulated from data in  urrent prices  nd exchange rates. ICCO  nd growth rates are based an
constant price dats.
1. #LT# dwnotes long-term debt; WST" denotes short-term debt.
2. Figure show debt service bf ore rescheduling.
3. Incremental capitat output ratios with a 5-year period.
4. "OP" denotes "Batlnce of Pa)ments.
S. Current account balance is before offiefet transfers.
6. Goods and nonfactor servfess.



ANX I
Page 7 of 16
Note on GDP Estlmate
1.           All of the GDP estimates in this report use the official GDP estimates
prepared by the Central Statistics Office. "Real" values use a base year of 1977. Perceived
deficiencies in that data led to a consultancy in 1991 to prepare a new GDP series. Based on
that work, a number of revised series have been sugested and are under consideraon. The
IMF currently uses their own revised series for their internal papers, and the GDP numbers in
this year's budget address by the Ministry of Finance were clarly from a revised series.
2.           These new estimates have two advantages. First, the base year is 1985
insbta of 1977 which results in more contemporanous weights for the diffe nt sctors.
The differece can be important. Using the old series, the drp in tota GDP in 1992 because
of the drought was over 10 percent whereash nw series shows a drop of only about 5
percent. The diffence is due to t higher share of agrlcultur in l977 th in 1985. Th
other advaonge of the now series is that the methotology takWs bete account of h ifomal
sector in esmating growth rates.
3.           Unforunatewy, thes now esm    are neither complet nor official. They
are not complote in that they do not have a fl set of esmates for publlc and privae
investment (and consumption) in both real and nominal terms. They are not official because
CSO has not published a new historical series based on the now numbes. In fact, the nw
numbes themselves have boen undergoing rvisons as the methodology used by the
consultant is reviewed.
4.           For those reasons, this report condaues to use the old official estmats. We
expect that by the dtie the n   Policy Framework Paper is prepared later this year, we shall
all be using a common set of GDP  _imtes based on the rewised methodology and using
1985 as the bass year.



ANNEX IV
Pagp 8 of 16
ZAMBIA BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(USS millions in current prices)
Base Case Projection
.....................~..............................................     Pr t.........................te   .......................................................................................................... 
*  ---^---Actual               . ---  ----Preo. .*---Proj ected .--------
1980    1988    1989    199    1W1    1992    1993       1994      1996     2000
................ ...........................................   ...........................
A. Exports of GNFS 1/                     1608.4  1214.4  1493.2  1342.6  1165.0  1193.0  1074.0   913.0  1005.0  1749.0
1. Merchandise (FOB)                   1456.9  1155.4  1410.1  1263.6  1082.0  1110.0  950.0   804.0   870.0   1542.0
2. Non-Factor Services                   151.5   59.0   83.1   79.0    83.0   83.0  124.0   109.0   135.0   207.0
8. Inports of GNFS                        176S.0  1032.0  1281.0  1369.0  1220.0  1559.0  1295.0  1396.0  1452.0  2110.0
1. Merchandise  2/                     1114.0   788.0   90.0  889.0   949.0  1273.0   97.0   107n.0   1102.0  17m.
2. Non-factor Servfces                  65t.0   244.0  380.0  480.0   271.0  284.0  324.0   324.0   350.0   353.0
C. Resource Balance                       *1S6.6   182.4   212.2  -26.4   *55.0  *366.0  *221.0   *4U.0  -447.0  -361.0
0. Net Factor Incom                       *205.0   410.7  *406.9  318.9  *366.0  *315.0  *314.0   *250.0  *200.0  *211.0
1. Factor Recefps                        16.2   t2.?   20.1        0.0     3.4     0.0     0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
2. Factor Pa ¶mnts                      221.2  423.4  427.0  318.9  369.4  315.0   314.0   250.0    200.0   211.0
a. Total Interest Paid (ORS) 3/         141.8    11.5   76.0    76.5  306.7   164.7        ..                          ..
b-. interet due                         141.8   11.5   211.2  328.7  378.0   165.8  314.0   250.0   200.0   211.0
C. Other Factor Pyments and discrep   79.4   411.9  215.8    *9.8    *8.6   149.2    0.0            0.0      0.0      0.0
t. Not Current Transfers                  .183.1 *34.9  *27.7 *42.9 *40.1   -33.0 *33.0  *33.0  *11.0    *11.0
1. Current Receipts                       2.5     0.6      0.4     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
a. Workers remittances                   0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
b. Other current Traonf                   2.5     0.6     0.4     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
2. Current Paymnts           185.6.   35.5    28.1   42.9    40.t   33.0   33.0    33.0                      11.0     11.0
F. Current Account 81ance
1. Before offfefat capital grents       544.6  -263.2  222.4  -38.2  -41.1  .714.0  -56.0  -766.0  .658.0    5a3.0
2. 0fffblat capital grants                 7.2   99.9    71.8  295.5   488.0   636.0  328.0   480.0   533.0   559.0
3. After offiefal capital "gnts        -537.4  *163.3  -150.6   *92.7   26.9  -78.0  -240.0  -286.0  -123.0   *24.0
0. Long Term Capital  nf lows              162.8   16.2- .401.4  -757.8  *261.4  *190.6  *55.t    68.0   -131.0   *S1.9
1. Diroet Investmet                      61.7     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     7.0     15.0    131.0   148.0
2. Net LT Borrowing (ORS)               390.9  228.4  -54.1  -292.5   -24.1  -190.6   -62.8    53.0  -262.0  -229.9
a. Disbursements                       602.9  24.2  212.5   164.8  353.3   233.0   273.0   420.0    126.0    140.0
b. Repaymets Oue                       212.0   15.8  266.6  457.3   377.6  423.6  335.8   367.0   388.0   369.9
3. Other LT Inflows (net)               *289.9  *212.2  .347.3  -465.3  -23.3      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
H. total Other ttem  (net)                371.1   179.3  610.9  752.6  203.S   363.6  305.8   256.0   294.0    145.9
1. Not Short-Torm Copitat 4/            345.6   243.0   718.4   829.4  323.4   363.6  303.8    258.0   294.0    145.9
a. Interest Arroes                         ..      ..      ..          ..       ..     ..
b. Other not ST capitatl                   ..      ..      ..      ..      ..      ..       ..
2. Capital flows n.e.f.                   0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
3. Errors and  amission                   25.5  -63.7  -107.5  -76.8  -121.9       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
t. Change In Not Reserves                   3.6  -32.2  -58.9   97.9    31.0   95.0  -10.0   -40.0    .40.0   .40.0
1. Mot Credit from the IW 5/            -28.3    71.8    T0.    8T.3  n37.7    39.4  -n.S   -20.0             0.0    105.2
2. Reserves Change n.e.1.                31.8  -104.0  .129.6    10.6   68.7  -55.6   62.8   -20.0   .40.0            65.2
3. Escrow accoawt                          0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
..........................................................................................................................
1. Goods an  nonfactor servis.
2.  frig     on fiaports up to 19W   ae  .., ad afterwards we C.I.F.
3. "ORS" dnotes Debt Reporting Sevice.
4. Includes redction In arre     rd debt relief.
S. Includes overdue obl1gatiom.
.                                                              ................



AM=  IV
Pase 9 of 16
*-------.-   Actual ..           ---. --  Prel.       --  Prolectd.
1980    1988    1989    19       1991    1992    1993      199;      199      2000
...........................................................................................................................
J. As Shares of G0P (current USS)s
1. Resources atan.e                       *4.02    5.0X    4.9X   -0.7X   -1.4X   -8.6X   -5.0X    -9.3X    *7.4X    -4.42
2. Interest Pay ent (LT+IMF+ST)             5.7X   11.72    9.8%    8.62    9.6X    ?.4X    7.2x       4.82      3.3X     2.62
3. Current Aceount Balance                *14.0X    7.2X   -5.12  -10.5X  *12.0X  -16.82  *12.9X   .14.7K   -10.82    -?.I%
4. LT capital Inflow (F.2G0)                4.22    0.42   *9.2X  *20.5   -6.82   -4.52   *1.3X        1.32    *2.22    -1.02
5. Net Credit from the IMF                 *0.7X    2.02    1.62    2.42   -1.0X   *0.9X   -1.72    *0.4X        0.02    .1.3X
K. Foreign Exchange Reserves:
1. Gross Reserves (excluding gold)         78.0   134.0   116.0   193.0   185.0   280.0   290.0    330.0    410.0    570.0
2. Gold (and-yea  London price)              ..      ..       ..      ..       ..      ..      ..
3. Gross Reserves (including gold)           ..       ..      ..      ..       ..      ..       ..
4. Not Resorves (in months imports)         1.0     1.0      1.0     1.6      1.6     1.7     2.1       2.3      2.9       3.0
L. Exchg  Raes
1. Zn Nominal Term (LCU/USS) 6/
a. Primary (Offficil) Rate
A at  Averg*e                        o.79   8.266  13.814  30.289  64.640 171.000 460.000  600.000  682.610  801.800
End-of-Year                          0.803  10.000  21.640  42.J00  84.000 315.500 530.000  620.820  706.790  811.900
b. Ga Convrwsin Factor                   0.789   8.266  13.814  30.289   4.640 171.000 460.000  600.000  62.610  801.800
2. In Real Term  (bae  1987u108)
a. NU  (PAC estfostes)C3 change) I/       9.70X   7.302  *0.702   S.70M   2.10X   4.312   0.50X    3.432    3.04X    2.49X
b. tndx Real Exchange Rate (USS/LCU) 232.3   155.7  205.8   173.4   153.6   161.6   170.7    179.6    179.6    179.6
N. Nemor u.m   tem
OP (current U#15)                          3884.0  3632.0  4345.0  3704.0  3830.8  4248.0  4387.0   5202.0   6077.0   8227.0
N. Optional Detaits for RIS-X
1. Total Factor Pavuents                                      ..          ..       ..      ..       ..       ..
a. Government lntest
b. Private Sector Intest                    ..      ..       ..      ..       ..      ..      .
c. Profit an Di0ret Forefon                 ..      ..       ..      ..       ..      ..       ..
nvestm nt
2. Officale   Capitel Grants                          ..      ..      ..       ..      ..       ..      .. -.
a. For Sudgetary Finwmlnu..                 ..       .       ..      ..       ..      ..      ..
b. To Extra-tudgetry Entitit  (OPS          ..      ..       ..      ..       ..      ..      .. C....
3. Covernmnnt Net L  Borrowing               ..      ..       ..      ..       ..      ..       ..      ..
a.  i sbwusements                           ..                       ..       ..      ..      ..       ..       ..
b. Repaymonts                               ..      ..       ..      ..       ..      ..      ..       ..       ..
4. Private Not LT Sorroing                   ..       ..      ..      .. .o            ..       ..      ..       ..        .
a. Disfursments                             ..      ..       ..      ..       .       ..       .       .        ..
b. Repayments                               ..      ..       ..      ..       ..      ..       .
............................................................... .................... ..................... ................
6. "LCW" demotes local currency units.
7. "NUV* deotes the unit value Index of menufctured expert  from selected fnrAtriatlaed cowtries
(France, Germnny, Japan, U.K., and U.S.) to developing country expressed in US$.



Page 10 of 16
ZUANA:  txternal financing RequIrements 1991.9
(In millions of U.S. doltars)
1991     1992      1993     1994     1995      1996
1. Current acowit, oxcluding
interest and official  transfers              9      *399     *254      -516     .501     .458
2.  Debt service obtlgations                      791     *743      '652     -617      -601     -5sa
ormultilaterats                           -462      *502      *.39     *406      393       3°S
Scheuletd obligations                   -33.      .48t1     363      *327     -312      *314
Paris Ctub creditor n                  212      .400     -277      -231     -224      *222
Other                                  -122      -81       *86      .92       U         92
interst on arrears and
servico of rescheduled obligatfom       t128       .21       7$6      -9       .81       *82
Paris club creditors              -     7?8        8      -59       *62      -65       -6?
Other                                   -50      *13       *1?      -17      *16       -15
Nultilaterats                              -329     -241       213     ^211     -208      *192
World ank                                U88       -79       *82 U?8            ?5       .?1
INf                                     - m        -95      *68        65        4       -32
Other aultilaterals                       -69      o6?       -63      -60      -89       *89
3.  Targeted reeetf an of arrears 1/            -1050      -183      -26      -96    *1189        -5
xNcualttllaterls                            833     t103       68        78       ...      .
Paris Club creditors                   .76      *103       68        78      ...       .
other                                  -75?        0       ...      ...
Nulttlitrols                               -21?      -80        94      *20    -1189        *5
Vorld lnk                                -253      -39       ...      ...      ...
ZIP                                       20       632      *2         20    *1189
Other multiteurats                         16       -9       .32
4.  Change in et interNatonal 2/
reseres, ex. IMF (incroese * )              31       -9  -10             40      -40       .40
(*/W  gros  r1eserve)                     11       .17      *10       -40      -40       -40
S. Gross finaifng roquirement
to 12.3*4 )                                -101    .1449       -942    *121    -2331       1091
6.  Debt relitf 3/                               1158      551       340      271      1474      106
Parfs Club ar-dftors                   m         501      247       210      189        54
Other                                  863        50        93       65     1285       52
T.  Finncing requirwunt after arrears
acwmulation end debt relief
C a 5*6)                                   -643     -68       *602     -996     -857      -985
S.  Identfffed poissble disburseents              73       8         Ga9 02   901       350      350
World lank (nwmroj Ut)                     202      145       143      284        o.      ...
8OP   pp0rt from other dor                 264      326       155      22        . 
Commodity assistance                        76      246        90       50        50       so
(psize)                                   ..      146       40       .        ...       ...
(Non-mmis)                               76       100       50        50       50        50
Project assstano                           244      191       234      300      300       300
Suppltis, prfvate el
bhort-tens captel. Mt                    .47      -59       .20      -15        0         0
9.  Financing ruir_mit, afte
dentififed dishursements
andW ddbt rotI fd                                                0      -96 Ot    0?       631
.-.-.-........... --.-...........................-..............
Soure   IS* oF 2of 0 i, nW Fud Sta"ff estiates.
1/  Elutdi  terseT furthr NcsnuStlOn of arer  we nuvMUilarals  pendin
conclusion of resohedlng dissifom.
2   In 19M, de  not inclul e cted shift of UJS2 million fn gpas resere  fom th
an  of Zaia to th c£ommelt banks wiar    pmeac                     fa  mnSing OIL f     and 0h
rtention ecoa.
V   insu   deferl and tAorr  esm uio n tfOA of arrers to nmlttlatertts pendin
conclusion of      fet        discusiom



A18= IV
Pae 11. of 16
Zai: ebt Stock * 1930
...................
US UUU0i                t*ecosw
Total 0.ot SteaM. tW of "e.                             7103
total Sot SeifYio                                        38
total Sot asX of Gro  NotIol Psoot                                                  421.0
totaSob? as S of tzxt of 0d  * e9fe"                                                9.
Dobt ouvi*eo aS of 6*Ot of  oos avt Svc"Oe                                          32.6
Najo. Crodtto.'
sIlatovt 8r9                                                                  *21
of  1ich: Paris Ct;b                   28                        7.
loi*-pars Ctli                7                         3.1
Multi tatifal                 3016                       ~~~~~~~~~~43.0
of Weft: IDA                            74.0
tMw                          1304.
oth1           .               2                       8.4
S~eptIee'.                                         13                         1.9
Lob 'do Club                                       a                           1,.
*At  term                                         a.
^1 *Jbgt                  eton                  0942.1
Gein. fed lo                                    48                           8.0
UK                                              w 4.?
Pf'0 US                                         so                          5.4
USA                                                                          3.
at..d                                           tO.3
From                                            ti .11
IUrg~ 11,                                                                    1.8
Itaty                                           11                           1.6
Ssit Arabia                                                                *1.1
I 'eq                                            74                          1.0
Can_"lth 0_"m  C0                                 a                          O.9
mtseu                                             6t                         0.9
*"w1 O.d
a n.
Ps.'otawae                                          6                          1.
@tJof                                                                         11.6
*    Alt  te"  a"e eattt  fr fe     d 0i103.
After 14nk oujItit.
Source : Bank of Zambia



A= TV
Paga 12 016
KEY EXPOSURE INDICATORS
18            1989         1990         1991        1992
ORa USf At Q        t}m
Total Debt Outsuanding (IDO) a    6839          6716         7260         7279        704
Dtsbuuements a/                 242           209          160          338         286
Total Debt Sevice (TDS) a/        182            193          195          586         352
Debt and DebtB Svice
lndicators
IDOIXGS                       542          421          503         624           577
TDOIGNP                       212          169           263        211           37
TDSIXGS                        15           14           14          51            29
Coucassbusl#flJO              27            24           31          36            39
IBDIC Exposue Indicators
E3RDbDSlblcD DS W             *Ne&           0            2          59            30
Pref. Crd/Publc DS
MRD/D9XGS                     Neg.           0           0.3        29.5          8.7
IlERDPortf0o Share             7.4          7.5          7.4         5.1          4.1
MIGA
MIGA Guarantees
*Neg. = n*eUble
a/ Indudes public and publicly guaranteedd debt, private nonguaranteed debt, use of IMF credits, and short-
term capital.
bW PubLic DS defined as TDS as in (a) above.
Source: The World Bank, Wodd Debt Tables files.



Papo 13 of 16
Run Time$ 02/09/9 at 1s.18.52
ZAMBIA
Status Of Bank Group Operations In MBIA
PFDBR25 - Sumury Statement Of Loa nod IDA Credfts
(LOA data as of 1/30/94 * MIS data as of 02/09/94)
....................................................
By Coentry
CoWtry    ZAMBIA
Amout  in Us mItIon
(les$ cuttationa)
Lon or       Fiscal                                                                                UAdle   Clsing
Credit No.     Y"r  Borrower                         Purpose                    Bank         IDA    bursied  Oate
................... ..... ................ ....... ...........  .... .. ...    ....   . ....  ......... .......
Credits
22 Credits(s) ctosed                                                                       500.04
C14370-ZA     19846  ZAMBIA                          FOPt  I II                            22.40      5.57 09/30/93(R)
C157so-ZAN    195    ZAMBIA                          RWS.IV                                12.20     12.86 06/30/94(R)
C16790*ZAN    1986   ZANIA                           TAS II                                8.00       4.49  12/31/94(3)
C-1430-ZAM    1967   ZAMBIA                          COFf  tl                              20.40     21.17 06/30/9
C17460-ZAL    1987   ZAMBIA                          AR. A11.&1  XT.                       13.00     10.41 12M1AMR)
C22690*ZAN    1991   ZAMIA                           MINING TAS                            21.00     15.16 06/30/97
C22730-ZAN    1991   ZAMBIA                          SOCIAL RECOVERY POJ                   20.00      8.90  O?/31/7
C24050*ZAM(S) 1992   ZAMBIA                          PRIVATIZATlWNIND. 3                  200.00      6.06 0630/94
C24060ZAN     1992   ZAMBIA                          PIRC TECIICAL AltS                    10.00      7.69  12/31/9?
C24220'ZAN    1993   ZAMBIA                          MTG. a PRC0E.                         33.00     25.65  06/30/99
C24290-ZAN    1993   ZAMBIA                          EDUCATION RIMS. t                     32.00     28.0s 06/30/96
C25150-ZAN    1993   ZAMBIA                          TRANSPORT INGINCEtN                    8.50      8.54  06/30/9?
C25230-ZAM(s) 1993   ZAIA                            PIRC II                              100.00     99.37 06/O3/9
C24052-NzCS) 1994   ZAMBIA                           PRIVATIZATIOtl/D. R                   16.84     16.69 03/23/94
C25231-ZARCS) 1994   ZAMBIA                          PIRC UI                               10.00      9.65 06/30/95
C253SO-ZAN    1994   ZAMBIA                          FINANCIAL & LEGAL VA                  18.00     17.64  06/30/99
TOtAL rber CredIts a   16                                                                  545.34    29.14
Los
28 LousCs) clos                                                                582.13
All close     for    ZANIA
TOTAL  abor Loa  a   0
TOTAL*'                                                        582.13   1.045.)?
of iAich rpid                                                 415.99       2.34
TOTAL held by Bk & IDA                                          16.14    1,043.0)
Anuwt sold              28.58
of which repid        28.58
TOTAL widisbwsed                                                                      296.14
Notes:
..................................... 
* Not yet effective
Not yet signed
"  Total Approved R. and Otstawding bance repreent both ative e#d inoctiv Loa  en  Crifts.
CR) indicats folly rese  Clo    Dote.
(S) indic   SALECAL Lo  a  Credits.
The Net Approved and B   Rpsye.nt  re historical vatlu, all others ae mwket value.
Thes Signing, Efective, an Closinr dats ar bas  Wm   the Loon kpartmnt off feet data  W are not tae
from the Tak Budet file.



ANNE LV
Page 14 of 16
ZAMBIA: Statement of IFC Investments
as of December 31, 1993
Gross Camitemt-
!m  01                LOA          EQUTY       TOMA
FY          aa;.m                                     Brm                  ....       VW   a=       -----
1991183    Zu.   OE PROPER           LTD.            TOURZ                   22.4           -.-       22.4
1988       KWS8TO=K CZAMI&A)                         rO/Org'O                 8.7            -.-       8.?
3flcEMCZ
1987       GUES VAILEY DEVELOMT                      l0W/PFOOD                3.7            0.8       4.5
RSS
1984       MPONU  DEVELO SKT COR.                    POWP1FOOD                1.8            0.3       2.1
PsINw
1984180    KAPUE T-.TXL-                             TXT=                    10.7                     10.7
1982811    ETHANOL cIANY OF ZAMBIA                   CUIPEROCUM               3.7            0.6       4.3
1982/80    ZCQi                                      InIN                    53.1           -.        53.1
1978175    CENTURY PRODUCT LTD.                      PLASIC WP                0.9            0.2       1.1
1978      DU IAN or ZAIIA                            DBZ LO >NT FINA          -.-            0.5       0.5
1973/72    ZA1IA BATA SHOE                           SHOES                                  0.3
TOTAL GROSS COM RIT TS                                           1A07.1          2.8      "l1
LESS: CANCZATIIS, DCNAE ADJUSTWNTS,  PAUNTS8
RITE-CFFS, & SYNDICATE SALES                                      78.8                     81.2
NT IPC cC89TENT                                                   28.3            0.2      28.5
TOTAL UNDISBURSD                                                   6.5           0.0        6.5
TOTAL DISBURSED                                                  21.8            0.2       22.0
L: WMD414ARWSCSOI . ZAM



AM=  IV
pige-15 of 16
ROM Tftl: 01/18/94 at 14.57.54
Statut Of So* Grou erewti0u In ZAIA
PfOsa258 * List of Closud tLs wi Secsal
...........................  - --.---.------.-.-............................................... -
Sy Coutry
Coli.try:   UMIA
mait in USW ulit
(tl   comettations)
Loan or   ffcal                                                                                Urfs- ClosigW
Credit No.  Your  Sorrows                        Put""                      km          IDA    brued  Dote
..... ....................... ............ ....... ...........  .... .. ...  ....    . ....  ......... .......
C1545O-ZAN  1965   ZAMIA                         A66I EMS.                            24.15        .00 06/31/1965
CA0050LZAM  1966   ZAIIA                         AGRI AM.                              9.65        .00 06/30/1988
CAOO4O -ZA  1966   ZAIA                          IMB.1110111ATION                     41.00        .00 1ZI1/196S
C16300-ZAN  1986   LWIIA                         IN.RIVITATIN                        19.46        .00 12/31/1966
C1720-ZM  1966   ZAMIA                           3I     l t =0                        50.00        .00 0/01991(3)
C22140-ZAM  1991   ZAIA                          RtMIIT CRUIT                        210.00        .00 0601992
C22141-*Z    1991    U A                         uhh  CEIt                            27.20        .00 063019
C2214-ZZN  1992   ZAJIA                         RCM? CEBIT                           10.00        .00 0601/1993
C24051-ZAM  1993   ZWIA                          PRIVATIZATIlIS. I                    20.66        .00 03/23/19
L23910-ZA9  1964   ZIA                           cow  Km  &  Dive          7.93                    .00 09/30/19W
Total ZLJA
M.9       413.54        .00



Page 16 o1fs
ZAMBIA
ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ADJUSTMENT CREDlT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
TIMETABLE OF KEY EjVENT
(a) Time taken to prepare      : 8 months
(b) Operation prepared by      : Ministry of Finance and
National Commission for Development
Planning
(c) Project identification     : April 1993
(d) Project Preparation        : September 1993
(e) Appraisal mission          : November 1993
() Negotiations               : January 1994
(g) Planned date of effectiveness  : March 1994
(h) Relevant PCRs and Project Performance Audit Reports
PK&
Export Rehabilitation and Diversification Project (Ln 2391-ZA) June 1991
Industrial Rehabilitation Project (Cr 1630-ZA) June 1991
Economic Recovery Credit (Cr 1720-ZA) June 1992
Second Economic Recovery Credit (Cr 2214-ZA) June 1993
Prgiect Perfornunce Audit ftqffiZ
Export Rehabilitation and Diversification (Ln 2391-ZA) June 1992 (#10847)
Industrial Reorientation Credit (Cr 1630-ZA) June 1992 (#10846)



