Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15837
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2577-ZA)
June 28, 1996
Macro, Industry, and Finance Division
Southern Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                     Zambian Kwacha (K)
US$1                              K 660'
UIS$1                             K 1,2402
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CPI                 -      Consumer Price Index
ESAC                -      Economic and Social Adjustment Credit
ESAF                -      Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
IDA                 -      International Development Association
IMF                 -      International Monetary Fund
GDP                 -      Gross Domestic Product
MLGH                -      Ministry of Local Government and Housing
NGO                 -      Non-Governmental Organization
OED                 -      Operations Evaluation Department
PIRC                -      Privatization and Industrial Reform Credit
RDC                 -      Recurrent Departmental Charges
SAL                 -      Structural Adjustment Loan
VAT                 -      Value Added Tax
ZCCM                -      Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
At Appraisal, January 1994
2Current conversion date, as of May 31, 1996



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface
Evaluation Summary ......................................                                         i-iii
Part I:          Program  Implementation Assessment
A. Design and Objectives
Restoring Macroeconomic Stability ................................I
Promotion of Non Traditional Exports .................................2
Improved Access to Land .................................2
Restructuring Social Services ..................................2
B. MaJor Factors Affecting the Project ..................................3
C. Borrower Performance
Macroeconomic Stability .................................4
Access to Land .................................5
Export Promotion .................................5
Restructuring Social Services .................................5
Civil Service Reform  ................................7
Audit Reporting .................................7
D. Bank Performance .................................8
E. Assessment of Outcome .................................8
F. Project Sustainability ................................                                10
G. Lessons for the Future .................................11
Part II:         Statistical Tables                                                               13
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .14
Table 2: Related Bank Operations .15
Table 3: Project Timetable .16
Table 4: Disbursements .16
Table 5:    Key Indicators, Actuals and Projected, 1991-96 .17
Table 6: Status of Legal Covenants .18
Table 7:  Bank Resources - Actual Staff Inputs .19
Table 8: Bank Resources - Missions .19
Annex  I:        Borrower Assessment
Annex II:   Aide Memoire
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2577-ZA)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Economic and Social
Adjustment program in Zambia, for which Credit 2577-ZA in the amount of SDR 108.9
million (US$150.0 million equivalent) was approved on March 10, 1994, and made
effective on May 9, 1994. In addition, a first Reflow in the arnount of SDR 9.7 million
(US$13.7 million equivalent) was approved on December 8, 1994, and made effective on
August 11, 1995.
The Credit closed on December 31, 1995 as specified in the original agreement.
The credit was fully disbursed, and the last disbursement was on January 4, 1996.
This operation was prepared and supervised by a team consisting of Jack Kisa
(Senior Country Officer and Task Manager), John Todd (Principal Country Economist),
Lemma Merid (Economist), Steen Jorgensen (Senior Economist), H.H. Andresen and J.
Kalbermatten (KfW), lain Shuker (Consultant), Said Al-Habsy (Senior Counsel), Rogerio
Pinto (Senior Public Sector Management Specialist), and Ellah Chembe (Resident
Mission). Mr. Praful Patel was the Managing Division Chief, and Mr. Stephen Denning
was the Managing Department Director.
The ICR was prepared by David G. Greene (Consultant), John Todd (Task
Manager, AFIMI), and Carolina Machado (AFIMI). It was reviewed by
Phyllis Pomerantz, Country Operations Manager, AF I C2, Jacomina de Regt, Acting
Operations Adviser, AF 1 DR, and Gene Tidrick, Lead Economist, AF I DR. The Borrower
contributed to the preparation of the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the program
which is included as Annex I of the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission during March 1996. It is based on discussions with Bank staff, on findings of the
completion mission, which held discussions with Government officials and on the
President's Report, the Loan Agreement, and other materials in the project files. The
Borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by commenting on the draft ICR.






Evaluation Summary
i.    The primary objective of the Economic and Social Adjustment Credit (ESAC)
was the reduction and alleviation of poverty in Zambia through support of measures
aimed at increasing economic growth and improving social services. The specific
purposes of this credit were to contribute to filling the identified external financing
requirements for Zambia in 1994 and 1995 and to support reforms in the areas of public
sector management, developing a market for land, ending the budgetary drain of Zambia
Airways, planning for a value added tax, improving the duty drawback system,
strengthening and decentralizing social service delivery systems, and improving budget
allocations to and within the social sectors.
ii.   The areas to be covered and the specific undertakings reflected in the credit were
developed jointly by the Bank and the Government on the basis of close consultation with
the private sector in Zambia, NGOs, bilateral donors, and expected beneficiaries. The
basic idea was to continue the emphasis on macroeconomic stability (e.g., the VAT and
Zambia Airways agreements) while increasing the emphasis on the promotion of efficient
private markets (land and trade policy) and on increasing the quantity and quality of vital
public services (public sector management, social delivery mechanisms, and budget
allocations to the social sectors). The emphasis on social services was motivated both by
the recognition that the quality of Zambia's human resources is a vital determinant of
long-term economic growth and by the judgment that improving these services (e.g., in
health and water supply) is the single most powerful step the government can take to
improve the well being of the poor.
iii.   Nearly all of the project's objectives were achieved by end- 1994 (and the
remaining objective, the passing of a revised Land Act, was achieved in July 1995 ). In
particular, arrangements were made to include government assets in severance benefits,
and alterations were made in the civil service salary structure to promote higher pay
levels for professionals. Some of the amendments necessary to create an effective market
for leasehold land were passed in 1994 (with the more comprehensive reform act passed
in 1995). The duty drawback scheme for exporters was expanded and simplified.
Spending in the social sectors increased sharply over 1993 levels, and specific allocations
for certain key categories of recurrent costs (e.g.. drugs and school supplies) were
increased and protected. Numerous reforms were begun on the delivery of social services
including decentralizing of health services. Finally, the public support of Zambia
Airways was ended, and the airline was liquidated.
iv.   The results from these and related reforms were that macroeconomic stability
improved (e.g., money supply growth dropped from 122 percent in 1993 to 46 percent in
1994), the climate for export production improved (e.g., non-traditional exports grew by
45 percent in 1994), and the delivery of social services began to turn around (particularly



- ii -
in health, where beneficiary surveys show an improvement in the quality of care through
improved staff attitudes and physical facilities beginning in 1994).
v.    Achievement of the credit's objectives was made more difficult by the return of
drought conditions in 1994 and 1995, the deteriorating performance of the parastatal
mining company (ZCCM), and the continuing constraints on the management and
implementation capacity of the civil service. Fiscal control in particular remained
difficult. In the early months of 1994, 1995, and 1996, fiscal imbalances emerged. There
were different specific reasons each year, and to its credit the Government made the
necessary adjustments to return to a relatively sound fiscal position, but the recurring
crises suggest that Zambia's macro program remains precarious.
vi.   The Government's performance in carrying out the program was very good, and
the second tranche was released as scheduled. Governnent commitment to the program
remained strong. An implementation group headed by the Budget Advisor in the
Ministry of Finance kept close tabs on the specific agreements under the credit and made
regular written reports to the Bank on the progress being made. There were two problem
areas. First, the Government tried for an ambitious land reform bill (including many
controversial elements not required under ESAC), and this effort failed. Only some of
the agreed specific steps could be done piecemeal, and the condition was not met. The
Bank agreed to waive the condition since the Government had achieved several specific
improvements and had only failed on the larger package because of poor political tactics.
The second difficult area was developing a viable plan for Zambia Airways. There was
considerable support in government for keeping the airline in business, but with
appropriate financial advice (supplied by a local consulting firm), the government
gradually realized that saving the airline would be expensive and was not necessary.
Liquidation was finally adopted, and the second tranche was released.
vii.  Bank performance in the design and supervision of the project was also very
good. In the design phase, Bank staff consulted widely with sector ministry staff, donors,
NGOs, academics, and potential beneficiaries and benefited considerably from this input.
The emphasis on social service delivery mechanisms and budget allocations (and
disbursements) was largely a result of these consultations and is considered one of the
concrete successes of the credit. Looking at the experience under the two previous
operations (PIRC and PIRC II), it was decided to include only two tranches and to reduce
considerably the number of specific conditions. This allowed more focused supervision.
viii. The sustainability of the program and hence of the reforms under this operation
will depend on the Government's success in generating improved living standards for the
majority of Zambians. To date, government and public support for the basic elements of
the economic reform program remain strong, but implementation capacity remains
limited, and the national elections (to be held by October 1996) could severely test this
commitment as pressures for various short-term interventions increase. Another serious
test will come from the emphasis by bilateral donors on various governance issues as a
pre-requisite for continuing aid. An impasse in this area could bring down the



- iii -
international financing of the program because significant shortfalls in external financing
could result in Zambia's inability to pay external debt service resulting in a complete
suspension of international assistance. Beyond these immediate issues, long-term
economic success will depend on expanding the revenue base, carrying on with
privatization (especially ZCCM), holding firm on market liberalizations, and improving
the implementation capacity of the public service.
ix.    Several important lessons were learned from this operation:
*   First, budget targets can be an effective tool for improving several services,
provided there is follow through on monitoring actual disbursements and
provided that policy reforms within the sectors are proceeding at the same
time. (This is illustrated by the greater progress made in health where a
sector investment program followed quickly.)
*   Second, sub-sectoral budgetary targets (e.g., for supplies) are particularly
important in achieving final results since overall sectoral spending targets can
be met by inflating personnel costs with little discernible impact on the
quality of services.
*   Third, providing access by the Government to independent expertise can be
an effective way of allowing them to discover the analytical merits of a
particular position (e.g., the difficulty in making Zambia Airways into a
viable enterprise).
*   Fourth, it is better to keep such operations simple with a minimum of
tranches and specific conditions.
x.    Other lessons emerge from looking at the overall Bank program in Zambia over
this period:
*   First, it is advisable to be cautious in projecting the immediate impact of
these reforms on economic growth.
*   Second, it is important to keep focused on the most critical issues -- in
Zambia's case, these are macro stability and mining.
*   Third, more consistent efforts should be made to obtain independent
assessments of the Bank program.



...



PART I: PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
1.    The Economic and Social Adjustment Credit (ESAC) was the fourth in a series of
adjustment operations designed to support the reinvigorated stabilization and economic
reform effort launched in early 1991 and accelerated and strengthened by the new
Government elected in 1991. The Privatization and Industrial Reform Credits (PIRC and
PIRC II) of 1992 and 1993 supported the stabilization efforts of the new Government and
its privatization and parastatal reform programs begun under the Economic Recovery
Credit of 1991. Although the implementation of the structural reform programs has
generally been on track, the overall performance of the Zambian economy has been
disappointing. Economic growth has not revived, and thus poverty is still increasing. To
some extent, this has been the result of continued adverse weather, but it has also
reflected problems in the execution of the program, particularly difficulties in attaining
and sustaining macroeconomic stability, and the continued weakness of the state mining
company, ZCCM. Weak performance of ZCCM has made fiscal recovery difficult and
has had adverse balance of payments consequences and strongly negative effects on the
growth of domestic product and employment.
A. Design and Objectives
2.    The ESAC represented a response to this weak growth and increasing poverty. It
was designed to support reforms that would further improve the climate for private
investment and accelerate growth while also supporting improved delivery of social
services. Although it continued to depend on maintenance of macroeconomic stability,
the adequacy of the external financing package, and continued progress on structural
adjustment, it included efforts to generate supply response through removal of
bottlenecks to exports and agricultural expansion, including development of a market for
state land, and basic policy changes removing structural obstacles to delivery of vital
social services.
Restoring Macroeconomic Stability
3.    The project continued efforts under earlier operations to restore and sustain
macroeconomic stability. Agreement was reached on key targets, the size of the fiscal
deficit and the rate of growth of the money supply, in the context of an IMF program.
Under the ESAC program, the Government was to improve expenditure control by
limiting budgetary support to Zambia Airways, exercising appropriate restraint on public
sector wages, and ensuring that maize marketing is financed from the commercial
banking system.



-2 -
Promotion of Non Traditional Exports
4.    The Government had already taken a number of measures to improve the
incentives for international trade. Among these were liberalization of the foreign
exchange market, elimination of almost all administrative restrictions on imports and
exports, simplification and reduction of the level and dispersion of import duties, and
introduction of a system of rebate of customs and sales taxes paid by exporters. The
Government had also adopted a plan to reduce the maximurn tariff from 40 percent to 20
percent by 1997. (The top rate was reduced to 25 percent in 1996.)
5.    This project specifically supported simplification and broadening of the system of
tax rebates for exporters. Coverage was extended to all imported raw materials and
intermediate goods used in the production of exports. Procedures for claiming drawbacks
were simplified and the computation changed to a credit system based on physical
input/output coefficients. The Government also decided to eliminate many discretionary
tariff exemptions that contribute to the inefficiency of the tariff system. Finally, an action
plan for the introduction of a value added tax was adopted.
Improved Access to Land
6.    Agricultural development has been hampered by land legislation that does not
provide secure tenure. The land law did not recognize the value of land or permit the
freehold possession of land. Over 93 percent of available land is held under customary
tenure through tribal and local government structures; the remainder is effectively owned
and administered by the Government. The process for conversion of customary land into
leasehold was not well defined. Transferring land under leasehold has been hampered by
outmoded legislation and slow processing. Furthermore, a large proportion of urban
settlements are not recognized by local governments and are thus denied access to urban
services. Without formal titles, residents cannot obtain credit to improve their properties
or to undertake other investments. Legalization would provide a strong impetus for
growth and improve the living standards of thousands of low and middle income
Zambians. A key objective of the ESAC was therefore to support preparation and
enactment of a package of land market reforms. This included: (i) implementation of a
pilot scheme for subdivision of state owned farms for commercial use and provision for
subdivision and sale of state farms; (ii) approval of amendments to land laws to remove
the notion that land has no value, to facilitate the subdivision and trading in land, and to
reduce the land transfer tax. These measures would help to establish a more efficient
market in leasehold land.
Restructuring Social Services
7.    In order to mitigate the adverse effects of stabilization and structural adjustment,
especially on the urban poor, and to set the stage for longer-term growth and thus to
improve the political sustainability of the program, the Government determined that the
delivery of social services had to be improved and the social safety net strengthened.
Therefore, it decided to decentralize decision making authority and resources from central



- 3 -
administrators to local service providers who would be more responsive to community
needs. A key objective of the ESAC was to support decentralization of health, education
and water and sanitation services. Specifically, this would involve: (a) devolution of
safety net-type activities to community groups and NGOs, (b) restructuring budgets for
health, education, water supply and the safety net to ensure that the overall level of
funding is appropriate and that allocations for critical inputs are adequate; and, (3)
arrangements that ensure that funds actually flow to the local offices responsible for
supplying these services.
8.    The project was also designed to support the ongoing Public Sector Reform
Program by ensuring that the Government devise and adopt a revised package of
redundancy benefits (including in kind benefits) and begin efforts to restructure pay
levels and to link pay and performance in a way that would attract and retain skilled
professionals in the civil service.
B. Major Factors Affecting the Project
9.    Despite significant progress toward stabilization, the fiscal situation remains
precarious. Output growth has not recovered, and the revenue base continues to stagnate.
The situation of the state mining company (ZCCM) has deteriorated, and its contribution
to government revenues has evaporated. Little progress has been made in rationalizing or
reducing the public service. Moreover, large fiscal deficits and high interest rates have
resulted in a heavy burden of domestic interest payments. Three droughts in four years
have seriously affected agricultural growth. The weak growth and fiscal picture affect the
Government's program and the project in several ways: first, it makes it difficult to fund
adequate levels of outlays for social services and the safety net; second, it adds to the
difficulty of developing an "affordable severance package" for retrenched government
employees (unless non budgetary resources are used, such as state assets); and third, it
leads to high and variable nominal and real interest rates, which are a disincentive to
investment and interest-sensitive business activity.
10.   It appears that the administrative mechanisms currently available for budgetary
planning and implementation are still not adequate. As a result, the Government has
faced recurring budgetary "surprises," with the macroeconomic program going off track
with unfortunate regularity. It is also not clear that the Government can be sure that
actual expenditures are in line with budgetary allocations.
11.   Considerable uncertainty surrounds the future of Zambian copper earnings.
Copper has accounted for nearly 85 percent of exports, contributed 15 percent of GDP,
and has been an important source of budgetary revenues. Long term prospects for copper
prices are problematic, and a sharp decline in Zambia's copper production is expected
toward the end of the decade. IDA is giving direct support to improve the efficiency and
profitability of copper production through the Mining Technical Assistance Credit.
Given the importance of copper, unless the decline in production can be arrested and



-4 -
reversed, or there is a dramatic upturn in international copper prices, near term prospects
for economic growth and expanding government revenues will remain bleak.
12.   Zambia has achieved some success in stabilizing its economy and seems to be
emerging from the difficult first stage of the transition. However, because of its high debt
service burden and the poor prospects for copper exports in the near term, the country
will continue to need extraordinary levels of external assistance. The international
community has provided Zambia generous debt relief and rescheduling, as well as
balance of payments support. Sustaining high levels of external financing in the face of
generally diminishing aid budgets will require good relations between Zambia and the
international financial community and exceptional performance in policy formulation and
implementation.
C. Borrower Performance
13.   The Government's performar.ce in carrying out the program was very good, and
the tranches of the operation were disbursed as scheduled. Government commitment to
the program remains strong despite an increasingly contentious political environment in
the run up to elections of 1996. All the specific actions to which the Government was
committed were accomplished, and progress was satisfactory in meeting monetary and
fiscal targets. However, the Government underestimated the political controversy
surrounding the procedures for converting customary tenure to leasehold (even though
such action was not specifically a condition under the ESAC agreement), and the
Parliament deferred consideration of the complete package. A smaller set of amendments
was approved. A waiver was granted on the remaining land low amendments so that the
second tranche of the ESAC could be disbursed. It was agreed that completion of action
on land legislation would be added to the program to be supported by a forthcoming
(since passed) agricultural sector investment project to insure follow through.
Macroeconomic Stability
14.   With tighter fiscal management, inflation was brought down in 1994. The
Government's overall domestic balance (cash) was reduced from 3.7 percent of GDP in
1993 to 1.2 percent in 1994, and the increase in the CPI declined from 187 percent
(average) in 1993 to 53 percent in 1994. In fact, inflation was reduced from an annual
rate of 50 percent in the first half of the year to only 22 percent in the second half of the
year. Treasury bill interest rates declined in parallel. However, macroeconomic stability
was still fragile. The deficit widened in the first half of 1995, reflecting the budgetary
implications of the failure of one the country's largest commercial banks (Meridien
BIAO). As a result, inflation increased to annualized rates of over 50 percent in the
second half of 1995.
15.  In a major step, after consideration of the options, the Government decided to
liquidate Zambian Airways. The airline ceased operations, but the feared gap in air
transport did not materialize. "Open skies" policies allowed international carriers to



-5-
serve Zambia air traffic to neighboring countries, and two private carriers, serving the
domestic and regional market, started operations.
Access to land
16.   Amendments to land laws facilitating subdivision of land and real estate trading
and related transactions were approved by Cabinet and submitted to Parliament (see
Table 6). The reduction in the property transfer tax from 7.5 percent to 2.5 percent did
not require legislation. The proposed land law amendments also contained provisions
concerning conversion of land from customary tenure to leasehold. However, this
proposed codifications of procedures for converting customary tenure to leasehold was
not supported by the chiefs in advance. There was limited understanding of and
consensus on the program, and the Government underestimated the political controversy
these additional changes would cause. Consequently, Parliament deferred consideration
pending further consultations. The Parliament did, however, pass the Common
Leasehold Schemes Bill, providing for the subdivision of leasehold land into subunits
with separate titles. It also passed a bill simplifying registration of land and allowing
registers to be kept electronically. The remaining amendments were passed in 1995.
17.   Two state farms were sold as part of the privatization program in 1994. The
government policy is to privatize those state farms smaller than 2000 hectares as going
concerns and subdivide the larger ones so that the developed parts can be sold.
Export promotion
18.   Exports are being encouraged though broader provision for manufacture under
bond, export processing zones, and streamlined provision of duty drawbacks.
Manufacturers are now permitted to use the amount of any drawback due as credit against
future import duty payments. Eligibility has been broadened to include "third party"
exporters who do not import directly but purchase imported goods from others or use
components produced with imported inputs. Officers have been stationed at major
customs stations to deal with duty drawback matters. As a result, duty drawback benefits
more than doubled in 1995.
Restructuring social services
19.   The human resource strategy supported by the operation emphasized
rehabilitation and sustainable expansion of the education and health sectors, which had
borne the brunt of the deterioration in fiscal performance in the past. The education
strategy gives greater emphasis to infrastructure, leaming materials for basic education,
and improving management capacity in the short-term while full scale reforms are being
developed. The Government is emphasizing decentralization of primary health care and
education to ensure community participation and good governance. In 1993, the
Government launched a wide ranging and ambitious health sector reform program
emphasizing decentralized delivery of an integrated package of services. Beginning in
1994, the share of the national budget allocated to basic social services was increased,



- 6 -
with emphasis on primary education and health care and other services of importance to
the low income population. This Credit helped move key policy reforms forward,
including those outside the direct control of the social ministries, and supported the
increases in budget allocations.
20.   As a demonstration of its commitment to improving social services, the
Government targeted increases in the 1994 budgetary allocations for health, education,
water and sanitation and social safety net programs from less than 29 percent in 1993 to
over 33 percent in 1994.
(a)   Health increased to 13 percent of the budget; with 9 percent of the
Ministry of Health budget allocated as grants to district health
management teams and 9 percent for drugs. Progress was also made in
decentralization of funding and management. The District Capacity
Building program was executed for all 61 districts, and eight more
Hospital Management Boards were created.
(b)   Education was allocated 15 percent of the budget, including a special
allocation for book distribution. The Ministry of Education allocated 5
percent of its budget to primary education recurrent departmental charges
(RDCs) under a sub warrant to Provincial Education Officers. The
Ministry of Education is devolving responsibilities to District Education
Management Boards and School Management Boards, which are
responsible for teachers, infrastructure and learning materials. A total of
54 lower primary schools were upgraded to full primary schools and 77
primary schools were expanded. Water and sanitation have been
improved and desks upgraded.
(c)   At least 5 percent of the budget of the Ministry of Community
Development and Social Welfare was allocated to such schemes as Public
Welfare Assistance, Program Against Malnutrition, and Urban Self Help.
These resources were channeled mostly through NGOs.
(d)   The share of the budget allocated for water supply and sanitation in
Ministry of Local Government and Housing was increased to 1.8 percent
and 1.4 percent was allocated to the Ministry of Energy and Water
Development, of which at least 4 percent was to be allocated for
operations and management. A Water Sector Policy was adopted which
clarifies policy and administrative responsibilities. Under that policy,
implementation was transferred from the Department of Water Affairs of
the Ministry of Local Government and Housing to the new Council-
Owned Regional Companies that will assist councils in service delivery,
supervised by the Ministry of Local Government and Housing (MLGH).
Regulatory and policy oversight was to be transferred to the Water and
Sanitation Council.



-7-
21.   Apart from water and sanitation, actual releases exceeded those agreed as shown
in the table below. The modest shortfall in the water sector was due to major cuts in the
capital budget which is a much higher percentage of spending in the water sector. Within
the capital budget, however, water and sanitation received 61 percent of its allocated
compared to 41 percent for the overall capital budget. Subsectoral releases also exceeded
those programmed for all categories.
Budgetary Allocations, 1994
Health                 13.0       15.3
Educaion               15.0       16.5
Safety Net              2.0        2.1
Water & Sanitation      3.0        2.8
Total                  33.0       36.7
Civil service reform
22.  In order to reduce the up front cost of severance pay and to make retrenchment
more affordable, the Government approved in-kind payment (in the form of government-
owned houses, vehicles and land) as part or all of severance benefits. The package has
been agreed with the Union of Public Service Workers.
23.   Several measures have been taken to improve the incentives for skilled
professionals in the civil service. The adoption of "equal pay for equal work" has
resulted in more competitive salaries in areas of the public service where shortages of
manpower had forced hiring of expatriates. The adoption of "parallel progression" has
permitted salaries of technical and professional employees in the civil service to
approximate those of senior managers.
Audit Reporting
24.   As required in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), audit reports were
generally submitted on a timely basis. Originally the 1994 audit reports were found to be
qualified as a result of expenditures ineligible under DCA's Schedule 1. Further
examinations by the auditors of supporting documentation for the amount in question
concluded that the expenditures were in fact eligible, and an unqualified report was
submitted in June 1996.



- 8 -
D. Bank Performance
25.   Bank performance in the formulation and supervision of the project was very
good. The operation was designed in close consultation with the Government, the IMF,
potential beneficiaries and participating bilateral donors. Other donors were kept
informed on the formulation of the project and its execution.
26.   The operation built on the foundation established under the PIRCs, but was
simpler, with fewer policy actions. The reduction from the three tranches (effectiveness
plus two tranches) under the PIRC to two tranches in the ESAC eased the supervision
burden and allowed more time for critical actions to be discussed and acted on.
27.   Bank interventions were particularly helpful in bringing about a decision to
liquidate Zambia Airways. A review by the Bank found that the business plan that had
been prepared for Zambia Airways was not satisfactory in that it did not provide a
balanced and comprehensive analysis of closing the airline versus continued operation,
did not discuss up front capital requirements of closing down, ignored the possibility of
combining negotiation on arrears and termination payments on closed airline, relied on
optimistic assumptions on passenger increases, and ignored revenues from sale of traffic
rights. Reconsideration of the alternatives based on the Bank's comments led to the
(correct) conclusion that the best alternative was closure of the airline, which the
Government did.
28.   The Bank also closely monitored release of funds to the social sector ministries.
An interim review of performance found that releases for social safety net and water
supply and sanitation were short of agreed levels. Sub sectoral releases were far below
the 50 percent agreed as a benchmark for second tranche release. In several cases, budget
releases did not reflect government policy: (1) the share of releases for capital
expenditures was lower than share in budget and a substantial part was used for
unproductive purposes; (2) the share of releases for personnel emoluments was higher
than budgeted; (3) releases for recurrent departmental charges (RDCs) were below the
share in budget. The Bank missions suggested measures that would permit increases in
outlays to the agreed levels, and the targets were eventually reached.
29.   The Bank also pressed hard for provisions that would allow the use of
government-owned assets such as housing, land and vehicles as a part of a compensation
package for retrenched civil service employees. This recommendation was eventually
accepted.
E. Assessment of Outcome
30.  It is difficult to assess the outcome of this program because it cannot fairly be
considered outside the context of previous and subsequent concurrent adjustment-type
operations in Zambia and because the measures supported by the program, while largely
accomplished, are more properly viewed as inputs, or determinants of growth and
development, and not as outcomes. Successful outcome of this program, and indeed of



-9-
the program of various adjustment-type operations in Zambia, should be seen in terms of
whether Zambia achieves sustained macroeconomic stability, improved efficiency of
resource allocation and use, accelerated growth of per capita income, and declining
poverty although there will certainly be many other contributing factors.
31.   The ESAC President's Report projected GDP growth of 5 percent per year over
the next five years, based on accelerated agricultural growth through increased
smaliholder productivity and diversification. Some new and existing manufacturing was
also expected to contribute to growth if sufficient credit were available and constraints on
exports overcome. Output from existing mines was expected to grow modestly as
efficiency improved. Overall investment was expected to rise from 13 percent of GDP in
1991 to 22 percent and domestic saving from 1 1 percent of GDP to 17 percent by the end
of the decade. These projections were clearly optimistic in view of recent developments.
GDP growth was negative in both 1994 and 1995, and gross investment fell from 10.4
percent of GDP in 1993 to 6.9 percent in 1994. While these decreases were largely a
result of poor rains, unless macroeconomic stability can be achieved and sustained and
ZCCM's output stabilized and then increased, positive growth of per capita income will
not be possible for sustained periods. The impressive record on liberalization and
privatization, however, have definitely improved the overall business climate for the
private sector.
32.   The improvements in access to land will clearly be helpful for the longer term
development of agriculture, but availability of land is only one constraint on production
over the near term. In all probability, marketing of output and inputs will be a more
important near term constraint. In fact, the May 1995 report on Participatory Poverty
Monitoring in Zambia cites continuing problems with agricultural marketing and the
supply of farm inputs and animal diseases as reasons for declining rural livelihoods
(access to land was not mentioned). Agricultural marketing is an interest rate sensitive
activity, depending heavily on credit. The instability of the Zambian economy, with
recurrent bouts of inflation and highly variable nominal and real interest rates, is probably
the critical immediate constraint on development of the sector. More sector work appears
to be warranted to identify the constraints to development of smallholder and emergent
agriculture and to develop a comprehensive policy package to address them.
33.   The poverty monitoring exercise of 1995, cited above, showed continuing
problems in social services. In particular, it pointed to inaccessibility of public health
services, poor access to and quality of education, crime, drought related water shortages,
and poor condition of roads as important aspects of the deterioration of the social welfare
situation. On health, the assessment noted that beneficiaries found improvements in staff
attitudes and the quality of care, but concerns remained on the application of fees, the
lack of a consistent exemption program, and contiaued poor drug supplies in urban
hospitals. Low enrollment rates in primary education are perceived to be the result of
lack of school places, high financial costs and declining quality of education, as
evidenced by high failure and dropout rates, and long distances to schools.



- 10-
34.   It is difficult to measure "real" spending in these sectors because much of the
increased spending has gone into higher salary costs and because efficiency
improvements can often bring better services with less money. Looking just at total
spending deflated by the CPI, however, it appears that real spending in 1994/95 was no
higher than it had been in 1990/91. In view of this, the achievement of budgetary targets
for the social sectors under the ESAC must be viewed as a defensive, short term measure,
designed to limit the decline of real outlays, rather than to increase them, and unlikely to
result in and of themselves in a significant sustainable improvement. These budgetary
measures supported by the ESAC should be viewed as a stopgap measure until sector-
wide programs can be launched.
35.  In a similar vein, the improvement in the duty drawback scheme will clearly be
helpful, but only as part of a continuing overhaul of the trade regime. The next steps,
further reduction of duties, elimination of exemptions and implementation of a value
added tax are being supported by ESAC II, scheduled for Board presentation in calendar
1996.
36.   Lastly, the ESAC successfully pioneered the use of a qualitative poverty
monitoring survey, which has been sustained through the Second Social Recovery Credit.
This was done using trust funds and the Departmental Client Consultation Fund.
F. Project Sustainability
37.   The sustainability of the Government's program ultimately depends on its success
in generating improving living standards. Without this, the Government will come under
increasing political pressure to abandon or slow down implementation. This situation
will be exceptionally critical during 1996 in the run up to elections. It is not possible to
produce sustained improvements in living standards, however, without accelerated and
broad-based growth in output and employment. Although short-term safety-net measures
can be helpful, they are not a long term solution to the problem. More important will be
increasing expenditures for public services, such as primary health care and education,
which improve living standards directly and build human capital, and vital urban and
rural infrastructure to support growth. These in turn will depend on expansion of the
revenue base through growth and broadening of the tax base through consumption-based
taxation (such as the VAT). In addition, the allocations of public expenditures must be
further improved, de-emphasizing defense, and tertiary government services for which
beneficiaries should be expected to pay, and streamlining the public service. Making
better use of existing capacity, as has happened in health, will help as will the
involvement of extra-governmental groups and individuals, as has been the case for
health and safety net services.
38.   Several of the sectoral reforms are likely to be difficult to reverse such as the
recent reforms in health where politicians, beneficiaries, and care givers have all bought
into these improvements. Similarly, the streamlining of policy-making and service
delivery in the water sector are likely to be sustained as well as the general trend toward



decentralization and devolution in service delivery. Macro stabilization seems less
secure, however, as is evident from the continuing pattern of lapses and repairs in the area
of fiscal and monetary control.
39.   The sine qua non for accelerating growth is still improved macroeconomic
management, with the aim of bringing the rate of inflation down to single digit levels,
reducing the nominal and real rates of interest, and maintaining the real exchange rate at
levels that promote growth of the tradable sector. The key to this will be further
improving fiscal performance through enhanced revenues and rationalized expenditures.
40.   ZCCM's poor performance also remains a major impediment to growth. An
immediate, determined effort is required to rehabilitate existing operations, to put
privatization on the fast track, and to settle the future of Konkola Deep (the most
promising new venture) so that development work can begin quickly.
41.   Finally, adequate external financing must be insured. This will require
demonstrated continued government commitment to the reform process. The benchmarks
of the IMF ESAF program will need to be met. Concerns of bilateral donors about
"governance" issues, unless dispelled, could result in a decreased availability of aid
flows. Bilateral donors are concerned that corruption and asset stripping have reached
levels where they jeopardize macroeconomic stability. They also feel that the exceptional
priority given to Zambia in their aid budgets can only be justified if democratic traditions
continue to be observed.
G. Lessons for the Future
42.   Some of the lessons learned derive directly from the experiences under this
operation. They are:
43.   Social Sector spending targets can help. Budget targets for the social sectors
can be an effective tool for improving social services, provided there is follow through on
monitoring actual disbursements and provided that policy reforms within the sectors are
proceeding at the same time. (The importance of the latter is evident in the greater
successes achieved in the health sector where a sector investment program followed soon
after ESAC). Sub-sectoral budgetary targets are particularly important in achieving final
results since overall spending targets can be met by increases in personnel costs with little
discernible impact on the quality of services.
44.   Develop specific monitorable outcome indicators. Although it is clear that the
budget for social services was being squeezed severely, spending more by itself does not
necessarily improve access to services. Administrative and policy reforms are also
needed. In Zambia's case, this is illustrated by the greater success in health services
where the decentralization policies were quickly implemented compared to education
where administrative reforms were less pronounced. To keep a clearer focus on final
results, performance indicators on internal and external efficiency of primary education



- 12-
and basic health care allow formation of more precise policy initiatives and better
evaluation of results.
45.   Keep it simple. The Bank underestimated the administrative complexity of the
program (particularly in the early SALs) and overestimated the capacity of the
Government. Budget preparation and fiscal administration were weak. A Government
Budget cannot be prepared and managed by the Minister of Finance himself, and
monetary policy cannot be conducted by the head of the Central Bank. Effective
monetary and fiscal management require strong bureaucracies. In the absence of these,
less sophisticated tools are needed (such as cash budgets), which minimize the demands
on management. This requires continuous priority attention to macroeconomic
management and ensuring that budgeted funds are spent as intended.
46.   Other lessons learned derive from looking at the broader picture of the Bank
program in Zambia over this period.
47.   Be cautious about predictions of recovery. The Bank was persistently
optimistic about the prospects of recovery for Zambian economy (or at least expressed
optimistic views). The actual poor performance of the economy jeopardized Bank staffs
credibility with the Bank management, the borrower and other donors. It is better to err
on the conservative side and increase the chances of pleasant surprises.
48.   Tackle the critical problems first. The Bank was quite cautious initially about
two things that really mattered, macroeconomic stabilization and rehabilitation of the
mining sector. Both the Bank and IMF could have pushed harder for tougher
administrative measures (such as imposition of cash budget) earlier on in the game. In
general, a new government's willingness and ability to take tough measures tends to
diminish with its time in office.
49.   Provide for independent assessment and advice. The Bank's involvement with
adjustment in Zambia could benefit from more independent assessment. Bank staff are
sometimes too close to and involved in the process to assess it dispassionately. It is now
five years since the first adjustment operation with the "new" government. It is time to
assess the Bank's total involvement in adjustment in Zambia over that period. The
forthcoming Country Assessment Review by OED will illustrate some of those issues. In
general, the consultative group process with the donors and the participating monitoring
exercises with beneficiaries are important ongoing sources of alternative perspectives.



- 13 -
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
A.    Achievement of Objectives
B.    Program Sustainability
C.    Bank Performance
D.    Borrower Performance
E.    Assessment of Outcome
Table 2:     Related Bank Operations
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Disbursements
Table 5:     Key Indicators, Actuals and Projected, 1992-96
Table 6      Status of Legal Covenants
Table 7:     Bank Resources - Actual Staff Inputs
Table 8:     Bank Resources - Missions



- 14 -
Table 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives                                          Substantial                           Partial                       Negligible                              N/A
Macroeconomic Policies
Sector Policies                                                                 v
......................................................................................... ....................... ..................... ....................... ........... .......... .................................. ........... ...... ...................................
Financial Objectives                                                            4
.......   ........................................................................   .................... .................  ......  ...............................  .............  .......... ................................. ..   ..... ,.......................................
Institutional Development                                                                                         4
......................................................................................... .................. ..... .................... ........................ .......... .......... .................................. ........... ..........................................
Physical Objectives                                                                                               4
...................................................................... ................... ....................... ..................... ....................... .......... ........... ................................. ........... ..........................................
Poverty Reduction 1
Gender Concerns 
Other Social Objectives
Environmental Objectives
Public Sector Management
Private Sector Development                                     .                                                                                                                                      I
B. Program Sustainability                                                       Likely                                     Unlikely                                   Uncertain
C. Bank Performance                                                Highly Satisfactory                                  Satisfactory                                   Deficient
Identification                                                                                                                    l
......................................................................................... ....................... ........................................................... ............... ........................................................... ....................
Preparation Assistance                                                                                                                                       .
............  ............................................................................  .......................................   ...........................................................  ........... ................................
Appraisal                                                                                                                                                          .
................................................................................... ........... .. ...... .................................................. .... ..... ............ ............................... ..... ....................... ............ .........
Supervision
D. Borrower Performance                                            Highly Satisfactory                                  Satisfactory                                   Deficient
Preparation                                                                                                                       4
.... ..................................................................................... ....................... .................................... ....................... .............. ...................... .................... ................. .......................
Implementation                                                                                                                     1
...... ................................................................................... ............ ........... ................................... ........................ .............. ..................... ...................................... ............... .......
Covenant Compliance
E. Assessment of Outcome                                                  Highly                       Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory                                           Highly
Satisfactory                                                                                      Unsatisfactory



- 15 -
Table 2: RELATED BANK OPERATIONS
Credit Title                          Purpose                   Fiscal      Status
Year
Preceding Operations
Second Economic Recovery Credit  Macroeconomic stabilization, agricultural  1991    Completed
sector liberalization, private sector expansion,
and restructuring and reforming the civil
service and the parastatal sector.
Social Recovery Credit          To foster community development efforts in    1991    Under
alleviating negative effects on the poor of the  implementation
economic crisis, through rehabilitation and
improvement of existing infrastructure and
service delivery.
Privatization/Industrial Reform  To modernize business framework, establish    1992  Completed
market-based exchange rate mechanism, and
promote private sector through privatization
and improvement in parastatal efficiency.
Privatization/Industrial Reform II   To provide balance of payments support to the   1993  Under
parastatal reform and privatization program.      implementation
Privatization/Industrial Reform TA   To strengthen capabilities in ministries and  1992  Under
other responsible institutions for parastatal     implementation
reforms and privatization.
Parallel Operations
Financial/Legal Management      To improve flow of government business in  1994       Under
Upgrading                       developing programs and reforms in areas of       implementation
accounting, auditing, public sector
procurement, legal drafting, justice
administration, and provision of business
information.
Following Operations
Second Social Recovery Credit   To assist the Government' poverty reduction    1995   Under
program through financing of community           implementation
initiatives and building of capacity of poverty
analysis and monitoring.
Agriculture Sector Investment   Economic growth and poverty reduction by   1995       Under
Program                         improving efficiency in agricultural              implementation
production, increasing food security,
generating income and employment, and
increasing export earnings. Also support to
privatization of agricultural enterprises.
Health Sector Support Program   To improve access to and utilization of quality  1995  Under
health care, nutritional interventions and       implementation
family planning.
Economic Recovery/Investment    To consolidate improvements in             1996       Under
Promotion                       macroeconomic management, stimulate               implementation
investment, reform the social security system,
and support mining industry restructuring,
with increased private sector participation.   I



- 16 -
Table 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle        Date Planned            Date Actual
Identification                      April 1993             April 1993
Preparation                       September 1993         September 1993
Appraisal                          October 1993          November 1993
Negotiations                       January 1994       January/February 1994
Letter of Development Policy      February 1994          February 1994
Board Presentation                 March 1994             March 1994
Signing                            March 1994              April 1994
Effectiveness                      March 1994              May 1994
First Tranche Release              March 1994              May 1994
Second Tranche Release            November 1994           January 1995
Closing Date                      December 1995          December 1995
Table 4: DISBURSEMENTS
FY94               FY95               FY96
Appraisal Estimate (US$ million)                75.0               75.0
First Reflow - August 1995                                                             13.7
Actual (US$ million)                            36.9              117.7                 8.8
First Reflow - August 1995                                                             14.5
Cumulative (US$ million)                        36.9              154.7               163.5
First Reflow - August 1995                                                             14.5
Date of Tranche Disbursements              May 1994         January 1995



- 17 -
Table 5: KEY INDICATORS, ACTUALS AND PROJECTED, 1992-96
(% unless otherwise indicated)
Actual          Est.        Bank Projections'
1992  1993  1994  1995  1996    1992  1993  1994  1996
GDP Growth                      -2.5  6.5  -3.1  -3.9  8.3    -10.0  12.3  5.3   4.5
Real Per Cap. Consumption Growth  -8.6  -5.4  0.3  -3.2   1.7     13.2  -2.9  0.6  -1.8
Total Investment/GDP            10.5  12.0  6.9  11.7  12.0    15.0  14.1  17.2  18.3
Gross Domestic Savings/GDP       6.4   8.6   3.0   2.9   3.9      6.4   9.1   7.9  10.9
Current Account Balance - US$ Mn2 -753.0 -471.8 -408.3 -624.6 -571.6   -714  -568  -766  -658
Total Debt excl. Gapfill - US$ Mn   6943  6788  6496  6139  5757    7041   n/a   n/a   n/a
Total Revenues/GDP3             18.4  14.6  18.1  16.9  15.8    31.7  22.0  27.7  27.3
Total Expenditures/GDP4         33.1  26.5  28.7  25.1  21.6    28.4  21.2  22.1  20.3
Deficit (- = deficit)/GDP       -14.7  11.9  -10.6  -8.2  -5.8    3.3   0.8   5.6   7.0
Consumer Price Index Growth Rate | 197.4 | 189.01 53.4  34.6  30.0    226.1 147.5  46.8    10.0
IProjections are from the ESAC President's Report (P-6248-ZA) dated February 15, 1994.
2Excluding foreign grants.
3Excluding capital grants.
4Including net lending.



- 18 -
Table 6: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Loan
Agreement                   Description of Covenant                     Comments
Section
Schedule 3   The Borrower has:
adopted a revised package of severance benefits for public  Complied with.
No. I    servants that permits the efficient restructuring of employment
within the public sector.
adopted a revised duty drawback scheme with the following  Complied with.
features: (a) simplicity, automaticity and transparency of
No. 2    procedures; (b) a shift from a refund to a credit system based on
input/output coefficients; (c) expansion of product coverage to
include all imported raw materials and intermediate inputs; (d) a
plan to ensure dissemination of information and publicity about
the revised system; and (e) a time bound action plan satisfactory
to the Association for implementing the scheme.
satisfied the Association that its spending in the social sectors in  Complied with.
1994 has been in accordance with the Program and in particular
No. 3    that: (a) expenditures in the health, education and water supply
No. 3    and sanitation sectors and for social safety nets have not dropped
below the shares set out in the budget; and (b) that at least half of
the budgeted amounts for the following budget subheads have
been released to the implementing agencies: public welfare
assistance, Social Recovery Program, recurrent charges of
primary education in the provinces, district health management
teams; recurrent changes for drugs, and operation and
maintenance expenditures in water and sanitation sectors.
adopted and started to implement a program of incentives to  Complied with.
No. 4    attract and retain highly skilled professionals and to linking
performance to pay and, where appropriate, has revised its job
classification system to reconcile with such program.
(a) enacted amendments to land laws to: (i) remove the notion    Complied with.
No. 5    that land has no value; (ii) facilitate the subdivision of land; (iii)
facilitate real estate trading and other related transactions; (iv)
reduce land and property transfer tax; and (b) implemented
policy measures to provide for the subdivision and sale of state
farms.
No. 6    adopted a financial plan for Zambia Airways consistent with the  Complied with.
need to avoid direct and indirect support for the airline from
public funds.



- 19 -
Table 7: BANK RESOURCES - Actual Staff Inputs'
Stage of Project Cycle              Staff Weeks              US$'0002
Preparation to Appraisal                        28.4                    91.4
Appraisal                                       20.8                    70.8
Negotiations through Board Approval              6.5                    22.0
Supervision                                     29.3                   105.9
Completion                                       8.0                    20.0
TOTAL                                           93.0                   310.1
Table 8: BANK RESOURCES - MISSIONS
Stage of the Project Cycle         Month/Year         Number of    Days in Field
persons
Identification                             April 1993            4               10
Preappraisal                             September 1993          4               10
Appraisal                                November 1993           6               10
Supervision                                May 1994              3               7
July 1994            4               7
October 1994           3               8
November 1994           2               8
Completion                                 March 1996            1               10
Source: MIS Report - Staff Time and Schedule (COSR2).
2 Includes travel and labor costs.



- 20 -
Annex I
Page 1 of 2
BORROWER ASSESSMENT
COIOMENTS AND EVALUATION OF ESAC I
Introduction
1.   During the 1992-1993 period, extensive policy reforms were
introduced to bring about improved macroeconomic stability and
more effective delivery of social services. These objectives were
pursued through implementation of the Economic Recovery Programme
(ERP) which included macroeconomic policy measures and reforms
in the social sectors, notably in education, health, water and
sanitation. The ERP involved a wide range of structural
adjustment measures. Overall, progress on structural adjustment
was substantial in the period under review, but progress with
poverty reduction was hampered by low economic growth rates.
2.   Public  debate  of  the  Government's  Economic  Recovery
Programme (ERP) brought out criticism occasioned by the
inequitable sharing of the benefits of adjustment among various
population groups. A review by Government of the implementation
of the ERP did reveal uneven progress between economic and social
adjustment. This was largely due to capacity constraints and
management weaknesses in the social sectors. The Government then
decided that more tangible progress with social improvement
needed to be made in the 1994-1995 period.
3.   Thus, new approaches to the resolution of problems in the
social sectors were introduced, including expanding Government
support for NGO programmes to achieve improved social service
delivery. The Government initiated an Action Plan for Social
Sector Rehabilitation and Maintenance which provided the basis
for ESAC I. The ensuing reforms were facilitated by the support
provided by IDA under the first Economic and Social Adjustment
Credit (ESAC I). The latter was co-financed by bilateral donors.
Accomplishments
4.   Progress under ERP supported by ESAC I has been substantial
on many fronts, but slippages did emerge, largely on account of
underestimation of the time required to forge a political
consensus for several difficult adjustment measures to be put in
place and for institution building to succeed.
5.   Despite these delays, however, economic activity began to
respond favourably in a number of areas.   There have been
tangible improvements in transport and communications, the
provision of financial services, real estate activity, wholesale
and retail trade and non-traditional exports. Activity in the
informal  sector  has  also  been  vigorous.        The  positive
developments in these areas, however, were more than offset by
the poor performance of mining, manufacturing, construction,
tourism and agriculture. Thus, economic growth remained elusive
in the 1994-1995 period as output in the economy fell.  Since
population grew by over 3 percent per annum over the period, per
capita income continued its long-time decline. Formal sector
employment also declined. The drought of 1994 contributed to this
disanpointing result.



-21-
Annex I
Page 2 of 2
6.   Government did begin to have success with improving social
conditions in Zambia which had declined substantially over the
past twenty years. Among the constraints impeding effective
delivery of social services were excessive centralisation,
organisational problems, limited implementation capacity in
Government ministries, shortage of qualified personnel reflecting
high attrition rates, poor regional distribution of staff (80
percent of physicians work in 4 provinces along the line of
rail), and shortage of financial resources.
7.   The steps which Government took with IDA's help under
ESAC I to reverse the declining trend in social sector service
delivery  included  decentralisation  of  service  delivery,
particularly de-concentration of service delivery in health and
education (under the Heaith Reform Programme and the Education
Sector Investment Programme), of safety net measures to local
groups, mostly NGOs, and re-structuring the water and sanitation
sector. In addition, the 1994 Budget called for an increase in
expenditures on social services from 27 percent of expenditures
in 1993 to 33 percent in 1994. This higher share has been
maintained until today (and is being exceeded in 1996).
Mobilisation of Donor Support.
8.   Government was greatly helped by IDA's provision of its BOP
support which stimulated the granting of significant financial
support from the international community in 1994/1995. This
refers to both the volume of debt relief obtained and the volume
of donor assistance which was provided. While over time there
were shifts between the various categories of external assistance
that was provided, in particular from balance-of-payments'
support to project assistance, overall Zambia obtained the
external resources which had been requested from its donors and
creditors. This was facilitated by IDA' leading role in the
economic dialogue with Government, supplemented by the positive
role of IDA in the coordination of external assistance through
its leadership of the Consultative Group for Zambia.
Conclusion.
9.    With the help of IDA under ESAC I, the Government was able
to implement an ambitious agenda to transform the economy into
one where private initiative and market forces is playing the
guiding role in the development of the economy. At the same time,
the Government was able to reduce inflation and restore macro-
economic balance, permitting the laying of foundations for a
resumption of investment and of economic and employment growth.
Finally, good progress was achieved with improving social sector
service delivery.



- 22 -
Annex II
Page 1 of 10
Aide Memoire
Implementation Completion Reports: Privatization and Industrial Reform Adjustment
Credit (PIRC I) and Second Privatization and Industrial Reform Credit (PIRC II); and
Economic and Social Adjustment Credit (ESAC)
Purpose of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) and Role of the Borrower
1.    The World Bank requires that an ICR be prepared for each project shortly after its
closing date. The purpose of this mission has been to prepare ICRs for PIRC I, PIRC [I and
ESAC. Because the two PIRCs are closely related, a single report will be prepared covering
both. The ESAC will be covered in a separate ICR. The purpose of this aide memoire is to
review briefly thie puLpose of ICRs and the borrower's responsibility for assisting in their
preparation and to convey a preliminary assessment of the implementation experience of
these operations, their development impact and the sustainability of the reforms they
supported. At the outset, I would like to thank the Government for its cooperation in this
effort and for the frank and useful comments on the major issues.
2.    The ICR is designed to provide feedback from implementation experience, to promote
greater development impact and sustainability of future projects, reinforce self-evaluation,
meet requirements for accountability and facilitate assessment of development impact.
3.    The borrower is responsible for preparing its own final evaluation report on the
project, as required in the General Conditions. This report should be no longer than ten pages
and should include:
(i) an assessment of the project objectives, design, implementation, and operation
experience;
(ii) an evaluation of the borrower's own performance during the evolution and
implementation of the project, with special emphasis on lessons learned that may be relevant
for the fLittire:
(iii) an evaluation of the performance of the Bank and any cofinanciers during the
evolution and implementation of the project, including the effectiveness of the relationships
among the borrower, the bank, and cofinanciers.
4.    The borrower will receive the Bank staffs draft ICR and should provide comments on
it within two months of receiving it.



- 23 -
Annex II
Page 2 of 10
Background of the Adjustment Operations
5.    Structural adjustment in Zambia is a particularly complex and demanding task,
requiring the uLtl comilmitment of Governnent and the populace and the cooperation of
multilateral and bilateral aid agencies. Zambia's economy has experienced prolonged, deep
decline and many of the key institutions needed to carry out a reform programn have atrophied.
Furthermore, the economy has been subjected to pervasive state intervention and ownership,
resulting in deep seated inefficiencies in resource allocation and use. The country has been
and still is heavily dependent on copper for export earnings and government revenues and the
copper industry has directly and indirectly supported a substantial share of the country's
industry and commerce and employment. However, world copper prices have experienced a
secular decline (interrupted by cyclical movements) and Zambia's production has been
declining steadilv. Attempts to maintain domestic incomes and employment in the face of
declining copper earnings by borrowing abroad only succeeded in accumulating a massive
external debt, mortgaging the country's future.
6.    NLumerous efforts at stabilization and adjustment during the 1 980s were not
successfully implemented, as the Government did not have the cormmitment to reform needed
to withstand the political pressures caused by the inevitable short term dislocations. In the
face of these pressures, fiscal and monetary discipline faltered, policy reform was halted and
on more than one occasion, the countrv defaulted on its international debt, bringing external
capital flows to a halt
7.    The Goverrunent elected in 1991 indicated by word and deed its full cornmitment to
restoring macroeconomic adjustment, liberalizing the domestic market and the monetary and
trade systems, privatizing the parastatals and giving autonomy to the remaining public
utilities, reforming and reducing the civil service, and improving the legal and institutional
framework for private enterprises. The international community responded quickly with
(i)balance of payments support, (ii)debt rescheduling; (iii) projects and programs supporting
reform, and (iv) technical assistance. The two IDA financed PIRCs and the ESAC were an
important part of that response.
S.    Ui'del the two PIRCs and the ESAC, the Government's intentions were formalized
into a concrete, time-bound plan of specific actions designed to restore economic growth,
while protecting vulnerable groups in the society and improving vital social services. The
achievement and sustaining of macroeconomic stability and the evidence of the adequacy of
external financing have been important general conditions of all three operations. The latter
ensures that all external partners: the Bank, IMF (through its Rights Accumulation Program)
and bilateral donors (including those involved in rescheduling debt) support the
Government's program and are sharing the financial burden fairly. The keystone of the PIRC
programs was the privatization of parastatal companies. But important actions such as civil
service reform, measures to promote private sector development (improvement of business-
related legislation and the investment approval process and the functioning of the capital
market), arrangements to deal with public utilities retained in public ownership, and ensuring
a social safety net, were important elements of the program.



-24 -                               Annex II
Page 3 of 10
9.    The emphasis of ESAC was somewhat different. Although it continued to depend on
maintenance of macroeconomic stability, the adequacy of the external financing package, and
continued progress on structural adjustment, it included efforts to generate supply response
through removal of bottlenecks to exports and agricultural expansion, including development
of a market for state land, and basic policy changes removing structural obstacles to delivery
of vital sociaL services.
Implementation and Impact of the Government's Program
10.   The Governument's program, as incorporated into the adjustment operations, was
complex, especially compared to of its limited institutional capacity. The implementation of
the program supported by the three Bank operations, which was to cover the period 1992-
1995, was complicated by droughts, which sharply reduced crop production and required
emergency expenditures of fiscal revenue and foreign exchange to import maize, and by a
conitinued decline in copper production., followed by a precipitous drop in the second half of
1995.
11.  In retrospect, the program appears to have been overly ambitious and beyond the
implementation capacity of the Government. Progress has been slow where institution
building or the development of new inechanisms for institutional reform were required. This
is particularly true of the privatization process and actions such as passage of land laws and
business-related legislation, the latter requiring actions by third parties (i.e. the legislature
rather than the executive). It also appears that some of the actions required were either not
central to the achievement of objectives of the program and/ or could have been accomplished
later.
12.   Drafting and passage of amendments some business-related legislation proved to be
more time consuming than anticipated and the final actions were shifted from PIRC I to PIRC
II. NMeasures which would permit release of the third tranche of PIRC II have not yet been
completed: this includes a performance contract for ZESCO (which will be signed soon) and
ZAMTEL (still in draft); and passage of the Small Scale Enterprise Act. Amendment of the
land laws under ESAC proved impossible within the time frame of that operation and the
condition was waived, although some partial reforms were passed.
1 3. tb en with these adjustments, release of the third tranche of PIRC I was delayed half a
year and release of thie third tranche of PIRC II will be at least two years later than originally
scheduled.
Disbursement Experience
Operation          PIRC I          PIRC II           ESAC
Board Date          6/92             5/93             2/94
Schedule*     original  actual original  actual original  actual
Second Tranche  12/92   3/93     11/93  . 10/95    8/94   11/94
Third Tranclhe   6/93  12/93      5/94    6/96**
*Schedule as per Board document; *"current schedule



-25 -                                Annex II
Page 4 of 10
14.   As a result of the adverse developments in agriculture and mining, inadequacies in the
forrnulation of the adjustment program, (discussed in para. 18 below) delays and slippages in
its execution, and problems in the implementation of the macroeconomic program, growth
targets established in the Policy Framework Papers and in the President's Reports to the
World Bank's Executive Directors have not been achieved. GDP growth has been positive in
only one year since 1991 (1993, a year when agriculture was recovering from drought). Per
capita income has continued to decline. Initial findings of the ongoing Poverty Assessment
indicate that there has been a severe adverse impact on the urban poor. Poverty may well
have increased over the last four years, due to removal of producer and consumer subsidies.
Infant mortality has risen from 108 in 1990 to 113 in 1994; adult illiteracy from 25% to 33%.
15.   Nevertheless, there are some bright spots. Some new cash crops have developed --
soya, cotton, tobacco, horticulturals, floriculture -- although marketing and credit remain
obstacles to continued expansion. Market liberalization has encouraged a shift from maize to
more droughlit resistant crops. Nontraditional (non metal) exports have been increasing by 15-
20%, per year and exceeded US $ 175 million in 1995.
16.   Despite numerous challenges over the past four years-- drought, fiscal pressures,
unpopularity and hardships caused by many adjustment measures, and failure of the economy
to revive-- the Government has so far remained firm in its commitment to reform. Execution
of the. Government's program has been uneven, although, taken as a whole, moderately
successful. There has been an almost complete transformation to a market economy. All
price controls and subsidies have been eliminated. The exchange rate has been unified and is
market determined. Importers have virtually unrestricted access to foreign exchange The
credit market andl initerest rates are not controlled but are managed through issue of T-bills.
After a slow start, privatization has been a significant success as the number of enterprises
privatized accelerated in 1995. Safety net provisions, especially drought relief, have been
fairly successful. Progress has been made toward macroeconomic stability, although it was
late in coming. The inflation rate was 200% as late as the first half of 1993, and has only
come down because of the fiscal discipline imposed through the adoption of a cash budget.
Sustaining macroeconomic stability has proved difficult, and the country  continued to
experience inflationary episodes. Civil service reform and government restructuring have not
been successful. Measures designed to promote private sector development present a mixed
picture.  Finally, the poor performance of ZCCNI continues to be a major obstacle to
stabilization and econoiic g,rowth.
Strategic Issues
17.   When the Bank's response to the Government's new commitment to stabilization and
reform was formulated, there was a long agenda of actions that had to be taken. The
program, as conceived, tried to accomplish as many of these actions in the shortest possible
time. As a result the program for PIRC I and, to a lesser extent, PIRC II, was complex and.
too demanding of government teclnical and managerial resources. Some of the key measures
were delaved, while others of lower priority were included in PIRC I By the time ESAC was
prepared. tlis lIC,soLI %%as learned and fewer actions were included in the program.



- 26 -                               Annex II
Page 5 of 10
18.   In retrospect, more immediate priority should have been given to (1) the need for
macroeconomic stabilization to permit private sector investment and growth; (2) the need to
abolish of ZIMCO sooner.to end resistance to privatization; (3) the need to develop a
workable strategy and compensation package for civil service reform; and, (4) the urgency of
rehabilitation and privatization of ZIMCO. On the other hand, streamlining the Investment
Center; amending or enacting various business-related legislation, issuing guidelines for
operation of the capital market; and developing a regulatory agency for public utilities,
included in PIRC r, could have been done later in the adjustment process Similarly, dealing
with the problems of the DBZ, Lima Bank and Eximbank, establishment of a stock exchange,
regulationis conceming contractual savings institutions, assessment of the impact of
privatization, development of a plan to strengthen the regulatory framework for public
utilities; and development of a plan for streamlining the regulatory and licensing requirements
for small scale enterprises and easing their access to credit included in PIRC II could have
been postponed for a year or so. In fact, given the delays in implementation, it might have
been more realistic to stretch out the program into three PIRCs, supporting implementation
over 1992-96.
Process Issues
Program Formulation
19.   The Government elected in 1991 had an good understanding of the issues facing the
country and the measures it needed to take. The Bank's program of adjustment operations
was prepared in close consultation with Government, fully reflected the Government's
objectives and was helpful in translating them into a plan of action. There was close
consultation with the IMF. Bilateral donors, who were to play a key role in providing
external assistance, were consulted and kept informed.
20.   During the preparation of PIRC I efforts were also made to keep the private sector,
and NGOs informed about the content of the program.  For PIRC II, the process was
formalized by hiav ing a Project Launch Workshop involving a larger number of people.
Project Implementation
21.   During the early stages of implementation it became clear that some key government
officials had not read the documents and were not aware of the content of the program. Tlis
required continuing "educational" activity on the part of Bank staff during supervision. All
three operations were closely supervised by the Bank. Supervision reports were detailed,
covering the program point by point. Where implementation was lagging or problems
seemed to) be arising, concrete recommendations were made for their resolution. Extensive
aide memoires wvere left with Government, including matrixes outlining status of actions
taken and further measures required. The donor community was briefed by supervision
missions and task managers visiting Zambia, as well as at Consultative Groups Meetings.
22.   Government monitoring of the program was generally good, especially after initiation
in mid-1993, of a weekly Friday Group, chaired by the Minister of Finance. However, the
group seems to have given most of its attention to macroeconomic issues.



27 -                                 Annex II
Page 6 of 10
23.   Where progress of the program was not satisfactory, tranche releases were delayed
and when timing, no longyer seemed realistic, actions were shifted until later in the program.
Progress in Key Areas of Adjustment
Privatization of Parastatal Enterprises
24..  The most encouraging development has been the progress of privatization. Once ZPA
established an adequate operating framework, with international technical assistance, staffing
and executive leadership problems were resolved, and the political decision was made to
dissolve ZTMCO and thus end a major source of resistance, privatization accelerated. Since
ZIMCO continued to interfere in the management of otherwise well-functioning companies
and was lax in preventing asset stripping of companies scheduled for privatization, it would
probably have been better to eliminate ZIMCO at the outset and transfer its shareholdings to
the Directorate of State Enterprise in the Ministry of Finance.
25.   The number of firms to be privatized has been increased as decisions were made to
privatize autonomous operating units separately. As of February 1996, 113 of 208 firms and
productive units had been privatized.. This does not include 106 shops. The number of
individual firms privatized was about 83. The liquidation of Zambia Airvays and the end of
its drain on1 the budget has been a major achievement. New methods of privatization are
being used, especially management buyouts. It now appears that the privatization process can
be completed in two to three more years.
26.   Measures have been taken to give remaining public utilities more autonomy on key
business decisions, including prices and rates, within the context of understandings on
performance with the Government, although the performance contracts for have not yet been
signed (delaying the release of the third tranche of PIRC 1I).
27.   Although the review of privatization experience was carried out before a sufficient
number of firms had been privatized and therefore could not draw meaningful conclusions,
anecdotal evidence indicates that the objectives of privatization -- increased efficiency and
better products -- are being achieved. For example, the private companies Aero Zambia and
Zambia Express have filled the gap left by liquidation of Zambia Airways, private minibus
transport has successfully replaced the municipal bus company, privatization of beer and
cement companies has resulted in increased supplv and better customer service. .ZPA feels
that the amount of retrenchment directly associated with privatization has been minimal,
perhaps 100 to 150 workers. Most of the retrenchment was pre-privatization, and resulted
from liberalization and the curtailment of subsidies. No privatized company has yet shut
down, although it would be unrealistic to assume this record could continue.
28.   Privatization of ZCCM  was not a central feature of the program: this turns out, in
retrospect, to have been a strategic error. The unanticipated sharp decline of the company's
copper production, its deteriorating financial performance and its declining contribution to
government revenues have been major constraints on growth of the economy and
impediments to macroeconomic stability.



-28-                                 Annex II
Page 7 of 10
Civil Service Reform and Government Restructuring
29.   Civil service reform  has not been successful.  Initial progress was made by
eliminating 10,000 "ghost workers" and non civil service "classified daily workers" in 1992.
Further progress has been stymied because the lack of affordable severance package and the
shortage of budgetary funds. In the meantime, the Government continued to hire recent
graduates of teaching, medical and other programs, as required by law. Statistics on civil
service employment are not yet reliable, but are being improved. Although it is not possible
to be definitive, it is likely that the government payroll is larger than it was in 1991. So far,
an equitable, affordable severance package has not been formulated. The Government has
recentlv adopted a "three for one" program, allowing the hiring of one new employee for
every one that leaves throughl attrition. This should result in a gradual decline in the civil
service rolls.
30.   Reorganization of government ministries is underway, but there does not be a
strategic framework for the redefinition of government functions in a way appropriate to
supporting development of a market economy, while protecting the public interest.
Encourag,ing Private Sector Development
31.   Progress on some measures facilitating private sector development has been
encouraging. Mlost business-related legislation has been revised in an appropriate manner.
Anti monopoly legislation has been enacted and laws relating to banking companies, business
licensing, insurance and the stock exchange have been updated. Measures strengthening
regulation and supervision of banks and nonbank lending institutions were implemented and
guidelines for capital market transactions and operations of stock exchange was issued.
32.   Attempts have been made to encourage exports. Improvements have been made in the
duty drawback system for exporters. However, tariff reform is incomplete and because of
continued  numerous  exemptions, loopholes  (including  COMESA  preferences) and
administrative weaknesses, some business suffer negative protection. It appears that either
the study of the tariff system was inadequate or that framers of the tariff revisions were not
alert to its implications. Further reform of tariffs, including further reduction of rates,
elimination of exemptions, improvement of administration and expediting of drawbacks is
essential and a good start has been made in the 1996 budget.
33.   The major problem for business has been continued macroeconomic instability. The
most damaging aspect of this has been the emergence of high and variable nominal interest
rates, often translating into very high real rates of interest, and unpredictable movements of
the effective exchange rate.
34.   AgricuLtural development continues to be hampered by land legislation that does not
provide secure tenure. The process for conversion of customary land into leasehold was only
defined in 1995 and is just now being implemented Transferring land under leasehold has
been hampered by outmoded legislation and slow  processing.  Furthermore, a large
proportion of urban settlements are not recognized by local governments and thus denied
access to urban services. Without formal titles, residents cannot obtain credit to improve their



-29-                                 Annex II
Page 8 of 10
properties. Legalization would provide a strong impetus for growth and improve the living
standards of thousand of low and middle income Zambians.
35.   The Government's program called for legislative remedy of these problems. However,
the shift from customary tenure to leasehold was not discussed with, or approved by, the
chiefs in advance. There was limited understanding of and consensus on program. As a
result, the legislation was not enacted by parliament until 1995. A waiver was granted so that
the second tranche of ESAC could be released.
Macroeconomic Stabilization
36.   Some progress has been made toward reducing macroeconomic imbalances,
especiallv since the adoption of the cash budget in 1993. Domestic expenditures have fallen
from 25% of GDP in 1991 to about 18% in 1995, while revenues have regained their 1991
level of 19% of GDP, despite falling receipts from mining. The fiscal accounts, which
showed a deficit equivalent to 7% of GDP in 1991, were nearly in balance by 1995. The
inflation rate has declined from triple digits for a few years before 1992 to just under 40%
since mid 1993. But this is still far too high. The Government successfully competed its
IMF Rights Accumulation Program, and is now implementing an ESAF arrangement.
However the program was off track in the first two months of 1996.
37.   Sustaining macroeconomic stability has, however, proven difficult. There has been a
disturbing tendency for fiscal performance to go off track, especially in the early part of the
year. AlthougL1 the specific reason seems to be different each year, it is clear that there are
problems with the budget making process, especially since, with low growth of revenues and
continued high civil service employment, there is no margin for error in the budget. These
problems are generally resolved later in the year by squeezing expenditures and/or
introducing ad hoc revenue measures. Because of this, completion of the Fund's Rights
Accumulation Program required a number of waivers and resetting of benchmarks.
38.   With liberalized credit and foreign exchange markets and the Government being the
major player in these markets, variations in Government's issue of T-bills have a strong effect
on intcrest rates and Government's management of foreign exchange reserves has a major
inmpact on exclKmn.ze rate movements. Sustained macroeconomic stability requires better
management of the budget, monetary policy and foreign exchange reserves. It also requires
augmentation of revenues and rationalization of expenditures to provide a better balance
between wage and nonwage outlays, and increased expenditures for infrastructure and its
maintenance.
Provision of a Social Safety Net
39.  TThe Government was successful in alleviating the impact of the drought on the poor
and disndvantaged.  It implemented a transitional subsidy on imported yellow maize to
custionl the pricc iImpact of thie drought. It channeled special assistance through local groups
supported by the World Food Program and NGOs to ensure that affected families were fed
and had seed for next year's planting. Furtlher, it assisted poorer families through a 15%
subsidy on the type of maize with higher nutritional value. Although the subsidy has since
been removed, thie Government used some of the resulting savings to expand social welfare



- 30 -                                 Annex II
Page 9 of 10
programs implemented through the Ministry of Community Development and Social
Welfare, increased funding for small-scale labor intensive public works (supported by IDA
and other donors) and other components of the Social Action Program, and converted some
of those to paid work instead of self help.
40.   In 1993 Government decided to increase access to social services removing structural
constraints. Progress has been made on decentralization of budgetary and implementation
authority to lower levels of government, devolution of activities to comrnunity groups and
NGOs, and restructuring budgets for health, education, water supply and the safety net. .The
share of the national budget allocated to basic social services was increased, with emphasis on
primary education and health care and other services of importance to the low income
population, including water supply and sanitation. Nevertheless, budgetary allocations for
social sectors continue to be inadequate. Despite some increases in their allocations relative
to the total budget, delivery of some important services continued to deteriorate as total
expenditures have shrunk in real terms.
Rehabilitation and Privatization of ZCCM
41.   Failure to deal with problem of ZCCM early in the adjustment process has proven to
be a serious problem. ZCCM's production, which averaged 700,000 tons per year during the
early 1970s, is now down to about 250,000-260,000 tons.. Production dropped by 30% in
September 1995 and whether and how soon it can recover is problematic. The firm's
procurement practices are unsatisfactory and are a major source of financial losses. The
company is now experiencing cash losses, is in arrears to its suppliers and is not making
payments to the Treasury.
42.   The privatization of ZCCM is the only permanent solution to the problems of the
copper sector.  However, the Government has not settled on a strategy for doing so.
Moreover, the future role principal minority shareholder and most likely buvers, Anglo and a
consortium of other mining companies, has yet to be worked out. Privatization of ZCCM% is
inevitable and lawyvers and investment bankers have been hired to plan it. In the interim, the
company clearly needs to develop an emergency rehabilitation program, but the current
management has not been able to formulate one. There is an obvious need to strengthen top
management In any event, production from the open pit mine can only last about four more
years. Thie Koikola Deep project, which would fill the gap. needs to be put on the fast track.
Sustainability of the Program
43.   The sustainability of the Government's program ultimately depends on its success in
generating improving living standards. Without this, the Government will come under
increasing political pressure to abandon or slow down implementation. The situation will be
exceptionally critical over the next few months in the run up to elections. The Government
must also increase its efforts to protect the livelihood of vulnerable groups and to spread the
benefits of growth through intensified provision of human services and critical infrastructure,
especiCl11 iII rurral areas.
44.   Accelerating  growth  will require  improved  performance  in  macroeconomic
managTement. *with the aim of bringing the rate of inflation down to single digit levels.



-31 -                                 Annex II
Page 10 of 10
reducing the nominal and real rates of interest, and maintaining the real exchange rate at
levels that promote growth of the tradables sector. The key to this will be further improving
fiscal performance through enhanced revenues and rationalized expenditures.
45.   ZCCM's poor performance is a major impediment to growth.  An immediate,
determiiicd effort is required to rehabilitate existing operations, to put privatization on the fast
track and to settle the future of Konkola North so that development work can begin quickly.
46.   Adequate external financing must be insured.  This will require demonstrated
continued government comrmitment to the reform process and sustained stabilization. The
benchmarks of the IiMF ESAF program must be met. Concerns of bilateral donors about
"governance" issues, unless dispelled, could result in a decreased availability of aid flows.
Bilateral donors are concerned that corruption and asset stripping have reached levels where
they jeopardize macroeconomic stability. They also feel that the exceptional priority given
Zambia in their aid budgets can only be justified if democratic traditions continue to be
observed. Recent and ongoing developments have cast some doubt on this. In the long run,
attaininent of sustained positive growth and increasing well-being of the populace depends on
the character and quality of governance.
47.   Finally, the privatization process is irreversible. By the end of 1990, 75% of the
privatization (other than ZIMCO) will have been accomplished. Even if a decision were
made in principle to reverse privatization, external financial support would end and resource
constraints would prevent the decision from being implemented. Failure to go ahead with the
privatization of ZIMCO would almost certainly result in the demise of the company.
David G. Greene, Consultant. The World Bank
Nlarch 16, 1996
Soutlhern Africa Department
A:\ZAMBIAAI.DOC
March 16, 1996 10:19 AM



I






.MAG l;lNG
Rkeport No:        158b37
Type: ICF.



