Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
between
GOVERNMENT OF FINLAND
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated November 28, 1990
AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of November 28, 1990, between the GOVERN-MENT 
OF FINLAND (hereinafter referred to as the Government) and the 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter 
referred to as the Bank) to provide for the administra-tion by the Bank 
of certain funds to be made available to the Republic of Zambia 
(hereinafter referred to as Zambia).
WHEREAS (A) the Government intends to make available to eligible 
developing countries experiencing acute debt problems and which are 
executing economic adjustment programs approved by the Bank, grants to 
assist such countries meet their debt obligations and/or import 
financing needs;
(B)
Zambia is executing an economic adjustment program approved 
Page  2
by the Bank;
(C)
the Government wishes to make available to Zambia a grant 
not exceeding ninety-five million Finnish Markkaa (FIM 95,000,000) 
(hereinafter referred to as the Grant) to assist Zambia in repaying part 
of its arrears to the Bank, and/or meeting its requirements to finance 
general imports;
(D)
the Government intends to enter into a Grant Agreement 
(hereinafter called the Grant Agreement) with Zambia which shall provide 
for the terms and conditions of the Grant; and
(E)
the Bank has agreed to administer the Grant upon the terms 
and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Administration of the Grant
Section 1.01. (a) For the purpose of this Agreement the Government 
shall deposit ninety-five million Finnish Markkaa (FIM 95,000,000) in an 
account with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (hereinafter referred 
to as the Trust Account) in the name of the Bank. The funds in the Trust 
Account shall be freely exchange-able by the Bank with other currencies 
as may facilitate their administration hereunder.
(b)
The amount of the Grant shall be deposited into the Trust 
Account promptly after the effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. The Government hereby appoints the Bank as 
administrator of the Grant and authorizes the Bank to: (a) hold and 
disburse the Grant towards repaying part of the arrears owed by Zambia 
to the Bank, and/or financing general imports; and (b) do any and all 
such acts and things as may be necessary or appropriate to fully 
accomplish the foregoing. The Bank shall so apply the proceeds of the 
Grant only upon receipt of: (i) a communication from the Government 
informing the Bank that the Grant Agreement has been entered into; and 
(ii) instructions from Zambia to that effect.
Section 1.03. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 1.02 
above, if Zambia fails to implement the economic reform program approved 
by the Bank, the Bank shall, after consultation with the Government, 
reallocate the Grant to other eligible countries successfully 
implementing economic reform programs.
Section 1.04. The Bank shall exercise the same care in the 
discharge of its functions under this Agreement as it exercises with 
respect to the administration and management of its own affairs and 
shall have no further responsibilities to the Government in respect 
thereof.
Section 1.05. In order to assist in the defrayment of the costs of 
administration and other expenses incurred by the Bank under this 
Agreement the Bank may invest and reinvest the funds in the Trust 
Account pending their withdrawal pursuant to Section 1.02 of this 
Agreement, and may retain for its own account the income from any such 
investment or reinvestment.
ARTICLE II
Page  3
Records, Accounts
Section 2.01. The Bank shall:
(a)
maintain separate records and accounts of the proceeds of 
the Grant withdrawn from the Trust Account;
(b)
cause such records and accounts to be audited and certified 
by the Bank auditors; and
(c)
furnish to the Government a copy of the report of such 
audit.
ARTICLE III
Consultation
Section 3.01. The Government and the Bank shall consult from time 
to time at the request of each other on all matters arising from this 
Agreement and other matters of common interest to them in fulfilling the 
objectives of the Grant.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon signature 
by the parties.
Section 4.02. If at any time it appears to either party that the 
purposes of this Agreement cannot effectively or appropriately be 
carried out, the arrangements set forth herein may be terminated at the 
initiative of such party on thirty days' notice in writing to the other. 
Upon such termination, unless the Government and the Bank otherwise 
agree, any funds of the Government held hereunder by the Bank shall be 
returned to the Government and the Bank's administration shall be 
considered terminated.
Section 4.03. This Agreement shall terminate when the amount of 
the Grant has been withdrawn and used by the Bank pursuant to Section 
1.02 of this Agreement.
Section 4.04. Promptly after termination of this Agreement, the 
Bank shall furnish to the Government a final report and a financial 
statement of the Trust Account.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous
Section 5.01. This Agreement may be amended only by written 
agreement of the parties hereto.
Section 5.02. Any notice or request required or permitted to be 
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties 
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or 
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or mail, telephone, cable, telex or rapifax to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such 
Page  4
party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Government:
Ministry of Foreign Affairs
The Finnish International Development
  Agency (FINNIDA)
Mannerheimintie 15 C
00260 Helsinki
Finland
Telex:
        124636 UMIN SF
Telefax:
                                            358-0-440857
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable Address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
   197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
   248423 (RCA),
    64145 (WUI) or
    82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned duly authorized thereto, have 
signed this Agreement in duplicate, one copy for the Government and the 
other for the Bank.
GOVERNMENT OF FINLAND
By /s/ Jukka Valtasaari
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Stephen Denning
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
Page  5
