Report No. PID10602
Project Name                     Argentina-Structural Adjustment Loan...
(SAL)
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Sector                           PREM
Task Manager                     David Rosenblatt
Project ID                       ARPE73591
Borrower                         Argentine Republic
Environmental Category           Not Applicable
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Economy
Address:
H. Irigoyen, 250
Capital Federal, Argentina
Contact: Mr. Luis Lucioni,
(54-11-4349-5611)
Date PID Prepared                August 9, 2001
Projected Board Date             August 28, 2001
Background
The 1990s were a decade of sweeping economic reforms in Argentina, resulting
in strong economic growth, averaging 4.8 percent per year during the period.
But over the past three years, Argentina has been hit by a series of external
shocks: the Asia crisis (1997), the Russian default (1998), the Brazilian
devaluation (1999), the US dollar appreciation and low commodity prices.     As
a result, the economy shrank by 3.4 percent in 1999, followed by a drop of
0.5 percent in 2000. The key to restoring growth rests with measures to
increase productivity, reduce the fiscal drain on the economy and restore
investor and consumer confidence.
In late 2000, in reaction to deteriorating access to international capital
markets and continuing lack of growth, the Government initiated a new set of
economic reforms to strengthen its fiscal position, including that of
provincial governments. To provide a financing cushion and to bolster
confidence, the Government negotiated a package of international financial
support of $39.7 billion, with about half from the private sector. The
package also included an augmented stand-by arrangement of approximately
$13.7 billion with the IMF. The Bank pledged a contribution of about $2.5
billion, with up to $900 million in quick-disbursing adjustment lending.
The announcement of the international package provided immediate relief into
early 2001, as country risk and interest rates fell. However, fiscal
performance in the first three months of 2001 did not meet expectations. The
Minister of Economy resigned in early March 2001 and a new economic team was
brought in. By mid-March, this economic team too was replaced. Country risk
spreads jumped once again, and the urgency in addressing Argentina's economic
difficulties mounted.
The new team is headed by Minister of Economy, Domingo Cavallo, previously
Minister during the 1991-1996 period and the architect of the Convertibility
Plan. Minister Cavallo has put in place an economic recovery strategy based



on three pillars: (a) strengthening political cohesion and support for
reform; (b) securing financing to dispel risks of default; and (c) promoting
economic policies that address fundamental fiscal and economic growth
challenges. Congress granted the Executive Branch special powers to enact
economic measures by decree. A debt swap was implemented to lower debt
service obligations over the next five years, with much of the savings
accruing during the next eighteen months. To stimulate growth, a number of
sectoral agreements were reached to lower fiscal and regulatory impacts on
external competitiveness. In addition, the Government has embarked on a
concerted effort to strengthen tax administration, and improve key social
services to address better the needs of the poor and to reinforce investment
in human capital. At the same time, provincial governments will continue to
accompany the Federal Government in reducing fiscal deficits. Recently,
additional complementary measures were announced, aiming to: (a) increase
competitiveness through a trade compensatory system of fiscal incentives and
disincentives; (b) stimulate consumption and growth through the reduction of
income taxes to low and medium-income persons; and (c) improve the collection
of past-due taxes and reduce evasion. In addition, the Government has
initiated a zero-deficit policy to immediately address the fiscal deficit and
lower the government's financing needs.
The Reform Program to be Supported by the Proposed SAL
To some extent, the macroeconomic shocks described above are a function of
fiscal vulnerability, due to fiscal imbalances at both the federal and
provincial levels. Efforts to assist vulnerable groups throughout the
economic cycle is also dependent upon the highly decentralized public
sector's ability to deliver a steady stream of basic social services. Thus,
the proposed operation supports the ambitious program to improve the
administration of those social programs that are under its own responsibility
(including the pension system, family allowances, and the delivery of social
assistance); improve the structure and regulatory environment of the national
health insurance system; improve the administration of the tax system that
finances social expenditures at all levels of government; and stabilize
provincial transfers and provincial fiscal management, including improved
transparency, budgeting and planning.
In terms of social services, the central government is focused on regulation
of the national health insurance system, income transfers and health care for
the elderly and a wide range of targeted social protection programs. The
provinces are responsible for primary and secondary education, public
hospitals and clinics, housing and a variety of social protection programs.
Social expenditures comprise about 53 percent of provincial budgets.
Financing of recurrent expenditures in the social sectors for both levels of
government depends on tax revenues that are largely collected by the federal
government (82 percent of consolidated public sector tax revenues).
This SAL could be the first in a series of loans, totaling $900 million, to
support the Government as it progresses in the various stages of the reform
program.
Borrower and Loan Amount
The Borrower of the loan would be the Argentine Republic. The amount is
expected to be approximately $400 million to be disbursed in two tranches of
$200 million each. The first tranche would be conditioned on Board approval,
and declaration of effectiveness of the Loan Agreement, including subsequent
affirmative evaluations of the compliance of the Government with reform
actions agreed during negotiations. While the actions to be completed for
each tranche will be limited to key measures, the full program of the
Government will be detailed in a Letter of Development Policy.
- 2 -



Environmental Aspects
Through a review of the reform actions, it was determined that negative
environmental impacts from the reform measures are not anticipated.
Benefits and Risks.
Benefits. Expected benefits include: (a) improved fiscal stability across
levels of government; (b) improved stability in the level of social services
provided by the public sector especially those targeted to the poor; (c)
improved efficiency, equity and quality of health insurance services; (b)
improved quality of education services through a clearer role of the federal
ministry; (c) improved effectiveness of federal and provincial social
protection programs in reaching the poor; (d) improved equity and financial
sustainability of the national social security (pension) system; and (d)
improved efficiency of tax administration.
Risks. The reform program involves a complex variety of actions by several
federal agencies and the provinces. Given the currently fragile economic
environment, the breadth and depth of reforms remain critical factors to
restoring external and domestic investors' confidence in the future of the
Argentine economy. The pace of reforms will also depend upon the need to
secure broad public support for these actions. External or domestic economic
shocks could occur, leading to problems in the implementation of the program.
Political events in Argentina could pose a challenge for sustaining reforms.
Coordination with Multilateral Institutions
Over the past decade, the Bank has worked with the IMF in the design of
adjustment operations in Argentina, in formulating country strategy, and in
economic and sector analysis. The IDB is supporting similar reforms in the
social sectors and federal-provincial fiscal relations.
David Rosenblatt
Task Manager
(202)473-7930
-3-



