Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7075-AR
Loan Agreement
(Structural Adjustment Loan)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 5, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 7075-AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 5, 2001, between  ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter, dated August 2, 
2001, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the Borrower’s fiscal, social and public administration 
sectors (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the 
execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the 
Program during the execution thereof; and 
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan 
in two tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans" of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 with 
the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral 
Page  2
part of this Agreement: 
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read:
"‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.";
(b)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement 
and of these General Conditions";
(c)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(d)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the performance by 
the 
Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.";  and
(e)
Section 9.05. is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 
9.08 and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"AFIP" means Administración Federal de Ingresos Públicos, the Borrower’s 
Tax Administration Agency;
(b)
"ANSES" means Administración Nacional de la Seguridad Social, the 
Borrower’s National Social Security Administration;
(c)
"Deposit Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(d)
"Federal Agreement" means the agreement (Compromiso Federal) of November 
17, 2000 entered into amongst the Borrower, the Government of the Autonomous City of 
Buenos Aires and the Provinces of  Buenos Aires, Catamarca, Córdoba, Corrientes, 
Chaco, Chubut, Entre Ríos, Formosa, Jujuy, La Pampa, La Rioja, Mendoza, Misiones, 
Neuquén, Río Negro, Salta, San Juan, San Luis, Santa Fe, Santiago del Estero, Tierra 
del Fuego, Antártida  e Islas del Atlántico Sur and Tucumán  which provides, inter 
alia, for the economic growth and fiscal discipline of the Government of the 
Autonomous City of Buenos Aires and said Provinces;
(e)
"Government of the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires" means a political 
subdivision of the Borrower (other than a Province) as per Article 129 of the 
Borrower’s 1994 Constitution;
(f)
"Obras Sociales de Personal de Dirección" means a social health insurance 
fund for management level employees under the jurisdiction of SSS;
(g)
"Obras Sociales Sindicales" means a social health insurance fund for all 
non-management employees under the jurisdiction of SSS;
(h)
"Province" means a political subdivision of the Borrower as per Title Two 
Page  3
of the Borrower’s 1994 Constitution;
(i)
"Second Tranche Release Date" means the date on which the Bank sends the 
Borrower a notice to the effect that the conditions set forth or referred to in 
Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement have been met;
(j)
"SNSS" means Sistema Nacional del Seguro de Salud, the Borrower’s 
National Health Insurance System; 
(k)
"Solidarity Redistribution Fund" means the Borrower’s Fondo Solidario de 
Redistribución established by Law No. 23660 of  December 29, 1988 (Ley No. 23660) for 
the provision of, inter alia, cross-subsidies to Obras Sociales; 
(l)
"SSS" means Superintendencia de Servicios de Salud, the Borrower’s Health 
Service Superintendency; and
(m)
"State Modernization Letter" means the letter of even date herewith from 
the Borrower to the Bank setting forth the targets to be attained by the Borrower, 
AFIP and ANSES as provided in paragraphs 13, 17, 19, 20, 23, 25, 26, 28, 29 and 30 of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to four hundred 
million Dollars ($400,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of 
this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the 
first request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in its 
central bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank. Except with respect to the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement, all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into 
the Deposit Account. The Borrower shall not allow any other amounts from any source to 
be deposited in the Deposit Account. 
(b)
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from the Loan Account 
in support of the Program.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, 
refund such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall 
be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account after the aggregate of 
the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account shall have reached 
$200,000,000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the 
Bank:
(i)
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of 
the Program;
(ii)
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
satisfactory; and
Page  4
(iii)
that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement have 
been taken in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.
If, after said exchange of views, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower 
that the applicable conditions referred to in this paragraph have not been fulfilled 
and, within 90 days after such notice, such conditions continue to be unfulfilled, 
then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the 
Loan or any part thereof.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to 
$4,000,000.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period 
at the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay 
interest on such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment shall be payable semiannually on February 
15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate 
to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in Section 
2.01(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Page  5
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, as well as every month from the 
Effective Date to the Second Tranche Release Date, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program including any 
action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
six months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of 
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account 
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is satisfactory to the 
Bank; and
(b)
the Bank is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the 
carrying out of the Program.
Section 5.02. The date December 5, 2001 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  6
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economía
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250
1086 Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
MINISTERIO DE ECONOMIA  121942-AR
Baires
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first above written.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Domingo F. Cavallo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Myrna L. Alexander
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
Page  7
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112            -
Alcoholic beverages
121            -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122            -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco Substitutes)
525            -
Radioactive and associated materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718         718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof;
fuel elements (cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897         897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
wares (including set gems)
971            -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates) 
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party);
6.
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or 
of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, 
without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Bank to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
1.
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn 
as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by 
the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as 
of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
Page  8
applies.
Installment Share
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
February 15, 2005
2.50%
August 15, 2005
2.50%
February 15, 2006
2.50%
August 15, 2006
2.50%
February 15, 2007
3.00%
August 15, 2007
3.00%
February 15, 2008
3.00%
August 15, 2008
3.00%
February 15, 2009
3.80%
August 15, 2009
3.80%
February 15, 2010
3.80%
August 15, 2010
3.80%
February 15, 2011
4.40%
August 15, 2011
4.40%
February 15, 2012
4.40%
August 15, 2012
4.40%
February 15, 2013
5.30%
August 15, 2013
5.30%
February 15, 2014
5.30%
August 15, 2014
5.30%
February 15, 2015
6.00%
August 15, 2015
6.00%
February 15, 2016
6.00%
August 15, 2016
6.00%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in 
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the 
Original Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all 
remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after 
such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of  withdrawal.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the 
Loan to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that 
shall be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate 
that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank 
Page  9
under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank 
so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate 
component of the Screen Rate. 
5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
SCHEDULE 3
Actions referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement
Fiscal Sector Actions
1.
The Borrower has transferred to all Provinces (pursuant to the Borrower’s Law (
Ley) No. 25.400 of December 7, 2000 which ratified the Federal Agreement), during the 
period covered between January 2001 and the calendar month which is two (2) calendar 
months prior to the Second Tranche Release Date, a monthly aggregate amount equal to 
approximately 1,333,000,000 Argentine Pesos which amount represents the automatic 
federal fiscal transfers pursuant to the Borrower’s Laws (Leyes) Nos. 23548 of January 
22, 1988 (Coparticipación Federal de Impuestos), 24049 of January 2, 1992 
(Transferencia de Servicios),  24073  and 24621 of April 8, 1992 and January 3, 1996, 
respectively (Ganancias 10%-Fondo Conurbano Bonaerense y Excedente),  24073 of April 
8,1992 (Ganancias 4%), 24699 of September 26, 1996 (Ganancias Suma Fija), 23966 and 
24699 of August 15, 1991 and September 26, 1996, respectively (Bienes Personales), 
23905 and 23906 of February 16, 1991 and April 10, 1991, respectively 
(Activos-Finalidad Fondo Educativo), 23966 of August 15, 1991 (IVA–Seguridad Social), 
23966, 24464 and 24699 of August 15, 1991, March 27, 1995 and September 26, 1996, 
respectively (Impuesto a los Combustibles Líquidos (Obras de Infraestructura, Vialidad 
Provincial, Fondo Nacional de la Vivienda)), 24130 of September 17, 1992 (Fondo 
Compensador de Desequilibrios) and 24977 of July 2, 1998 (Régimen Simplificado para 
Pequeños Contribuyentes-Monotributo), as said laws have been amended to the date of 
this Agreement.
2.
All Provinces and the Government of the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires have not 
exceeded an aggregate provincial fiscal deficit of: (a) 1,450,000,000 Argentine Pesos 
during the first calendar semester of the year 2001 if the Second Tranche Release Date 
falls between September 1, 2001 and November 15, 2001; (b) 2,080,000,000 Argentine 
Pesos during the first three calendar quarters of the year 2001 if the Second Tranche 
Release Date falls between November 16, 2001 and February 15, 2002; and (c) 
2,760,000,000 Argentine Pesos during the calendar year 2001 if the Second Tranche 
Release Date falls after February 15, 2002. For purposes of this Schedule, "provincial 
fiscal deficit" means the difference between public sector expenditures accrued (gasto 
devengado) by the Provinces and the Government of the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires 
and public sector revenues received by the Provinces and the Government of the 
Autonomous City of Buenos Aires  (excluding revenues received by the Provinces and the 
Government of the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires with regard to privatizations of 
their assets). 
3.
The Borrower, through its Ministry of Economy, has published, on its web site: 
(a) the applicable aggregate provincial fiscal deficit referred to in paragraph 2 
above; and (b) a report on the progress achieved by the Provinces which have ratified 
the Federal Agreement and the Government of the Autonomous City of Buenos Aires in 
carrying out their respective obligations under said Federal Agreement as of the 
following dates: (i) during the first calendar semester of the year 2001 if the Second 
Tranche Release Date falls between September 1, 2001 and November 15, 2001; (ii) 
during first three calendar quarters of the year 2001 if the Second Tranche Release 
Date falls between November 16, 2001 and February 15, 2002; and (iii) during the 
calendar year 2001 if the Second Tranche Release Date falls after February 15, 2002.  
4. 
At least 3 Provinces which have ratified the Federal Agreement have established 
and are implementing a tax payment information system which is compatible with the 
federal government’s tax payment information system.
Health Sector Actions
Page  10
5.
The Borrower’s executive branch has issued a Presidential Decree requiring that, 
not later than 90 days after said Decree is in full force and effect: (a) AFIP, ANSES 
and SSS develop a consolidated enrollment database (to be used by the SSS) containing 
gender, age, address and family relationship information of all affiliates and 
beneficiaries of the SNSS; and (b) the compensation mechanism of the Solidarity 
Redistribution Fund be modified to provide compensation to each SNSS’ affiliate and 
beneficiary in accordance with a per-capita criteria. 
6.
The Borrower’s executive branch has issued a Presidential Decree that will amend 
the provisions of Decree No. 504/98 (Decreto No. 504/98) of May 12, 1998 so as to 
provide the right to all employees who make contributions to the SNSS (regardless of 
their monthly income level) to select, from their first day of employment, any health 
insurer under either: (a) Obras Sociales Sindicales (if the employees qualify for 
Obras Sociales Sindicales); or (b) Obras Sociales del Personal de Dirección, (if the 
employees qualify for Obras Sociales del Personal de Dirección).
7.
The Borrower’s executive branch has issued a Presidential Decree that will 
eliminate all subsidies established pursuant to Resolutions Nos. 577-98 and 1040-98 of 
May 20 and June 26, 1998, respectively, issued by the Borrower’s Administration of 
Special Programs (Administración de Programas Especiales-APE) and which are provided 
by APE to any health insurer under either Obras Sociales Sindicales or Obras Sociales 
del Personal de Dirección Obras Sociales, as the case may be, which is facing a 
chronic operating deficit, and the term “chronic operating deficit” will be defined in 
said Decree in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
8.
The Borrower’s executive branch has issued a Presidential Decree that will: (a) 
establish the legal framework for excluding from the records of the National Registry 
of Health Insurers (Registro Nacional de Agentes del Seguro) any health insurer which 
has not complied with the minimum economic, financial and service delivery indicators 
set forth in Resolutions Nos. 109/00, 117/00 and 232/01 issued by the SSS on April 26, 
2000, May 4, 2000 and June 27, 2001, respectively, and such Decree to also establish a 
deadline for the completion of said exclusion; and (b) establish the procedures 
pursuant to which all affiliates and beneficiaries of said health insurer would be 
transferred to another health insurer registered in the registry mentioned in 
subparagraph (a) herein which is in compliance with the indicators referred to in said 
subparagraph (a).  
Social Protection Actions
9.
The Borrower, through its Chief of Cabinet Office (Jefatura de Gabinete de 
Ministros), has prepared and furnished to the Bank a proposal to consolidate the 
benefits provided by Pensiones Asistenciales with all other national income transfer 
programs (established or to be established) that cover the same target population as 
Pensiones Asistenciales. For purposes of this paragraph, Pensiones Asistenciales means 
a subcategory of the Borrower’s non-contributory pension regime.
10.
The Borrower, through its Chief of Cabinet Office (Jefatura de Gabinete de 
Ministros), has: (a) established the minimum data to be included in the file for each 
social program beneficiary in the unified system of identification and registry of 
beneficiaries of social programs; and (b) prepared and adopted a plan to collect the 
data referred to in (a) herein.
State Modernization Actions
11.
The Borrower’s executive branch has issued a Presidential Decree that will 
prohibit employees who are working within the public sector to receive salary payments 
and retiree benefits at the same time.
12.
The Borrower’s executive branch has issued a Presidential Decree that will 
permit the creation and regulation of the position of Program Managers within the 
Borrower’s non-financial public sector. For purposes of this Schedule, "Program 
Manager" means a manager who has been hired on a fixed-term basis and whose employment 
contract extension is subject to meeting the performance targets (compromisos de 
resultados de gestión) set forth in said contract.
13.
For the applicable Second Tranche Release Date period set forth in annex 1 to 
the State Modernization Letter, the Borrower has attained the corresponding target, 
Page  11
indicated in said annex, with respect to the hiring of Program Managers in the 
Borrower’s non-financial public sector agencies or entities (and has maintained such 
attainment as of no later than 15 calendar days before the Second Tranche Release 
Date).
14.
ANSES and AFIP have each signed an agreement with the Borrower’s National Social 
and Taxpayer Identification System (Sistema de Identification Nacional Tributario y 
Social - SYNTys) that will enable each of these agencies to share the following 
information with SYNTys: (a) in the case of ANSES, all information contained in any  
two of the following databases: Unified Registry of Pensions and Retirement 
Beneficiaries and First Payment to Retirees (Registro Unico de Beneficiarios y 
Primeros Pagos), Family Allowances (Asignaciones Familiares), Unemployment Insurance 
(Seguro de Desempleo), Registry of Beneficiaries of  the National Health Insurance 
System (Padrón de Obras Sociales) and Unified Registry of Individuals (Base de 
Personas); and (b) in the case of AFIP, all information contained in any two of the 
following databases: Income Tax (Impuesto a las Ganancias), Personal Property Tax 
(Impuesto a los Bienes Personales), Unified Tax (Monotributo), Integrated System of 
Retirement Fund and Pensions (Sistema Integrado de Jubilaciones y Pensiones) and 
Registry of Taxpayers (Padrón de Contribuyentes).
15.
The Borrower’s executive branch has enacted a new procurement law (through the 
issuance of a Presidential Decree) as authorized by the Borrower’s Law No. 25.414 (Ley 
No. 25.414) of March 29, 2001.
16.
Issuance of a norm that will mandate banks and other financial institutions not 
to permit any withdrawal of funds from any account (within said banks and/or financial 
institutions) in the name of, or for the benefit of, a taxpayer who has overdue tax 
obligations with AFIP and whose account is being subject to an attachment (embargo) 
order after said banking and/or financial institution has been officially notified of 
said judicial order.
17.
For the applicable Second Tranche Release Date period set forth in annex 2 to 
the State Modernization Letter, AFIP has attained the corresponding target, indicated 
in said annex, with respect to the tax payment information to be included in the 
Borrower’s federal tax payment information system (Sistema 2000), (and has maintained 
such attainment as of no later than 15 calendar days before the Second Tranche Release 
Date).
18.
AFIP has completed the technical design  for the restructuring of its federal 
tax payment information system mentioned in paragraph 17 above to permit AFIP the 
creation of a single file for each federal taxpayer, which file will include 
information on tax obligations and tax payments with respect to all federal taxes.
19.
For the applicable Second Tranche Release Date period set forth in annex 3 to 
the State Modernization Letter, AFIP has attained the corresponding target, indicated 
in said annex, with respect to the carrying out of federal tax audits (and has 
maintained such attainment as of no later than 15 calendar days before the Second 
Tranche Release Date); and furnished to the Bank a report indicating the increase of 
potential tax revenues resulting from attaining the applicable target set forth in 
said annex 3.
20. 
For the applicable Second Tranche Release Date period set forth in annex 4 to 
the State Modernization Letter, AFIP has attained the corresponding target, indicated 
in said annex, with respect to the implementation of a system that will
provide AFIP, 
in connection with the carrying out of tax audits, information concerning the payment 
of the financial transactions tax (established pursuant to Decree No. 25.413 (Decreto 
No. 25.413) of March 24, 2001) by taxpayers (and has maintained such attainment as of 
no later than 15 calendar days before the Second Tranche Release Date).
21.
AFIP has adopted and published an ethics code that will regulate the conduct of 
its employees while performing their functions and responsibilities.
22.
AFIP has lowered, for the calendar month immediately preceding the Second 
Tranche Release Date, the number of physical inspections at points of entry to no more 
than 25% of the import transactions on said given month, excluding from said 
limitation all physical inspections at point of entry requested by other Borrower’s 
Page  12
agencies.
23.
For the applicable Second Tranche Release Date period set forth in annex 5 to 
the State Modernization Letter, AFIP, through its Directorate General of Customs (
Dirección General de Aduanas) and Directorate General of Taxes (Dirección General de 
Impuestos), has attained the corresponding target indicated in said annex, with 
respect to the carrying out of tax audits of importers after the merchandise has been 
released to said importer (post release audits), (and has maintained such attainment 
as of no later than 15 calendar days before the Second Tranche Release Date). 
24.
  ANSES has issued regulations to Decree No. 893/01 (Decreto No. 893/01) of July 
10, 2001 to eliminate at least forty percent (40%) of ANSES’ operating units in its 
central administration department.
25.
For the applicable Second Tranche Release Date period set forth in annex 6 to 
the State Modernization Letter, ANSES has attained the corresponding target, indicated 
in said annex, aimed to achieve a gradual reduction of the total amount of fees that 
ANSES paid during the year 2000 to banking institutions for processing benefit 
payments to ANSES’ beneficiaries (and has maintained such attainment as of no later 
than 15 calendar days before the Second Tranche Release Date).
26.
For the applicable Second Tranche Release Date period set forth in annex 7 to 
the State Modernization Letter, ANSES has attained the corresponding target, indicated 
in said annex, aimed to the resolution of pending pension applications (and has 
maintained such attainment as of no later than 15 calendar days before the Second 
Tranche Release Date). 
27.
ANSES has designed a family allowance payment system that will enable ANSES to 
calculate the payments that are due to family representatives under the family 
allowance program (Programa de Liquidación Decentralizada). 
28.
For the applicable Second Tranche Release Date period set forth in annex 8 to 
the State Modernization Letter, ANSES has attained the corresponding target, indicated 
in said annex, with respect to: (a) the information on families (under the program 
referred to in paragraph 27 above) to be incorporated into the database of the system 
mentioned in said paragraph 27; and (b) the number of families to receive payments 
(under the program referred to in said paragraph 27) through the system referred to in 
said paragraph 27 (and has maintained such attainment as of no later than 15 calendar 
days before the Second Tranche Release Date).
29.
For the applicable Second Tranche Release Date period set forth in annex 9 to 
the State Modernization Letter, ANSES has attained the corresponding target, indicated 
in said annex, with respect to the incorporation of information from Provinces 
concerning ineligible beneficiaries (deceased beneficiaries), (and has maintained such 
attainment as of no later than 15 calendar days before the Second Tranche Release 
Date).
30.
For the applicable Second Tranche Release Date period set forth in annex 10 to 
the State Modernization Letter, ANSES has attained the corresponding target, indicated 
in said annex, with respect to the initiation of the procedure to cease payment to 
ineligible beneficiaries (deceased beneficiaries) in the Provinces as a result of 
incorporating the information mentioned in paragraph 29 above (and has maintained such 
attainment as of no later than 15 calendar days before the Second Tranche Release 
Date). 
