                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 32155

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (FSLT-70750)

                                                  ON A

                                 STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$400 MILLION

                                   TO THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC




                                                 FOR A

          STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (SAL) (Federal Provincial Fiscal Relations)




                                               May 3, 2005




Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective April 2005)

                  Currency Unit = Argentine Peso (Arg$)
                          Arg$1 = US$ 0.35
                          US$ 1 = Arg$2.90

                WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
                        Metric System

                        FISCAL YEAR
                  Janauary 1-  December 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFIP     -  Administración Federal de Ingresos Públicos
            (National Tax Administration)
ANSES       -Agencia Nacional de la Seguridad Social
            (National Social Security Administration)
APE      -  Administración de Programas Especiales
            (Special Programs Administration)
CAS      -  Country Assistance Strategy
CFCDF       -IDB's Sector Program in Support of the Federal Commitment to
            Growth and Fiscal Discipline
CONICET  -  Consejo Nacional de Investigaciones Científicas
            (National Council of Scientific Research)
FSR      -  Fondo Solidario de Redistribución
            (Solidarity Fund for Redistribution)
GDP      -  Gross Domestic Product
IBRD     -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR      -  Implementation Completion Report
IDB      -  Inter-American Development Bank
IFIs     -  International Financial Institutions
IMF      -  International Monetary Fund
INSSJyP  -  Instituto Nacional de Servicios para Jubilados y Pensionados
            (National Social Service Institute for Retirees and Pensioners)
ITCs     -  Information and Communication Technologies
NBI      -  Necesidades Básicas Insatisfechas
            (Unsatisfied Basic Needs)
OED      -  Operations Evaluation Department
OS       -  Obras Sociales
            (Health Insurers)
PAMI     -  Instituto Nacional de Servicios para Jubilados y Pensionados
            (National Social Service Institute for Retirees and Pensioners)
PBU      -  Prestación Universal Básica
            (Universal Basic Coverage)

PFO        -      Programas de Financiamiento Ordenado
                  (Bilateral Financing Agreements with the Provinces)
QAG        -      Quality Assurance Group
RENAPER    -      Registro Nacional de las Personas
                  (National Registry of Persons)
RUBPS             -Registro Unificado de Beneficiarios de Programas Sociales
                  (Unified Registry of Beneficiaries of Social Programs)
SAL-I      -      First Structural Adjustment Loan
SIGEN             -Sindicatura General de la Nación
                  (Internal Auditing Agency)
SINTyS     -      Sistema Nacional de Identificación Tributario y Social
                  (National Social and Taxpayer Identification System)
SIPROF     -      Sistema Integrado de Protección Familiar
                  (Integrated System of Family Protection)
SNSS       -      Sistema Nacional de Seguro de Salud
                  (National Health Insurance System)
SSAL       -      Special Structural Adjustment Loan
SSS        -      Superintendecia de Servicios de Salud
                  (Health Services Superintendence)
SUAF       -      Sistema Único de Asignaciones Familiares
                  (Unified System of Family Allowances)
VAT        -      Value-Added Tax




                       Vice President:   Pamela Cox
                    Country Director     Axel van Trotsenburg
                      Sector Manager     Maurizio Carrizosa/Ernesto May
      Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Peter M. Hansen

                                        ARGENTINA
                        AR SAL 1 (Federal Provincial Fiscal Relations)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            27
6. Sustainability                                                                28
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 31
8. Lessons Learned                                                               34
9. Partner Comments                                                              36
10. Additional Information                                                       36
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             37
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             42
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             43
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             45
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             46
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                47
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            48
Annex 8. Borrower's Comments on the Draft ICR                                    49
Box 1. The Contribution of World Bank Lending to Feducial and
        Provincial Reforms in Argentina                                          29

Project ID: P073591                                                  Project Name: AR SAL 1 (Federal Provincial Fiscal
                                                                     Relations)
Team Leader: Peter M. Hansen                                         TL Unit: LCCPY
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: May 4, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: AR SAL 1 (Federal Provincial Fiscal Relations)           L/C/TF Number: FSLT-70750
   Country/Department: ARGENTINA                                                          Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Compulsory health finance (25%); Compulsory pension and
                            unemployment insurance (25%); Central government administration
                            (22%); Sub-national government administration (15%); Other social
                            services (13%)
                  Theme: Other public sector governance (P); Social risk mitigation (P); Public
                            expenditure, financial management and procurement (P); Tax policy
                            and administration (S); Social safety nets (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/27/2001                                     Effective: 09/17/2001                09/17/2001
     Appraisal: 07/10/2001                                         MTR:
      Approval: 08/28/2001                                      Closing: 06/30/2002                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF ARGENTINA /Multiple agencies
                      Other Partners:      IDB

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     David De Ferranti
Country Director:               Axel van Trotsenburg                           Myrna Alexander
Sector Manager:                 Mauricio Carrizosa                             Ernesto May
Team Leader at ICR:             Peter M. Hansen                                David Rosenblatt
ICR Primary Author:             Cecilia Zanetta (Consultant)


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Context:

Following the reduction of private capital flows to emerging markets in 1998 as a result of the
Asian and Russian crises, and the devaluation of the Brazilian Real in early 1999, Argentina's
economy slipped into recession, as evidenced by negative growth rates and a sharp deterioration
of social indicators experienced from 1999 onward. In late 2000, the De la Rua administration
initiated a set of economic reforms in an attempt to reactivate economic activity and boost the
confidence of foreign and domestic investors. In addition, the Government negotiated an
international financing package of $39.7 billion, the so-called `blindaje,' with the International
Monetary Fund (IMF) and other international and bilateral lenders to cover most of Argentina's
external financing needs for 2001 and part of 2002. The expectation was that the financing
package would provide the time needed for implementation of the economic reforms, which, in
turn, would help restore growth and investors' confidence. The Structural Adjustment Loan
(Loan No. 7075-AR, SAL-I) was the first of two or three planned adjustment operations (the
latter never materialized) as part of this international financing package and aimed to advance
reforms in the areas of federal-provincial fiscal relations, state modernization and social programs,
areas which the Bank had supported through previous investment and provincial reform
operations.

Original Objective:

The SAL-I was intended to support the Government's structural reform program over the
2001-2003 period by improving the quality, equity and efficiency of social services while reducing
fiscal instability in the consolidated federal-provincial public sector. In this context, the specific
objectives of the SAL-I were to support the Government's efforts to reorganize and improve the
efficiency of social sector expenditures, as well as to improve fiscal performance at the federal and
provincial levels (see paragraph 95, President's Report). As with all structural adjustment loans,
the SAL-I also aimed generally to support macroeconomic stability.

The loan's objectives were consistent with those of the 2001-2004 Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS), which identified the need to: (i) enhance social development, including poverty alleviation
and human resource development; (ii) improve the performance of the state, particularly at the
sub-national level; and (iii) consolidate structural reforms. Likewise, the loan reflected the
recommendations from OED's Country Assistance Evaluation (July 2000), which emphasized the
need to concentrate lending on social sectors and provincial reform, without neglecting the reform
of federal institutions.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The loan's objectives remained unchanged during its implementation.

3.3 Original Components:

The SAL-I focused on four main components of the Government's medium-term reform program:
(a) federal-provincial fiscal relations; (b) health; (c) social protection; and (d) modernization of the
state. The operation was conceived as a structural adjustment loan for US$400 million to be


                                                   - 2 -

disbursed in two equal tranches of US$200 million. A series of policy actions were identified as
indicators of the progress made in the implementation of each component. The release of the
second tranche was contingent upon maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic framework
and satisfactory progress toward the implementation of these policy actions (see Policy Matrix in
Annex 1). The main components were defined as follows:

a.       Federal-Provincial Fiscal Relations:

This component aimed at supporting the Federal Agreement (Compromiso Federal) of November
2000, which reflected the concerted efforts of the Federal Government and the provinces to
address provincial fiscal deficits and implement measures aimed at improving medium-term
stability. Although provincial governments had generally improved their fiscal performance during
the 1990s, they continued to generate chronic fiscal deficits, with the consolidated provincial
deficit averaging 0.61 percent of GDP between 1992 and 1998. In 1999, the provincial deficit
peaked at 1.5 percent of GDP as a result of the decline in tax revenues due to the ongoing
recession, higher interest costs and the general weakening of fiscal discipline during the election
year.1/ While provincial fiscal performance improved slightly in 2000, with an overall deficit of
1.2 percent of GDP, further adjustment was necessary to assure fiscal solvency at the provincial
level.

The Federal Agreement provided a roadmap geared toward balancing provincial accounts by
2005.2/     In addition, it provided for uninterrupted flows of revenue-sharing transfers to the
provinces while simultaneously setting limits on fiscal deficits. The 2000 Federal Agreement also
provided the foundations for medium-term reform of the revenue-sharing system, including a
revision of the criteria determining primary and secondary distributions. It also included
provisions to improve efficiency and reduce evasion in provincial taxation by promoting
coordination and compatibility between tax administration systems at national and provincial
levels of government. Finally, the Federal Agreement required the progressive implementation of
measures aimed at enhancing transparency and improving financial management among provincial
governments.

Substantial progress had been achieved prior to Board approval, with twenty-one provinces
having adhered to the Federal Agreement. In addition, twelve provinces had enacted fiscal
solvency laws, eighteen had enacted legislation that either limited or eliminated automatic wage
adjustments for seniority, and thirteen provinces had established financial administration laws
compatible with the federal financial administration law. Second-tranche conditionality aimed at
ensuring compliance with the terms agreed under the Federal Agreement, in particular,
maintaining the guaranteed level of transfers to the provinces, meeting the targets for aggregated
provincial deficits, implementing provincial tax information systems compatible with the federal
one, and posting provincial accounts on the Ministry of Economy's website.

______________________________________
1/  The Federal Government's deficit was even larger--2.6 percent of GDP.
2/  In July 2001, the federal government and the provinces took the fiscal targets under the Federal Agreement a
step further, committing to attain zero deficit during the second half of 2001 instead of 2005, as originally agreed.




                                                         - 3 -

b.      Health

Health conditionality under the SAL-I was designed to consolidate ongoing reforms in health
insurance supported by three previous IBRD operations (Health Insurance Reform Loans
4002-AR, 4003-AR and 4004-AR) amounting to a total of US$375 million. The objective of
these operations was to improve the efficiency and long-term financial solvency of the major
health insurers (known as Obras Sociales, OS). In line with the objectives of these operations,
SAL-I conditionality focused on consolidating the regulatory reform of the National Health
Insurance System (Sistema Nacional de Seguro de Salud, SNSS), which provides coverage to
over a third of the country's population, and on better articulating it with the performance of the
overall system, including the publicly funded provincial hospitals. Specifically, second-tranche
conditionality was designed to achieve wider choices for beneficiaries by allowing all workers,
regardless of their income level, to choose their health insurer from the first day of employment.
Equity concerns were addressed by supporting a new compensation system for the redistribution
of subsidies, making them proportional to the number of beneficiaries rather than the number of
affiliates. SAL-I conditionality also required the elimination of financial subsidies for insurers
suffering from chronic operating deficits and their removal from the National Registry of Health
Insurance Agents. In addition, SAL-I conditionality required the development of a consolidated
enrollment database on all beneficiaries--both affiliates and family members--covered under the
SNSS. The development of such database was central to supporting the introduction of other
agreed policies, such as the implementation of a per-capita compensation mechanism. This
database was of critical importance in facilitating a better link with the public sub-sector by
enabling public hospitals to bill health insurers for services delivered to their enrollees, thus
reducing regressive cross-subsidies.

c.      Social Protection

With more than a third of the population living in poverty, expanding social protection to the most
vulnerable sectors of the population was a central objective of the De la Rua administration.
Although the successful implementation of the Convertibility Plan was initially associated with a
reduction in poverty rates, from over 40 in 1990 to 22 percent in 1994, unemployment remained
high, concentrating mainly among the poor and unskilled. This trend was exacerbated after the
1994 Tequila crisis, when poverty rates and income inequalities began to increase once again.
Social expenditures, although high relative to other countries in the region, did not provide
effective safety nets for the poor. Programs targeted specifically at the poor constituted a small
proportion of overall social expenditures and, rather than expanding during economic crises, they
were cut even more so than other programs (Ravallion, 2000). Likewise, coverage was
chronically low, with only 25 percent of the poor receiving some kind of public assistance (World
Bank. 2000).3/

____________________________________
3/ World Bank (2000), Managing Social Risk in Argentina, Word Bank, Washington, D.C.




                                                  - 4 -

To expand social protection, President De la Rua's administration pushed for reforms in the
pension system (Decree 1306/00) to redistribute public spending on retirement security to
workers with lower incomes. As part of this reform, a Universal Benefit (Beneficio Universal,
BU) was introduced, providing a targeted payment of $100 per month for the elderly with no
documented contribution and no other source of income.4/                 Likewise, the Government had also
expressed its intention to implement a system of child and household welfare based primarily on
the universal coverage of per-child cash allowances targeting low-income households. In this
framework, SAL-I conditionality required the Government to prepare and submit a proposal to
consolidate the benefits of the new universal benefit and other national transfer programs with the
existing non-contributive pensions to the poor and disabled (pensiones asistenciales) to avoid
duplications. In addition, SAL-I conditionality addressed a critical bottleneck in Argentina's social
protection system by requiring the development of a national registry of beneficiaries of federal
assistance programs.

d.      Modernization of the State

The Bank has played a long-standing role in public sector management. The first efforts took
place in the early 1990s, when the Public Sector Modernization Loans (Loans No. 3394-AR and
3362-AR) supported reforms in financial management, auditing and control, downsizing and
rationalization of the public sector. Other IBRD operations aimed at modernizing Argentina's
public sector include the Public Investment Strengthening Technical Assistance Loan (Loan No.
3958-AR) and the State Modernization Technical Assistance Loan (Loan No. 4223-AR). In
addition, the Bank has also supported the modernization of ANSES (Loan No. 4131-AR) and the
development of SINTyS (Loan No. 4459-AR), which provides the framework for the systematic
exchange of information across government agencies at the national and provincial levels.

SAL-I conditionality aimed at consolidating the ongoing state modernization reforms being
supported by the Bank, including streamlining government, enhancing fiscal performance and
reducing evasion and corruption. It had three sub-components focusing on: i) the central
administration; ii) the national tax administration agency (AFIP); and (iii) the social protection
agency (ANSES).

i)      Central administration: The first wave of administrative reforms, which was implemented
in the early 1990s, resulted in the elimination of over 100,000 positions (excluding transfers of
health and education employees to the provinces). A second wave of reform followed in 1995,
focusing not only on size reduction but also on enhanced public sector management.5/ During the
De la Rua administration, Vice-President Álvarez took renewed interest on administrative reform
with a focus on state modernization. The SAL-I supported this initiative by promoting a wide
_____________________________________
4/ Under the existing system, the benefit targeting the elderly (Prestación Básica Universal, PBU) is available only
to workers with 30 yearsof contributions to the system.
5/ The second wave of reform--Reforma II--was less successful in terms of actual accomplishments. Only 8,123
budgeted positions were eliminated, of which only 53 percent were occupied (Rinne, 2001).




                                                        - 5 -

range of second-generation reforms in public administration, including the initiation of
management by result and the passage of an improved procurement law. It also supported
data-sharing agreements between ANSES, AFIP and SINTyS with the objective of reducing
corruption and fraud through systematic data crosschecking.

ii)     Tax administration - AFIP: The Nation Tax Administration (AFIP) is the largest financial
agency in the country in terms of staffing and revenues. Tax evasion continued to be a serious
problem--up to 50 percent according to some estimates--particularly in the area of income taxes.
The SAL-I supported the Government's efforts to improve AFIP's auditing and monitoring
functions as part of an `all out war against tax evasion.' Specifically, it focused on strengthening
AFIP's core tax administration operations by expanding tax auditing and introducing new
recovery procedures, such as norms for ensuring that banks do not allow withdrawals from
delinquent taxpayers' accounts, extension of the large taxpayer monitoring system, joint
customs-tax agency inspections and the creation of taxpayer individual accounts as part of the tax
monitoring system.

iii)    Social protection agency ­ ANSES: This sub-component was aimed at reducing fraud,
increasing transparency and strengthening the administration of ANSES, the agency responsible
for administering the public pension system and making payments for family allowances,
unemployment insurance and other social programs. ANSES was created in 1991 with the merger
of 18 individual agencies. It accounts for about 40 percent of the overall federal
spending--equivalent to 7 percent of GDP--making it a central target of the state modernization
efforts. Individual actions supported under the SAL-I included the streamlining of the central
administration, elimination of banking fees, reduction in the stock of unresolved claims,
improvements in the payment mechanisms of family allowances and the early detection of
deceased beneficiaries.

3.4 Revised Components:

The components did not change during project implementation.

3.5 Quality at Entry:


Quality at entry was not assessed by the Quality Assurance Group. Quality at entry is considered
satisfactory. The loan objectives were consistent with those of the Bank as articulated in the
2001-2004 CAS as well as the Government's own priorities as reflected in its Letter of
Development Policy. Drawing from the Bank's extensive operational and sector work in
Argentina, particularly in the areas of federal-provincial fiscal relations and health insurance, the
operation correctly identified key issues that needed to be addressed as part of the reform
program. It also incorporated conditionality aimed at consolidating previous achievements and
ongoing sector reforms supported by other IBRD operations.




                                                 - 6 -

A gender assessment was conducted as part of loan preparation, which concluded that the reforms
supported by the operation could potentially have important effects on reducing intra-gender
disparities in the access to public subsidies, as well as enhancing opportunities for achieving
gender equity in civil service.

During project design, the main risk factors were taken into consideration and measures were put
in place to minimize their impact. Key risk factors included Argentina's macroeconomic fragility,
mounting social tensions and the potential weakening of the political-economy support for the
Government's program. The overall financing package put together in coordination with the IMF,
IDB and other private and bilateral parties was an important action taken to reduce the level of
uncertainty and increase Argentina's chances of averting a major economic crisis. At the
operational level, the SAL-I took specific safeguards to minimize these risks, such as requiring an
appropriate macroeconomic framework as a condition for second-tranche disbursement.

Another risk factor identified at preparation was the complexity and institutional nature of the
program itself, which could result in partial or delayed implementation. This risk was addressed by
requiring that a strong set of policy actions be met before Board presentation and by `tranching'
the operation. With thirty second-tranche conditionalities involving multiple institutional actors,
the scope of the operation appears to have been, indeed, too complex, particularly given the high
level of uncertainty at the time of preparation. In retrospect, however, it turned out to be one of
the advantages of the loan. By engaging a broad set of actors and defining clear steps across a
wide spectrum of reforms, the SAL-I helped maintain a set course, ultimately providing continuity
to specific reforms during a period of high political and economic instability.

Building on the extensive body of knowledge that the Bank had previously accumulated in
Argentina, the operation focused on incremental steps aimed at advancing the ongoing policy
dialogue and keeping the reform program on track. One exception, however, was the social
protection component, which focused on a major reform of the public pension system aimed at
`universalizing' pension benefits among low-income elderly. In retrospect, this component may
have been incompatible with the timing and nature of the operation, particularly in view of the
ambitious scope of the underlying reform. Moreover, as pointed out by the Legal department
during negotiations, the validity of the decree that introduced the reforms to the pension regime
had already been challenged in court, signaling probable complications. The fact that such
condition was not met and required a waiver indicates that pension reform was indeed too
ambitious, particularly given the fragile economic situation and the increasing institutional
weakness of the De la Rua government.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The SAL's objectives initially fell hostage to the rapid deterioration in the macroeconomic
environment that occurred during the fourth quarter of 2001 and the ensuing events of December
2001 and early 2002, but, for the great part, the SAL's objectives were eventually achieved and,



                                                  - 7 -

in several ways, contributed to the reestablishment of macro stability by early 2003.

It is not the purpose of this ICR to analyze the causes of the macroeconomic events of late 2001
and 2002. A brief summary of events is nevertheless presented as background for understanding
the macroeconomic context which prevailed during most of the SAL implementation period.
During the second half of 2001, as the economic recession deepened and tax revenues fell, the
federal and provincial deficits rose, and the Government was unable to complete the second phase
of its external debt restructuring, the first phase of which had been completed earlier that year.
These developments called into question the convertibility of the Peso and led to capital flight and
a rapid decline in international reserves. The Government responded by freezing bank deposits, a
policy that was highly unpopular and the cause of massive protests. In December 2001, President
de la Rúa resigned and was succeeded by several interim presidents in the month after his
resignation until President Duhalde was appointed by the Congress to complete the existing
presidential term through May 2003. During the interim presidencies, the parity between the peso
and the dollar was abandoned, the Government announced that it would not service its external
debt, and the macroeconomic program with the IMF was abandoned. In the event, GDP fell by
11 percent in 2002. The social costs of the crisis were profound, with poverty rising to more than
one-half of the population by the end of 2002.

In retrospect, the macroeconomic framework that existed at the time of Board approval proved to
be unsustainable in light of the traumatic events of late 2001 and the first half of 2002. In
particular, the vulnerability of the economy to the volatility of private capital flows and the
imbalance in relative factor prices seem to have been underestimated. Also, in retrospect, the
Government's debt situation turned out to be more one of insolvency than illiquidity, as believed
at the time the international financing package was put together. As a result, the loan's general
objective of supporting macro stability and, implicitly, the convertibility of the exchange rate was
thus not met during this period. In addition, it seemed that the specific development objectives of
the SAL would not be achieved due to the fundamental changes in the macroeconomic
environment compared with macro conditions prevailing at the time of Board approval. Had the
second tranche been canceled at the time of the original closing date of June 30, 2002, the
outcome would clearly have been unsatisfactory. However, during the first half of 2002, the
Government began negotiations with the IMF on a transition program which was eventually
agreed covering the period January through August 2003, the latter being the date for election of
a new Government. Although the macro situation in June 2002 was clearly different than the
framework that existed at the time of Board approval of the SAL, and was still deficient, some
elements of greater stability began to emerge, e.g., enhanced fiscal agreements with the provinces
and improved revenue collections (described further below). As a result, and with the prospect of
a new international financing package from the IFIs on the horizon, the Bank agreed to provide a
one year extension of the closing date to June 30, 2003, with the aim to use the SAL as one of the
Bank's instruments for contributing to this new financing package and, in turn, to help regain
macro stability.

In retrospect, the decision to extend the closing date by one year turned out to be fortuitous, since
the macro framework continued to improve throughout the subsequent twelve months, during
which the specific performance conditions for second tranche were met and, in view of the then



                                                   - 8 -

improved macro framework, the Board approved the release of the second tranche in April 2003.
Indeed, macroeconomic performance continued to improve throughout 2003 and 2004, thus
providing a retrospective endorsement for the judgment at the time of the second tranche release
that macro conditions had improved sufficiently to warrant the release. In this respect, the general
objective of supporting macro stability can be considered to have been achieved, albeit with a
considerable period of delay.

Despite the very difficult macro environment, the SAL met almost all of its specific objectives,
and the overall outcome is considered satisfactory. The most notable accomplishments include
the support the loan provided to maintain the basic outline of the Federal Agreement which led to
the eventual stabilization of federal-provincial fiscal relations, the enhancement of the regulatory
framework of the national health insurance program, and significant advances in public
administration and modernization of the state. With regard to the latter, particularly important
was the enactment of a modern procurement law, which is expected to improve the transparency
and cost effectiveness of state procurement. Equally important were improvements in tax
administration to reduce evasion and enhance revenues, as well as improvements in the
administration of federal social assistance programs with information and communication
technologies (ICTs) to reduce fraud and improve targeting.

Some of the actions supported under the SAL, particularly the conditionality on maintaining
minimum revenue-sharing transfers to the provinces which helped contain the social impact of the
crisis in the provinces, and the tax administrations measures which led to higher revenue
collections were significant factors in reestablishing a satisfactory macroeconomic framework.
The operation also helped keep open the channels of communication between the Borrower and
the Bank, not only at the highest leadership levels but also within individual sectors. In this way,
the operation was an important element in sustaining, and even advancing, ongoing reforms within
individual sectors and helping government agencies to maintain focus on the medium and long
term during the unstable macroeconomic environment of 2002. The operation thus acted as a
bridge, sustaining a specific set of reforms throughout the crisis and during the Duhalde
administration.

In addition to a robust package of policy actions taken prior to Board presentation, twenty-seven
second-tranche conditions were satisfactorily met. Only three conditions were not met and were
granted waivers in the course of releasing the second tranche (in April 2003). Two of these three
conditions have been subsequently met or are underway. The reduction in the consolidated
provincial fiscal deficit target was achieved with a one-year delay and this target was subsequently
exceeded in 2003-04. The implementation of a new direct payment system for family allowances
began in May 2003 and was essentially completed by December 2004. The only condition for
which the objectives of the loan were not achieved, or will not soon be achieved, is that of
changes in the benefit structure of non-contributory pensions. These changes were linked to
broader reforms in social protection which have been blocked by judicial challenges.

Performance and monitoring indicators developed for the operation meet or exceed expectations
(see Annex 2). The only exceptions are those indicators for the social protection component,
which focus on the `universalization' of social assistance for families with children and the elderly



                                                  - 9 -

living below poverty line. In this case, progress toward expanding social protection coverage has
been more modest, mainly through temporary targeted transfer programs.

a.      Federal-Provincial Fiscal Relations:

The objectives of this component were to maintain a steady flow of revenue sharing to the
provinces in order to support essential social services, to achieve a reduction in the consolidated
provincial deficit for 2001, and to increase the transparency of provincial finances. Federal and
provincial fiscal performance went considerably off-track during the second half of 2001, thus
compromising the achievement of the loan's objectives at that time. However, despite the very
difficult macroeconomic context, the federal and provincial governments took extraordinary
measures to contain the fiscal situation during 2002 which led to an eventual stabilization and
subsequent major improvement in federal/provincial fiscal relations following the devaluation and
introduction of bilateral financing agreements (Programas de Financiamiento Ordenado, PFO).
Therefore, the objectives of the SAL were eventually achieved. In retrospect, performance under
this component can be considered as satisfactory.

Due to the continuing recession and decline in federal revenues during the second half of 2001,
the Federal Government was unable to maintain the agreed level of revenue sharing transfers to
the provinces (Arg$1,364 million per month) and started incurring arrears to the provinces.
Simultaneously, many of the provinces started emitting "quasi-money" (their own legal tender) to
maintain their budgeted level of expenditures and to offset the impact of rising interest costs. As
a result, the consolidated provincial deficit rose from the targeted level of Arg$2.8 billion to
Arg$6.4 billion (2.5 percent of GDP). These events created a disorderly situation and contributed
to the rupture of the IMF Standby Arrangement. They also constituted a breach of two of the
major second tranche conditions of the SAL.

To address this emergency situation, the Federal Government and the provinces signed the
`Second Addenda' to the Federal Agreement in late 2001 which stipulated a 13 percent reduction
in the guaranteed monthly transfer starting in January 2002. This reduction was equivalent to the
13 percent across-the-board reduction in federal government salaries and pensions implemented
during the course of 2001 and, consequently, represented an equitable burden sharing
arrangement between the Federal Government and the provinces. (The reduction also represented
a modification in the original targets specified in the SAL conditionality.) The reduced amount of
guaranteed transfers (Arg$1,187 million) was paid in January and February of 2002 along with the
arrears from the previous year. By February, however, the continued deterioration in federal tax
revenues forced the Federal Government to seek a new revenue sharing agreement with the
provinces.

In late February 2002, the federal and provincial governments signed a new basic agreement
covering inter-governmental fiscal relations, the Nation-Provinces Accord on Financial Relations
and Basis for a Revenue Sharing Regime, which was ratified into law on May 3, 2002 (Law
25.570) and continues in force to date. This law converted the revenue-sharing formula from a
fixed monthly amount to a proportional share of eligible federal tax revenues. In return for this
concession, which provided flexibility to the national treasury, the Federal Government agreed to



                                                 - 10 -

provide "orderly financing" to the provinces, so that they would no longer issue quasi-monies, and
to assume and renegotiate the provinces' debt with commercial banks. To provide a context for
this support, the Nation-Provinces Accord obligated the provinces to enter into individual
"bilateral agreements" (PFOs) with the Federal Government that specified agreed deficit reduction
targets for the year.

The bilateral agreements became the central instrument in helping restore order to provincial fiscal
accounts.6 They stipulated the amounts of orderly financing and debt refinancing that each
           /
province could expect to receive provided it refrained from emitting any more quasi-monies,
contracting new debt, or increasing its outstanding stock of arrears. Penalties were clearly
established for the breach of these agreements, including the withholding of orderly financing and
deductions from revenue sharing. Finally, the provinces also agreed to standards for reporting
and monitoring of their fiscal performance by the Federal Government, as well as disclosure of
their fiscal performance to the public. Bilateral agreements were signed with 17 of the 24
provinces during the course of 2002, which accounted for more than 90 percent of the
consolidated provincial deficit in 2001. As part of these agreements, the Federal Government
assumed $24 billion of provincial commercial debt, which the provinces are to repay over 16
years. As a result of the bilateral agreements, the consolidated provincial deficit was reduced to
0.8 percent of GDP in 2002, which represented a significant improvement in provincial fiscal
performance and exceeded the SAL's original objective for 2002. The bilateral agreements were
renegotiated for 2003-04 with provinces in deficit. The provinces as a whole generated an overall
surplus of 0.3 percent of GDP in 2003 and preliminary results indicate an overall surplus of 1.3
percent of GDP percent in 2004.


                                    Provincial Government Fiscal Balances
                                               (as percent of GDP)


                                      2000         2001        2002         2003      2004e


    Primary balance                    -0.5        -1.6        -0.1         0.7           1.7


    Overall cash balance               -1.2        -2.5        -0.8         0.3           1.3




Source: IMF.

In summary, while the extremity of the economic situation was undoubtedly the driving force for
attaining stabilization of provincial finances, and while the introduction of orderly financing
agreements was a new instrument not envisaged as part of the measures supported by the loan,
___________________________________
6/ The on-going Provincial Reform Loans (Cordoba, Santa Fe and Catamarca) provided valuable institutional
development within the Ministry of Economy that likely contributed to the Ministry's capacity for developing,
negotiating and monitoring these bilateral agreements.




                                                      - 11 -

the SAL conditionality provided an additional incentive for the Federal Government to reach
agreement with the provinces on fiscal issues within the framework of the Federal Agreement and
its subsequent amendments. As such, the SAL conditions helped ensure the continuous flow of
revenue-sharing transfers to the provinces while simultaneously containing provincial deficits.
Although the amount of revenue sharing transfers was modified by mutual agreement between the
Federal Government and the provinces, the continuous flow of transfers helped provincial
governments continue their operations, including social programs, during the most difficult
periods, which helped contain the social impact of the crisis. And although the provincial deficit
target was exceeded by a wide margin in 2001, it was met, and even surpassed, in 2002 which
provided the justification for a waiver of the original SAL condition. Consolidated provincial
fiscal performance continued to strengthen in 2003-04. For these reasons, the objectives of the
federal-provincial fiscal relations component of the SAL are judged, in retrospect, to be
satisfactory and sustainable.

b.      Health

The achievement of objectives under this component has been satisfactory, as the SAL-I has
effectively contributed toward consolidating the regulatory reform of the country's larger health
insurers, a key component of the overall reform of the health sector. Specifically, the SAL-I
succeeded in introducing competition and increasing choice for beneficiaries by allowing all
workers, including low-income workers, to choose their health insurer from the first day of
employment. It also addressed equity concerns through an improved compensation system for the
Solidarity Redistribution Fund (FSR), making subsidies proportional to the number of
beneficiaries (including affiliates' covered family members) rather than the number of affiliates.
Finally, it made the health insurance more efficient and transparent by eliminating discretionary
subsidies and establishing mechanisms to identify and report high-risk health insurers that do not
comply with minimum required standards. In addition, SAL-I conditionality provided a strong
incentive for the development of the consolidated enrollment database for the SNSS, thus
eliminating a key operational bottleneck in the reform of the health sector.

The SAL-I has consolidated previous achievements and ensured the sustainability of ongoing
reforms in the health sector during a period of high uncertainty. The new regulatory framework
for health insurance effectively increases competition, transparency, and accountability while
enhancing the protection of consumers' rights. These reforms have benefited over 14 million
people--37 percent of the country's population--who are covered by the national social
insurance providers.

c.      Social Protection

The achievement of objectives under this component has been partially satisfactory, as progress
toward the expansion and consolidation of social protection benefits among the poor has been
more modest than originally anticipated. The coverage of the so-called pensiones asistenciales
has not been modified, as the universal benefits foreseen under Decree 1306/00 were not
implemented. Alternatively, the Government has expanded financial support to families in danger



                                                 - 12 -

of economic deprivation through temporary assistance programs. The Head of Households
Program (Jefes de Hogar; Decree 565/02) constitutes an ambitious safety net program targeting
an unemployed adult in households containing minors under 18 years of age and not receiving a
pension, unemployment insurance or any other significant cash transfer. It provides a monthly
stipend of Arg$150 pesos in return for participation in workfare activities. Unlike the previous
workfare program, which rationed participation because of insufficient funding, all those legally
eligible had guaranteed access. The program, which started operations in May 2002, currently
reaches approximately 1.6 million individuals (end-2004). A Bank loan (The Heads of Household
Project, LN-7157 for $600 million) has provided financing to the Program. A follow-on project
to support the transitional strategy for the Program during 2005-6 is under preparation. Likewise,
the Plan Mayores (Decrees 565/02 and 155/03) provides a stipend for those over 70 years of age
without a pension, benefiting over 40,000 in 2002. Other transfer and feeding programs have also
been put in place targeting poor families with numerous children, particularly female-headed
households. In addition, the Government has established the National Council for the
Coordination of Social Policies, which includes all the ministers on the national cabinet, to
improve coordination among the various social programs.

In addition, the National Commission of Non-Contributive Pensions (Comisión Nacional de
Pensiones Asistenciales) has taken important steps to increase transparency and reduce
discretionality in the allocation of benefits, including the implementation of computerized systems
to track cases on an individual basis. Steps have also been taken to reduce the stock of pending
cases by limiting the maximum waiting period to two years. As the assignment of new pension
benefits is limited by a fixed budget allocation, the strategy has focused on eliminating illegitimate
benefits by improving the detection of incompatibilities and of defunct beneficiaries. Agreements
have been set in place with provincial pension agencies (Institutos Provinciales) and the National
Registry of Persons (RENAPER) to crosscheck information. In addition, the allocation of
pensions is now based on transparent criteria, which includes the basic need index (Necesidades
Básicas Insatisfechas, NBI) to determine the number of pensions to be received by each province
and the date of the application to determine priorities among individual beneficiaries within each
province--the older the application, the higher the priority.

A national registry of beneficiaries from social programs (Registro Unificado de Beneficiarios de
Programas Sociales, RUBPS) has been successfully implemented, providing an important tool for
improving the efficiency and targeting of social programs. For example, based on information
from cross-checks with other data bases (including taxes, contributions relating to formal
employment, etc.), the Ministry of Labor was able to verify eligibility requirements and eliminate
over 6,000 beneficiaries from the Head of Households Program, resulting in savings of
approximately Arg$3.8 million during the period between January and April 2003.

d.      Public Sector Modernization

The achievement of objectives in this component has been satisfactory, as actions supported by
the SAL-I have contributed toward increasing transparency, streamlining government, and
reducing evasion and corruption. The enactment of new procurement legislation should enhance
transparency in public sector purchasing by institutionalizing an electronic public procurement



                                                   - 13 -

information system. The new system is expected to reduce transaction costs to the private sector.
Likewise, the consolidation of SINTyS has been an important achievement, as it has established
the foundations to generate substantial savings, improve targeting of social expenditures and
reduce fraud. As of November 2003, it is estimated that at least US$115 million in savings had
been realized due to systematic data crosschecking performed by SINTyS during its
demonstration stage. The SAL-I has also introduced the concept of `management by result,'
which has the potential to increase public sector efficiency. Progress in this area, however, has
been limited to those agencies with an innate vocation for improvement rather than to a systematic
reform effort championed by the executive branch. As the Bank's SINTyS investment project is
nearing completion, additional support for further development of the system will be provided
under the State Modernization Loan.

The SAL-I also helped increase revenues through improved tax administration. After a sharp
decline in 2002, federal tax revenues increased rapidly during 2003 and 2004. Tax revenues
collected by the federal tax agency (AFIP) rose from Arg$ 42 billion in 2002 to Arg$63 billion in
2003 and nearly Arg$ 86 billion in 2004. As a share of GDP, AFIP tax collections rose from 13.5
percent in 2002 to 19.1 in 2004. These increases include a quadrupling of customs revenues in
nominal terms and an increase from less than one percent of GDP in 2001 to 3 percent of GDP in
2004. While a new export tax has been a major factor contributing to the increase of customs
revenues, the tax administration measures implemented under the SAL-I helped increase revenues
by improving the efficacy of tax audits and customs inspections, expanding current information
systems and improving AFIP's overall performance. Total tax revenues, including social security
contributions which are collected by the Social Security Administration, ANSES (another agency
covered by the SAL), increased from a low of 16.1 percent of GDP in 2002 to 22 percent of GDP
in 2004, an increase that far exceeds the ¼ percent per annum target established under the SAL.

                                       Argentina Tax Revenues
                                         (as percent of GDP)



   Year              Taxes Collected by AFIP                  Social           Total Tax
            Customs          Other        Total AFIP        Security          Revenues
  2000        0.7%           13.4%           14.1%            3.2%              17.3%
  2001        0.6%           13.3%           13.9%            3.0%              16.9%
  2002        2.0%           11.5%           13.5%            2.6%              16.1%
  2003        3.0%           13.6%           16.6%            2.6%              19.2%
  2004        3.0%           16.1%           19.1%            2.8%              22.0%




The SAL-I also provided motivation to ANSES' authorities to proceed with their reform efforts.
Specific improvements include significant reductions in the stock of unresolved claims, substantial
improvements in customer services, and the implementation of new mechanisms to reduce fraud,
such as the early detection of deceased beneficiaries and the new payment system of family



                                                - 14 -

allowances SUAF. Savings from the SUAF alone have been estimated at Arg$230 million per
year. The SAL-I has effectively complemented the other Bank operation focusing on ANSES,
bringing positive changes in the culture of the institution. A second investment operation
(ANSES II) is under preparation to help ensure sustainability.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Being a structural adjustment operation, policy actions identified as loan conditionalities and
included in the Policy Matrix provide a good reflection of the SAL-I achievements. Specifically:

a.      Federal-Provincial Fiscal Relations: Three of the four second-tranche conditionalities
were satisfactorily met. The condition requiring the reduction in the consolidated provincial fiscal
deficit target was achieved with a one-year delay, for which a waiver was granted.

i)      Revenue-sharing transfers (coparticipación) to the provinces: Accomplished. This
condition was intended to guarantee a flow of revenue-sharing transfers to the provinces to allow
them to maintain assured levels of social expenditures. This condition was based on the Federal
Agreement of December 2000, in which the federal and provincial governments agreed on a fixed
revenue-sharing formula equivalent to Arg$1,364 million per month to the provinces. As
explained above, the terms stipulated in the Federal Agreement were later modified in successive
revenue-sharing agreements to account for worsening economic conditions. As a result of the
switch to a proportional formula for revenue sharing in February 2002, transfers to the provinces
fell significantly in March and April of 2002, rising again in May as the national economy began to
stabilize. For 2002 as a whole, the provinces received an average of Arg$1,094 million per month
in revenue sharing transfers. Although the actual levels of transfers were different from the
amount stipulated in the SAL-I conditionality, the Federal Government observed the
commitments of the subsequent agreements throughout the period. The amendments provided
benefits to both parties--to the Federal Government in the form of greater flexibility in revenue
sharing, and to the provinces in the form of reduced interest expenses and assured orderly
financing to cover pre-determined deficit levels and other debt service obligations. The resulting
outcome contributed significantly to the stabilization of public finances during the most difficult of
periods, thus permitting the continuation of social programs in the provinces, which was the
original intent of the condition.

ii)     Maximum aggregate provincial fiscal deficits: Waived. This condition was aimed at
containing the consolidated provincial fiscal deficit at Arg$2.76 billion in 2001, as part of the then
Government's medium-term strategy for reaching fiscal equilibrium by 2005. In the event, the
consolidated provincial deficit for 2001 increased to Arg$6.37 billion due to climbing interest
rates, declining revenues and a failure to restrain current expenditures. The justification for
granting a waiver for this condition was that, as a result of the actions taken to constrain
provincial deficits via the bilateral accords, the provinces reduced their consolidated deficit to
Arg$2.6 billion in 2002, an amount considerably lower than the SAL-I target for 2001. Among
the factors contributing to this result were increased own-source provincial revenues, a sharp
reduction in capital expenditures and the interest savings resulting from the Federal Government's
refinancing of the provinces' debt with commercial banks. Thus, the provinces reduced their
consolidated overall deficit from 2.4 percent of GDP in 2001 to 0.8 percent of GDP in 2002,


                                                  - 15 -

which constituted a significant improvement in fiscal performance.

In 2003, the provinces entered another series of bilateral agreements with the Federal Government
(including those responsible for 93 percent of the consolidated provincial deficit in 2002) and
similar agreements were signed in 2004. The overall consolidated provincial balance attained a
surplus 0.7 percent of GDP in 2003, improving further to an estimated 1.7 percent of GDP
surplus in 2004, thereby surpassing the original SAL target of achieving balance by 2005.

iii)     Enhanced transparency in provincial fiscal performance: Accomplished. The Ministry
of Economy has been publishing on its web site the revenue-sharing transfers on a monthly basis,
the aggregate provincial fiscal deficits on a quarterly basis, and a report on the progress achieved
by individual provinces in fulfilling their respective obligations under the Federal Agreement. It
should also be noted that, although not a loan conditionality, 17 provinces have also posted fiscal
performance information on their provincial websites. These sites, which are being periodically
updated, have increased transparency and accountability with regard to provincial fiscal
performance.

iv)      Improved tax-administration systems: Accomplished. SAL-I conditionality required
that at least three provinces establish tax-payment information systems compatible with the federal
one. The federal tax administration agency (AFIP) has negotiated agreements with the provinces
of Buenos Aires, Córdoba, Santa Fe and the City of Buenos Aires to implement tax payment
systems that are compatible with its own system, OSIRIS. These standards have been in use for
over a year and AFIP is negotiating similar agreements with other provinces. All four provinces
have incorporated taxpayer information for turnover tax (ingresos brutos) using OSIRIS
standards and are extending the coverage to other taxes, such as property tax and stamp tax.

b.       Health: All four conditionalities have been met in this component.

i)       Consolidated enrollment database: Accomplished. As required in the SAL-I
conditionality, an Executive Decree (Decree 1400/01) was issued on 4 November 2001 requiring
the AFIP, the National Social Security Administration (ANSES) and the Health Superintendence
(SSS) to develop a consolidated enrollment database to be used by the SSS. As a result of this
decree and subsequent joint resolutions by SSS and ANSES (resolutions 274/02 and 144/02,
respectively), an updated beneficiary database has been consolidated for the National Health
Insurance System (SNSS). Currently, this database has 14,041,058 registered beneficiaries,
covering approximately 98 percent of all beneficiaries of the SNSS. It contains data on gender,
age, address as well as family relationships, thus providing an important tool for monitoring and
controlling contributions and the distribution of subsidies. In addition, this is the only database in
the country that includes data on family relationships, which has been most useful to other
government agencies, including ANSES. The database is updated on a monthly basis, resulting in
an average of 500,000 modifications from changes reported by the health insurers and
crosschecks with databases from AFIP, SINTyS and RENAPER. The new database has permitted
the elimination of 400,000 beneficiaries due to multiple coverage and another 106,000 due to
death. As payments to service providers are based on the number of beneficiaries as opposed to
the actual services provided, the elimination of undue beneficiaries have resulted in substantial



                                                 - 16 -

savings for the insurance providers--an estimated Arg$30 million per year for PAMI alone.
Ongoing efforts, including providing online access through the SSS website (
http:www.sssalud.gov.ar), are making this database available to all public hospitals throughout
the country, thus allowing increased cost effectiveness in the provision of public health services.

It is important to note, however, that there were significant delays in the implementation of the
database. Despite the subscription of inter-agency agreements in 2001 and 2002, there was
reticence on the part of other agencies, particularly ANSES to share their databases. In view of
their lack of response, the SSS undertook the effort with in-house resources, successfully
developing the database and the corresponding updating mechanisms. The disbursement of the
second tranche of the SAL-I was a key incentive in overcoming the gridlock and the successful
development of the database.

ii)      New compensation mechanism of the Solidarity Redistribution Fund: Accomplished.
As required by the loan conditionality, a decree was enacted (Decree 1400/01) mandating changes
in the compensation mechanism of the Solidarity Redistribution Fund (Fondo Solidario de
Redistribución, FSR), which redistributes resources among the health insurance funds. The
objective of the change was to adjust the compensation mechanism from a per contributor basis to
a per capita basis. The new compensation mechanism provides more equity in the financing of the
minimum benefit package by shifting resources in line with the total number of beneficiaries
covered by each insurance fund. Health insurance funds serving low-income workers, such as
those in the agriculture and construction sectors, will benefit from the new compensation
mechanism, as workers in these sectors tend to have larger household sizes.

Implementation of this measure, however, was halted in 2002, when the Government issued
Decree 1867/02, declaring state of emergency in the health sector and suspending the changes in
the compensation mechanism of Decree 1400. This suspension remained in effect until 1 April
2003, when the Government issued Decree 741/2003, which reinstated a per capita redistribution
mechanism in line with the original provisions of Decree 1400. It is important to underscore that
the pending disbursement of the SAL-I second tranche was a mayor incentive in prompting the
enactment of the new decree, despite strong lobbying from health insurance funds that opposed
the new compensation mechanism. In this way, the SAL-I effectively consolidated the actions
implemented under the Health Insurance loans, which, as noted in the respective Implementation
Completion Reports (ICRs), had not succeeded in incorporating household size, sex and age
distribution, or other risk-related characteristics in the compensation mechanism. 7/ This success
illustrates the potential benefits of designing adequate cross-conditionality among different
operations within a country's portfolio.

_____________________________________

7/ Although the Health Insurance Loan did not succeed in incorporating risk-related criteria in the allocation
formula, it succeeded in eliminating the discretionary transfer of FSR funds, which, since 2001, have been fully
allocated using a formula-based automatic redistribution.




                                                        - 17 -

iii)    Free choice of heath insurance fund: Accomplished. Decree 1400/01 modified the
previous regulation and, starting 1 January 2002, enables employees, regardless of their income,
to freely choose their health insurer carrier (within either the Obras Sociales Sindicales or the
Obras Sociales del Personal de Dirección subsystems) starting on their first day of employment.
An additional article included in Decree 1400 reinforces this right by providing that all related
existing regulation must be interpreted in favor of the employee's right to choose. New affiliates
to the SNSS have indeed been able to choose their insurer.

iv)     Elimination of subsidies under the Administration of Special Programs:
Accomplished. One of the key objectives of the Health Insurance loans was to increase the
long-term financial solvency of the health insurance funds, many of which ran chronic deficits. In
the framework of the previous Bank operations, the SSS had identified those insurers that failed
to meet minimum financial and operating requirements. SAL-I second-tranche conditionality
continued to make progress on this front by requiring that financial subsidies be eliminated for
insurers suffering from chronic operating deficits. Accordingly, Decree 1400/01 defined the
criteria for considering a health insurer to be operating with a `chronic operating deficit.' It also
prohibited the Administration of Special Programs (Administracion de Programas Especiales
-APE) from granting them institutional subsidies, which in the past had been highly discretionary.
More recently, APE enacted a resolution (77/02) through which all types of financial subsidies to
insurers are prohibited. Such prohibition is in effect and is reflected in both APE's budgetary
execution for 2002 and in its 2003 budget allocation. This measure has effectively eliminated
discretional subsidies, which, in turn, has increased the available resources for financing high
cost/low incidence events covered through APE.

v)      Transparent treatment of health insurers at risk: Accomplished. SAL-I
second-tranche conditionality called for a decree establishing the legal framework for excluding
from the National Registry of Health Insurers (Registro Nacional de Agentes del Seguro) any
health insurer not in compliance with the minimum economic, financial and service delivery
indicators. In addition, such decree had to establish the procedures to transfer affiliates and
beneficiaries to another health insurer registered in the registry. In accordance with these
conditionalities, Decree 1400/01 defined a clear procedure (headed by the SSS) to exclude those
insurers unable to overcome a chronic operating deficit that threatens their ability to properly
deliver health services to their enrollees from the National Registry of Health Insurers. Specific
steps and corresponding deadlines for both the insurers and the SSS are defined in its annexes.
Once the crisis procedure is completed and the health insurer excluded from the National
Registry, the Decree sets forth the bases for reallocating enrollees among available insurers
through automatic mechanisms. The Decree also mandates that individual communications be
sent to each and every one of the affiliates and lifts any restriction on the employee's right to
freely choose a health insurer during this crisis situation, assuring transparency.

c.      Social Protection: Compliance with conditionality under this component was partially
met. As explained earlier, changes in the benefit structure of non-contributory pensions were not
implemented, as they were subject to a broader pension reform that was blocked by judicial
challenges beyond the control of the Government.



                                                 - 18 -

i)      Proposal to consolidate Pensiones Asistenciales with other national transfer
programs: Waived. The universal benefits for the elderly proposed as part of the reform of the
national pension system were never implemented. A group of National Deputies brought a judicial
challenge against Decree 1306/00, contesting its constitutionality. The main allegation of the legal
action was that the reforms introduced through such decree should only be adopted through the
enactment of a law. Although the court of first instance ruled in favor of the Government by
dismissing the lawsuit, the ruling was appealed to the Supreme Court in February 2002 and it has
not yet been adjudicated.

In another attempt to expand social protection among the informal poor, the De la Rua
administration created a new Integrated System for Family Protection (Sistema Integrado de
Protección a la Familia, SIPROF) shortly after Board approval of the SAL-I. Established by
Decree 1382/11 of 11 November 2001, the SIPROF introduced a universal old-age benefit and a
per-child family allowance to all low-income families regardless of their employment status. 8/
Accordingly, the Chief of Cabinet Office submitted a proposal to the Bank for consolidating
non-contributory pension benefits (pensiones asistenciales) with the new per-child income
transfer and the minimum old-age pension being proposed under the new system. Specifically, the
existing non-contributory pension for mothers with seven or more children were to be eliminated
due to overlap with the new per-child benefit, and the existing old-age benefit was to be phased
out, with all new applicants referred to the new universal benefit system. However, the SIPROF
was never implemented, as its implementation lost momentum after its main architect, the former
Minister of Labor and later Minister of Social Protection, stepped down on 14 November 2001, a
few weeks before the collapse of De la Rua's government. The new system was also considered
too ambitious by the Duhalde administration, which instead favored the implementation of a
targeted unemployment program, the Heads of Households Program.

A waiver was granted on the basis that there was a known risk that the proposed reforms would
not be implemented at the time of Board approval. Paragraph 68 of the President's Report
(R7479-AR) explicitly acknowledged the legal challenge against Decree 1306/00 and the
associated risks. As the Government took the appropriate steps, including action in the appeal
courts arguing against the legal challenge to Decree 1306/00, a waiver was granted.

ii)     Implementation of a national database of beneficiaries of national social programs:
Accomplished. The Government, through the National Social and Taxpayer Identification System
(SINTyS), consolidated the beneficiary information from all federal and some provincial social
assistance programs into a comprehensive database from which it has established a common set of
minimum data requirements for all social programs. The new database--Registro Unificado de
Beneficiarios de Programas Sociales, RUBPS--includes information on over 3.5 million of
beneficiaries from 45 social programs, including the existing registries for the largest programs
(e.g., non-contributory pensions and PAMI). Crosschecks are regularly made between SINTyS
and the registry of the largest social program, Heads of Households, to verify eligibility criteria.
______________________________________

8/ Under the existing system, only formal workers are eligible for family allowances.




                                                      - 19 -

d.      Public Sector Reform: All conditions were met, except for the implementation of a new
direct payment system for family allowances. A waiver was granted, as implementation began in
May 2003 and is expected to be completed by December 2004.

Central Administration
i)      Incompatibility for public sector employees to receive salary payments and retiree
benefits at the same time: Accomplished. Presidential Decree 894/2001 of 7 November 2001
prohibits public-sector employees from receiving salary payments at the same time as retirement
benefits from the national, provincial or municipal levels of government. The decree, which was
enacted in the framework of the `Deficit Zero' program, has the potential to generate substantial
savings in public payroll. As an illustration, more than Arg$10 million in savings have been
identified in the SIGEN (Sindicatura General de la Nación) as well as Arg$28 millon in
CONICET (Consejo Nacional de Investigaciones Científicas y Técnicas) from incompatibilites
detected by SINTyS during June and July 2003, respectively. It is not clear, however, whether
government agencies are taking the necessary steps to identify such incompatibilities and eliminate
them on an ongoing basis, as there is no monitoring system in place.

ii)     Introduction of the concept of `management by result': Accomplished. Presidential
Decree 992/2001 of 3 August 2001 established the creation of a management system that
incorporates the positions of Program Managers within public agencies. As outlined in this
decree, Program Managers are hired on a fixed-term basis and their employment contracts are
extended subject to the achievement of the performance targets (compromisos de resultados de
gestión) set forth in said contract. In accordance with second-tranche conditionality, the State
Modernization Office has signed agreements with five government agencies, including ANSES.
With support from the Modernization of the State (Loan 4423-AR), these agencies are
implementing modernization programs and have signed 42 performance-based contracts (e.g.,
management by result). Since the disbursement of the second tranche, the State Modernization
Office has incorporated an additional agency into the management by result program and is
working with four more, out of a total universe of about 95 agencies. These pilot experiences are
effectively demonstrating the potential benefits of the concept of performance-based management
within the public sector.

iii)    National Social and Taxpayer Identification System (SYNTyS): Accomplished.
SINTyS (Programa del Sistema de Identificación Nacional Tributario y Social), which was
initiated in 1999 with the support of Loan No. 4459-AR, is aimed at fostering the systematic
exchange of information across databases at national and provincial levels of government. Its
ultimate objective is to improve efficacy and effectiveness in social expenditures and to reduce tax
evasion through systematic data engineering. SAL-I conditionality was designed to institutionalize
the exchange of information between SINTyS and the two most powerful information brokers in
the country: ANSES and AFIP. In 2001, both agencies signed agreements with SINTyS to share
all information contained in their main databases on a regular basis. The implementation of
SINTyS was originally envisioned in three stages: demonstration, expansion and consolidation.
The demonstration stage has been successfully completed and the implementation of SINTyS is
now moving into the expansion and consolidation stages.



                                                - 20 -

iv)     New Procurement Law: Accomplished. Presidential Decree 1023/2001 of 13 August
2001 and Decree 666/2003 of 20 March 2003, both of which have the status of law, replaced
outdated procurement legislation, providing a sound framework for the modernization of public
procurement in Argentina. Specifically, the new procurement legislation should enhance
transparency by institutionalizing an electronic public procurement information system that, in
addition to advertising bidding opportunities, makes mandatory the publication of bidding
documents and contract awards. In addition, the new legislation clearly defines the various
procurement methods and their applicability based on contract value, limiting exceptions to clearly
identified events, setting up parameters for bid evaluation and contract award, and providing the
legal basis for electronic procurement. It also establishes mechanisms for public and electronic
review and comment of bidding documents and resolution of complaints. It is important to note
that the Bank has played an active role in the drafting of the procurement legislation, providing
valuable technical expertise throughout the process.

Although a regulatory decree detailing the principles stated in these statutes has been prepared
with input from the Bank as well as representatives of the private sector and non-government
organizations, it has not yet been issued. The Bank has repeatedly reminded the Borrower of the
importance of issuing the regulatory decree to ensure full enforcement of the new procurement
legislation.

Tax Administration

i)      Banking `embargo' on tax evaders: Accomplished. As part of a series of measures
aimed at reducing tax evasion, AFIP issued instructions to banks forbidding transfers or
withdrawals from accounts of taxpayers identified by the tax agency as having overdue tax
obligations. As a result, the average monthly amount of funds embargoed in the banking system
has increased by 60 percent between 2001 and 2002.

ii)     Federal Tax Payer Information System (Sistema 2000): Accomplished. In accordance
with SAL-I conditionality, AFIP has issued instructions to incorporate all federal taxpayers into
its tax payment information system (Sistema 2000). As a result, the coverage of the system was
expanded from the 250,000 largest federal taxpayers to more than 1.8 million federal taxpayers (a
net figure after the removal of over 1 million inactive accounts). The expanded coverage has
allowed for much greater control over presumed tax evaders, as evidenced by the large number of
notices sent to taxpayers since these measures were adopted (e.g., over 3.7 million notices of
failure to file and over 1 million tax due notices).

iii)    Integrated Tax System (Cuenta Única Tributaria): Accomplished. As required by
SAL-I conditionality, AFIP has completed the technical design for the restructuring of its federal
tax payment information system to permit the creation of a single file for each federal taxpayer.
This file will include information on tax obligations and tax payments with respect to all federal
taxes. The technical design of the Integrated Tax System with eight modules, including current
accounts, tax audit, and single taxpayer registration, was approved in October 2001. A unique
taxpayer list has been established and crosschecked against various sources of information, such



                                                 - 21 -

as the record of deceased persons.

iv)     Federal tax audits: Accomplished. In accordance with SAL-I conditionality, a major
increase in the number of tax audits has occurred. For 2001, AFIP conducted over 117,000
audits, exceeding by far the target of 70,000 audits established by the SAL-I. AFIP estimates that
these audits increased tax revenues by Arg$536 million. During the period between January and
November 2002, AFIP conducted over 145,000 audits, which resulted in an estimated Arg$618
million in additional tax revenue.

v)      Tax on financial transactions: Accomplished. As agreed under the SAL-I, starting on
January 2002, AFIP has begun implementing a system to utilize information from the financial
transactions tax (established by Decree No. 25.413) for the purposes of tax audits. The system
crosschecks information from the financial transactions tax against data from the value-added tax,
profit tax, overseas transfers, and other taxes to identify persons or businesses that appear to owe
more tax than declared. During the second half of 2001, the system identified 500 cases of
presumed inconsistency that were referred for audit. During the first half of 2002, another 650
cases were identified.

vi)     AFIP's Code of Ethics: Accomplished. As required by SAL-I conditionality, AFIP has
issued an Ethics Code regulating the conduct of its employees while performing their functions
and responsibilities on 31 August 2001.

vii)    `Smart' physical inspections: Accomplished. In accordance with SAL-I conditionality,
AFIP has increased its reliance on standardized risk assessments to select imports for physical
inspections. At the same time, the number of physical inspections at points of entry was reduced
to 20 percent of the total number of import transactions during September - December 2001 and
to 10 percent of total transaction for 2002. It should be noted that, as a result of the significant
devaluation of the exchange rate, emphasis on inspections has shifted from import transactions,
for which there was previously a presumption of under-valuation, to export transactions, which
now represent the greater opportunity for under-valuation, since they are subject to the new
export tax that was introduced in early 2002.

viii)   Joined inspections by Tax and Customs Directorates: Accomplished. SAL-I
conditionality required an increase in the number of inspections performed jointly by the Tax and
Customs Directorates, both of which are under AFIP's jurisdiction, as a way of streamlining
inspection procedures while simultaneously increasing their effectiveness. During September -
December 2001, the number of post-release import inspections was 1,475, amply exceeding the
target of at least 133 inspections stipulated by the SAL-I. During 2002, the combined number of
post-release import inspections and pre-export `preventive' inspections rose to 5,195. Again, as
mentioned under the preceding condition, due to the devaluation and introduction of an export
tax, the relative emphasis in customs inspection has shifted to verifying the value of exports. In
this regard, the Tax Directorate has begun to coordinate inspections with Customs and special
attention has been placed on the export value of cereals, vegetable oils, petroleum products, and
automotive products.




                                                 - 22 -

National Social Security Administration (ANSES)

i)      Streamlining of ANSES' central administration: Accomplished. As part of its
modernization plan, ANSES has adopted a new organization structure, which reduced the number
of central administration operating units from 82 to 47, a reduction equivalent to 43 percent.
First level units were reduced from 18 to 10, while second level units were reduced from 64 to 37.
This reduction in the number of units has resulted in significant savings in wages and has
facilitated the professionalization of the managerial structure and the adoption of
performance-based contracts at the unit level. A career plan is in preparation.

ii)     Reduction of banking fees: Accomplished. ANSES has successfully reduced the total
amount of fees paid during the year 2000 to banking institutions for processing benefit payments
to ANSES' beneficiaries. Banking fees are currently 70 percent below the pre-existing level, thus
exceeding the targeted reduction of 15 percent stipulated in the SAL-I. ANSES is now
developing a payment scale to determine the fees to be paid to each financial institution based on
criteria reflecting the institution's performance (e.g., expediency and accuracy in payment
reporting), level of connectivity (e.g., electronic connection with ANSES) and level of services
offered to customers (e.g., waiting time, handicapped accessibility, air conditioned, etc.).

iii)    Backlog of pending applications: Accomplished. The stock of pending pension
applications (with a delay of 70 days or more) was reduced considerably in 2001, from 85,000 at
the time of Loan negotiation to 36,700 by May 2002, exceeding the 50 percent target stipulated in
the loan conditionality. Since then, ANSES has reduced the period by which it classifies an
application to be pending from 70 days to 50 days. Under this new stricter criterion, by the end of
December 2002, the stock of pending applications had been reduced to 29,236. Subsequently,
ANSES committed to maintain this standard as one of the indicators contained in the Citizen's
Charter that was developed by the Cabinet
(Jefetura).

iv)     Family-allowance payment system: Waived but in the process of being accomplished.
A new system for the direct payment of family allowances (Sistema Único de Asignaciones
Familiares, SUAF) was designed in September 2001 and steps towards its implementation have
been underway since then. Under the current system, family allowances for most employees are
paid by their employers, who then deduct these payments from the social security taxes that they
otherwise owe to the Government. This arrangement has led to abuses and fraud, as some
workers had jobs with multiple employers, or had spouses who are also employed, thus leading to
duplicate payments. Likewise, some employers fail to pay family contributions to their workers,
while still deducting them from the taxes they owe to the Government. Under the new system,
ANSES would make all payments for family allowances directly to the beneficiaries, thus ensuring
that workers receive their corresponding family allowances. The new system will also avoid
double payments, thus reducing the overall cost of the allowances to the state. ANSES has
estimated these savings at Arg$230 million per annum, so there is a strong incentive to make the
switch.

The implementation of the SUAF, however, was interrupted in November 2001, when the new



                                                  - 23 -

universal program expanding family allowances to low-income families (e.g., SIPROF) was
approved. To respond to this change in social assistance policy, ANSES began work on the
design of a different system to implement the SIPROF program. The tumultuous events of
December 2001 followed shortly thereafter, causing further uncertainty concerning the direction
of social assistance policy. The Duhalde administration considered the SIPROF program to be
too ambitious and expensive, and consequently revoked it in April 2002. ANSES thus reverted to
preparing the direct payments system for family allowances that had been designed in the previous
year. Nevertheless, six months were lost in the process.

Despite the delay, ANSES began utilizing the new payment system in May 2003. The system
currently covers 170,000 out of the 1.2 million total eligible beneficiaries--about 15 percent of
the total eligible beneficiaries versus the 20 percent target stipulated in the SAL-I conditionality.
It is anticipated that the new system will be fully implemented in December 2004.                On this basis,
a waiver was granted.

v)       Prompt identification and elimination of deceased beneficiaries: Accomplished.
ANSES has established efficient mechanisms to incorporate information on deceased beneficiaries
from 20 provincial civil registries and is currently working to incorporate data from the remaining
four provinces. The time of identifying deceased beneficiaries has been reduced from 82 to 30
days, which, in turn, yielded savings of over Arg$15 million during 2002.9/

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

         N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:

         N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The project's institutional development impact has been substantial. In the area of
federal-provincial finances, several provinces have enacted legislation conducive to fiscal
responsibility, including fiscal solvency laws, financial administration laws and limits on automatic
salary increases due to seniority. In addition, the operation has contributed to enhancing
transparency by promoting the electronic publishing of revenue-sharing transfers as well as
provincial accounts. Several provinces have followed this trend publishing fiscal information on
their own sites. The operation has also had a substantial institutional development impact in the
area of health insurance by facilitating the introduction of competition among health insurers,
achieving a more equitable equity of the Redistribution Fund and eliminating subsidies for failing
insurers. It has also contributed to enhancing the institutional performance of AFIP and ANSES,
the two single most important agencies within Argentina's federal public sector. In addition, the
new procurement law supported by the SAL-I should have a substantial institutional impact by
fostering transparency and cost effectiveness in state procurement.
_________________________
9/ The savings arise from payments that would have been made to beneficiaries after their death, either through
direct deposits or to representatives holding a power of attorney.




                                                        - 24 -

Particularly noteworthy has been the operation's institutional development impact in the area of
information and communication technologies (ICTs). The SAL-I contributed to the consolidation
of SINTyS and the development of two key databases: the SNSS database, which consolidates
beneficiaries of health insurers, and the RUBPS database, which consolidates information on
beneficiaries from social programs. It has also promoted the harmonization of federal and
provincial tax administration systems through the implementation of OSIRIS at the provincial
level. The operation also supported the design and implementation of the decentralized payment
of family allowances SUAF and the expansion of the Sistema 2000, the federal taxpayer
information system. These systems foster horizontal and vertical interconnectivity by facilitating
the exchange of information across government agencies and federal-provincial levels of
government, providing a solid foundation for developing modern knowledge-base management
within the public sector.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
         After rapid progress in the months following Board approval and the disbursement of the
first tranche, progress on various reforms was halted by the economic crisis in December 2001
and the ensuing political events. As discussed in section 4.1 above, the economic, political and
social situation deteriorated dramatically during the course of 2001. By the end of the year,
capital flight led to the imposition of banking controls, widespread popular discontent and the
change of government in December 2001. Within a period of one week, a succession of five
interim Presidents followed President De la Rua after his resignation. At the end of 2001, default
was declared on Argentine public debt (except for that with the IFIs) and, in early 2002, the peso
was allowed to float. In the meantime, the country continued to sink into a deeper recession, with
poverty reaching 50 percent of the population by July 2002.

         Not surprisingly, the SAL program received little attention at the central level during
2002, although various implementing agencies, such as AFIP and the Office of State
Modernization continued to implement the reforms in their respective areas. Nevertheless,
reforms that required strong political support, such as the reform of the health insurers (Obras
Sociales) were threatened and temporarily reversed. Other reforms that had been initiated by the
previous administration, such as the "Zero Deficit" law and the social protection reform, were
either replaced with alternative measures or abandoned. In late June 2002, the Government
requested the extension of the operation's original closing date (June 30, 2002) to maintain
possible access to the US$200 million second tranche, which was sorely needed to meet overall
financing requirements. An ex-post extension of the original closing date was granted on
November 1, 2002 for one year (to June 30, 2003), based on an action plan outlining the steps to
be taken to meet those conditions that were still pending. Following agreement with the IMF in
January 2003 on a new transitory arrangement, progress was made toward meeting the remaininig
second-tranche conditionality (in particular, approval of the new procurement law) during the first
quarter of 2003, with all but three of the 27 second-tranche conditions being met. The Bank
granted a waiver to the three remaining conditions, and the second tranche was disbursed on April
24, 2003.



                                                     - 25 -

         As mentioned previously, this ICR does not pretend to assess the factors leading to the
economic crisis of late 2001 and 2002, which has been analyzed extensively elsewhere.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
In the case of social protection reform, there were factors both within and beyond the control of
both the De la Rua and Duhalde administrations that resulted in its lack of implementation. As
mentioned earlier, Decree 1306 of 29 December 2000, which introduced reforms to the pension
regime, including a universal coverage for the elderly, was challenged in court. The main
allegation of this legal action was that, given their wide scope, the reforms introduced through
such Decree should only be adopted through the enactment of a law. The court of first instance
ruled in favor of the Government by dismissing the lawsuit in May 2001. However, this ruling was
appealed. In the meantime, President De la Rua's administration decided not to implement the
reform until the courts had settled the dispute. In other words, the Government had the authority
to start implementing the reforms but decided not to pursue it, expecting a prompt resolution by
the courts. Such resolution did not come until February 2002, two months after the resignation of
President De la Rua. In this case, the appeal was upheld, virtually suspending the legality of the
pension reform, leaving the decision to the Supreme Court. The Duhalde administration did not
take any steps to unblock the judicial claims. Given the fragility of the economic situation, the
Government adopted temporary social protection programs, such as the Plan Mayores, to provide
a stipend to elderly persons lacking alternative sources of income.

Decree 1382/2001 of November 1, 2001 introduced another initiative of the De la Rua
administration to extend social protection to the poor. The Integrated Family protection System (
Sistema Integrado de Protección a la Familia, SIPROF) established universal benefits for
children from low-income families and the elderly. However, the SIPROF was never implemented,
as its main architect, the Minister of Social Protection, stepped down on November 14, 2001, less
than two weeks after the enactment of the corresponding decree. After the resignation of
President De la Rua, the succeeding Duhalde administration opted instead for implementing a
temporary targeted unemployment program, Heads of Households (Jefes de Hogar).

Other factors affecting implementation that have been clearly under the control of the government
agencies include:

i)       Initially, ANSES exhibited limited interest in sharing its data with other agencies, including
the SSS and SINTyS, despite the enactment of decrees and the subscription of inter-agency
agreements requiring the exchange of information. ANSES's initial limited cooperation reflected
the absence of adequate incentives, the fact that ANSES had no stake in the reforms, and the lack
of strong political support on the part of the executive branch. The situation improved
substantially after ANSES was given a more active role in the definition of ITC policies. This is
illustrated, for example, by the active role ANSES has played at the technical board ('mesa
técnica') constituted by SINTyS to help build consensus among the major players at the national
level over key ITC issues. An important outcome of this technical board has been an Agreement
of Understanding subscribed on 10 September 2004 between the legal advisors of ANSES, AFIP,
RENAPER and SINTyS that delineates the basic strategy for the exchange of information
between them.
ii)      Issuing the pending regulation of the new procurement law is also within the ability of the


                                                    - 26 -

executive branch. Such regulation, which reflects the input from the Bank as well as
representatives of the private sector and civil society, has been ready for several months. The
delay, which is reportedly the result of opposition from some government agencies that wish to be
exempted from the new procurement procedures, suggests a lack of strong political will on the
part of the executive branch.
iii)     While the concept of `management by result' and other modern management tools have
been piloted under the SAL-I and the State Modernization Loan, the systemic lack of merit-based
appointments (concursos) outside of these pilots in the central administration poses a serious
concerning the Government's intentions to broaden public sector modernization.
iv)      Formally, public-sector employees are prohibited from receiving salary payments at same
time as any kind of retirement benefits from the national, provincial or municipal levels of
government, as established by Presidential Decree 894/2001. However, there are no reliable facts
or a monitoring system in place to ascertain the proper execution of this norm.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

                 N.A.

5.4 Costs and financing:

Two tranches were disbursed for a total amount of US$400 million, as originally envisioned.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:


The sustainability of the achievements of the SAL-I is deemed likely in most respects, as the
current economic and political environment seems propitious for continuing the reforms that were
promoted under the operation. Moreover, many of these reforms constitute an integral part of the
agenda of the Kirchner administration and support the stand-by agreement with the IMF, which
has been de facto suspended since August 2004 upon the request of the Government until the
sovereign debt restructuring is completed.

It is also important to point out that the degree of sustainability of the reforms pursued under the
SAL-I varies across the different components. In general, the degree of sustainability is higher for
those reforms that were more mature, such as the federal-provincial fiscal relations, with almost a
decade of implementation. A good indicator of their sustainability is the fact that they have
survived the traumatic events of the past three years. Alternatively, the sustainability of the newer
wave of reforms, such as the social protection reform, has proved to be fragile in the short run. In
retrospect, the unstable environment prevailing at the time of preparation and the ensuing
economic crisis proved to be propitious for advancing measures aimed in increasing discipline and
efficiency. However, they were not conducive to a dramatic restructuring of social safety nets.

The SAL-I also illustrates the role played by the Bank in ensuring the sustainability of the reforms
through long-term engagement. As mentioned earlier, the operation had a significant impact in
sustaining reforms that had been initiated under previous operations. It permitted the Bank to
continue its policy dialogue with Argentina on several sectors, thus maintaining focus on the


                                                    - 27 -

reform agenda even during very difficult times. As illustrated by the evolution of
federal-provincial fiscal relations in Argentina, the valuable contribution made by the Bank in this
area has been possible through long-term engagement (see Box 1).

a.      Fiscal-Provincial Fiscal Relations: Sustainability of the actions supported under the
fiscal-provincial fiscal relations component is likely. The prospects for the stabilization of
provincial finances are encouraging. As mentioned earlier, the consolidated provincial balance
recorded a surplus equivalent to 0.3 percent of GDP in 2003 and 1.3 percent in 2004. Fiscal
responsibility legislation, passed by the Federal congress in August 2004 establishes a mechanism
for continuing the practice of signing bilateral agreements with provinces in deficit. However,
expected legislation to reform the co-participation system has been delayed.

b.      Health: Sustainability within the health insurance reforms is likely. Although the
regulatory reform of the health insurance was introduced and consolidated through executive
decrees and regulations issued by the SSS as opposed to laws, they seem unlikely to be
overturned, particularly in view of the new rights and expectations of the beneficiaries and the
OSs. The recently approved Health Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan No. 7199-AR, SECAL)
includes conditionality requiring the Government to keep in place the health reforms implemented
under the SAL-I as part of its own conditionality, augmenting the likelihood of their sustainability.




                                                 - 28 -

                                                         Box 1
                                   Reflections on Reforms and their Sustainability:
   The Long-Term Contribution of W orld Bank Lending to Federal-Provincial Fiscal Relations in Argentina

  The Bank's long-term engagement in Argentina's federal-provincial financial relations has not only contributed to
  the development of a sound knowledge base but has also been a key factor contributing to the sustainability of the
  advances.   Since the path of reform is uneven and often convoluted, it is important to take a longer term
  perspective to appreciate th e magnitude of the progress that has been achieved in this area, even in the face of the
  crisis of December 2001.

  When the Bank prepared its first provincial operation in 1989, provincial finances amounted to a `black box,' as
  there were no data systematically collected on provincial finances by the national government. A Bank's sector
  study on provincial finances conducted in 1989 provided one of the first diagnoses of the fiscal situation in the
  provinces. Building upon this study, the First Provincial Development Project (Loan No. 3280-AR) set the
  foundations for an information system on provincial finances that systematically collected fiscal data from
  provincial governments at regular time intervals and in a consistent format. This information system continued to
  evolve over the next ten years and is now one of the best in Latin America. It has become a key tool used by the
  national government and the Bank to monitor provincial fiscal performance, as well as by private financial entities
  to perform credit scoring for sub-national governments seeking to access private financial markets. Over the past
  decade, the Bank has continued to perform a pulse-taking function monitoring provincial finances through
  periodic reports, such as the `Provincial Finances Studies' conducted in 1996 and subsequent updates.

  Another giant leap in provincial finances resulted from the establishment of the Fund for the Transformation of
  Provincial Public Sector (Fondo para la Transformación de los Sectores Públicos Provinciales; Decree 678/93).
  Created in April 1993, the Transformation Fund was a precursor of the current bilateral agreements. Capitalized
  with proceeds from the First Provincial Reform Loan (Ln. 3836-AR), it was a key instrument in promoting the
  first wave of structural adjustment at the provincial level. Under the framework of the Transformation Fund, the
  national government established individual agreements with each of the participating provinces, establishing the
  specific measures to be implemented, their needs for technical and financial support and the terms of repayment.
  This mechanism was highly successful, resulting in a substantial deficit reduction among those provinces that
  subscribed to the agreements and the privatization of more than 48 provincial en terprises, including nine
  provincial banks. Like the current bilateral agreements, the Transformation Fund helped the national government
  advance provincial reform in the aftermath of a crisis, in that case the one unleashed by the Mexican devaluation
  in D ecember 1994. A series of seven Provincial Reform Loans-- SALs directed to provincial governments-- gave
  continuity to these efforts and provided valuable experience in establishing clearly defined fiscal targets as loan
  conditionality to be met by individual provincial governments.

  Another important Bank contribution to federal-provincial fiscal relations took place in the context of the Special
  SAL (Loan No. SCL-44050, SSAL), which was prepared as part of the 1998 international aid package. While the
  1994 Constitutional Reform had called for Congressional enactment of changes in the system by the end of 1996,
  such changes had been hard to realize, even after several rounds of difficult negotiations with the provincial
  governments. The SSAL tackled those issues, calling for measures to help advance the dialogue. Alternative
  intergovernmental proposals were prepared under the SSAL, which deeply changed the rules and procedures
  governing transfers to the provinces to make them more transparent, equitable and more capable of motivating
  stronger provincial accountability and efficiency. These proposals had an important impact, influencing the
  adoption of a moving average provincial share of transfers for 2001-2005 as part of a Federal Agreement reached
  in November 2000. In this way, the Bank contributed significantly to the advancement of the policy dialogue and
  provided a solid conceptual foundation for the proposed new revenue-sharing law.

  From this long-term perspective, it is clear the importance of continuing the Bank's engagement in Argentina's
  federal-provincial finances, particularly in the context of the ongoing negotiations on a new revenue-sharing law
  and a tax reform that could provide the provinces with greater revenue-generating authority. The latest CAS report
  correctly observes that Argentina is experiencing `reform fatigue.' It is important that, despite the disillusionment,
  the Bank avoid the reform fatigue syndrome itself, and continues to support Argentina as it builds on the lessons
  learned during the past decade to ultimately achieve the long sought fiscal stability at the provincial level.



c.      Social Protection: The main achievement of this component has been the implementation
of the RUBPS, a consolidated database of beneficiaries of social programs. The sustainability of



                                                    - 29 -

the RUBPS appears to be highly likely. SINTyS is increasingly receiving requests to crosscheck
information against the RUBPS from various institutional actors, including the Ministry of Labor,
which administers the Heads of Households program, as well as provincial governments that are
implementing similar social protection programs. More importantly, the Minister of Health, who
also chairs the newly established National Council for the Coordination of Social Policies, has
identified the RUBPS as a key instrument in improving the efficiency and efficacy of national
social programs. An immediate objective is to improve the coverage of the database to
incorporate those segments of the population, such as indigenous populations, which might be
missing. This expansion in coverage will require a substantial logistical effort, including the survey
of populations living in remote areas. The Government has solicited additional support for
SINTyS which will be provided under the State Modernization Loan (Loan No. 4223-AR).

Speaking of sustainability is not appropriate in terms of expanding social protection coverage, as
the corresponding SAL-I conditionality was not met. However, the current administration has
taken several measures aimed at expanding coverage of the poor. Although less ambitious than
originally envisioned, social protection programs such as the Plan Mayores and Jefes de Hogar
are conceptually consistent with the objectives of the forsaken pension reform. Within the
constrains imposed by the fragile economic situation, the Kirchner administration has expressed
its full commitment toward `rebuilding an economy that delivers sustained growth within a
framework of social equity.'10/

d.       Public Sector Modernization: The sustainability of the actions taken as part of the
public modernization component appears to be highly likely. The new procurement law has been
in place since 2001 and is highly likely to continue. However, as mentioned earlier, the enactment
of a regulatory decree is still needed to ensure its proper application. The systematic adoption of
the `management by result' modality will require a concerted effort on the part of the executive
branch. In the absence of stronger political support, future progress is likely to be marginal and
linked to the continuation of the State Modernization Loan (Loan No. 4223-AR). The enhanced
performance of AFIP and ANSES is likely to be sustained. In the case of AFIP, the stand-by
agreement with the IMF includes strict fiscal targets that are dependant on increased revenues.
Moreover, it includes provisions that are directly aimed at improving AFIP's performance, such as
legislative approval of a tax-administration reform package introducing new instruments and
penalties to reduce tax evasion. Likewise, the agreement requires legislative approval of
additional measures aimed at strengthening enforcement, including the creation of federal tax
tribunals in the City of Buenos Aires. Finally, the agreement requires the elimination of the stock

____________________________________
10/ Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policies, submitted by Minister of Economy Roberto Lavagna to the
IMF on September 10, 2003.




                                                 - 30 -

of VAT arrears. Although there are not clearly defined targets in the case of ANSES, its
improved performance is likely to continue, mainly as a result of the new expectations it has
generated in its beneficiaries. Bank support will be continued under a follow-up investment
operation (ANSES II) and, in the case of SINTyS, under the State Modernization Loan. Finally,
it is important to ensure the enforcement of inter-agency data-sharing agreements to ensure the
sustainability of SINTyS.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

        N.A.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's performance in assisting the Borrower in identifying, preparing and appraising the
operation was satisfactory. The Bank's extensive sector work and operational experience
provided it with an in-depth knowledge of Argentina's public sector, which permitted the correct
identification of the main challenges it faced. The Bank's staff helped to identify and prepare an
operation that was consistent with both the Borrower's interests and the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy. A gender assessment was performed as part of the loan preparation to ensure
that the reforms would not have negative gender impacts and, instead, reduce intra-gender
disparities. The quantity, quality, and mix of the Bank staff involved in project preparation were
appropriate and the relations developed with the Borrower have proved to be longstanding.
During the interviews conducted as part of the ICR preparation, professional staff in the
participating agencies has repeatedly praised the input from their Bank counterparts--together
with those of the IMF in the case of AFIP--in terms of policy making, reporting it as an
important value-added benefit of the operation.

7.2 Supervision:

The Bank's supervision was also satisfactory. The project was supervised regularly and ratings
were adequately reported. Over the two years of project implementation, there were multiple
supervision missions by both the task manager responsible for SAL-I supervision and individual
sector teams. Sector task managers were responsible for the supervision of the conditionalities in
each sector, which provided in-depth, sector-specific knowledge and complemented efforts with
ongoing sector operations. There was excellent coordination between the program task manager
and the task managers working in individual sectors, which permitted the balancing of sound
sector expertise with a comprehensive view of the overall operation. The Bank's ability to
maintain a close working relationship with the participating government agencies during a very
difficult period was consistently praised during the interviews conducted as part of the ICR
mission. At times when relations were tense between the government and IFIs, individual task
managers and the professional staff in government agencies succeeded in maintaining the channels



                                                  - 31 -

of communication open.

The Bank also exhibited flexibility and cooperation in granting an ex-post extension to the original
closing date. Such extension proved to be adequately justified, given that the second tranche was
eventually disbursed before the new closing date. Bank staff continued to provide extensive
technical assistance during the implementation stage, particularly in the drafting of the new
procurement law and health insurance reforms.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Given the eventual economic and political collapse by the end of 2001, the question of whether
the Bank should have predicted such an outcome at the time the SAL-I preparation is, of course,
highly relevant. While there are differing views on the causes of the crisis and whether it might
have been avoided, this question can be more adequately addressed as part of the evaluation of
the overall Bank strategy toward Argentina than as part of this ICR, which has focused on the
specific reforms supported by the SAL-I. The successful implementation of the SAL-I indicates
that adjustment operations can effectively ensure the sustainability of previous and ongoing
reforms during difficult periods, in this case safeguarding the progress made during the previous
decade.

This is an important lesson of experience, which expands those learned in Argentina in the
aftermath of the 1994 Mexican crisis. At that time, timely and decisive intervention on the part of
the Bank served to avert a deeper crisis and to support the Government's efforts to deepen
reform. During the most recent crisis, the Bank's intervention in conjunction with the IMF and
the IDB did not succeed in averting the crisis. However, through the SAL-I, important
accomplishments achieved during the previous decade were effectively protected and sustained
during the crisis. Although the debate over what was the appropriate strategy under the
conditions prevailing at the time is likely to continue with valid arguments on both sides, the
experience of the SAL-I illustrates the importance of maintaining the Bank's engagement during
times of crisis.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Government's performance during preparation was satisfactory. The preparation of the loan
was left in the hands of top-notch professional staff within the Ministry of Economy, which, in
turn, was responsible for coordinating actions with other areas within the Government. Given the
large number of participating agencies and the complex nature of the operation, such coordination
required a substantial effort on the part of the Government's preparation team. Throughout the
project preparation, the government staff worked closely with the Bank's project team,
contributing its high motivation and sound technical proficiency to the process.

Little input in terms of policymaking, however, was received from higher levels of
decision-making within the Government. While there were some ambitious reform initiatives
within the De la Rua administration, they were championed by individual actors--such as Vice
President Alvarez and his `a la Gore' public sector modernization program and Labor Minister
Patricia Bullrich and her plans to universalize social protection. Even though loan conditionality



                                                 - 32 -

supporting these reforms remained after these actors left the administration, there was no strong
ownership of these reforms within the administration.


7.5 Government implementation performance:

The Government's implementation performance was satisfactory. There was rapid progress
toward achieving second-tranche conditionality in the months following Board approval, with all
but four conditions (out of a total of 30) having been met by December 2001. This impetus,
however, ended in December 2001 with the collapse of the economy and the resignation of
President De la Rua. The future of the reforms became uncertain and the project was at risk,
particularly during the first half of 2002. Many of the conditionalities had been framed in the
context of policies that, by then, had been abandoned, such as Cavallo's `Deficit Zero' or the
social protection reform. In addition, some of the conditions that had been previously achieved,
such as the enactment of a decree mandating the per-capita distribution of the FSR, were later
temporarily reversed by emergency decrees and other measures.

Despite such reversals in major economic policies, the Government officials responsible for
implementation of the institutional reforms supported by the SAL continued to press ahead with
the associated measures. The Ministry of Economy also continued to hope that the Government
could eventually draw the second tranche of the SAL, since the remaining $200 million would be
a significant part of any new financing plan to be supported by the IFIs. A Bank supervision
mission in June 2002 provided a positive assessment of the large majority of second tranche
conditions (most had already been met), and the Government therefore requested a one-year
extension of the closing date and presented an action plan for meeting the outstanding
second-tranche conditions. Momentum on meeting the remaining conditions picked up in January
2003, as Argentina entered a new agreement with the IMF.

The government office responsible for overseeing loans by multilateral lending institutions (
Dirección Nacional de Proyectos con Organismos Internacionales de Crédito), played a key role
in achieving the disbursement of the second tranche by providing coordination with the
participating agencies and documenting the justification for the three waivers that were needed.


7.6 Implementing Agency:

        N.A.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

The overall performance of the Borrower is rated satisfactory for the reasons outlined above.
Given the high discontinuity at the political level, it is clear that the satisfactory implementation of
the operation was due to the remarkable performance of the professional staff within the various
government agencies. In the aftermath of the crisis, they had the ability to remove themselves
from the surrounding chaos and focus on their day-to-day tasks. As some of them have
humorously expressed it, it entailed a significant level of schizophrenia to be able to do so. In
sum, the professional staff has exhibited a highly satisfactory performance, despite the lack of
strong political support at times. In lieu of its own implementation report, the Government



                                                  - 33 -

provided comments on the draft ICR. These are attached as Annex 8. Several key comments
have been incorporated in the final text of the ICR.


8. Lessons Learned

There are several lessons that can be learned from this operation, including:

q       The Bank's continuous engagement during critical periods can help sustain ongoing
reforms and protect previous achievements. The experience of the SAL-I indicates that it was
beneficial to have in place an operation with the characteristics of the SAL-I. The SAL-I acted as
a bridge, helping sustain the ongoing reforms during times of economic, political and institutional
chaos. It did so by providing a clear roadmap for the short and medium term, which was
supported by substantial financial incentives.

q       Within a difficult lending and operational environment, focusing on the
consolidation of ongoing reforms appears to have been an effective strategy. The experience
of Argentina's SAL I indicates that adjustment operations can be effective in consolidating
previous and ongoing institutional reforms, as illustrated by the reforms in the health and
provincial sectors. In these sectors, the SAL-I was able to build upon previous institutional work
done under other operations, using its financial incentives to support the implementation of key
actions that were still pending and to maintain a policy dialogue with successive administrations as
well as protecting--and in some cases even further advancing--progress made in the past. As an
example, the loan's conditionality for the provincial fiscal deficit focused on outcomes rather than
instruments and was flexible enough to recognize the usefulness of the orderly financing
agreements that the Government introduced for managing the fiscal situation of the provinces that
was not part of the SAL's initial toolkit.

q       Past institutional relationships matter, particularly during periods of crisis. Although
the implementation of the SAL-I suffered from the absence of strong political leadership, the
presence of a highly proficient professional staff in the various government agencies succeeded in
attenuating such deficiency. The experience of the SAL-I suggests that, if reforms are formulated
based on sustained previous work within specific areas of the administration, the professional civil
service can still achieve results during periods of adverse political conditions. In other words, past
institutional relationships matter, although they are not guarantee of success.

q       It is difficult to advance significant social protection reforms during times of
extreme fiscal crises. As illustrated by the case of the social protection reform, the fragile
economic situation was not propitious for reforms aimed at improving the effectiveness and
efficiency of safety nets. When financial resources are scarce, social programs are more likely to
be cut rather than expanded. Likewise, high social tensions are likely to politicize social programs,
making it difficult to improve targeting.




                                                 - 34 -

q        Information technology can effectively improve public management. As illustrated by
the various databases supported under the SAL-I, including SINTyS, SSNS and RUBPS, the
systematic analysis and crosschecking of information can help detect fraud, improve targeting and
generate substantial savings.

q        While SAL operations can be effective tools in establishing the legal framework for the
exchange of information across different agencies, they have to be complemented with strong political
support from top authorities to successfully overcome institutional resistance and adequate consensus
building mechanisms. As a result of the SAL-I, decrees were enacted requiring key government agencies
to facilitate the exchange of inter-agency information. However, ANSES' initial reluctance to share its
information on a regular basis--despite the existence of such decrees--indicates that continuous political
support is needed from top levels of government, together with participatory decision-making processes that
foster consensus building among key stakeholders.

q        Loan conditionality should focus on results, going beyond the enactment of
legislation or executive decrees. Like many structural adjustment operations, Argentina's SAL-I
illustrates the danger of having conditionality which can be legally met despite having no
significant impact. In this particular case, there is no guarantee that the decree prohibiting public
employees from receiving simultaneous pension benefits is being enforced. Likewise, the decrees
introducing pension reform and the SIPROF were never implemented. Finally, the failure to enact
regulations for the new procurement law also points to the importance of designing conditionality
that ensure proper implementation.

q        Overly complex operations are difficult to implement and supervise. The complexity
of the SAL-I, with thirty second-tranche conditions and multiple participating agencies offered a
challenge to those responsible for its implementation and supervision. On the side of the
Borrower, it was very hard to coordinate the efforts across multiple government agencies,
particularly in view of the change in authorities. On the Bank side, the program demanded a
strong cooperation and coordination between the various sector teams, which, although
successfully achieved in the case of the SAL-I, might endanger other operations of similar
complexity.

q        Crises do not always offer windows of opportunities for new reforms. Unlike the
Tequila crisis, which served to deepen reforms in various fronts, the December 2001 crisis offered
little opportunity for the advancement of new reforms. The effectiveness of the SAL-I was due
largely to its focus on consolidating and protecting ongoing reforms as opposed to initiating new
ones. Likewise, SAL-I conditionality, such as maintaining an uninterrupted flow of
revenue-sharing funds to the provinces to help protect social programs, effectively contributed to
containing the social impact of the crisis.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

See Government's comments in Annex 8.



                                                    - 35 -

(b) Cofinanciers:
        As part of its contribution to the `blindaje' aid package, the IDB approved an operation
with objectives similar to those of the SAL-I. Specifically, the Sector Program in Support of the
Federal Commitment to Growth and Fiscal Discipline (Loan 1341/OC-AR; CFCDF) was designed
to help the Argentine government achieve fiscal consolidation and move forward with fiscal
structural reform by focusing on two components: a) modernization and regularization of fiscal
administration, which addressed (i) fiscal regularization; (ii) budgetary programming; (iii) fiscal
transparency; (iv) social spending management; and (v) tax administration; and b) improvement in
inter-governmental relations, which addressed (i) the revenue sharing regime; (ii) provincial tax
reform and harmonization; and (iii) modernization of the State.

        The loan, which was approved on August 29, 2001 for US$500 million, was originally to
be disbursed in two tranches. The first tranche of US$255 million was disbursed on September
18, 2001. However, as in the case of the SAL-I, progress toward second-tranche conditionality
was halted after the economic and political collapse in December 2001, as some of the policy
objectives contained in the program became less of a priority and, in some cases, even less
relevant in view of the state of social emergency prevailing in the country. On February 5, 2003,
at the Government's request, the IDB's Board of Executive Directors gave authorization for the
second tranche to be divided into two parts. The first part for US$145 million was disbursed on
February 13, 2003. The second part was disbursed on December 5, 2003. As reported by the IDB
official responsible for the operation, the project's performance has been deemed satisfactory in
terms of project implementation and probable in terms of achievement of its development goal.
Although a final evaluation has not yet been completed for the IDB operation, the SAL-I and the
CFCDF appear to have had similar experiences in terms of their implementation, overall
performance and achievement of objectives.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

                 N.A.

10. Additional Information

The individuals interviewed in the course of the preparation of this report include:

                           Government                             Bank
 Gastón Blanco                      Luis Pérez                    Marcelo Barg (consultant)
 Carlos Castagneto                  Carolina Piboul               Marcelo Becerra
 Horacio Castagnola                 Jorge Quintana                Ariel Fiszbein
 Diana Collard                      Marisa Ramírez                Peter Hansen
 Miguel Fernández Pastor            Mario Rossello                Ronald Myers
 Gerardo Hita                       Ramiro Soria                  Miguel Mercado Díaz
 Marcela Losardo                    Alejandra de la Serna         David Rosenblatt
 Juan Luna                          Carmen Sicz
 Sergio Massa                       Mónica Thiery
 Ana Noriega                        Benigno Vélez




                                                   - 36 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

                                Annex 1.a: Log Frame Matrix
                                   MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
Macroeconomic Framework
First Tranche        Appropriate Macroeconomic fram ework in place.                     Accomplished
(Board Presentation)
Second Tranche       Appropriate Macroeconomic fram ework in place.                     Accomplished

a. Federal-Provincial Fiscal Relations
First Tranche        Provincial Fiscal Stabilization: Federal Agreem ent ratified       Accomplished
(Board Presentation) by the national Congress and by 21 provinces; fixed                 (The Federal
                     transfers in place by law for 2001-2002; agreem ent with 21      Agreem ent was later
                     provinces to establish targets for provincial spending; 12       superseded by other
                     provinces enacted fiscal solvency laws; 18 provinces                agreements)
                     enacted legislation either lim iting or elim inating automatic
                     wage adjustments; debt authorizations issued by Ministry of
                     Economy consistent with fiscal deficit targets of the
                     macroeconomic framework; federal fiscal and financial
                     restructuring programs with 11 provinces conditioned on
                     com pliance with Federal Agreem ent.

                     Reform of Revenue Sharing: Agreem ent with 21 provinces            Accomplished
                     to establish guidelines for permanent reform of the system
                     of revenue sharing, incl. the simplification of the system ,
                     single pool of funds incorporating all major federal taxes,
                     and moving-average to determine future provincial shares.

                     Provincial Taxation: Agreem ent with 21 provinces to               Accomplished
                     harm onize taxes, coordinate tax administration, im plem ent
                     com patible tax paym ent inform a tion system s (such as
                     OSIRIS), share data on tax administration issues, and
                     reduce econom ic distortions in provincial tax instrum ents.

                     Fiscal Transparency: Agreem ent with 21 provinces to               Accomplished
                     disseminate fiscal and financial information; Federal
                     Governm ent (in conjunction with the Central Bank)
                     established a system to monitor provincial fiscal deficits on a
                     `cash basis' by tracing the evolution of assets and liabilities
                     `below the line;' agreem ent with 21 provinces to implem ent
                     multi-year budgeting at the provincial level; 13 provinces
                     have enacted financial adm inistration laws.

Second Tranche       Actual transfers during 2001/2002 follow the rules                 Accomplished
                     established in the Federal Agreem ent.

                     Aggregate provincial fiscal deficit less than ARG$1.45 billion         W aived
                     for first sem ester of 2001 (data available August 15th) and       (Subsequently
                     aggregate provincial fiscal deficit less than ARG$2.08 billion     accomplished)
                     during first three quarters of 2001 (data available November
                     15th), and ARG$2.76 billion for the entire calendar year
                     2001.

                     Federal Government publishes regular reports on aggregate          Accomplished
                     provincial fiscal performance and provinces' compliance with
                     the Federal Agreem ent.

                     Tax payment inform ation system s (e.g., OSIRIS)                   Accomplished
                     established in the three (largest) provinces, and collection
                     via these system s is initiated.
                               MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS (cont.)




                                               - 37 -

                              MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS (cont.)
First Tranche        The Health Services Superintendence (SSS) has notified all          Accomplished
(Board Presentation) insurers in crisis of their situation, requesting their
                     corresponding restructuring plans.

Second Tranche       Enact a decree enabling all em ployees, regardless of their         Accomplished
                     incom e level, to freely choose their insurer (obra social)
                     since their first day of em ploym ent.

                     Enact a decree (a) ordering AFIP, ANSES and the SSS the             Accomplished
                     elaboration of a complete enrollm ent database for the
                     SNSS; and (b) establishing a new compensation procedure
                     for the Fondo Solidario de Redistribución (FSR) that is
                     proportional to the number of beneficiaries (per capita).

                     Enact a decree elim inating all financial subsidies given by        Accomplished
                     the Admin istración de Programas Especiales (APE) to
                     insurers due to chronic operating deficits. A decree
                     establishes the legal fram ework for excluding from the
                     National Registry of Health Insurance Agents any insurer
                     that is not complying with minimum m andatory econom ic,
                     financial and service delivery standards. In addition, a
                     procedure is defined for transferring affiliates and
                     beneficiaries from those health insurers being excluded from
                     the Registry to other health insurers that do comply with the
                     standards.
c. Social Protection
First Tranche        Pension Reform : A decree was issued that:(i) replaced PBU          Accomplished
(Board Presentation) with a targeted BU (Universal Benefit), a proportional benefit     (The decree was
                     (PP), and a supplem entary benefit (PS); and (ii) established       issued but not
                     a minimum guaranteed benefit. In addition, ANSES                    implemented)
                     administrative reforms had been initiated (see Modernization
                     of the State below).

                     Reform of Non-Contributive Pensions: Reform o f Pensiones           Accomplished
                     graciables was implem ented, incl. eligibility criteria tightened
                     and profiles of current recipients reviewed, resulting in
                     15,959 pensions canceled, reduced am ounts of pension
                     benefits of an additional 8,517 beneficiaries, and generating
                     savings of US$10.5 million, of which $5 million was
                     allocated to poverty targeted pension (pensiones
                     asistenciales), and another US$5 million to cancel a debt to
                     war veterans.

                     Child and Household W elfare: Agreem ent that a national            Acc omplished
                     system of child and household welfa re will be established          (A decree was
                     that follows the following principles: (i) the use of per-child     issued but not
                     cash allowances paid on a monthly basis through a cost-             implemented)
                     effective m eans; (ii) universal coverage based on objective
                     and easily-to-monitor indicators that guarantee that t he
                     weakest households in society are covered; (iii) the use of a
                     single registry of all beneficiaries following a standard
                     protocol; and (iv) the implem entation of a decisive outreach
                     effort to facilitate claim s of these benefits by vulnerable
                     groups.

                     Delivery of Social Assistance: Establishm ent by Jefatura de        Accomplished
                     Gabinete and G abinete Social of protocol for program
                     monitoring and evaluation for all national social programs.




                                                 - 38 -

                             MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS (cont.)
Second Tranche       Proposal of consolidation of existing PNCs (Asistenciales            W aived
                     and G raciables) with new and existing national incom e           (The universal
                     transfer programs (e.g. the Beneficio Universal) covering        benefit was never
                     sam e target population.                                          implem ented)

                     Protocols for the unified system of identification and registry   Accomplished
                     of beneficiaries are developed, approved, and an
                     implem entation plan is in place.
d. Modernization of the State
i.  Central Administration
First Tranche        Fiscal Perform ance: Financial transactions tax implem ented.     Accomplished
(Board Presentation)
                     Streamlined Governm ent: Em ergency Law (No. 25.414)              Accomplished
                     gave the executive branch powers for one year to issue
                     decrees with the status of law covering a wide variety of
                     reforms; seven of 68 decentralized agencies were m erged
                     and seven of 37 Boards of Directors of decentralized non-
                     financial public sector agencies eliminated; presidential
                     Decree 103 issued, establishing the Plan for Modernization
                     of the State, which provides the legal fram ework for
                     `managem ent by result;' SINTyS Coordination Comm ittee
                     established and functioning, including representatives from
                     ANSES, AFIP, National Registry of Citizens (RNP) and the
                     Ministry of Justice; Bill of Law presented to Congress for
                     enabling electronic signatures.

Second Tranche       Decree issued to regulate/restrict on a comprehensive basis       Accomplished
                     public sector em ploym ent by governm ent retirees.

                     Decrees issued to create and regulate the position of             Accomplished
                     Program Manager for hiring of middle m anagers on contract
                     basis, and such managers hired in at least 5 agencies.

                     Data sharing agreem ents reached among ANSES, AFIP,               Accomplished
                     and SINTyS and at least two key databases from each of
                     AFIP and ANSES transferred to SINTyS.

                     New procurem ent law issued (as a delegated decree power          Accomplished
                     under Em ergency Legislation).
ii. Tax Administration Agency (AFIP)
First Tranche        Strengthening Information Technology (IT): Inform a tics          Accomplished
(Board Presentation) Users Committee established to provide AFIP agency-wide
                     oversight of information technology operations.

                     Audit and Inspections: 45,000 audits completed by mid-July        Accomplished
                     in line with revised audit plan based on greater use of
                     information m atching; investigations initiated for the 350
                     pending alleged cases of internal misconduct.

                     Custom s: Imports selected for physical inspection on the         Accomplished
                     basis of standardized risk assessm ents, and 30% maxim um
                     red channel (on-side, port-or entry) physical inspections
                     (excluding inspections required by other agencies ­ e.g.,
                     agriculture/health departm ents, firearms control, etc.); 100
                     post-release inspections perform ed jointly by Tax
                     Directorate and Customs Directorate inspectors.

                     Tax Fraud Courts: Process of selection of judges initiated.       Accomplished




                                               - 39 -

                               M A T R I X O F P O L I C Y A C T IONS (cont.)
Second Tranche       Issuance of norms that mandate banks not to permit                  Accom plished
                     w ithdrawals of funds by any taxpayer after notification of
                     embargo of taxpayer's accounts.

                     Extension of existing `2000' taxpayer monitoring system             Accom plished
                     from 250,000 to all active taxpayers, except small
                     businesses paying the Unified Tax (Monotributo) and self-
                     employed service sector workers (Autónomos).

                     Com pletion of conceptual design of reengineered `2000'             Accom plished
                     including taxpayer current account feature.

                     Federal Tax Audits: 62,000 audits completed by end                  Accom plished
                     September; 70,000 audits completed by end October; report
                     submitted to the Bank on tax obligation adjustm ents made
                     as a result of the audits.

                     Im plem entation of a system to utilize inform ation from n e w     Accom plished
                     financial transactions tax for audit purposes.

                     Ethics Code for AFIP employees approved and published.              Accom plished
iii. Social Security Agency (ANSES)
First Tranche        Decree issued to reform the administrative structure,               Accom plished
(Board Presentation) including the elim ination of at least 40% of managem ent
                     units and the creation of a Strategic Planning Unit.

                     Integrated financial management system (SIDIF) in                   Accom plished
                     operation in ANSES.

                     Anti-fraud program initiated including: i) norm s issued for a      Accom plished
                     new system o f direct fam ily allowance paym ent; ii)
                     elim ination of unem ploym ent benefits to detected current
                     workers; iii) agreem ent signed with the National Citizen
                     Registry to cross inform ation on births and deaths, and
                     initiate these crossing in 2 provinces.

Second Tranche       Internal regulations issued to elim inate at least 40% of           Accom plished
                     operating units in ANSES's central administration.

                     Total fees paid to banks ($70m annually) for processing             A c complished
                     benefit paym ents reduced at least: 10% by end Septem ber,
                     15% by end October.

                     Reduction of stock of pension requests pending (85,000)             Accom plished
                     30% by end Septem b e r; 50% by end October.

                     New family allowance paym ent system : 20% of families                  W aived
                     incorporated in the database by end-September, 40% by             (In the process of
                     end-O ctober and paym ents made through new system to            being accomplished)
                     2 0 % o f fam ilies by end- O ctober.
                                                                                         Accom plished
                     Extend inform a tion crossings and elim inate ineligible
                     paym ents for defunct beneficiaries where detected in at
                     least 7 provinces by end Septem ber and 12 provinces by
                     end October.




                                                 - 40 -

Annex 1.b: Performance and Monitoring Indicators

                       PERFORMANCE AND MONITORING INDICATORS
Indicators         Government Expectations                     Actual Performance
Macroeconomic Framework
GDP growth         · Reactivation by end of 2001               · Economic collapse by end of 2001
                   · Average 4 percent during 2002-2003         · GDP fell by 11 percent in 2002.
                                                               · Real GDP growth is projected at 7
                                                                 percent for 2003.
Inflation          · Inflation less than 3 percent             · The CPI increased by 41 percent during
                                                                 2002 after the devaluation and the
                                                                 abandonment of the currency board
                                                                 arrangement pegging the peso to the
                                                                 US dollar. Contrary to the expectations
                                                                 of many, CPI inflation did not soar
                                                                 during 2003, averaging 3 percent.
Fiscal Performance
Federal fiscal     · Compliance with IMF Program Targets       · 2001 targets were not met.
deficit             for 2001.                                  · A Transitional Agreem ent with the IMF
                                                                 was subscribed in January 2003.
                                                               · A Stand-By Agreem ent with the IMF
                                                                 was subscribed for 36 months in
                                                                 September 2003. Targets are being
                                                                 met.
Provincial fiscal  · Compliance with primary expenditure        · 2001 targets were not met, with the
deficit             freeze, fiscal deficit targets for 2001,     consolidated primary provincial deficit
                    followed by progress towards zero            reaching 1.6 percent of GDP and the
                    deficit                                      overall deficit 2.5 percent of GDP.
                                                                · 2002: -0.1 primary; -0.8 overall.
                                                               · 2003: +0.7 primary; +0.3 overall.
                                                               · 2004: +1.7 primary; +1.3 overall.
Tax Administration
Tax revenues /     · Increase by 0.25 percentage points per    · 16.9 percent for 2001
GDP                 year (calculated according to an agreed    · 16.1 percent for 2002
                    m ethodology)                               ·19.2 percent for 2003
                                                               · 22.0 percent for 2004.
Audits completed   · Progressive accomplishments according     · 117,320 tax audits in 2001.
                    to agreed schedule, with 70,000            · 145,000 tax audits between January
                    com pleted by October 2001                   and Nov. 2002
Customs            · Post-release inspections increased,       · During Sept. - Dec. 2001, the number of
collection          including joint Customs and Internal         post-release import inspections was
                    Revenue audits                               1,475, far above the target of at least
                                                                 133 inspections.
                                                                · During 2002, the number of post-
                                                                 release import inspections and pre-
                                                                 export `preventive' inspections rose to
                                                                 5,195.




                                                 - 41 -

                 PERFORMANCE AND MONITORING INDICATORS (cont.)
Indicators       Government Expectations                        Actual Performance
Social Security Administration
Stock of         · Eliminate stock of claims backlog            · Stock of claim backlog has been
unresolved        progressively according to agreed              reduced from 85,000 (e.g., with a delay
claims            schedule for cases over 70 days old            of 70 days or more) in 2001 to 29,236 in
                                                                 Dec. 2002 (e.g., with a delay of 50 days
                                                                 or more).
Pension Reform
Coverage of      · Basic benefits (Beneficio Universal)         · The Universal Benefit was not
basic pension     received by at least 90,000 elderly with       implem ented.
benefits          pre-benefit incomes below poverty line.       · A temporary transfer program--Plan
                                                                 Mayores (Decrees 565/02, 155/03)--is
                                                                 in place, which provides support to
                                                                 elderly persons without any other source
                                                                 of income. There were 39,588
                                                                 beneficiaries in 2001, 40339 in 2002,
                                                                 and 38,253 in 2003.
Child and Household Welfare
Coverage of      · Implementation of basic per child benefit    · Decree 1382/11, which established a
basic child       to all poor families with children.            new Integrated System for Family
benefits                                                         Protection, was not implemented.
                                                                · Other temporary transfer programs are
                                                                 in place, such as Jefes de Hogar
                                                                 (Decree 565/02), which, as Nov. 2003,
                                                                 provided support to 1.9 millions
                                                                 unemployed low-income household
                                                                 heads with children.
Health
Closure of non-  · Crisis notification letters sent to at least · 57 letters have been sent.   6 OSSs
viable OSSs       75 OSSs, and restructuring plans in            have been closed, 9 excluded from the
                  effect in those OSSs over the medium           system, 1 still under study, and 41 have
                  term.                                          restructuring plans drawn up, of which,
                                                                 34 approved.

Number of        · No specific target; however, to be           · An average number of transfers of
requests (by new  monitored to as indicator of flexibility in    11,500 since September 1998.
workers) to       the system                                    · 440,000 transfers from January 1998 to
change OSS                                                       February 2000.
insurer




                                                - 42 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

N/A




                                      - 43 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 44 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                       No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                           (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)           Implementation Development
                    Month/Year      Count            Specialty                          Progress         Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               July 2001                      8     Task Manager, Country
                                                    Economist, Gender Specialist,
                                                    Health Specialist, Public Sector
                                                    Reform, Social Security,
                                                    Provincial Finances


 Appraisal/Negotiation
               July 2001                      6     Senior Economist for Team
                                                    Coordination and Provincial
                                                    Fiscal Issues, Lead Public
                                                    Sector Management
                                                    Specialist, Senior Health
                                                    Specialist, Administration
                                                    Specialist, Human
                                                    Development Sector Leader
                                                    and Social Protection
                                                    Specialist


 Supervision
               December 2001                   3    Task Manager, Procurement                S               S
                                                    Specialist, Provincial
                                                    Finances
               June 2002                       2    Task Manager, Public Sector             U                S
                                                    Specialist
               December 2002                   1    Task Manager                            U                S
               June 2003                       1    Task Manager                             S               S

 ICR

                                              2

Note:    Supervision of the various components was also done by sector specialists as part of the supervision of
         related sector operations.


(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                        Actual/Latest Estimate
                                         No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                    10.4                              37.2
  Appraisal/Negotiation                         11.6                              48.3
  Supervision                                   18.8                              79.2
  ICR                                             8.0                             20.0
  Total                                         48.8                             184.7




                                                    - 45 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 46 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 47 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Administración Nacional de Ingresos Públicos (AFIP) (2003), AFIP. Recaudación por Impuesto,
   Recursos de la Seguridad Social y Aduanas: Enero ­ Octubre 2003, Ministerio de Economía,
   Buenos Aires.
Administración Nacional de Ingresos Públicos (AFIP) (2003), Informe Annual Ingresos Públicos:
   2002, Ministerio de Economía, Buenos Aires.
International Monetary Fund (2003), Technical Memorandum of Understanding, Sept. 2003,
   Washington, D.C.
Ministry of Economy (2003), Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policies of the
   Government of Argentina for 2003-2006, Sept. 2003, Buenos Aires.
Perry, G. and Servén, L. (2002), The Anatomy of a Multiple Crisis: Why Was Argentina Special
   and What Can We Learn from It, Chief Economist Office, Latin America and the Caribbean,
   World Bank, Washington, D.C.
Ravallion, M. (2000), Are the Poor Protected from Budget Cuts? Theory and Evidence from
   Argentina, Policy Research Working Paper No. 2391, World Bank, Washington, D.C.
Rinne, J. (2001), Redesigning the State in Latin America: Pundits, Policymakers, and Organized
   Labor in Argentina and Brazil, Ph. D. Dissertation, Princeton University.
World Bank (2003), Implementation Completion Report for Argentina's Special Structural
   Adjustment Loan (SCL-44050), Report No. 22619, Washington, D.C.
World Bank (2002), Implementation Completion Report for Argentina's Health Insurance
   Technical Assistance Project (SCPD-4004S; CPL-40040; SCL-4004A), Report No. 24326,
   Washington, D.C.
World Bank (2001), Argentina: Country Strategy Update, Report No. 22049-AR, 25 June 2001,
   Country Management Unit, PREM, Washington, D.C.
World Bank (2000), Argentina: Country Assistance Evaluation, Report No. 20719-AR,
   Operations Evaluation Department, 10 July 2000, Washington, D.C.
World Bank (2000), Argentina: Country Strategy, Report No. 20354-AR, 2 September 2000,
   Country Management Unit, PREM, Washington, D.C.
World Bank (2000), Managing Social Risk in Argentina, Word Bank, Washington, D.C.
World Bank (1990), Provincial Government Finance Study, Report No. 8176, 16 April 1990,
   Washington, D.C.




                                               - 48 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Comments on the Draft ICR


Ministry of Economy and Production
Republic of Argentina

                                                                      Buenos Aires, March 23, 2005

                                                       Re: Loan IBRD ­ AR 7075 ­ SAL I
                                                                       Comments on ICR
Subregional Director for
Argentina, Paraguay, Uruguay and Chile
Mr. Axel van Trotsenburg
World Bank
Buenos Aires, Argentina

Dear Mr. Director:

        Further to your kind request, I am writing to convey to you the Government's comments
on the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the the Structural Adjustment Loan 7075 ­
AR that was prepared by the Bank.

        With respect to the following considerations concerning the objectives and the design of
the loan, as well as the lessons learned from them, we would like to reiterate some opinions
already expressed by the Ministry of Economy and Production in other occasions:

-       This operation was designed during the last months prior to the collapse of an
unsustainable economic model that has been in place for a long time. This situation should have
been anticipated. In our opinion, both the loan itself and the ICR overestimated the role of the
fiscal disequilibrium as the main cause of the crisis; without denying that this aspect had a certain
influence, the ICR does not recognize either the high dependence that the economy had until the
end of 2001 on external capital inflows, or the significant imbalance in relative prices of products
and services that had emerged since the middle of the 1990s. In our judgment, it was an error to
have maintained in August 2001 that: "Current indications are that the fiscal deficit remains within
the Government's program targets and overall macroeconomic policies remain broadly on track at
this time" and that there existed a "structural reform program within a coherent medium-term
framework over the 2001-2003 period".

-       The multilateral financing that was made available between the end of 2000 and
September 2001 attempted to tranquilize the markets in the sense of portraying that Argentina
was confronting a liquidity crisis; the markets thought differently ­ and in reality, the situation
was different. It was a solvency crisis. For this reason, strong capital flight was already
occurring, which the loan contributed to make viable. In other words, the first disbursement of
the loan increased external public debt to finance capital flight, especially that of sophisticated
private international investors;



                                                 - 49 -

-       The loan was part of a set of actions that had the aim of prolonging the convertibility
regime. It was not taken into account that these actions were weakening political support.
Nevertheless, the complexity of the Argentine situation from the political point of view becomes
even more evident when one observes the overwhelming support that the government obtained in
the Congress for the approval of very strict laws in the second quarter of 2001, including the
empowerment of the executive with extraordinary tax authority and the zero deficit law in the
third quarter, which conferred on the government wide powers to adopt the measures necessary
to revitalize confidence and avoid a change in the economic model. Notwithstanding, all this was
insufficient to reverse the self-feeding dynamic that broke out during 2001 and that ­ now very
clear--had its roots in the deficiencies of the existing economic model from the beginning of
1990s. In these circumstances, supporting the convertibility regime did not take into account that
" If there is delay in adoption of necessary measures to resolve a crisis, its eventual cost can rise
significantly, because inevitably there will result new loses in production, additional capital flight,
and deterioration in the quality of banking system assets." In the event, it is possible to affirm that
loan 7075 did not contribute to a fundamental resolution of the crisis.

        Once the political /institutional commotion that was caused by the fall of the convertibility
system was calmed, progress was obtained in various aspects included in components of the
operation. The ICR indicates, perhaps as a principal limitation that there was a significant delay in
obtaining these results. This ignores a more essential issue, which is that the most significant
advances were obtained in many cases through measures and instruments other than those
accepted, supported and promoted by loan 7075. The following two examples illustrate this
point:

-       In the area of Federal-Provincial fiscal relations, the loan supported the much-hailed
Federal Compromise, which had to be substantially modified by the new government a few
months after the approval of the loan, because the agreement was impossible and inconvenient to
comply with. As such, new agreements between the nation and the provinces were concluded, and
in November 2002 the Program of Ordinary Financing was created, an instrument different than
that contemplated in the Federal Compromise.

-       In the area of social protection, instead of implementing the type of noncontributory
pensions supported by the program, it was necessary to design and put into practice the Heads of
Household program.

        Without further comments to add, I send you my best respects.




                                                s/s Lic. Gerardo Hita
                                                National Director of Projects for
                                                International Financial Organizations




                                                 - 50 -

- 51 -

