Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 20990 - COM
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR8.8. MILLION (US$11.4 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
FOR AN
INFRASTRUCTURE, WATER AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
FEBRUARY 2,2001
AFTTR
AFC08
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 12/31/00)
SDR 1.00 = US$1.3047
Currency Unit = Comorian franc (KMF)
US$1.00 = KMF 550
KMF 1.00 = US$0.001818
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)    =      3.28 feet
I hectare (ha)         2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)   =      0.625 miles
I liter          0.220 imperial gallons
1 cubic meter   =      220 imperial gallons
Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
Country Director:    Hafez M. H. Ghanem
Sector Manager:    Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard
Team Leader:    Abdelmoula Ghzala



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFD      Agence Fran9aise de Developpement
CAS       country assistance strategy
CEE       Comorienne de l'Eau et de l'Electricite
DERM      Direction de l'Energie et de Ressources Min6rales (Directorate of Energy and
Mining)
DGI       Direction Generale des Infrastructures (General Directorate of Infrastructure)
DGTP    Direction Generale des Travaux Publics (Directorate General of Public Works)
DRTP      Direction Regionale des Travaux Publics (Regional Directorate of Public Works)
DRI       Direction Regionale des Infrastructures (Regional Directorate of Infrastructure)
DU        Direction de l'Urbanisme (Directorate of Urban Affairs)
EDF       European Development Fund
EEDC      Eau et Electricite des Comores
EU        European Union
FC        French Cooperation (France)
IDA       International Development Association
HDM       Highway Design Model (World Bank)
JICA     Japan International Cooperation Agency
MEEU    Ministere de l'Equipement, de l'Energie et de l'Urbanisme
NEAP    national environmental action plan
NGO       non-governmental organization
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
SOE       statements of expenses
UNDP    United Nations Development Program
UNICEF  United Nations Children's Fund
UNCDF   United Nations Capital Development Fund






-R ELOPA14.                                                     OFFICIAL USE ONLY
--- -. -,                                                              IDA/R2001 -0020/1
r iDAS  . _                                                                 February 8, 2001
Streamlined Procedure
For meeting of
Board: Thursday, March 1, 2001
FROM: The Acting Secretary
COMOROS: Infrastructure, Water and Environment Project
Project Appraisal Document
Attached is the Project Appraisal Document (20990-COM) regarding a proposed
Infrastructure, Water and Environment credit to the Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros
(IDA/R2001-20). Also attached is the English translation of pages 65 - 69 (Annex 4-B
Appendix). This project will be taken up at a meeting of the Executive Directors on Thursday,
March 1, 2001 under the Streamlined Procedure.
Distribution:
Executive Directors and Alternates
President
Bank Group Senior Management
Vice Presidents, Bank, IFC and MIGA
Directors and Department Heads, Bank, IFC and MIGA
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






Annex 4-B
Appendix
Description of Water Systems in the Urban Centers Covered by the Project
1.   Anjouan
Moutsnioudou-Mirontsi-Page
This urban center - the main one on the island - will have 43,000 inhabitants in 2005. It is a
commercial center sustained by a port and the presence of a large market. Water supply problems in the
metropolitan area include insufficient water in catchments. water quality, and the condition of the water
supply system.
1. Water resources
Surface water is supplied to the urban center following minimal treatment at the two catchment
areas. The Moutsamoudou catchment (+197 meters) consists of a concrete sill and an inlet channel, the
stability of which is threatened by scouring. The intake water is of mediocre quality because of the
presence of suspended solids. At the second catchment, on Mro Hougouni (+382 meters), water flow is
relatively weak (low-water flow under 15 liters/second), and problems include silting in the settling tank
and considerable water loss from infiltration because the bottom is not watertight. The water is easily
polluted because access to the two catchments and the surrounding areas is completely open. Water
quality, particularly during flood periods. is very poor, resulting in waterborne diseases such as typhoid
and viral hepatitis. Expected water requirements to the year 2005 far exceed available intake water.
2. Treatment
Screens and sandcatchers are used at both catchments. None of the chlorination units located
downstream from the water storage units are in use.
3. Water supplv system
The old system (built in the 1950s) transporting water from the first catchment (Mro
Moutsamoudou) consists of two offtake pipes. One is made of galvanized steel (0102/114 mm). The
other is made of iron (0200 mm), with a continuing section of iron (0150 and 100 mm), terminating in a
steel pipe (080mm). The second branch line from this catchment is made of steel and is equipped with a
meter that is not in use. It continues with a 0150 section to the storage reservoir, and then continues with
a 0100 pipe. The network (also equipped with a meter that is not being used) transporting water from the
second catchment to the storage reservoir is made of iron (0150mm). It continues with a 0100 pipe.
4. Storage
Storage is provided for the three pressure stages by ground-level or partially buried concrete
reservoirs. The upper stage (+292 m) consists of two reservoirs, an old one (25 m3) and a new one (m3).
The old reservoir is in poor condition and is leaking. The valve room in the new reservoir no longer has



any doors, and the pipe joints leak. The outflow and inflow meters are not in use. The chlorination unit
is not equipped. The middle stage has a 500-m3 reservoir and has the same defects as the one just
described. The low stage consists of a "new" reservoir (820 m3). +98 meters, and an old one (500 mi3),
+75 meters. It is in extremely poor condition.
5. Distribution
The principal network consists of galvanized steel pipes having a flow rate of 0150-050 meters
per minute and of asbestos-cement pipes with a flow rate of 060 meters per minute.  Certain
configurations have a diameter of 40-150 mm, all of them made of galvanized steel with the exception of
060-mm segments in asbestos cement. User connections are made of galvanized steel with a flow rate of
021/26 meters per minute. Outlying districts are equipped with standpipes. There is no water control or
metering system in place. The condition of the pipes and the conditions under which water is distributed
result in considerable leakage and waste.
6. The project
* Optimize the quantity of water collected by improving the condition of weirs and add another
catchment source;
Repair and upgrade water mains and distribution lines;
* Install meters on user connections and upgrade standpipes;
* Improve water quality through physical and chemical treatment;
* Rehabilitate and increase the number of storage units (reservoirs): and
* Establish two pressure stages for the entire urban center.
Ouani
The Ouani urban center supplies water to the neighboring centers of Barakani and Gnatranga. In
2005 the population served will number some 21,000 inhabitants. The existing system does not provide
sufficient water to the area.
I. Water resources
Water supplied from a catchment on the Patsv river (+230 meters) is expected to provide 25 m3 per
hectare, which is definitely inadequate (the equivalent of a maximum of 33 liters/day/person).
2. Treatment
There is no water treatment system whatsoever.
3. Water supplv system
2



The catchment has two outflow pipes dating from 1962 (0102/114 meters per minute). Both are in
poor condition, and there is considerable waste because the pipes are highly corroded and carrying
capacity is limited by solid deposits.
4. Storage
Water is stored in two reservoirs, one holding 160 m3 serving the town of Ouani, and the other,
with a capacity of 100 m3. serving the two neighboring centers. Both were installed in 1962. They are in
very poor condition and leak in various places along the walls.
5. Distribution
The lines also back to 1962, and cover virtually the entire city center. The system consists of a
network of galvanized steel pipes serving approximately 65 percent of the population. The pipes were
placed haphazardly without taking the tertiary network of the urban center into account. They are in poor
condition because of corrosion and adverse climatic effects (some are partly above ground), and they are
silting up.
6. The project
*  Installation of a physical and chemical water treatment unit; and
*  Installation of a system comprising main lines and secondary and tertiary networks.
D)omoni and Ngand:alM
The population of this urban center - one of the oldest in the Comoros - is expected to reach some
25,000 inhabitants in 2005. It is a government and trading center comprising a number of small industries
and many ylang-ylang distilleries.
1. Water resources
The town currently receives its water from three sources: the Mro Adjaho river (very weak flow),
the Mro Jomani river, and an underground spring at Papani. The Adjaho water intake runs directly from
the river into a basin located behind a weir. All the works are in poor condition. Water intake on Mro
Jomani involves three catchments capable of supplying 120 liters/second during low-water periods. Flow
is restricted because a portion of the distribution network is elevated. At Papani. which provides water
only to Domoni Sud, the low-water flow is approximately 150 liters/second. Total resources are
inadequate because of the poor condition of the catchments (considerable amounts of water are lost) and
low flow rates from the sources.
2. Treatment
The water transported to the urban center does not undergo any treatment and is delivered raw.
3



3. Water supplv svstem
The system, which transports water from Adjaho, consists of a galvanized steel 1.200-meter line
(0150 meters per minute).
4. Storage
Seven reservoirs of varying capacity provide storage (one holds 300 i3, two hold 50 m3, one holds
150 m3. one holds 100 m3. and two hold 50 m3). The 300- m3 reservoir was repaired in 1997 and is in
relatively good condition, but the others are in very poor condition (for example, because of cracks).
5. Distribution
Water is generally distributed directly to users via private connections. Almost 90 percent of
households have such connections.
6. The proiect
*  Repair of existing catchments;
*  Elimination of the high point along the main line;
*  Repair and replacement of defective lines;
*  Development of a new catchment on Mro Goucouni;
* Installation of a water main;
R Repairs to seven reservoirs; and
* Rehabilitation and extension of the distribution network and installation of standpipes.
2.   Moheli
Fomboni
The island's capital and the two adjoining urban centers, Bandar Salama and Djoiezi, will together
have some 18,000 inhabitants by 2005. The area is served by a water supply system built some time
around the 1960s.
1. Water resources
The catchment on the M'Rochiconi river is in poor condition, and consists of a temporary channel.
2. Treatment
Water is supplied as raw water and does not undergo any treatment.
3. Water supplv system
4



The svstem is in poor condition. Many high points need to be eliminated and defective segments
(mainly the result of corrosion) need to be replaced.
4. Storage
Water is stored in a single poorly equipped reservoir. For example, neither inflow nor outflow is
regulated.
5. Distribution
Water is distributed through pipes made of various materials, which should be standardized. There
is considerable leakage from  defective sections.  Many sections are above ground.  There are no
individual meters.
6.. The proiect
-  Development of a new catchment on M'Rochiconi;
-  Replacement of the supply line;
-  Equipment of the reservoir (including valves, a meter, and accessories);
*  Construction of a new storage unit (500 m3); and
-  Rehabilitation of the existing distribution network and development of a new network.
5






Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Infrastructure, Water and Environment Project
CONTENTS
A: Project Development Objective .....................................................2
Al.   Project development objectives .....................................................2
A2.   Key performance indicators ....................................................2
B: Strategic Context .....................................................2
B 1. Sector-related country assistance strategy (CAS) goal supported by
the project .....................................................2
B2.   Main sector issues and government strategy .....................................................3
B3.   Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ....................                         4
C: Project Description Summary ....................................................5
Cl.   Project components ....................................................5
C2.   Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project .............                            .............6
C3.   Benefits and target population .....................................................6
C4.   Institutional and implementation arrangements .................................................6
D: Project Rationale .....................................................8
DI.   Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ...................................8
D2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other
development agencies .....................................................9
D3.   Lessons learned and reflected in the project design ...........................................9
D4.  Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ....................................... 10
D5.   Value added of Bank support in this project .................................................... 10
E: Summary Project Analysis ....................................................                                            11
El.  Economic ....................................................                                                   11
E2.   Financial .................................................... 11
E3.   Technical ..................................................... 12
E4.   Institutional ....................................................                                             12
E5.   Environmental .................................................... 12
E6.  Social 16
E7.   Safeguard policies ....................................................                                        18
F: Sustainability and Risks .....................................................                                           18
Fl .   Sustainability .................................................... 18
F2.   Critical risks .................................................... 19
F3.   Possible controversial aspects ..................                        .................................. 20



H: Readiness for Implementation ..........................................       21
I: Compliance with Bank Policies ..........................................      21
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary .23
Annex 2: Project Description .29
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs .42
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary .47
Annex 5:   Financial Analysis of the Road Maintenance Fund .70
Annex 6:   Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .87
Annex 7:   Project Processing Budget and Schedule .100
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File .101
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits .102
Annex 10:  Comoros: Country at a Glance ..........................................  103
Annex 11:  Environmental Assessment Executive Summary ....................................... 106
Maps
IBRD 31236
IBRD 31237
IBRD 31238



Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Infrastructure, Water and Environment Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFC08
Date: 02/02/01                                   Team Leader: Abdelmoula Ghzala
Country Manager/Director: Hafez M. H. Ghanem     Sector Manager/Director: Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard
Project ID: 47250                                Sector: Transport, water supply, and urban development
Lending Instrument: Sector Investment Credit    Theme(s): Environment
Poverty Targeted Intervention: [ I Yes [X] No
Project Financing Data   [] Loan [X] Credit [] Grant [] Guarantee  [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 11.4
Amount (SDRm): 8.8
Proposed terms:    [] To be defined     [X] Multicurrency       [] Single currency
[] Standard         [] Fixed               [] LIBOR-
Variable                                   based
Grace period (years):      10 years
Years to maturity:         40 years
Commitment fee:            N/A percent
Service charge:            0.75 percent
Govemment                                             0.3               0.0               0.3
International Development Association (IDA)           2.8               8.6              11.4
Cofinancier: French Cooperation (FC)                  0.2               1.4               1.6
Total:                                                3.3              10.0              13.3
Borrower: government of Comoros
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agencies: Ministere de l'Equipement, de l'Energie et de l'Urbanisme through its Direction Generale des
Infrastructures
Estimated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$ million):
Annual           0.6          2.0          3.3          3.3          2.2
Cumulative       0.6          2.6          5.9          9.2         11.4
Project implementation period: 2002-2006
Expected effectiveness date: July 2001              Expected closing date: December 31, 2005
Implementing agency: Ministere de l'Equipement, de l'Energie et de l'Urbanisme through its Direction Generale des
Infrastructures
Contact person: Ahamed Hassani Soilihi (DGTP)
Address: Moroni, Comoros
Tel: 269-732993               Fax: 269-732993               E-mail: DGTP@sntp.km



A: Project Development Objective
Al. Project development objectives
The proposed project is an integral part of a multidonor-financed infrastructure, water and
environment program in Comoros, and supports the development objectives of the larger
program. The primary program objective is to improve living conditions and stimulate economic
growth in Comoros, while protecting the environment through investments in basic
infrastructure. Focusing on two priority sectors (roads and urban water supply), the specific
objectives of the project are to: (a) maintain road infrastructure and improve the safety of road
transport; (b) upgrade and expand urban water infrastructure and significantly increase access to
clean water for people living on the Anjouan and Moheli islands by 2004-2005; and (c) improve
decentralized management of road transport and water supply through strengthening of public
sector institutions, increased public awareness, stakeholder participation, and implementation of
cost-recovery measures. The project would seek to decentralize the responsibility for project
management and promote increased participation of beneficiary communities and the private
sector in implementing and managing road maintenance and water supply.
A2. Key performance indicators
Key performance indicators include physical measures such as kilometers of roads under routine
and periodic maintenance and kilometers of roads marked with new signs and number of house
connections made and standpipes built. They include gauges such as percentage reduction in
road accidents, percentage decline in travel times, improvements in water quality and proportion
of urban residents with access to clean water. In addition, they include indicators of improved
sector management, such as number of days between issuing tenders and contracting works,
number of private sector contracts issued for works, resources mobilized for the road
maintenance fund, and the proportion of water system operating costs covered by user fees.
B:  Strategic Context
B]. Sector-related country assistance strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project
Due to the volatile political situation and continued conflict, the Bank has not prepared a CAS
for Comoros since 1993. However, the Bank has recently prepared an interim support strategy
for Comoros covering the next 12-18 months, which was discussed by the Board on November
14, 2000 (document No. IDA/R2000-182). This strategy calls for an active role for the Bank in
supporting the government of Comoros while it attempts to reintegrate Anjouan into the
federation, create the conditions to improve economic management and governance. Poverty
and inadequate delivery of social services are major problems in Comoros and the Bank can be
especially helpful in supporting local communities who are mobilizing to improve their standards
of living and decentralized management of social services.
The proposed project is the only new project being considered for Comoros at this time. By
supporting urgent periodic maintenance of vital road and water supply infrastructure it will
2



contribute to economic recovery and help provide essential social services. By supporting
improved decentralized project implementation and management on all three islands, it will
support the government's efforts to create a federation within which all three islands enjoy
considerable autonomy. It will also help Comoros meet its longer-term objectives, such as
improving capacity for environmental management.
B2. Main sector issues and government strategy
Road transport. Issues: Although the operation of the road maintenance fund assures that
resources are available for routine maintenance, Comoros lacks institutional and financial
capacity to adequately provide periodic maintenance for all its 564 kilometers of roads.
Furthermore, while road transport safety is improving due to support from the road maintenance
fund and donors (IDA, European Union, Agence Francaise de Developpement, Fonds d'Aide et
de Cooperation), road travel is still dangerous due to inadequate signs, unstable road shoulders
and an antiquated and poorly enforced road code.
Strategy: To reduce travel time and vehicle operating costs, the government plans to improve
both routine and periodic maintenance of roads. It will do this by reforming and strengthening
the road maintenance fund, privatizing regional equipment pools and workshops, and
strengthening the capacity of the Ministere de l'Equipement, de l'Energie et de l'Urbanisme to
manage the road sector more effectively, efficiently and sustainably. To save lives and reduce
injuries and property damage it plans to increase road safety by installing improved signs,
rehabilitating and reshaping unsafe road shoulders among other measures.
Urban water supply: Issues. The percentage of population with access to safe drinking water
is relatively low in Comoros (current rates of coverage are 30 percent for Grand Comore, 45
percent for Anjouan, and 60 percent for Moheli).  Responsibilities for water resources
management are scattered among multiple public sector institutions, most of which are
understaffed, have limited resources and lack technical capabilities. Existing water infrastructure
has limited capacity and is in poor condition due to lack of maintenance. This has resulted in
poor quality services, high water losses (on Grande Comore water losses are estimated as being
as high as 45 percent) and threats to human health as demonstrated by a recent cholera outbreak.
Cost recovery for water services is nonexistent.
Strategy. The government has adopted the recommendations of the UNICEF-financed national
action plan for water and basic sanitation to (a) integrate the water sector into the national
environmental action plan (NEAP); (b) establish an institutional framework to monitor, plan and
coordinate water sector activities; (c) focus on rural and periurban microprojects; (d) focus on the
needs of beneficiary communities and increase their contribution to service delivery; (e) use
appropriate technologies to increase low-cost, sustainable coverage of water and sanitation
services; (f) standardize construction; (g) strengthen water engineering capacity in Comoros; and
(h) introduce charges for water services. The operations of the water and electricity authority
(Compagnie Nationale de l'Eau l'Electricite des Comores (CEE)) have been privatized, which
has led to improved management and delivery of services in Grande Comore (CEE does not
operate in the water sector in Anjouan and Moheli islands). A key element of the strategy is to
assure that poor households have access to clean water at prices they can afford. Therefore,
3



while government plans to make water operations financially self-sufficient by charging users
full long-run marginal costs for water, it also intends to cap prices of water from public
standposts at levels so that poor households pay no more than 5 percent of their average annual
income for water.
B3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
The project will assist the government by supporting periodic maintenance of roads and
rehabilitation and expansion of urban water systems. Improved roads are essential to bring about
economic recovery. Better quality, more reliable and expanded urban water supplies are vital for
public health (2000 cases of cholera were recorded in Anjouan last year). It will also help foster
national economic recovery by investing in all three islands (thereby providing an incentive to all
three to remain part of the federation), and supporting decentralized project implementation and
management.
For the longer-term, it is expected that the project will support development of Comorian tourism
by helping protect its unique environmental heritage and investing in critical infrastructure
identified in the Bank-financed "Tourism, Environment and Infrastructure Study" (1995) as a
principal source of future growth for Comoros.
Other donors are also supporting projects addressing the serious constraints to Comorian
development. The European Union has supported the formulation of a tourism development
masterplan and is assisting Comoros implement a solid waste management system. UNICEF has
financed the development of a national action plan for water and basic sanitation. The proposed
Infrastructure, Water and Environment Project is part of a larger multidonor supported
infrastructure and environment program to address these issues.
Strategic choices
Supporting private sector management of water utilities rather than public sector
management. The experience of CEE on Grande Comore, whose operations have been
privatized, show that private operators can manage water services more efficiently and
effectively than government agencies. The private operators have established a tariff system and
are successfully collecting payments from users. The utility now has the resources it needs to
maintain and operate the water system and invest in rehabilitating and expanding the network.
As a result, consumers now have more reliable and higher quality water supplies in Grande
Comore. Similar schemes will be adopted under the project for Anjouan and Moheli islands.
Recovering costs of water services from users rather than providing subsidies for them.
Worldwide experience shows that subsidies for water supply go mainly to enterprises or better-
off households who use much more water than the poor who rely on standposts. Recovering
costs from users helps reduce or eliminate these subsidies to the better off, making resources
available for more targeted subsidies benefiting the poor. Recovering costs from users also helps
ensure the long-term financial viability of the water supply services.
4



Raising revenues for road maintenance through road user fees and contribution from
vehicle ownership charges rather than through a fixed contribution from the fuel tax. The
existing mechanism of road maintenance financing, based primarily on a fixed contribution from
the fiuel tax is not generating the resources required for adequate road maintenance and is not
serving the objective of establishing a financially sustainable road subsector in Comoros. It is
proposed to replace it with: (a) an increasing road user fee (redevance d'usage) covering the
variable costs of using the network; (b) a contribution from the vehicle ownership charge for
access to the network; and (c) direct payment from the Societe des Hydrocarbures (SCH) to the
road maintenance fund. This would distribute the expenses of road maintenance more fairly
among road users and would simplify revenue collection.
C:   Project Description Summary
Cl. Project components
A. Transport
(a) Roads periodic maintenance    Physical/institution  4.4                   4.2
building/policy
(b) Road safety                 Institution            0.8                    0.7
building/policy/
physical
(c) Engineering, studies, expertise   Other/institution  0.7                  0.7
and institutional strengthening  building
Subtotal                                               5.9        44.3        5.6        49.2
B. Urban water supply
(a) Urban water works           Physical/institution   3.0                    3.0
building/policy
(b) Engineering, studies, expertise   Other/institution  1.1                  1.1
and institutional strengthening  building
Subtotal                                               4.1        31.0        4.1        36.0
C. Support to sectors and
program coordination
(a) General studies, expertise  Institution building   0.1                     0.1
(b) Training                    Institution building   0.9                     0.2
(c) Technical assistance for    Project                0.8                     0.0
coordination                 management
(d) Logistical support for      Project                0.8                     0.7
coordination                 management
Subtotal                                               2.6        19.9         1.0       9.2
D. Project preparation studies    Institution building  0.6                    0.6
(under PPF)
Subtotal                                               0.6         4.8         0.6       5.6
Total project costs/Financing required                 13.3        100        11.4       100
5



C2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
A major institutional reform supported by the project is the restructuring of the road maintenance
fund and the strengthening of its operations. The reforms are intended to ensure the sufficient,
timely and stable flow of funds to finance routine, and, gradually, periodic maintenance.
Institutional reforms to improve capacity of government to implement IDA and other donor-
funded projects will also be implemented. The general directorate of infrastructure (Direction
Generale des Infrastructures (DGI) set up prior to Board presentation) within the Ministere de
l'Equipement, de l'Energie et de l'Urbanisme will be responsible for overall project coordination
and implementation. Regional directorates (Directions Regionales des Infrastructures (DRI) to
be set up under the project) will monitor implementation of road maintenance works on
individual islands through a decentralized management structure.
The project is also supporting policy reforms for the roads and urban water sector. In the roads
sector, the government is preparing a policy to transform the regional equipment pools and
workshops into autonomous, and ultimately private operations.  In the water sector, the
government is favoring a policy on institutional set-up, tariff levels and structure, and
mechanisms for cost-recovery of urban water supply services. Further, it is taking steps to
privatize operations and maintenance of water services and involving communities in
establishing service contracts with private operators, selected on the basis of competitive
bidding.
C3. Benefits and target population
The project will improve management and maintenance of the road network on all three islands.
This will improve the speed of transport and reduce costs of transporting people and goods. This
will benefit the entire population, including rural villagers, who will enjoy improved access to
markets and public services, and urban producers and traders. The project will also improve
road transport safety, again benefiting the entire population. Improving and sustaining access to
convenient, safe water in the urban areas of Anjouan and Moheli will disproportionately benefit
the poor on these two islands, many of whom currently collect water from distant, contaminated
sources.
C4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
Project Implementation Period. The project will take place over five years, fiscal 2002-2006.
It will be completed by June 30, 2005 and closed by December 31, 2005.
Project coordination. The Ministere de l'Equipement, de l'Energie et de l'Urbanisme through
the DGI will be responsible for overall project coordination and implementation. The DGI,
which will consolidate the existing competencies in roads, urban and water matters, will be
comprised of representatives of the Directorate of Public Works (Direction de Generale Travaux
Publics (DGTP)), Directorate of Energy and Directorate of Urban Development, who have
experience coordinating, planning and executing projects financed by IDA, the EU, the African
6



Development Bank, Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FC, France) and Islamic Development
Bank. The DGI, which is replacing the above mentioned three directorates, will be supported by
a designated coordination unit (cellule de coordination, CC) headed by an international expert,
who is already in place. FC is financing the coordination unit, the technical assistance and the
training program to strengthen capacity of the DGI and DRIs in their new roles.
Project oversight. A steering committee comprised of representatives of the ministries of
finance, budget and privatization; infrastructure, energy and urbanism; transport and tourism,
production and environment, and representatives of various stakeholder groups (urban
communities, road users, water users) will provide policy guidance and overall project oversight,
and will ensure coordination and cooperation between central, regional and local authorities,
govermnent agencies involved with project implementation, and the private sector. The steering
committee has been constituted prior to Board presentation.
Executing agency. The Ministere de l'Equipement, de l'Energie et de l'Urbanisme through the
DGI (set up prior to Board presentation) will execute the project. Regional directorates
(Directions Regionales des Infrastructures (DRIs)) to be set up by July 1, 2002, will monitor
implementation of road maintenance and water works on individual islands through a
decentralized management structure. Supervision of works will be carried out by consulting
firms to be recruited by DGI according to World Bank procurement guidelines and procedures.
Procurement. Consultant services, works and equipment to be financed under the IDA Credit
will be procured according to World Bank procurement guidelines.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements. Prior to Board presentation,
DGI has established an improved project accounting system tracking the cost of the various
works, goods and services provided under the project, in accordance with the "Financial,
Accounting, Reporting, and Auditing Handbook," dated January 1995, as well as a draft
Financial Management Procedures Manual. Also prior to Board presentation, DGI and the road
maintenance fund have appointed a financial manager acceptable to IDA. During the first year of
implementation, the road maintenance fund will establish an improved accounting and financial
management system. Assessment of the project's financial management for adequacy and
readiness for PMR-based disbursements will be carried out within 18 months of the date of
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement, in order to evaluate the transition
effectiveness to the new enhanced disbursement mode. On the basis of this evaluation, DGI will
prepare an action plan, acceptable to IDA, to implement the measures recommended with clear
deadlines for implementation stages. Independent auditors acceptable to IDA will annually audit
the accounts of DGI, the project and the road maintenance fund. The reports of such audits will
be submitted to IDA no later than six months after the end of the government's fiscal year for the
project accounts and road maintenance fund accounts. The DGI and the road maintenance fund
will appoint the auditors prior to effectiveness.
Supervision. During the first two years of project implementation, IDA will devote some 14
staff weeks a year for supervision. During the following three years, it will devote 12 weeks a
year to supervision. Supervision missions, which will be carried out twice a year, will generally
7



include infrastructure specialists. Periodically, missions will include technical and financial
management specialists. Particular attention will be paid to the operations of the road
maintenance fund, community participation in the water component, effectiveness of cost
recovery systems, and progress with privatizing water operations.
Monitoring and evaluation. Overall project monitoring are be based on indicators prepared
during appraisal and on the project implementation plan finalized by the Ministere de
l'Equipement, de l'Energie et de l'Urbanisme (MEEU) and agreed during negotiations. DGI will
prepare progress reports every three months, commencing in March 2001, and submit them to
IDA within one month thereafter. These will include information on (a) the status of the project
relative to the agreed timetable of project execution and disbursements, (b) key performance
indicators, and (c) work program and projections of expenditures for the next quarter. This
reporting will help the DGI and the Bank identify and address problems quickly. Once a year
during project implementation, a joint annual review will be carried out with DGI and the donors
involved in the concerned sectors, to assess the overall progress achieved during the current year.
No later than four months after the Credit closing date, the DGI will prepare and provide to the
Bank a report on the execution of the project, its costs and current and future benefits to be
derived from it, to be attached to the Bank's Implementation Completion Report in accordance
with IDA guidelines.
Midterm review. IDA will carry out a midterm review jointly with the government, FC, DGI,
DRI, the road maintenance fund and other involved parties no later than 21/2 years after the
Development Credit Agreement becomes effective. In addition to covering all areas included in
quarterly progress reports, the midterm review will (a) progress made in meeting the Project's
objectives; (b) overall Project performance against Project performance indicators; (c) assess
compliance with clauses of the Credit Agreement, especially those concerning financial
management and auditing; (d) implementation progress relative to plan of physical works and
institutional strengthening components; and (e) performance of the road maintenance fund. In
addition, the parties will finalize decisions on tariff policies and cost recovery mechanisms to be
implemented under the water component.
D: Project Rationale
Dl. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
IDA projects in Comoros have traditionally focused on a single sector, such as road transport. At
the request of the government the proposed project is a multisectoral project, which is part of a
coordinated multidonor program to comprehensively address priority sectors. The Bank has
been instrumental in mobilizing other donors in support of this comprehensive infrastructure and
environment project.
8



D2. Major relatedprojects.financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Assist with building and maintaining  Highways 11 (585) (closed  S               S
road infrastructure              6/30/87)
Assist with maintaining road     Road Maintenance Project        S               S
infrastructure                   (593) (closed 12/31/97)
Assist with building community   Population and Human            S               S
infrastructure (through Funds for  Resources Project (596)
Community Development            (closed June 2000)
component)
Other development agencies
Help build community infrastructure  Microprojects (EU)
Address inadequate transport     Eighth European
infrastructure                   Development Fund
operation
Address environmental degradation   Eighth European
Development Fund
operation
Assist with building urban       Special Development Fund
infrastructure (drainage, roads)  (AFD)
Support construction of water    Water Infrastructure
infrastructure                   Rehabilitation AFD/FC)
Raise awareness of water and     UNICEF Project
sanitation issues
Increase supply of potable water  UNDP Water Supply
Project
Increase supply of potable water  JICA Project
IPIDO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
D3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
Donor coordination.  Given the relatively large number of donor operations and the
government's low absorptive capacity, there is a strong need for coordination of donor assistance
in Comoros. The proposed project is part of a larger donor-financed infrastructure and
environment program, which will facilitate coordination of donor support. IDA has been a key
player in donor coordination since the identification of the infrastructure and environment
program and the project. Coordination will be maintained during project supervision and formal
yearly donor coordination meetings are planned to be held during the joint annual reviews.
9



Community participation. Worldwide experience shows that participation can help in
designing projects that reflect community preferences, and therefore avoiding costly mistakes.
Participation in decision-making also creates a sense of ownership which should contribute to the
sustainability of project benefits by increasing willingness of beneficiaries to pay for services
and maintain the assets. In this project, communities have been consulted at very early stage of
project preparation through a social assessment study. They have participated in decisions on the
design of water systems, tariff structure and cost-recovery mechanisms. They will also
participate in the management and operations of the water systems and of the road maintenance
fund.
Privatization of water utility operations. The operations of the water utility have been
privatized on Grande Comore, a tariff system has been set up, and cost recovery mechanisms
established. This is working well, and similar schemes will be established on Anjouan and
Moheli under the project. The selection of the private operator will be made on the basis of
competitive bidding according to World Bank guidelines.
D4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
The present government has demonstrated commitment to improving economic management and
governance. Despite substantial financial constraints, in January 2000 it settled IDA arrears
accumulated from mid-1998, demonstrating its determination to pursue a productive relationship
with IDA. This has enabled the Bank to lift the suspension of IDA disbursements and to resume
project activities in key sectors.
The proposed project addresses two priority areas for the government: road infrastructure and
urban water supply. These investments are needed to help the economy recover and improve
public health and quality of life in urban areas. The project will also help the government
improve its environmental management, essential for the long-term growth of the economy.
The government will support the project by providing counterpart funds through the road
maintenance fund, and establishing a high-level program steering committee to coordinate donor
assistance in the concerned sectors. During project appraisal, the government has confirmed the
high priority of the overall infrastructure and environment program for the economic recovery
process of the three islands; and the catalytic role of the program in the future decentralized
institutional framework.
D5. Value added of Bank support in this project
IDA has been involved in the transport sector of Comoros for the past twenty years, financing
three highway and road maintenance projects, most recently the Road Maintenance Project
which closed in 1997. Through these and projects in other sectors, IDA has developed a close
working relationship with Comoros. That Comoros values this relationship is demonstrated by
the government's settling of IDA arrears in January 2000, and resuming a productive relationship
with the institution.
10



IDA has also developed effective relationships with other donors active in Comoros. The
government is looking to IDA to take the lead in coordinating donors as they resume
implementation of their plans to support the country's national economic recovery efforts.
Through the proposed project, IDA has a critical role in mobilizing donor support for the large
multidonor program.
E:  Summary Project Analysis
El. Economic
(supported by Annex 4)
[X] Cost-Benefit Analysis: Roads periodic maintenance: ERR= 15-25 percent in Grande
Comore and 10-25 percent in Anjouan and Moheli. Urban water supply: ERR= 20-27 percent
in Ouani and Moutsamoudou and 5-7 in Domoni and Fomboni.
Transport. The economic rates of return for roads periodic maintenance range from 15 to 25
percent in Grande Comore and 10 to 25 percent in Anjouan and Moheli. Benefits, which are
calculated using the Bank's highway design model (HDM-III), include reduced vehicle operating
costs, reduced costs from highway accidents, and time savings, among others. It also includes
the value of preserving the current road network through periodic maintenance versus the costs
of replacing the network if periodic maintenance is neglected.
Urban water supply. The economic rates of return for water supply works range from about 20-
27 percent in Ouani and Moutsamoudou and 5-7 percent in Domoni and Fomboni, assuming that
households are willing to pay 4.5 percent of their income for water. These figures are based on
assumptions of households' willingness to pay and do not include potential benefits from
improved health of users, which is potentially significant given the recent outbreak of cholera
and typhoid especially in Anjouan. Improved water system management which reduces water
losses will improve water resource management overall and delay the need for major new
investments in the sector.
E2. Financial
A major aspect of the project is to improve financial management of the road and water sectors
in Comoros. The project will support the restructuring and improved management of the road
maintenance fund. The reforms will ensure the sufficient, timely and stable flow of funds to
finance routine maintenance, and, gradually, periodic maintenance. The project will also support
technical assistance to improve financial performance and operations of urban water utilities. A
study of institutional and financial issues has recently been completed. Its results will be used to
develop an efficient, effective and sustainable water management and cost-recovery system.
Fiscal impact: In the short term the fiscal impact of expenditures on periodic roads maintenance
and rehabilitation and extension of urban water works will be negative. However, once
construction is complete, these investments will lead to higher economic activity and improved
11



health of city dwellers, which will generate tax revenues and save resources on health care,
resulting in positive fiscal impacts.
E3. Technical
Technologies appropriate to Comoros' income levels and managerial capacity will be chosen for
all project components, reflecting generally accepted technical standards and operating practices
appropriate to the respective sectors. Water systems are being designed after consultation with
the beneficiary communities. They are keenly interested in choice of technology because they
are expected to pay for water services and the charges will depend on the systems' costs.
E4. Institutional
Executing agencies. The Ministere de l'Equipement, de l'Energie et de l'Urbanisme through the
DGI will execute the project. DRIs will monitor implementation of road maintenance and urban
water works on individual islands through a decentralized management structure. The ministry
(through the existing DGTP and the regional DRTPs) generally has well-trained and competent
staff, and experience with executing Bank projects and applying the Bank's procurement
procedures. Such expertise will be strengthened at both central (DGI) and local (DRIs) levels
through training, and by providing access to advice.
Project management. The Ministere de l'Equipement, de l'Energie et de l'Urbanisme will be
restructured and the three main existing specialized directorates of the ministry, DGTP for roads
maintenance activities, the Directorate of Energy and Mining (Direction de l'Energie et de
Ressources Minerales, DERM) for water sector management and the Directorate for Urban
Services (Direction de l'Urbanisme) have been consolidated into the DGI prior to Board
presentation. DGI will be responsible for overall project coordination and implementation.
Under the project, three DRIs will be set up (one in each of the islands) for gradual
decentralization of responsibilities from DGI and monitoring of project activities during project
execution.
The DGI is mainly comprised of staff of the existing Directorates, who have experience
coordinating, planning and executing projects financed by IDA, the EU, the African
Development Bank, the Islamic Development Bank and FC. The DGI will be supported by a
designated coordination unit headed by an international expert, who is already in place under FC
financing.
Other. Comoros has limited public sector capacity to absorb a large number of donor operations
simultaneously. The project includes technical assistance for coordination of donor assistance
and targeted expertise as needed.
ES. Environmental         Environmental Category    [X]  A []  B []  C
5.1  Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation
(including consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging
from this analysis.
12



A full environmental impact assessment has been carried out for the project. The major
environmental impacts of the project's two components and their treatment are as follows:
*  Transport. This component involves mainly maintenance of existing roads, which will have
minor, if any, environmental impacts.  Major works will involve stabilizing road
embankments, which will involve some reshaping of land surfaces and destruction of
roadside vegetation.
*  Urban water supply. This component involves rehabilitation of existing infrastructure and
extension of urban water works. Poor construction practices can disturb land and cause
erosion, which can damage streams and aquatic ecosystems and degrade soil cover.
Carelessness during construction can also result in contamination of water courses by
chemical or organic pollutants. Construction of small reservoirs along the streams can
disturb rheophile aquatic fauna accustomed to rapid currents in the higher parts of the
watersheds. Increased consumption of water accompanied by poor drainage can lead to
changes in the water table, and to contamination of water and soil.
Contractors will specify their plans to address environmental issues during construction in their
bidding documents. These plans will be included in final contracts. DGI, DRIs and the Bank
will closely monitor implementation of the plans. The executive summary of the project's
environmental impact assessment appears in annex 11.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The EMP involves specification of measures to mitigate or offset the environmental impacts of
works (in connection with periodic road maintenance and expansion or rehabilitation of water
infrastructure), and operation of water supply systems. It also presents an action program for
public consultation and training in environmental management for staff of key government
agencies involved with the project. The measures are adequate. Details follow.
Measures to mitigate or offset environmental impacts of the project
There are two categories of measures to mitigate environmental impacts of the project: those put
into place during construction (which apply to all project operations), and those pertaining to
easements and operations of the various facilities.
Measures during construction
*  Creation of a coordination and worksite programming unit to manage the heaviest operations
*  Proposal of environmental clauses to be included in the specifications for companies
submitting bids
*  Organization of an information workshop for companies and government workers who will
oversee implementation of measures to mitigate or offset impacts
13



* Application of regulatory measures modeled on French legislation addressing admissible
noise levels, worksite cleanliness, water pollution, and implementation of measures to protect
archeological sites
* Supplementary measures designed to control chronic or accidental pollution, noise, safety,
handling of temporary easements and expropriations
* Specific requirements for the opening up of quarries and borrowpits (choice of sites and
methods of extraction, provisions for extraction, provisions for public safety, extraction
plans, prevention of pollution, and orders for restoration of the sites to their original
condition).
In addition to these measures, which apply to most of the project activities, special measures are
proposed to address particular operations (for example, use of quick-setting cement for works
located close to the aquatic environment, prevention of erosion resulting from road works,
protection of trees growing alongside roadways, safety arrangements for work sites in areas with
vehicle traffic, special provisions for the transportation of materials in urban areas, and the like).
Measures pertaining to easements and operation offacilities
Transport component
*  Measures addressing stormwater drainage systems
* Planting program to compensate for felled trees
* Protective measures to limit pressure on the forest
* Prevention of noise pollution through control of urban development
* Communication and sensitization activities to control unsafe road conditions
* Installation of signs and signals and other safety installations.
Urban water supply component
, Creation of close-in and remote protection perimeters around the catchment works and
tubewells supplying drinking water to the communities
* Hydrobiological study of the streams to be tapped for the catchment projects
* Protection of forested hillsides constituting the high watersheds where the catchment works
are installed
* Compensation for agricultural losses (financial, land, or assistance in kind)
* Landscaping to incorporate the access roads and reservoirs
* Protection of the Moutsamoudou river watershed
* Vegetation management within the reservoir (floating barrier option)
* Protection of the Hahaya tubewell (subject to the results of a hydrogeological survey)
* Installation of stormwater decantation mechanisms, biological monitoring of the marine
environment and of the bacteriological quality of the water, covering of main collectors to
ensure that the roads are always passable.
14



The total cost of the measures in connection with easements and operation of the works is
estimated to be about KMF 250 million or approximately US$500,000. These costs have been
taken into account for the cost estimates and most of the above tasks, as well as rights of way and
compensation, will be directly included in the construction contracts.
Environmental consultation and training plan
Consultation. The project involves community participation to enable primary stakeholders to
voice their views concerning potential changes to the environment, and to take ownership of
project decisions. Dialogue with project staff, local authorities, and other key stakeholders are
planned while the detailed designs for individual project activities are being prepared. About
US$10,000 of project resources are being allocated for the information, consultation and public
awareness activities.
Training activities. Protecting natural resources requires that governments and others to fully
take into account the environmental impacts of their activities. In Comoros, special training is
needed for all those involved in the design, implementation, maintenance and operation of
project activities. In particular, training is planned for the staffs of the DGI, DRIs and the
Directorate General of the Environment. The DGI and DRIs must ensure that the measures to
protect the environment are incorporated in the implementation of works and the Directorate
General of the Environment must enforce environmental laws and regulations, so training for
staffs of these agencies is particularly important. Training activities also involve two actions
directed at the public. The first involves publication of overviews of project operations,
including descriptions of activities, administrative procedures being followed, potential
environmental impact of activities and impacts on the country's communities. The second
involves carrying out public education and communication campaigns regarding the
environmental issues of the project.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA: The environmental impact
assessment for the project was completed in September 1999. An update to reflect changes in
project design was completed in August 2000.
Date of receipt of final draft: August 30, 2000.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening, and (b)
draft EA report on the environmental impacts and proposed EMP? Describe mechanisms of
consultation that were used and the groups that were consulted.
The principal stakeholders in the area of environmental protection (government authorities,
nongovernmental organizations, and local associations) were involved in identifying the
project's environmental impacts, specifying measures to address them and reviewing the EIA
and EMP. Consultations with primary stakeholders were carried out for the behavioral and
social study that was conducted at the same time as the EIA. Additional consultations are
planned during preparation of the final designs of project works. These will be financed by the
IDA Credit.
15



5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project
on the environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
DGI and DRIs will monitor performance of the contractors in implementing the mitigation
measures specified in the works contracts, which will be based on the objectives and results of
the EMP. As part of its routine supervision process and midterm review, the Bank will review
performance of relevant government agencies in addressing environmental issues in design and
implementation of subprojects. This will involve visits by members of supervision missions to
sites of subprojects for first-hand assessment. The project's midterm review and implementation
completion report will evaluate implementation of this environmental management plan.
E6. Social
6.1  Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's
social development outcomes.
A social assessment for the project intended to provide a greater understanding of the needs and
practices of the people was completed in February 1999. This showed that rehabilitating and
expanding urban water supplies will bring significant benefits to women and children, since they
are the ones mainly responsible for its collection. The poor, many of whom now rely on
contaminated and distant water supplies, will also disproportionately benefit from the project by
gaining access for the first time to clean, reliable and steady water supplies. In the long run, the
improved health and increased leisure time of women and children is expected to lead to greater
investment in education for boys and girls, with consequent increases in incomes and quality of
life. The project will help build social capital by involving community groups in designing water
supply systems and cost-recovery schemes and mechanisms, and in managing and operating
water supply services where appropriate.
The social assessment also showed that cost recovery from water users will not come easily.
Involving users in selecting service levels will be essential to assure that communities feel
ownership of their water systems. A public information campaign to raise awareness of the
benefits of clean and convenient water and the need to pay for the services will also help in
convincing consumers to accept tariffs.
The project will involve acquisition of rights of way for new water distribution networks. In rare
cases, it may also involve acquisition of land for new water intakes or catchment areas to ensure
their protection. In some cases this may result in the fragmentation of farmers' fields requiring
changes in farming patterns. Although it is not known at this time what the social impacts may
be, it will be required that farmers are compensated at full replacement cost for any losses they
may incur. There is no resettlement of people anticipated under the project. In any case, the
project will not finance activities that would result in the resettlement of people. Other options
will be sought instead.
16



The project implementing agency will submit to the Bank for prior review and approval
proposals for acquisition of land or rights of way, specifying number of people affected, nature
and extent of impacts, and plans for mitigating impacts, including compensation plans. Any
private land needed for works to be carried out under the project, will be provided in a voluntary
manner and in accordance with a memorandum  of understanding (MoU) between the
government and the owner of the land. The Bank will closely supervise implementation of such
plans and MoUs during its regular supervision missions, annual reviews and the mid-term
review.
There are no significant social issues associated with roads periodic maintenance. Road
maintenance will improve the quality of existing thoroughfares and will not result in any
resettlement. Disruption of commercial activities along roads may occur for a brief period while
work is underway. People affected will be informed of the scope and duration of works well
before they start. Contractors will use local laborers and labor-intensive techniques to the extent
feasible.
6.2 Participatory approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Beneficiaries have been involved in project preparation through information sharing,
consultation and collaboration. They will be involved in all stages of implementation of the
water supply subcomponent, participating in decisions on design of water systems and cost-
recovery levels, structure and mechanisms. They will also be involved with implementing the
water supply works and with operations and maintenance where appropriate. Regarding roads
maintenance, the public will be represented in the overall oversight of the road maintenance fund
after the restructuring of this latter.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil
society organizations?
NGOs, academic institutions, local authorities, and other donors have been involved with project
preparation, participating in decisions on project design. They are expected to be involved with
project implementation and operations. UNICEF and NGOs will be involved in information,
education and communication campaigns to encourage people to participate in managing and
maintaining the water systems, and in paying for water services.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its
social development outcomes?
Community groups will be involved with designing, implementing and contracting out operation
and management of water supply systems. Their full participation should ensure that no social or
income groups are excluded from the benefits of the urban water supply subcomponent.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
17



Monitoring indicators, as currently envisaged, focus on institutional performance of the
government agencies responsible for implementing the project. Special attention will be paid to
issues of transparency and accountability. The benefits of monitoring project implementation
and outcomes through participatory techniques have been discussed with government during
appraisal and monitoring indicators have been agreed.  The project's implementation
arrangements will allow changes to be made in response to information generated during
supervision missions and the midterm review.
E7. Safeguard policies
7.1  Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
X  Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01)                           Yes
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)                            No
Forestry (OP 4.36)                                          No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                               No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.30)                          No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37)                                    No
Projects on International Waterways (OP 7.50)               No
L___ Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60)                        No
7.2  Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard
policies.
Project supervision and the midterm review will investigate compliance with the safeguard
policies as a main area of focus. Failure to comply could result in suspension of the project.
F:  Sustainability and Risks
Fl. Sustainability
The proposed project is part of a larger donor-supported program. The IDA Credit would
support interventions that complement and build upon those of other donors. In addition, the
project is based on the participation of community groups that are already involved in providing
services to residents. The project will capitalize on existing capacity, which has already been
built during previous IDA financed road maintenance projects, and strengthen it at central and
regional levels. Cost recovery mechanisms will be developed and implemented to help pay for
water services. The road maintenance fund will be restructured to ensure overall long term
financial sustainability of road maintenance activities.
18



F2. Critical risks
From Outputs to Objective
Political instability may disrupt   S    IDA is maintaining an active dialogue with government,
project implementation.                  donors and other actors to remain abreast of the latest
political developments. The project will be suspended if
political instability threatens the achievement of project
objectives. In addition, the DCA provides for a separate
disbursement category for Anjouan and a disbursement
condition for Anjouan project activities.
Government may allocate and        M     Project includes provisions for institutional strengthening
disburse road maintenance fund           and technical assistance as needed.
revenues and user fees-for water
supplies ineffectively or
inappropriately.
Government may lack capacity to    H    Project includes provisions for institutional strengthening
enforce environmental regulations.       and technical assistance.
From Components to Outputs
Counterpart funds may be           H    Project is designed with minimum counterpart funds from
inadequate.                              GOC (mainly from road maintenance fund). Reviews
will take place every six months.
Donors may fail to coordinate their  M   A project steering committee has been put in place to
activities effectively.                  oversee and monitor implementation of all aspects of the
program. It will periodically call meetings with all
donors supporting the program to discuss program issues.
Limited government absorptive and   S    The creation of the DGI within the ministry of
management capacity may impede           infrastructure, energy and urbanism, the establishment of
project implementation.                  a coordination unit, and the provision of prompt technical
assistance will minimize this risk.
Government may not provide         M     The Sector Policy Letter includes detailed plan
adequate road maintenance fund           (acceptable to IDA) for operations of the road
resources.                               maintenance fund, including levels and mechanisms for
funding.
Privatization of public regional force-    N  GOC has given its commitment to transform the
account road maintenance workshops       workshops into autonomous, and ultimately private sector
may not be achieved.                     operations, with a timetable for doing so.
Community contributions for water   S    Communities will be involved with selecting service
supply may be inadequate to cover        levels, and therefore gain control over how much they
costs.                                   have to pay. Public information campaigns will raise
awareness of the importance of paying for water services.
A private operator will be responsible for operate the
water system and collecting tariffs.
Overall Risk Rating                 S
Risk Rating-H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
19



F3. Possible controversial aspects
Investing in Comoros while the political situation is still not fully resolved may be risky,
particularly because a substantial proportion of the disbursements are planned for Anjouan, an
area outside of effective government control. The DCA provides for a separate disbursement
category for works in Anjouan and a disbursement condition for Anjouan with regards to the
works category. However, the government has demonstrated commitment to improving
economic management and governance, and IDA involvement can help foster the process of
national economic recovery in Comoros.
G:     Main Credit Conditions
Prior to Negotiations:
The following conditions have been met in form and substance acceptable to IDA:
* Draft Project Implementation Plan (PIP) and Procurement Plan
* Draft Letter of Sector Policy prepared for the road and urban water sectors
* An "Arrete" to exempt the Project's goods, equipment, supplies, etc. from taxes and customs
duties.
Prior to Board Presentation:
The following conditions have been met in form and substance acceptable to IDA:
-  Transmission to IDA of Letter of Sector Policy for the road and urban water sectors
-  Draft Financial Management Procedures Manual, and accounting and financial management
system for the Project established
-  DGI and the Steering Committee established in a manner, and with staff satisfactory to IDA
*  Financial manager for both DGI and the road maintenance fund appointed in compliance
with Bank procurement guidelines, and accountant appointed for both DGI and the road
maintenance fund, with qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA.
Prior to Effectiveness:
* Project Implementation Plan (PIP) and Financial Management Procedures Manual, in forrn
and substance acceptable to IDA, adopted by the Borrower
* Auditors for the project accounts and the road maintenance fund appointed in accordance
with Bank procurement guidelines.
20



During project Implementation
* A sliding three-year investment and maintenance program for the road sector will be
prepared by DGI and submitted annually to IDA by October 15, for its review and comments
* The government will not undertake or order from any entity or contractor any public
investment for the road sector over US$500,000 equivalent, which is not part of the approved
three-year investment and maintenance program
* The government will: (a) maintain the road maintenance fund under terms and conditions
which will be at all times satisfactory to IDA, (b) take measures required on its part to ensure
that the level of the road user fees to be channeled into the road maintenance fund are
promptly adjusted according to the agreed provision under the Sector Policy Letter, and (c)
ensure that the proceeds of the road maintenance fund shall be used solely for the purposes of
defraying the cost of expenditures incurred for road maintenance and rehabilitation
operations in the Comoros.
H:  Readiness for Implementation
1. [x] (a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities will be completed and
ready for the start of project implementation. All feasibility, institutional and cost recovery
studies and a social assessment have been completed. The project design reflects the findings of
these studies.
[ ] (b) Not applicable.
2. [ I The procurement documents for the first year's activities will be ready for the start of
project implementation.
3. [ ] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.
4. [ ] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
l:   Compliance with Bank Policies
I1. [X]    This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
12. [ ] The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project
complies with all other applicable Bank policies.
Abdelmoula Ghzala        Imogene Jensen                 Hafez M. H. Ghanem
Team Leader              Acting Sector Manager          Country Director
21






Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Infrastructure, Water and Environment Project
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ PI
Sector-related interim   Sector Indicators:   Sector/country reports: (from Goal to Bank
support strategy goal:                                               Mission)
1. Foster economic    Percent decrease in travel Ministry f transport and  Government provides
recovery through       ime.                   other government reports. resources for the road
rehabilitation of critical  Percent decrease in                      maintenance fund.
road infrastructure.   vehicle operating costs.
2. Improve delivery of   Trends in water quality.  Ministry of environment  There is adequate
social services through   Trends in water coverage. reports.         capacity to create,
improved urban water    Trends in water and   Ministry of health reports. operate and maintain
supplies,vectorbomediseo                                             urban water systems and
vector borne diseases.      monitor water quality
and public health
indicators.
3. Create a favorable  Number of small and    Government reports.    Government is willing to
environment for private   medium enterprises                         withdraw from activities
sector involvement     involved with                                 in which it is involved.
infrastructure construction
and maintenance.
23



Annex 1: Project Design Summary (cont.)
Project Development   Outcome / Impact        Project reports:        (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:            Indicators:
I . Maintain road     1. Percentage of road   Ministere de           1. Government provides
infrastructure and    network in fair or good    I'Equipement, de    the road maintenance fund
improve the safety of   condition.            I'Energie et de        with sufficient resources.
road transport.       2. Number kilometers of l'Urbanisme and other   2. DGI and DRIs have the
road under periodic     government reports.    operational and
maintenance.                                   management capacity to
3. Trends in number and                        successfully implement the
severity of road accidents.                    project.
3. Government is
committed to enforcing
road safety rules.
2. Significantly       1. Percent of population   Ministere de        1. DGI, DRIs and private
increase water coverage  covered compared with   I'Equipement, de     operator for urban water
of the Anjouan and     current situation.      I'Energie et de        have the operational and
Moheli islands by 2005, 2. Trends in drinking  l'Urbanisme and other   management capacity to
and upgrade and expand  water quality,         government reports.    successfully implement
urban water                                                           the project.
infrastructure.                                                       2. Govemment is
committed to protecting
the environment and
ensuring clean water.
3. Consumers are willing
to pay for and can afford
water supply services.
3. Improve             1. Number of days       Ministere de           1. Government is
management of road     between issuing tenders   I'Equipement, de     committed to improving
transport, water and   and finalizing contracts.  I'Energie et de     management of public
urban infrastructure by   2. Trends in contracting   l'Urbanisme and other   sector institutions,
strengthening public  payment time.            government reports.    increased public
sector institutions,                                                  awareness and stakeholder
increasing public     3. Number of private                            participation, and has the
awareness, involving   sector contracts awarded.                      capacity to implement
stakeholders, and     4. Financial performance                        reforms.
implementing cost-     of road maintenance fund.
recovery measures.
5. Percent water
operating costs covered by
user fees.
24



Annex 1: Project Design Summary (cont.)
Output from each        Output Indicators:    Project reports:     (from Outputs to
component:                                                         Objective)
A. Primary network roads   . Periodic         1. Supervision reports  1. DGI and DRIs have the
improved, road travel made maintenance completed  every six months  management capacity to
safer, and road         on 207 kilometers of the outlining progress on   implement the project.
management and          primary road network.   key indicators, and  2. DGI, DRIs and the road
maintenance system      2. Traffic signals and   actions to be taken to   maintenance fund have the
improved.               signs put into place, and achieve goals.   financial and human
works to stabilize road   2. Midterm review.    resources to fully benefit
embankments          3. Final             from studies and technical
completed.            implementation       assistance.
3. System of funding    completion report.    3. Procurement procedures
put into place so that                     and bidding/evaluation/
users' fees finance all                    contract award requirements
routine and some                           are met satisfactorily.
periodic maintenance.                      4. Government is
committed to fully funding
the road maintenance fund
on a sustainable basis (user
fees) and assuring that it
performs as intended.
B. Urban water supply    1. Water works in                         1. DGI has the management
system upgraded and     Moutsamoudou,                              capacity to implement the
expanded.               Domoni, Ouani                              project.
(Anjouan) and Fomboni                      2. Local communities have
(Moheli) rehabilitated                     the management capacity to
and expanded.                              select and contract the
2. Cost-recovery                           private operator.
system established.                        3. Private operator (to be
selected) has the financial
and human resources to
recover water tariffs.
4. Consumers are willing
and able to pay for water
services.
C. Coordination among    1. Project implemented                    1. DGI has the capacity to
agencies responsible for    smoothly, with no                      coordinate various actors.
different sectors under the  coordination problems.
project successful.
25



Annex 1: Project Design Summary (cont.)
Project Com  ponents ISub  I  nputs: (budg et for Project reports:  |(from Components to
components:               each component)                            Outputs)
A. Transport                   US$5.9        1. Supervision reports   |1. DGI and DRIs have the|
every six months outlining management capacity to
progress on key         implement the project and
indicators.             procure the works, goods
and services as planned.
(a) Roads periodic             US$4.4        and actions to be taken to  2. Adequate counterpart
maintenance                                  achieve goals.          funds are available.
(b) Road safety                US$0.8        2. Midterm review.      3. Public sector equipment
pool privatization proceeds
as planned.
(c) Engineering, studies and   US$0.7        3. Implementation       4. Government is
institutional strengthening                  completion report.      committed to fully funding
the road maintenance fund
and assuring that it performs
as intended.
B. Urban water supply          US$4.1                                1. DGI has the
(a) Urban water works          US$3.0                                management capacity to
implement the project.
(b) Engineering, studies and   US$1.1
institutional strengthening
C. Support to sectors and     US$2.6                                 1. Project implementers
program coordination                                                 have the financial and
human resources to
(a) General studies, expertise  US$0.1                               fully benefit from technical
assistance.
(b) Training                   US$0.9                                2. FC meets its
commitments
(c) Technical assistance for   US$0.8                                to fund the project
coordination                                                      coordination unit.
(d) Logistical support for     US$0.8                                3. DGI has the management
coordination                                                      capacity to implement the
project and benefit from
logistical support.
D. Project preparation         US$0.6                                1. Government has the
studies (under PPF)                                                  commitment and capacity to
complete necessary
preparatory work.
26



Table B: Key performance Indicators, Activities and Target Dates
Indicators measured each year                 Initial                  During Project Implementation
December 31                      Unit         Value       2001        2002        2003        2004         2005
ROAD SECTOR
Road maintenance Fund
Revenues from road user fee (fuel
levy) (constant prices 2000).      Million     200         336         372         408         432          468
KMF
Expenditures dedicated to routine
maintenance works
(Local small contractors)          Million      145        268         297         326         345          374
(constant prices 2000).            KMF
Road condition
Good                  69         62          50          45          133          211
Fair     Km         290         268        228          210         194          188
Fair to bad               289        318         370         392         321          249
Periodic maintenance of roads
Total National    Km    l          l           l                74-         74           35
URBAN WATER SECTOR
Urban centers (Households served)
Anjouan    Moutsamoudou                        25,000     25,000 |    25,000  |  31,000  |    43,000       43,000
Domoni               inhabitants    12,000    12,000 |    12,000      12,000 |   16,000        25,000
Ouani                              7,500       7,500       7,500      12,500      21,000       21,000
Moheli      Fomboni                             7,000      7,000       7,000       7,000      12,500        18,000
27



Initial
Indicators measured each year     Unit       Value                       During Project Implementation
December 31
2000
2001        2002        2003        2004          2005
Rural areas
(Non-IDA financed, but part of multi- In % of
donor programn)                   population
Total National               23%         23%         23%          23%         23%          23%
Grande Comore                  11%         11%         11%         11%         11%           11%
Anjouan                 32%         32%         32%          32%         32%          32%
Moheli                 83%         83%         83%         83%         83%           83%
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
Cost                    Private
recovery in               operator in
Urban Water management and Cost                  Nil                               place by                 Jpaury 1,
recovery systems                                                                    July I                  January 1,
2003                     2005
Setting up Setting up of
Restructuring of MEEU                        Existing set of DGI by    DRIs by
up       March 1,  July 1, 2002
2001
28



Annex 2: Project Description
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Infrastructure, Water and Environment Project
The IDA financed project is part of a large multi-donor infrastructure and environment
program. The total amount of the program is estimated at US$52 million over an eight year
period. Table A2. 13 details the program components by financing agency. The IDA financed
project is detailed in the following sections.
Component A: Transport US$5.9 million
The transport component of the project will assist Comoros improve its roads maintenance,
safety, and management through three subcomponents: national and regional roads periodic
maintenance, roads safety, and institutional strengthening. Table A2.1 provides a summary
of the Comoros road network. A detailed description of the subcomponents follows.
Table A2.1 Comoros road network (kilometers)
National Roads         Regional Roads          Total network
Paved  Unpaved  Total  Paved  Unpaved  Total  Paved  Unpaved  Total
Grande       209        0    209    148       58   207    357         58   415
Comore
Anjouan      134       11   146       70      39   108    204         50   254
Mohdli        69        9     78      18       0      18     87        9    96
Total        412       20   432    236        97   333    648        117   765
In percent    95        5    100      71       29   1oo      85       15   100
Roads periodic maintenance subcomponent
The periodic maintenance subcomponent will support periodic maintenance of the priority
road network. This will complement the EU financed periodic maintenance and the routine
maintenance financed by the road maintenance fund, within the large infrastructure and
environment program. Specifically, the project will comprise:
*  Rehabilitation of earthworks, including patch works, pothole repair, local reinforcement,
single-layer or double-layer pavement, resurfacing of gravel roads, and resealing.
*  Road shoulders maintenance and repairs, and maintenance and repairs of drainage works.
*  Maintenance of the roadsides, including clearing of drainage structures, and clearing and
reshaping ditches.
*  Drainage improvement, including rehabilitation of drains and ditches and masonry works.
A program involving all donors (IDA, EU, AFD, African Development Bank, and others) and
a contribution from the road maintenance fund is envisaged covering a total of 218 kilometers
on Grande Comore, 157 kilometers on Anjouan and 83 kilometers on Moheli. IDA will
finance priority sections of the overall roads maintenance program. Table A2.2 and annex 4
map provide an overview.
29



Table A2.2 Roads covered under IDA-financed project (kilometers)
Kilometers    Percent of paved system    Percent of total program
of island     nation      of island      nation
Grande           113           32            17           52           25
Comore
Anjouan           43           21            7            27            9
Moheli            27           31            4            33            6
Total            183                        28                         40
Implementation of this project will prevent further deterioration of the existing road network
and contribute to establishing an effective road maintenance policy aimed at renewing
roadway surfaces every ten to twelve years with permanent annual (minor) maintenance of
roadways and related structures through contracts with small and medium-sized enterprises
and contractors. Table A2.3 summarizes the costs of the IDA-supported roads maintenance
project. Tables A2.9-A2.12 provide details of the works to be undertaken in each of the
three islands.
Table A2.3 Total cost of IDA-supported periodic road maintenance works
KMF                        US$
Grande Comore                 1,250,000,000               2,100,000
Anjouan                         525,000,000                 925,000
Moheli                         400,000,000                  675,000
Total                         2,175,000,000               3,700,000
Programming of works. The works will be executed over three years, comprising roughly
one year for Anjouan, one year for Moh6li and one year for Grande Comore. For each
homogeneous section of road the works will be executed over a two-year period
corresponding to the following two phases as follows:
* Year n: Preparation of roadbed and related structures (leveling to eliminate puddle
formation, and pothole filling). Repair of small drainage structures and preparation of
related structures (verges and shoulders).
* Year n+l: General surfacing, either one or two layers according to need, and finishing
(signing, safety features, and the like).
Roads safety subcomponent
The road safety subcomponent will finance the installation of traffic signals and signs and
works to stabilize road embankments. It will also strengthen the capacity of the executing
agency in monitoring the road safety and enforcing the law.
Studies, expertise and institutional strengthening subcomponent
The studies, expertise and institutional strengthening subcomponent will finance a study of
options for institutional setups for road maintenance, including privatization of regional road
30



maintenance centers and withdrawal of the state from labor contracting. It will provide
technical assistance to DGI and DRIs to strengthen their role in planning and programming of
road maintenance, management of contracts and supervision of works. In addition, the
subcomponent will provide technical assistance to the road maintenance fund to improve its
operations and financial management. A system of funding will be put in place so that fees
from road users finance all routine maintenance and gradually contribute to financing of
periodic maintenance. Government will prepare and transmit a Letter of Sector Policy
acceptable to IDA prior to Board presentation. The technical studies to define the works will
be carried out by specialized technical consulting fmns under contracts concluded in
accordance with IDA procurement procedures and guidelines. The DGI and specialized
engineering departments will supervise periodic maintenance and urban water works, with
assistance from external specialized consultants when necessary under contracts of the same
type as for the studies.
Institutional organization. The DGI will be responsible for overall programming and
execution of the works and the conclusion of contracts. DRIs (once set up), one for each
island, will be responsible for monitoring works execution on individual islands. The road
maintenance fund will finance routine road maintenance and will provide the counterpart
funds for works. National or international contractors will carry out most of the works.
Work will be done by force account in only a few instances (for example, for tasks which
require lengthmen).  The DGI will monitor and evaluate implementation progress.
Evaluation will be based on financial management of the road maintenance fund and
disbursements from the IDA Credit, indicators of physical progress of the project, and
technical and financial indicators. The DGI will ensure that contracts are awarded and
managed in accordance with IDA guidelines and procedures. In the final quarter of each year
the DGI will update and adjust the road maintenance budget and program for a rolling period
of five years. It will establish in that period, for year n+l, the program of periodic
maintenance. It will also specify the preparatory works that must be completed in year n to
support the year n+l periodic maintenance program (maintenance of drainage works,
roadway repairs as and when required and the like).
Component B: Urban water supply US$4.1million
The urban water supply subcomponent will support the rehabilitation and extension of urban
water infrastructure in Moutsamoudou, Domoni and Ouani on Anjouan (about 72,000
inhabitants) and Fomboni on Moheli (about 15,000 inhabitants). It is expected that the
Agence Francaise de Developpement (AFD) will finance rehabilitation and extension of
water systems in rural areas of Grande Comore, Anjouan and Moheli. The urban water
supply under IDA financing will involve UNICEF and NGOs in information, sanitary
education and communication campaigns to encourage people to participate in managing and
maintaining the water systems and in paying for water services. Table A2.4 summarizes the
costs of IDA-supported water works on the island of Anjouan and Moheli. Tables A2.9-
A2.12 provide details of the works to be undertaken in each of the urban centers.
31



Table A2.4 Total cost of IDA-supported urban water supply works
KMF                          USs
Anjouan                         1,200,000,000                  2,180,000
Moh6li                            350,000,000                   620,000
Total                           1,550,000,000                 2,800,000
Institutional support and studies
The institutional strengthening subcomponent will support technical assistance to strengthen
management and operations of urban water utilities. A study of institutional and financial
issues has been completed for project preparation and its recommendations will be used in
developing an efficient, effective and sustainable water management and cost-recovery
system. This subcomponent will also finance public consultations and public awareness
raising activities to involve beneficiaries with decisions on project issues, assist them in
selecting and managing a private operator, and gain acceptance of plans to charge for water.
Table A2.5 shows total costs for the institutional support and studies subcomponent.
Table A2.5 Costs of institutional support and studies for urban water works
KW ~~                us$
Strengthening management and             110,000,000                 200,000
operations of urban utilities and
establishing billing and collection system
(including supply of meters)
Public consultations, awareness raising  110,000,000                 200,000
activities, tariffs sensitization, sanitation
education
Other studies                             82,500,000                 150,000
Total                                    302,500,000                 550,000
Component C: Support to the sectors and program coordination US$2.6 million
This component will support technical assistance to strengthen coordination among agencies
responsible for different sectors under the project. It will also provide technical assistance
and logistical support for the project coordinating unit. Although FC will finance most of the
expenses of the coordination unit, IDA Credit will assist with logistical support for
coordination.
This component will also support training on environmental management for government
staff and others involved with the design, implementation, maintenance and operation of
project activities. In particular, training is planned for the staffs of the DGI, DRIs and the
Directorate General of the Environment. Training activities also involve two actions directed
at the public. The first involves publication of overviews of project operations, including
descriptions of activities, administrative procedures being followed, potential environmental
impact of activities and impacts on the country's communities. The second involves school
courses to educate students about the environmental issues of the project. Approximately
US$50,000 of project funds have been allocated for training and awareness activities on
environmental matters.
32



Project preparatory studies (under the PPF) US$0.6 million
The Project Preparation Facility (PPF, to be refumded) has been financing activities to prepare
the project for implementation, including feasibility studies, social assessment, environmental
impact assessment, institutional and cost recovery study, preparation of detailed engineering
designs, tender documents, and development of maritime, construction and urban
development codes.
33



Table A2.6 Detailed cost estimates IDA-financed national paved road works: Grande Comore
Lots (KMF)
Drainage and  Road marking
Road links         Kilometers   Earthworks       Paving         masonry       and other       TOTAL
RN3     Mbeni-carrefour RN5             42.0    22,008,000     319,422,711    100,059,474     41,509,816    483,000,000
Nioumadzaha _
RN3     Carrefour RNS                    4.5     2,358,000      34,223,862     10,720,658     4,447,480      51,750,000
Nioumadzaha-Foumbouni___
RN4     Moroni-GTE (par Bahani)         19.6    10,437,145     158,468,250     23,269,556     14,713,938    206,888,889
RN4A   Depot GTE-RN3 (Itsikoudi)         5.0     2,662,537      40,425,574     5,936,111      3,753,556      52,777,778
RN4B    Depot GTE-RN3 (Mutuelle -        6.0     2,900,143      48,560,229     13,986,000     2,267,914      67,714,286
Koimbani)
RR 101  RNI(Badamadji}RN4                7.8     4,341,814      54,471,857     15,606,686     3,579,643      78,000,000
(Bahani par Ntsou) (
RR 109  RN2(MdiN  RN2 (par              10.8     4,836,000      65,283,600     19,357,200      5,323,200     94,800,000
Iconi,Ndroini)
RR109A  RRI 09(Ndroini)-Moindzaza        1.5      952,250       8,532,500       1,318,000      697,250       11,500,000
Mboini
RR 126  RN4 (Dach6)-Mkazi-Vouni          3.6     4,650,943      26,013,909     5,853,086       1,024,920     37,542,857
RR127   RN4-MVOUNI                       5.5     5,765,375      31,338,863     7,812,750       1,145,513     46,062,500
RR 128  Maoueni-pylone (vers             5.0    12,825,000      49,410,000     20,137,000      1,628,000     84,000,000
Moidja)
PAM     Route PAM                        2.0      1,248,500     13,784,000     4,127,000       840,500       20,000,000
Total Grande Comore               l                l ll - 74,985,707  849,935,354  228,183,520  80,931,729
Total Grande Comore rounded to: 1,250,000,0004
34



Table A2.7 Detailed cost estimates IDA-financed national paved road works: Anjouan
Lots (KMF)
Drainage and Road marking and
Road links     Kilometers   Earthworks         Paving          masonry           other           TOTAL
RN21A   Bretelle Ouani         1.5         1,347,600       6,933,000        6,286,200        1,033,200       15,600,000
RN22A   Sima Bimbini           6.0        4,618,500        41,107,000       17,396,000       2,878,500       66,000,000
RN23    Moya Pomoni            6.0        5,512,043       50,997,130       13,011,391       2,479,435       72,000,000
RN23A   RN 23-Kangani          4.5        4,134,033        38,247,848       9,758,543        1,859,576       54,000,000
RR 202   RN21 (M'Sakidjou)-    5.5        4,209,700        46,228,600      28,188,600        2,773,100       81,400,000
Chandra-Dindi__ _ _ _ _ _ _                                    __  _ _ _ _ _ _
RR202A   Tsimbeo-RN21           2.6        5,362,314       33,192,194       13,966,457       1,336,177        53,857,143
RR 207   Sima Boungoueni       3.8        4,502,457        22,637,143       7,582,629        2,192,057       36,914,286
RR 208   Kavani-Milambani      1.0         477,000         5,957,500        1,598,000        467,500          8,500,000
RR 209   RN 23-Dzindri         1.0         1,565,667       5,668,000        6,277,333         489,000        14,000,000
RR210   M'RMmani-Comoni        7.0         5,961,000       43,280,000       29,914,000       2,845,000       82,000,000
RR 211   RN24 Dziani           4.0        4,309,000        21,892,000       7,751,000        1,048,000       35,000,000
Bouejou
Total Anjouan                       41,999,314      316,140,415      141,730,154       19,401,545
Total Anjouan rounded to: 525,000,000l
35



Table A2.8 Detailed cost estimates IDA-financed national paved road works: Moheli
Lots (KMF)
Drainage and  Road marking and
Road links     Kilometers   Earthworks          Paving           masonry            other          TOTALI
RN 3 2    Fomboni-Hoani-         27.00       47,187,500      222,750,000        96,464,000       12,598,500     379,000,000
Miringoni_
Total Moheli        |    _47,187,500                 222,750,000        96,464,000       12,598,500
Total Moheli rounded to: 400,000,000l
36



Table A2.9 Cost of water works: Moutsamoudou
Cost (KMF)
First stage of works
Existing catchments
Moutsamoudou
Consolidation of existing structures (diversion canal, spillway)                     2,000,000
Protection of catchment against runoff                                               1,500,000
Repair of existing meters                                                              150,000
Installation of two new meters on the supply lines from the old distribution chamber   750,000
Construction of a wirenetting-topped enclosing wall                                  3,800,000
Houngouni
Cleaning of structures and removal of deposits                                         300,000
Repair of existing meters                                                              150,000
Construction of a wire netting-topped enclosing wall                                 3,400,000
Supply line
Moutsamoudou
Repair police station line                                                             400,000
Houngouni
Repair and maintenance of Sangani reservoir                                           1,750,000
Distribution system
Rehabilitation of existing standpipes and construction of new ones (total standpipes: 30)  3,000,000
Search for leaks and repairs                                                        16,000,000
Preparation of water-supply masterplan                                              27,000,000
Replacement of asbestos-cement lines in distribution system                         41,000,000
Total  101,200,000
Contingencies 15percent   15,100,000
Total first stage  116,300,000
Second stage of works
New catchment and new line
Establishment of new catchment at Page                                               8,500,000
Supply and laying of a new supply line: 200mm diameter, L=2000m                     52,000,000
Change in level of existing catchments. Installation of gravel prefilters and of a chlorination unit    10,000,000
at Moutsamoudou and Houngouni
Installation of treatment facilities for the Page catchment                         25,000,000
Rehabilitation of the existing distribution network (parts remaining in galvanized steel)  30,000,000
Construction of two new 500 cubic meter tanks                                       64,000,000
Installation of conduits and extension of the distribution network                  53,000,000
Total  242,500,000
Contingencies 15percent   36,200,000
Total second stage  278,700,000
Grand Total  395,000,000
37



Table A2.10 Cost of water works: Ouani
Cost (KMF)
First stage of works
Water balance, diagnostic study of supply system and of distribution network, masterplan  23,500,000
Installation of a chlorination unit on existing catchment with the necessary adjustments and  600,000
improvements
Total   24,100,000
Contingencies 15 percent    3,600,000
Total first stage   27,700,000
Second stage of works
First Phase
New catchment                                                                         6,500,000
Supply and laying of a new supply line: 100/150 mm diameter, L = 2,200 meter        29,500,000
Installation of water-treatment system for new catchment (screen, sandcatcher, gravel prefilter,  13,000,000
chlorination)
Construction of 200-250 cubic meter reserve storage tank                            24,000,000
Supply and laying of a first part of the distribution mains, 80/100/125/150 mm diameter, L =  20,000,000
2,000 meter
Construction of standpipes (10 in Ouani, 6 in Barakani, 4 in Gnantranga)             2,500,000
Secondphase
Construction of reservoirs with a total capacity of 500 cubic meters                44,000,000
Supply and laying of a second section of water main 080/0100/0125/0150. L = 7.000   60,000,000
Supply and laying of secondary and tertiary distribution les 060/080, L= 9.000 meter  42,000,000
Total  241,500,000
Contingencies 15 percent   36,200,000
Total second stage  277,700,000
Grand Total  305,400,000
Rounded to  310,000,000
38



Table A2.11 Cost of water works: Domoni
Cost (KMF)
First stage of works
Rehabilitation of existing catchment at Adjaho                                       2,000,000
Elimination of high point along line from Hapira spring                              2,500,000
Provision of access trail to Hapira spring                                           8,000,000
Repair of 4 reserve storage tanks                                                    3,000,000
Diagnostic study of present supply and distribution system                          28,000,000
Repair/replacement of defective lines                                               24,000,000
Preparation of a water-supply Masterplan
Total   67,500,000
Contingencies 15 percent   10,125,000
Total first stage   77,625,000
Second stage of works
Development of a new catchment, supply and laying of a supply line - Mro Goucouni spring  186,000,000
solution - Domoni share
New catchment and conveyance of water to serve Ngandzale                            49,300,000
Rehabilitation of the seven reservoirs of Domoni                                    15,000,000
Rehabilitation of the existing distribution network                                 60,000,000
Storage and distribution of clean water for Ngandzale                               34,000,000
Construction of 20 standpipes                                                        2,500,000
Extension of existing distribution system                                           20,000,000
Total Mro Goucouni solution  366,300,000
Contingencies 15 percent   54,945,000
Total second stage Mro Goucouni solution   421,245,000
Grand Total Mro Goucouni solution   498,870,000
Rounded to  500,000,000
39



Table A2.12 Cost of water works: Fomboni, Moh6li
Cost (KMF)
First stage of works
Existing Fomboni catchment
Construction of new catchment on M'Rochiconi                                                   58,000,000
An offtake in the dam including screen and line to the outlet from the dam (two offtake chambers)  360,000
Building of fence around the dam                                                                2,400,000
Installation of a meter                                                                           300,000
Contingencies 15 percent   9,159,000
Subtotal    70,219,000
Fomboni supply line
Inspection and repair of supply line (installation of air vent, emptying, repair, base 1000 ml)  25,200,000
Contingencies 15 percent                                                                        3,780,000
Subtotal                                                                                       28,980,000
Storage facility
Reservoir hydraulic equipment (valves and accessories)/Lump sum                                 3,000,000
Meter installation (I for each outlet)                                                            600,000
Installation of disinfection equipment + prefilters                                            10,000,000
Fence around treatment + storage complex                                                        2,400,000
Cleaning and removal of deposits                                                                  300,000
Contingencies 15 percent   2,445,000
Subtotal    18,745,000
Distribution system
Installation of individual meters (CF 60,000 each) - beneficiary                                     p.m.
Rehabilitation of standpipes and construction of new ones                                       2,000,000
Location and repair of priority leaks                                                           4,000,000
Burying of visible lines and connections (lump sum)                                             5,600,000
Replacement of old lines (500 m)                                                                5,400,000
Contingencies /5 percent   2,550,000
Subtotal    19,550,000
Total first stage    137,494,000
Second stage of works
Complete replacement supply line, length 4000 meters                                           75,600,000
Contingencies 15 percent  11,340,000
Subtotal    86,940,000
Storage
Reservoir (base 500 cubic meters)                                                              44,000,000
Installation of sandcatcher + chlorination                                                     13,000,000
Contingencies 15 percent   8,550,000
Subtotal    65,550,000
Distribution system
New networks: lines, connections, accessories and equipment of base system: 2000 meter, 80/100/125/150  23,300,000
millimeter diameter
Installation of fire hydrants (base 5)                                                          3,000,000
Contingencies 15 percent   3,945,000
Subtotal    30,245,000
Related works
Access trail to catchment, length 4000 m (pozzolana type)                                      18,000,000
Contingencies 15 percent   2,700,000
Subtotal    20,700,000
Total second stage    203,435,000
Grand Total (first and second stages)   340,929,000
Rounded to    350,000,000
40



Table A2.13
blamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Multi-donor Infrastructure & Environnent Program
Components Program Cost Summry
EW            AFD        Other Donors      IDA            GOC       Cooperation    To be Financed       Totd
Amount  %    Amount  %    Amount %   Amount  %    Amount  %   Amount  %    Amount   %    Amount   %
A. Transport Sector
Road Sector                           9.8 * 66%                                   4.9  33%        0.2  1%        -                             15.0  IOOV
Port Sector                           4.1  61%                      2.6  390/%                                                                  6.6  100'
Airport Sector                        0.7 * 12%       2.1  36%       3.1  53%Ko                                                                 6.0  100/
Urban Streets                                                                                                                  2.5   100%       2.5  100/
Subtotal TranssportSector              14.6  48%        2.1   7%       5.7 19%      4.9  16%        0.2  1%        -             2.5    8%       30.1  100%
B. Water and Drainage Sector
Urban Water                                                                       3.0  100%/o                                                   3.0   1 0la
Rural Water                           0.7 * 12%       4.2  76%      0.7  12%                                                                    5.6  100/
Urban Drainage                        3.7 * 46%       1.8  22%                                    0.0  1%        .             2.5   31%        8.1   1Oa/O
Subtotal Water Sector                   4.4  26%        6.0  36%       0.7  4%      3.0  18%        0.0  0%        -             2.5   15%       16.6  100%
C. Support to the Sectors
Engineering, Studies & Expertise                                                  2.6  96%/o                                   0.1    4%        2.7  1000
Training                                                                          0.7  890/%                   0.1   11%                        0.8   100/
SubtotalSupporttotheSectors               -               -              -          3.3  95%          -          0.1    3%       0.1    3%        3.5  100%
Program and Project Coorcination
Technical Assistance forCoordination                                                                           0.6  100%                        0.6  1OOV
Expertise & Logistic support for Coordination                                       -                          0.9  100%         -              0.9  1000/
Subtotal Program andProjectCoordnsti                            -               -                                1.5  100%         -              1.5  100%
BASECOST                               19.0  37%        8.1  16%       6.4 12%     11.2  22%        0.3  1%      1.6    3%       5.1   10%       51.7  100%
* Under EDF 9
41



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Annex 3
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Infiastructure, Water & Environrnent Project
Table A
Components Project Cost Sunmmary
(ISS Million)
Project Components                                                           %      % Total
Foreign    Base
Local Foreign  Total  Exchange   Costs
A. Transport                                          1.5     3.5     5.0       70        44
B. Urban Water                                        0.8     2.6     3.4       76        30
C. Support to the Sectors & Program Coordination      0.3     2.1     2.4        89       21
Project Preparation Studies (under PPF)               0.1     0.6     0.6       90         6
Total BASELINECOSTS                                    2.7     8.7    11.4        74       101
Physical Contingencies                                0.2     0.6     0.9       74         8
Price Contingencies                                   0.4     0.7     1.1       64         9
Total PROJECT COSTS                                    3.3    10.0    13.3        75       118
Note: Figures rnay not add up to total due to rounding
(IS$ Million)
Project Components                                Local Foreign  Total   lIDA          
Goods                                                 0.1     0.5     0.6       0.5      4%
Works                                                 2.6     5.6     8.2       7.9     69%
Services                                              0.5     2.1     3.0       2.0      17%
Training                                             0.1      0.7     1.0       0.4      3%
PPF                                                           0.6     0.6       0.6      6%
Total PROJECTCOSTS                                   3.3      9.5    13.3      11.4   100%
Note: Figures ramy not add up to total due to rounding
42



Annex 3
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Infrastructure, Water & Environment Project
Table B
Components Project Cost Summary
(USS Million)
e  % Total
Foreign Base
Local   Foreign    Total  Exchange  Costs
A. Transport                                                                              -
Roads Periodic Maintenance                                1.1       2.6      3.7       70        33
Road Safety                                                0.3      0.3      0.6       50         6
Engineering, Studies, Expertise & Institutional Strengthening  0.1  0.6      0.6       86         6
Subtotal Transport                                          1.5       3.5      5.0       70       44
B. Urban Water
Urban Water Works                                          0.6      1.8      2.4       75        22
Engineering, Equipment, Studies & Institutional Strengthening  0.2  0.8       1.0      79         9
Subtotal Urban Water                                        0.8       2.6      3.4       76       30
C. Support to the Sectors & Program Coordination
General Studies & Expertise to the Sectors                 0.0      0.1      0.1       85         1
Training                                                   0.1      0.6      0.7       91         6
Technical Assistance for Coordination                      0.1      0.8      0.8       90         7
Expertise & Logistic support for Coordination             0.1       0.6      0.7       85         6
Subtotal Support to the Sectors & Program Coordination      0.3      2.1       2.4       89       21
Project Preparation Studies (under PPF)
Preparatory Studies                                        0.1      0.6      0.6       90         6
Subtotal Project Preparation Studies (under PPF)            0.1       0.6      0.6       90        6
Total BASELINECOSTS                                          2.7      8.7     11.4       77       100
Physical Contingencies                                     0.2      0.6       .9       74T        8
Price Contingencies                                        0.4      0.7      1.1       64         9
Total PROJECr COSTS                                          3.3     11331
Note: Figures may not add up to total due to rounding
43



Annex 3
Islamic Federal Repuldic of the Comoros
Infrastructure, Water & Environment Project
Tanble C
Components Project Cost Summary
(KMFMIllion)           (LiSS Mllion)
%% Totai
Foreign Base
Local Foreign  Total   Local Foreign  Total Exchange Costs
A. Transport
Roads Periodic Maintenance                              611   1,425   2,035     1.1    2.6      3.7      70      33
Road Safety                                             172    172    344       0.3    0.3      0.6      50       6
Engincering, Studies, Expertise & Institutional Strengthening  47    303  350   0.1    0.6    0.6        86       6
Subotal Transport                                        830   1,899   2,729      1.5    3.5     5.0       70      44
B. Urlan Water
Urban Water Works                                       336   1,009   1,345     0.6    1.8    2.4        75      22
Engineering, Equiprnnt, Studies & Institutional Strengthening    114    419    532  0.2    0.8  1.0      79       9
Subtotal Urban Water                                     450   1,427   1,877      0.8    2.6    3.4        76      30
C. SuWort to the Sectors & Program Coordciadon
General Studies & Expertise to the Sectors                8     47      55      0.0    0.1    0.1        85       1
Training                                                 36    349    385       0.1    0.6      0.7      91       6
Technical Assistance forCoordination                     46    416    462       0.1    0.8    0.8        90       7
Expertise&LogisticsupportforCoordinaton                  57    334    391       0.1    0.6    0.7        85       6
SubtotadSupporttotheSectors&ProgranmCoordination         147   1,146   1,293      0.3    2.1     2.4       89      21
Project Preparadon Studies (under PPF)
Preparatory Studies                                      35    312    347       0.1    0.6    0.6        90       6
Subtotal ProjectPreparation Stutes (under PPF)            35    312    347       0.1    0.6    0.6         90       6
Total BASELINE COSTS                                    I ,61   4,784      4                     IIA       77    100
Physical Contingencies                             -         7- 354             02      0       0
Price Contingencies                                     292    620      912     0.4     07      1.1      64       9
Total PROJECIT COSTS                                            3,7    7,638
Note: Figures may not add up to total due to rounding
44



Annex 3
hlamic Federal Republic of Comoros
Infrastructure, Water & Environrrnt Project
Table D
Components Project Cost Summary per bsland
(US$ Million)
Gd Comore  Anjouan  Moheli   Total
A. Transport
Roads Periodic Maintenance                           2.1      0.9      0.7       3.7
Road Safety                                          0.4      0.1      0.1       0.6
Studies, Expertise & Institutional Strengthening     0.4      0.2      0.1       0.6
Subtotal Transport                                    2         12       0
In%  per sland                                    58%       24%      17%      100%
B. Urban Water and Drainage
Urban Water Works                                             1.9      0.5       2.4
Studies, Expertise & Institutional Strengthening              0.8      0.2       1.0
Subtotal Urban Water and Drainage                              2.        0.8      3.
In%  perlsland                                              78%      22%      100%
C Support to the Sectors & Program Coordination
General Studies & Expertise to the Sectors           0.0      0.0      0.0       0.1
Training                                             0.2      0.3      0.1       0.7
Technical Assistance for Coordination                0.3      0.4      0.2       0.8
Logistic support for Coordination                   0.2       0.3      0.1       0.7
Subtotal Support to the Sectors & Program Coordinati  0.8       1.1      0.4    2.4
Project Preparation Studies (under PPF)
Preparatory Studies                                  0.2      0.3      0.1       0.6
Subtotal Project Preparation Studies (under PPF)  *   0.2      0.3       0.1      0.6
Total BASELINECOSTS                                   3.-352             2.      11.4
Physical Contingencies                              0.        0
Price Contingencies                                  0.4      0.5      0.2       1.1
Total PROJECT' COSTS                                  4.6      6.1       2.5     13.3
In% perlsland                                     35%       46%      19%      100%
45



Annex 3
Islamic Federal Republic oftbe Comoros
Infrastructure, Water & Environment Project
Table E
Components by Financiers
(In USS Million)
IDA            GOC        French Cooperation      Total
Amount  %    Amount   %         Amount    %            iAmount/
A. Transport
Roads Periodic Maintenance                               4.2      95     0.2       5         -        -     4.4    33.3
Road Safety                                              0.7      95     0.0       5         -        -      0.8     5.7
Engineering, Studies, Expertise & Institutional Strengthening  0.7    100  0.0     -         -        -      0.7     5.3
Subtotal Transport                                         5.6     96      0.3      4          -        -    5.9    44.3
B. Urban Water                                                       -               -
Urban Water Works                                        3.0    100      0.0       -         -        -      3.0    22.5
Engineering, Equipment, Studies & Institutional Strengthening    1.1    100  0.0   -         -        -      1.1     8.4
Subtotal Urban Water                                       4.1    100      0.0       -         -        -     4.1   31.0
C Support to the Sectors & Program CoorcInation
General Studies & Expertise to the Sectors               0.1    100                -                  -      0.1     0.8
Training                                                 0.2      28     0.0       -       0.6       72      0.8     60
Technical Assistance forCoordination                               -               -       0.9      100      0.9    7.1
Expertise&LogisticsupportforCoordination                 0.7      89     0.0               0.1       I1     0.8    6.0
Subtotal Supporttothe Sectors &ProgramCoordination         1.0     40      0.0       -       1.6       61     2.6    19.9
Project Prepradion Stuies (under PPF)                                -               -
Preparatory Studies                                      0.6    100                -         -        -      0.6     4.8
Total Project Costs                                       11.4     86      0.3      2        1.6       12    13.3    100
Note: Figures may not add up to total due to rounding
46



Annex 4:    Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Infrastructure, Water and Environment Project
(Component A: Roads Periodic Maintenance)
This annex summarizes the results of the economic evaluation carried by SCETAUROUTE
during project preparation (under PHRD financing) for all road works included in the priority
road program. It also provides detailed economic justification for works proposed for IDA
financing.
Maps included in the PAD show the roads covered under the proposed project. They show also
roads which have been rehabilitated or undergone periodic maintenance under the IDA-
supported Third Highway Project. Tables A2.13-15 (annex 2) provide details of all road works
on the three islands included in the project. Tables A4-A.8 show alternatives, net present values,
and estimated economic rates of return (ERR) for these roads.
Condition of the road network
Table A4-A. I gives a summary of the estimated condition of the road network, evaluated by the
DGTP in September 2000. At that time, the DGTP estimated that only 11 percent of the paved
road network was in good condition, while more than 45 percent of the network was in poor
condition, including 55 percent of paved roads on Grande Comore (because of the poor condition
of the national roads), 30 percent of paved roads on Anjouan, and about 30 percent of paved
roads on Moheli. Table A4-A.2 presents the specifics and condition of the sections of the
network proposed to be financed by IDA.
Table A4-A.1 Condition of the paved road network September 2000 (kilometers)
National roads          Regional roads               Total
Good  Fair  Poor  Total Good  Fair  Poor  Total Good  Fair  Poor  Total
Grande    0    89   120   209   27    43    79   148   27   132   199   357
Comore
Anjouan   41    75    19   135    0    25    44    70    41   100   63   204
Moheli    0    42    27    69     1    17    0    18    1    59    27    87
Total   41   206   166   412   28    85   124   236   69   290   289   648
Percent   lo    50    40   10o   12    36    52   100   11    45    45   100
Table A4-A.2   Condition of roads included in the IDA  program  September 2000
(kilometers)
National roads          Regional roads               Total
Good  Fair  Poor  Total Good  Fair  Poor  Total Good  Fair  Poor  Total
Grande    0    0    77    77    0       18   18   36    0        18   96   113
Comore
Anjouan    0    12    6    18    0       15   10   25    0    27    16   43
Moheli    0    0    27   27    0        0      0     0     0     0    27    27
Total    0    12   110   122    0    33    29    61    0    45   139   183
Percent   0  S10    90   100    0    53    47   100    0    24    76   100
47



The IDA-financed section will comprise about 40 percent of the multi-donor program. It will
cover about 28 percent of the overall national paved road network over the next five years,
upgrading more than 75 percent of paved roads in poor condition and about 25 percent in fair to
poor condition. Most of the IDA-financed works will take place on Grande Comore; the other
donors are focusing on Anjouan and Moheli.
Economic evaluation principles
Estimated economic benefits of the road works are:
* Reduction of transport costs for road users
* Increase in the transport comfort level and road safety for the beneficiaries (not directly
included in the Highway Design Model)
* Better standardization of the level of service (not directly included in the Highway Design
Model)
* Preservation of the national road asset patrimony (not directly included in the Highway
Design Model).
The major benefits presented above have been quantified and calculated on the basis of the road
user surplus model. In this model, the benefits are measured as reductions in vehicle operating
costs (VOC) due to the project. Reductions in vehicle operating costs come about because of
improvements in driving conditions which extend tire life, reduce need for spare parts and
diminish fuel use per kilometer driven.
In addition, improved roads generate indirect benefits, including transport time savings for
people and improved access to more productive jobs, health care, schools, and other services.
These benefits may be significant in the project area, but no attempt has been made to quantify
them. They add to the economic benefits that have been calculated for the project.
Methodology, road data and model
The estimates of net present values and economic rates of return presented have been generated
using the Highway Design Model, version 3 (HDM III). For a given road and schedule of
maintenance activities, the model simulates the aging of the road and links it to costs of
maintenance and changes in vehicle traffic counts and vehicle operating costs. In this way, two
maintenance alternatives can be compared: the with project case (alternative 1) and the without-
project case (alternative 0).
When not already available at the DGTP, indicators of the road system, such as indicators of
condition based on the international roughness index (IRI), length, curviness, type of
construction, and assessment of general condition were collected in the field. The IRI was used
mainly to evaluate the vehicle operating costs per section of road under alternatives 0 and 1.
Economic costs and benefits were discounted over a 20-year period using a discount rate of 10
percent. The parameters used to run the HDM III, based on the technical choices for the design
of proposed works, are presented and summarized in Tables A4-A.3 and A4-A.4.
48



Table A4-A.3 Highway design model parameters
Maintenance works                  Unit            Value (KMF)
Local repairs                        Square meters      45,000
Waterproof treatment                 Square meters      900
Maintenance of shoulders and drainage    Kilometers per year  370,000
ditches
Table A4-A.4 With and without project parameters
Maintenance            With project                Without project
works
Local repairs     Repair 100 percent of the   Repair 100 percent of the degraded
degraded surface (cracks,   surface, maximum 100 square
potholes)                   meters per kilometer per year
Maintenance of    Maintaining drains, planting,   Maintaining drains, planting,
shoulders and     repairing sidewalks and other   repairing sidewalks and other
drainage ditches    activities                activities
Waterproof        Waterproof treatment every ten  No waterproofing
treatment         years
In addition to DGTP having data on traffic counts, additional traffic counts were carried out for
this analysis for all three islands in order to verify the level, structure and composition of traffic.
Detailed information on traffic is presented in Table A4-A.6.
Cost of works
Cost estimates were made for partial rehabilitation and heavy maintenance works necessary to
restore the network to an acceptable level of service. Estimates are based on actual data from
recently awarded works contracts. Tables A2.11-13 present detailed cost estimates by island.
All costs are net of taxes and relate to constant 2000 prices. The highway design model treats
these as investment costs.
The costs of periodic and routine maintenance needed to keep the road in acceptable condition
following the works under the project are included in the model. The estimates used in the
simulation were based on recent periodic and routine maintenance works contracts either
undertaken by DGTP or contracted out to international and local contractors.
Vehicle operating costs
Basic data for the calculation of vehicle operating costs are summarized in Table A4-A.5. These
costs are net of taxes and relate to constant 2000 prices. HDM III was adapted for Comoros,
taking into account vehicle operating conditions (average life of vehicles, weight when empty,
total weight in charge, average age of the vehicle fleet) that prevail in the country (see Table A4-
A.7).
49



Table A4-A.5 Vehicle characteristics and unit costs (in thousand KMF)
Cars           Vans          Trucks       Heavy trucks
Purchase price         3,720         5,200.00       9,000.00       11,950.00
Tires (per tire)       25.60           56.00          270.00         356.00
Maintenance, labor      4.70            4.70            9.20           9.20
(per hour)
Crew (per hour)         0.00            3.10            4.40            4.40
Overhead (percent)      0.00           15.00           15.00           15.00
Interest rate per      15.00           15.00           15.00           15.00
year
Consumables            12.00           23.00           20.00           35.00
Fuel per km
(liter/km)
VOC estimate        132-150         235-260         500-530         600-630
(KMF per
kilometer)
Fuel and oil (KMF per liter)
Gas: 33
Gazol = 21
Oil = 2.5
Current traffic flows and forecasts of future traffic growth
The road network has been divided into links (sections of roads with homogeneous traffic) to
develop the reference model (base case, alternative 0). The reference traffic on a specific link is
related to the average daily traffic counts prevailing in Comoros in early 1999. The forecast of
future traffic flows involve three main elements:
* Population growth, estimated to grow 3.6 percent per year over the next twenty years.
* Passenger traffic growth, estimated to grow at 4 percent per year during the first five years of
the simulation, and 3 percent for the remaining 15 years.
* Goods traffic growth, estimated to be around 2 percent per year during the 20-year period.
Economic evaluation of the project
The economic analysis covers 2000-2020. The works are assumed to be completed by 2002,
and roads fully functional in 2003. Project works per road (investments) are assumed to be
completed in one year. The economic indicators calculated are the economic rate of return
(ERR) and the net economic benefit discounted at a rate of 10 percent. A residual value of the
investment (20 percent) has been assumed and taken into account in the ERR calculation. Box
50



A4-A.1 presents a summary of the results of the cost-benefit analysis. Details are presented in
Table A4-A.9 for Grande Comore and Tale A4-A.10 for Moheli and Anjouan.
Box A4-A.1 Potential economic benefits of the road works financed by IDA
. Grande Comore. The roads periodic maintenance works program will likely
generate an economic rate of return of 15-25 percent. The results of the analysis
are consistent across links. This is particularly true for the sections proposed for
IDA financing where an ERR above 25 percent is anticipated on about 60 percent
of the sections (more than 70 kilometers out of 113 kilometers).
* Anjouan. Although the results are less consistent than for Grande Comore, the
roads periodic maintenance works to be financed by IDA will likely generate an
economic return of 20-25 percent.
* Moheli. The results are less certain for the program as a whole. However, the
section proposed for IDA financing will likely produce an ERR of 10-15 percent.
It is estimated that the minimum daily traffic necessary for the works to be
economically justified is between 80 and 100 vehicles per day.
Sensitivity of the economic evaluation
Tables A4-A.10-1 I at the end of this annex present the various assumptions tested and their
influence on overall economic rate of return. The main assumptions tested are changes in: (a)
the investment cost (an increase of 20 percent and a saving of about 20 percent); (b) the
maintenance cost of the sections which will be periodically maintained (an increase of 20 percent
has been tested); and (c) vehicle operating costs (a 10 percent increase assumption has been
tested).
In addition, sensitivity of the traffic growth has also been analyzed. A variation of 30 to 40 per
cent of the traffic growth rate results in a minor variation of economic benefits (in any case less
than 5 percent).
The economic rates of return of most of the sections of roads analyzed, and particularly those
proposed to be financed by IDA, are fairly robust. In all cases tested, the projected economic
rate of return remains above the opportunity cost of capital.
51



Table A4-A.6 Average daily traffic per road section proposed for IDA flnancing
Traffic
Road    Itinerary                           km            4WD            Truck  Truck   Ens
Cars      cars   vans  2 Axles 3 Axles articul  total
RN 3      Foumbouni-Nioumadzaha               5    124       5      31       6      3       0      169
Nioumadzaha-Itsikoudi              31.5   93        1      It      9      4       0      118
RN 4      Moroni-Salimani                     4.1   445      16     151     12      4       0     628
Salimani-Bahani                     6.5   168      29     170    25       4       3     399
4   &    Bahani-Itsikoudi                     14   230       18     250     14      18      4     534
RN 4B    Hopital-Koimbani-RN3 + Boueni            6     68       4      27      14     20      3      136
C   126       Dache-Mkazi                         3.6
128 R    Maoueni-Pylone                       5
-R    Itsandra-N'Tsoudjini-Bahani            7.8  1291    104       59      20      18      1    1493
127      Dache -Mvouni                       5.5    ==
RR       M'De-Iconi-N'Droini                 10.8
109A     M'Boueni-Serehini-Mouandza          1.5
PAM       Hangar Pam-RN 4 towards Salimani    2    445       16     151     12      4       0
IA      RN21-Ouani                          1.5   129      28     318      41      0      0      516
tR20  RN 21-Chandra                       5.5
>02A     RN 21-Tsimbeo-Dindi                 2.6
23    RN   24-Moya-Pomoni  +  Antenn  6          26      25      93      19      0      0      163
Kangani
1    M'Remani-Comoni                      7
O   tR20      RN 23-Dzindri                        1
RR21    RN 24-Dziani-Boueleu                  4
2A       Sima-Bimbini                         6     23       6      61      20      0      0       _
>07 _    Sima-Boungoueni                    3.8
08       Sima-Milembeni                       I
RN 32    Fmboni-Hoani-Miringoni               27    140      24     26      9       0       0     199
0.
i  Itsikoudi -M'Beni                   10   202       34     108     7       7       1     359
Shaded figures based on extrapolated traffic counts: 100
52



Table A4-A.7 Vehicle characteristics and unit costs
Cars              Vans              Trucks            Heavy trucks
Type of Vehicle                     1                 4                 7                 8
Carburant                           ESSENCE           ESSENCE           GAZOLE            GAZOLE
PTC (Tonnes)                        1.4               3.3               5.00              12.00
Essieux equivalents (exp 4)         .00               .01               .03               .25
Essieux equivalents (exp 2)         .02               .13               .23               .85
Nombre d'essieux:
ESS. N I                           1                 I                 I                  I
ESS. No 2                           1                 1                 2                 2
ESS. N3                                                                                  2
Charge utile (t)                   .00                .30               2.00              4.50
Coeff de train6e aerodynamique     .45                .46               .70                .85
Maitre couple                       1.80              2.72              3.25              5.20
Puissance active (CV)               30.00             40.00             60.00              100.00
Puissance en freinage (CV)          17.00             30.00             100.00            250.00
FRATIOO (REVETU)                    .268              .221              .253              .292
FRATIOO (NON REV)                   .124              .117              .099              .087
FRATIOI (REVETU)                    .000000           .000000           .012800           .009400
FRATIOI (NON REV)                   .000000           .000000           .000000           .000000
VIT Souhaitee (km/h. REV)           98.30             94.90             81.60             88.80
VIT Souhaitee (km/h. NON-REV)       82.20             76.30             71.90             72.10
Regime conv moteur (t/mn)           3500.00           3300.00           2600.00           1800.00
Vit. Max. rect. (mm/s)              259.7             239.7             194.0              177.7
Coefficient largeur                 .7400             .7400             .7300             .7300
Coefficient de Weibull             .2740              .3060             .3040             .3100
Coeff. D'effic. Energet.            1.0000            1.0000            1.0000             1.0000
Ceff. Consommation                  1.1600            1.1600            1.1500             1.1500
CoOt rechapage ( percent)           15.a              15.0              15.0              15.0
Volume usable (dm')                .00                .00               4.30              7.60
Nombre de rechapages                .00               .00               1.93              3.39
Const. Consom. Pneus               .00                .00               .16               .16
Ceff. D'usure                       .00               .00               1.28              1.28
Const. Consom. Pieces               32.49             32.49             1.49              1.49
Coeff. Uni/pices detachees          13.70             13.70             251.79            251.79
Pi&es Uni. Limites                  9.23              9.23              .00               .00
Const. MO entretien                 77.14             77.14             242.03            242.03
Exposant MO entretien               .55               .55               .52               .52
Ceff. Uni/MO entretien             .00                .00               .00               .00
Utilisation du vehicule
Nombre de passagers                .0                 .0                .0                .0
Conduite (heures/an)                350.              1600.             1625.             1500.
Kilometrage annual                  15000.            45000.            35000.            35000.
Duree de vie (ann. es)              5.                6.                6.                6.
Code d'amnortissement               I                 1                 1                 I
Code d'utilisation                  3                 3                 3                 3
Taux d'utilisation horaire         .50                .65               .60               .65
Nombre de pneus/vehicule            4                 4                 6                 10
Coeff. Praticabilite                1.00              1.00              1.00              1.00
Types de vehicules
I = petites voitures               2=voiture moyenne   3 = grosse voiture    4 = utilitaire  5 = car
6 = petit PL (ESS)                  7 = petit PL (gazole)  8 = Pi moyen  9 = gros PL     1Io = PL articule
Codes d'amortissement
I = methode Deweille (duree variable)            _   2 = Duree de vie constante
Codes d'utilisation
I = Kilometrage annuel constant    2 = Nbr d'heures d'util const        3 = Utilil variable
Types d'essieux                                     I                                    I
I = essieu simple                  2 = essieu simple, roues jumelees    3 = essieu tandem, roues jumelees
4 = essieu tridem, roues jumelees
53



Table A4-A.8 1DM simulations: Grande Comore
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Table A4-A.J.      IHDMSimulations         Grande Comore
Discount rate:           10%
IDA fnancedProgram: ilh    W                       Section         Initial     Alternative    Discounted   conomic Rate
Road      Length    MMi'M nL                                      Length                       Bne  st      o Reurn
in KFM millions   in %
LINK N301   MITSAM-CHEZANI   18. km    ALTI ANDALTO                   509.5         32.6
LINK N302: CHEZANI-MBENI           8. km     ALTI AND ALTO             40.0         15.7
0j,
.   Bs S 00: 0 .  < , 0 01 6 .  : 0flS  S0.rR 1   6. kin'; ig                                     30.1S;:   i 
LINK N501: PANDA-DEMBENI    3. km            ALT1 ANDALT0               5.1        >10%
LINK N502: DEMBEN1-NIOUMA    14.km    ALTI ANDALT0                    -3726 <10%
GROUP RN05:                        16. km    ALT I AND ALTO           -32.5        <10%
LINK R117: RN2-OUZIOINI            3. km     ALTI AND ALTO             27.5         2513
GROUP RI 17:                       3. km     ALTI AND ALTO             27.5         25.3
.I km    AITI                         8 A . .2    13.9
LINK R300: REGION. SUD            28. km    ALTI AND ALTO              67.4         13.9
GKOUPAUTR:                         94. km    ALlI AND ALTO            309.4          16
54



Table A4-A.9 HDM simulations: Moheli and Anjouan
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Table A4-A.9.      HDM Simulations       Mobeli/Anjouan
Discount Rate:          10%
IDA fmanced Program                             Section         Initial    Alternative    Discounted   conomic Rate
Road     Length    % milink                                    Length                      Benefits    of Return
in KFM millions   in %
LINK N311: FOMBONI-NIOUMA    31. km    ALT I AND ALTO               82.4      >12 %
GROUPN311:                       31.km    ALTIANDALTO               82.4      >12 %
--&         i N321             '      ktm  ' ' ALTI A-TO              g3,9        13.6
LINK N322: OUALLAH-NIOUMA   10. km    ALTI AND ALTO                -43.0         <0
GROUP       N322:                10. km    ALTI AND ALTO           -43 0         < 0
LINK R302: WANANI-ITSAMIA    11. km    ALTI AND ALTO              -104.1         <0
RR302A                 100% LINK 302A: KANGANI-HAGNAM   4. km           ALTI AND ALTO           -15.3         3.7
GROUP R302:                      15. km    ALTI ANDALTO           -119.4         <0
LINK N211: MUTSAM,-BAMBAO   25. km    ALTI AND ALTO                337.7        57.6
LINK N212: BAMBAO-DOMONI    8. km          ALTI AND ALTO            70.1        45.8
RN2IA   .       US       0fl%  JWC2 tj5 k.VU,            .    lSmO    4      4A4T                 4S04
'   C6UPfN2i -'                  34.km    ALT! ANDALTO             40.6         56.2
RN22A            6     100% LINK. j22A: SM     IM IN:         E. .     A6.--,      ALT       -  14.          23.3
dtOIJVN22A                       6 km      ALTt AND'ALTO            72.4        233
RN23             6     100% LINK       N231: POMMY-MOA        6.bkm    ALTIMA LT -              150i5 .,.   33.9
LINK N232:  mOMONi-MREMANI  20.km    ALTI AND ALTO                 148'9        33.6
RN23                   100% LINK N233: MREMANI-MOYA           16. km    ALTI AND ALTO          -161.0         <0
GROUP RN23:                      42. km    ALTI AND ALTO           138.4        > 12
RR202          5.S3          AWFcred tcoip)QfA(ne Ionllncstacthi..c-                                        23.3
M202A          2b6r;                    tj                                               + <        -    ~  23.3
t2A8 -         216 .     .,4                                                                                 23.3
lAtill          44.          Ai'                                     *                                       233
AW     1 *,- Xi4V      -55                                                      23.3
55



Table A4-A.10. Economic rate of return sensitivity analysis results: Grande Comore
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Table A4-A.10. ERR Sensitivity Analysis Results- Grande comore
ERR( in */.)
Invest. +20 %   Invest. -20 %   M(a +  20n  VOC +10%   ERRBaseCase
N301                 27.2           37.5           30.1           33.5           31.4
N302                 12.5          209.0           13.6           16.1          148.0
Group N3             18.5           22.1           17.4           21.6           20.1
Group N4             49.3           53.7           43.9           55.0           51.4
X,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.1
41            74.5           19
N501                 >10             0             42             27             >10
N502                 <10            <10            <10            <10            <10
Group N5             <10            <10            <10            <10            <10
,$.':L 0          at    '    ''22gi'  i  479.X2  t.00 0   2 U21000 I
R200                 13.2           20.0           14.            17.4           16 0
R300                 10.1           16.3           10.9           13.9           12.7
Group "Others'       12.9           16.4           13.3           16.5           15.1
R117                 20.3           30.2           22.5           26.3           24.3
56



Table A4-A.11. Economic rate of return sensitivity analysis results: Moheli and Anjouan
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Table A4-A.11. ERR Sensitivity Analysis Results- Mobhli/Anjouan
ERR ( in */*)
Invest.-4-20 %   Invest. - 20 %   M teac.VOC +10 % ERBaeCs
|        | ~~~(a) + 20 /               RBaeCs 
N311                > 12          > 12          > 12           > 12          > 12
N322                <0             <cO           < 0           < 0            < 
R302                <0             <0            <0            <0            <0
302A                 1.5           6.2           2.1           4.0           3.1
GroupR302           <0             <0            <0            <0            <0
N21 1               4 1.2         63.1          41.0           51.9          49.4
N212                33.2          51.1          32.5           41.7          39.9
Group N21            48           48.9          34.9           50.8          48.4
S-@'i s 'W , MO                          ', BtiaS<W' :I;
N232                24.3          35.3          24.5           30.0          28.6
N233                <0             <0            <0            <0             <0
Group N23           >20           >20           > 20           >20           >20
57



Annex 4-B: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Infrastructure, Water and Environment Project
(Component B: Urban Water Supply)
This annex summarizes the results of the economic evaluation carried out by SCETAUROUTE
(under PHRD financing) during project preparation for urban water works included in the
priority program in three urban centers in Anjouan and one in Moheli. It also provides detailed
economic justification for works proposed for IDA financing. Table A4-B.4-6 shows estimated
economic rates of return (ERR) for the water works under different assumptions.
Program and project component objectives
The main objective of the water component is to rehabilitate and expand urban water systems on
the islands of Anjouan and Moheli. A low percentage of the population on these islands have
access to clean water (Grande Comore: 30 percent, Anjouan: 45 percent, Moheli: 60 percent).
The Agence Francaise de Developpement (AFD) with the European Union is supporting this
work on Grande Comore. As part of the multidonor program, IDA would finance improvements
in the urban centers of Moutsamoudou, Domoni and Ouani on the island of Anjouan, and
Fomboni on the island of Moheli, where investments are expected to have maximum impact on
human health and living conditions. Table A4-B.9 at the end of this annex provides details on
the existing situation in each of these four urban centers. The investment costs per island and
total costs of the urban water works program proposed for IDA financing are summarized in
Table A4-B. 1. Details are provided in Tables A2.16-19 (annex 2).
Table A4-B.1. IDA-financed water works program
KMF                       US$
Anjouan                        1,200,000,000             2,180,000
Moheli                          350,000,000                620,000
Total                         1,550,000,000              2,800,000
Table A4-B.2 provides estimates of population expected to be served in 2005 when the
investment program comes to an end. It also provides estimates of average investment costs per
city and per urban inhabitant.
58



Table A4-B.2 Population served and average investment costs, 2005 (2000 prices)
Population     Investment      KMF per         US$ per
served         (KMF)         inhabitant     inhabitant
millions
Ouani             21,000            305           14,524          26.4
Domoni            25,000            499           19,960          36.3
Moutsamoudou      43,000            395           9,186            16.7
Fomboni           18,000            341           18,945          34.5
Investment costs per habitant differ by locality, ranging from about US$17 in the more populated
Moutsamoudu to nearly US$37 in Domoni, with fewer inhabitants. Because of the higher
investment costs per person in Domoni and in Fomboni, it will be difficult to fully recover the
investment costs through user charges, given the need to keep tariffs affordable.
Economic evaluation
Two analyses of urban water works were carried out, a least-cost analysis and a cost-benefit
analysis. The least-cost analysis, which is based on engineering studies, confirms that the
proposed approach is the least-cost, technically viable solution for each urban area. All the
designs proposed rely on simple and well-tested technologies to pump, treat and distribute
treated water through standpipes and house connections.
The cost-benefit analysis compares the costs and benefits of the proposed urban water works
over the construction period and for its expected economic life. Two scenarios are presented:
one for an expected project life of 20 years, and the other for an expected life of 30 years. All
costs and benefits are expressed in constant mid-2000 prices. All investment and operation costs
are net of import duties, taxes and subsidies. The calculations do not include shadow-prices for
wages for unskilled labor nor of prices of foreign exchange. Tables A4-B.4 and A4-B.5
summarize the results of the analysis. Table A4-B.8 provides details on the basic data used for
the analysis.
Assumptions usedfor the cost-benefit analysis
The analysis uses the incremental costs of the IDA-financed project, presented in Tables A4-B.1
and A4-B.2. Only the incremental consumer payments for providing treated water to the
inhabitants of the four urban centers where the works will be implemented have been quantified.
Based on the financial analysis (annex 5), the model tests several scenarios regarding cost
recovery levels to estimate the revenues generated after the construction phase. Estimates of
levels of revenues generated through user charges are based on an affordability analysis,
assuming households can afford a maximum of 5 percent of their monthly household incomes for
water. The monthly minimum household income (MMHI) in Comoros has been estimated to be
about KMF 25,000 per month for a household of seven. The monthly average household income
59



(MAHI) in Comoros has been estimated to be about KMF 60,000 per month for a household of
seven.
Table A4-B.8.gives a summary of water consumption anticipated for both regular and standpipe
consumers. Table A4-B.3 summarizes the results of the analysis, showing investment costs,
anticipated revenues generated for different percentages of household income spent on water,
and the expenditures recovered (operation and maintenance and depreciation of the existing and
rehabilitated systems) (for details on expenditures see annex 5, financial analysis for the urban
water subcomponent). The expenditures presented in Table A4-B.3 exclude the long and
medium-term debt servicing charges and the investment costs for extension of the networks.
Table A4-B.3 Investment costs, anticipated annual revenues, and annual expenditures for
operations, maintenance and depreciation
Investment    Annual revenues generated given percent of  Expendi-
eosts      minimum household income' (millions YCW     tures
Total      aZ11o                                       (millions
Ouani           305         58.1     67.7     77.4    87.1     96.8      25.3
Domoni          499         68.0    79.3      90.7     102     113.3     62.9
Moutsamoudou    395        131.3    153.1    175.0    196.9   218.8      90.7
Fomboni          341        35.6    41.6    47.5       53.4    59.4      26.8
1/ Revenues generated for the operator, for water set at prices to cost varying percentages of minimum
household income (in KMF millions).
2/ Percentage of monthly minimum household income spent on water.
Economic rate of return for urban water works
Economic rates of return have been calculated (based on the financial benefit, the only benefit
quantified) for the urban water works proposed for Ouani, Domoni, Moutsamoudou, and
Fomboni for a 20-year operational life and a 30-year operational life for various assumptions of
percentages of household income people spend for water. Table A4-B.4 summarizes the results
of the analysis for the 20-year period; Table A4-B.5 summarizes the results for the 30-year
period.
60



Table A4-B.4 Economic rates of return for urban water works (economic life of investment
of 20 years)
Percentage of monthly minimum household income spent on water
Economic rates of return (percent)
Ouani                    8.7        12.6       16.2        19.7       23.1
Domoni                   <0          <0         1.1         4.7        7.9
Moutsamoudou             8.1       14.8        20.9        26.6       32.3
Fomboni                  <0          <0         1.9         4.7        7.2
Table A4-B.5 Economic rates of return for urban water works (economic life of investment
of 30 years)
Percentage of monthly minimum household income spent on water
Economic rates of return (percent)
Ouani                   10.1        13.6       16.9        20.2       23.4
Domoni                   <0          <0         3.7         6.7        9.4
Moutsamoudou             9.6        15.6       21.3        26.9       32.4
Fomboni                  <0          1.8        4.4         6.7        8.8
It is clear that the investments in Moutsamoudou will generate far higher rates of return than
those in the other three urban centers. This is because in Moutsamoudou the fixed investment
costs are spread over far more households. Thus the revenues raised are much higher, even
though each household pays the same fraction of its income for water.
Table A4-B.6 presents the estimated economic rates of return for the four urban centers for 20-
year and 30-year project operational lives, assuming that people in Anjouan and Moheli are
willing to pay 4.5 percent of their incomes for water.
Table A4-B.6 Economic rates of return for urban water works, assuming households pay
4.5 percent of their incomes for water (economic life of investment of 20 and 30 years)
Ouani                           19.7                        20.2
Domoni                           4.7                         6.7
Moutsamoudou                    26.6                        26.9
Fomboni                          4.7                         6.7
In summary, this table shows that the investments in Ouani and Moutsamoudou are economically
justifiable, since the returns exceed the estimated 10 percent cost of capital for Comoros. For
Domoni and Fomboni the investments costs are proportionally higher because of the backlog of
61



investment in the water catchment, treatment and distribution. Still, the investments in Domoni
and Fomboni can be justified on the basis of benefits that have not been quantified, such as
improved human health (Comoros has experienced repeated outbreaks of cholera).
Sensitivity of the economic evaluation
Table A4-B.7 presents the various assumptions tested and their influence on overall economic
rate of return. The main assumptions tested are changes in (a) investment costs (an increase of 10
percent, 20 percent and a saving of about 10 percent, and 20 percent have been considered); and
(b) the percentage of the monthly minimum household income used to pay for household
monthly water consumption.
In the cases of Moutsamoudou and Ouani, the economic rate of return of the works are fairly
robust. In all cases tested, the projected economic rates remains above the opportunity cost of
capital. In the cases of Domoni and Fomboni, other nonquantified benefits would justify the
investments.
62



Table A4-B.7 Results of sensitivity analysis: tests on changes in investment costs
Table A4-B.7.. Results Sensitiuity Analysis - Tests on Inwestment costs
ERR (in %)
o i            ~~~~~~20 years                            30 years
-20%    - -10% +10% /   +20%   -20%0/   -10%                      +100/%  +200/o
3%              10.22%           7.4%       .   1.        l.5/                       90
a   3.5%    16.5%   14.4%            11.1%   9.8%     17.2%   15.2% /         12.2%   11.1%
R    4%      20.8%   18.3%           14.5%   13.0/o   21.2%   18.8%           15.3%   13.90/o
O    4.5%    25.0%/  22.00/o         17.7%   16.0%    25.2%   22.4%            18.3%   16.7%
5%     29.1%   25.7%/o         20.8%   18.90/o   29.2%   26.0%           21.2%   19.4%
3%      <0      <0           .<0                   0      <0              <0      <
a 3.5%       <0                       <0      <0      1.4%    0.6%0o            <0      <0
;    4%     3.4%    2.1%             0.1%     <0    5.6%    4.6%    4          3.0%    2.3%
4.5%    7.5%    6.00             3.6%    2.7%    9.1%    7.8%            5.8%    5.00/
5%    11.1%    9.4% 0           6.7%    5.6%    12.2%   10.7%            8.4%    7.4%
_ 3%    11.3%    9.6%0 .             6.90/c   5.8%    12.5%   10.90/c          8.5%    7.6%
1   3.5%   19.1%   16.8%0/           13.1%   11.7%   19.6%   17.4%             14.1%   12.8%
* 40%   26.4%   23.3%             18.8%/  17.0%   26.6%   23.7%             19.3%   17.6%/
E   4.5%   33.5%   29.7%             24.1%   22,00/c  33.6%   29.8%  .        24.4/  22.3%
t 5%    40.5%   35.90/c              29.3%   26.8%   40.5%   36.00/c          29.5%   27.00/c
3%    7         <0   /           -;v<0   <0   <0   <0                      <0   <0
*o 3.5%    0.8%       <0               <0      <0    3.5%    2.6%              1.1%    0.5%
4%     4.3%    3.00/            1.0%    0.1%    6.4%    5.3%             3.6%    2.9%
OT  4.5%    7.4%    5.90/o            3.6%    2.6%    9.0%    7.7%             5.8%    5.00/o
5%    10.3%    8.6%             6.00/o   4.9%    10.3%   10.0%           7.8%    6.9%
63



Table A4-B.8 Basic information for the calculation of the economic rate of return
Population    Water consumption (cubic meters per day)                       Annual costs in millions KMF                     Salaries of  Total without
Localities       served                                                                                                   Exssintandpost                    slre
Cat. (85 1.) Cat. (20 1.) Other cons.    Total    Operations  Maintenance  Debt service Depreciation                             standpost
(2005)                                      Toa        prtosMitnneDb evc     ercainnetwork    Totaletenantt
Ouani             21,000       1,082        170       195      1,447       16.9           4.7          9.7         3.8       21.7         56.8        5.4         51.4
Domoni            25,000       1,100       230        340      1,670       38.5          13.5         15.9        10.9       35.5        114.3       10.8        103.5
Moutsamoudou      43,000       2,195       345        760      3,300       53.7          20.5         12.6        16.5       28.1        131.4       18.0        113.4
Fomboni           18,000         612        198         5      815         17.6           5.1         11.0         4.0       24.3         61.9        6.1         55.8
Minimum price of watei Price of water consumed ir Minimum price for water   Percentage of revenues
(KMF/m3)        percent minimum income       (KMF/m')
Standpipe   Others   Standpipe    Others    Standpipe    Others     Standpipe      Others
Ouani              185        97     3.1 percent 2.9 percent   175         98.7      2.9 percent   2.9 percent
Domoni             298        170    5.0 percent 5.1 percent    300       169.5      5.0 percent   5.0 percent
Moutsamoudou       237        94    4.0 percent 2.8 percent    179        101.0      3.0 percent   3.0 percent
Fomboni            272        188    4.6 percent 5.6 percent    311       175.4      5.2 percent   5.2 percent
,y.



Annex 4-B
Appendix
Description of the water systems in the urban centers involved in the project
1. Anjouan
Moutsmoudou-Mirontsi-Page
L'ensemble de l'agglomeration groupera une population de 43 000 habitants en 2005. C'est la
principale de l'lle. C'est un centre commercial anime par un port et la presence d'un grand
marche. L'alimentation en eau de l'agglomeration souffre de plusieurs problemes: Insuffisance
d'eau au niveau des captages, qualite de 1'eau et etat du systeme d'alimentation.
1. Les ressources en eau
Les eaux de surface alimentent l'agglomeration apres avoir subi un traitement sommaire au
niveau des deux captages. Le captage sur le Moutsamoudou (+197 meters) est constitue d'un
seuil en beton et d'un canal de prises A la stabilite menacee (affouillement). L'eau captee est de
qualite mediocre compte tenu des matikres en suspension. Le deuxieme captage sur le Mro
Hougouni (+382 meters) au debit relativement faible (debit d'etiage inf6rieur au 15 liters per
second) souffre d'tun ensablement du bassin de decantation et de nombreuses pertes d'eau dues A
l'infiltration par le fond non etanche. Les acces totalement libre aux deux captages et zones
environnantes favorisent la pollution. La qualite de l'eau,surtout en periode des crues est tres
mauvaise d'oui des maladies d'origine hydrique (typhoYde, hepatite virale). Les besoins en eau
des usagers A l'horizon 2005 (environ 4,700 cubic meters per jour) depassent de loin le debit
capte.
2. Traitement
Crompose d'un degrilleur et d'un dessableur pour les deux captages. Les unites de chloration
installees en aval de chacune des reserves de stockage de l'eau sont toutes hors d'usage.
3. Adduction
L'ancienne adduction des annees 50 A partir du premier captage (Mro Moutsamoudou) est
composee de deux departs, le premier en acier galvanise (0102/114 mm) et le second en fonte
(0200 mm) dont la suite est composee de fonte (0150 et 100 mm) et se termine par une conduite
en acier (080 mm). La deuxieme antenne A partir de ce captage est en fonte (0200 mm) equip6e
d'un compteur hors d'usage. Elle se poursuit par un 0150 jusqu'au reservoir de stockage puis
apres par un 0100. A partir du deuxieme captage, le reseau, aussi equipe d'un compteur hors
d'usage, est en fonte (0150) jusqu'au reservoir de stockage. Il se poursuit par un 0100.
4. Stockage
Pour les trois etages de pression le stockage est assure par des reservoirs en beton poses au niveau
du sol ou semi-enterres. L'etage haut (+292 m) comprend 2 reservoir, 1'ancien (25 mi3) et le
65



nouveau (500 mi3). L'ancien est en mauvais 6tat, il fuit. Le nouveau n'a plus de portes pour la
salle des vannes , il fuit au niveau des joints des conduites. Les compteurs depart et arrivee sont
hors d'usage. L'unite de chloration ne comprend pas d'equipement. L'etage moyen est equipe
d'un reservoir de 500 m.3  Il presente les memes defauts que le precedent. L'etage bas est
compose d'un "nouveau" reservoir (820 m3) a la cote +98 m et de l'ancien reservoir (500 m3) a la
cote +75 meters. II est en tres mauvais etat.
5. Distribution.
Le maillage principal est constitue de conduites en acier galvanise de 0150 a 050 meters per
minute et de conduites en amiante-ciment en 060 meters per minute. II existe des ramifications
dont le diametre varie entre 40 et 150 mm qui sont toutes en acier galvanise a l'exception des
060 mm qui sont en amiante-ciment. Les branchements des usagers sont en acier galvanise de
021/26 meters per minute. Des bornes fontaines equipent les quartiers peripheriques. Il n'existe
pas de systeme de controle ou de comptage des eaux. L'etat des conduites et les conditions dans
lesquelles se fait la distribution font qu'il y a enormement de pertes et de gaspillage de l'eau.
6. Le projet.
* Optimiser les quantites d'eau retirees en ameliorant l'etat des retenues. Ajouter une nouvelle
source de captage.
- Refection et rehabilitation des conduites d'adduction et de desserte.
- Installer les compteurs sur les branchements, rehabiliter les bornes fontaines
* Ameliorer la qualite de l'eau livree par traitement physique et chimique.
* Rehabiliter et augmenter les unites de stockage (reservoirs).
*  Etablir deux etages de pression pour 1'ensemble de I'agglomeration.
Ouani
Le centre urbain de Ouani groupe au niveau de l'alimentation en eau les centres voisins de
Barakani et Gnatranga. Ca representera une population desservie en 2005 de quelques 21,000
habitants. L'agglomeration ne re,oit pas 1'eau en quantite suffisante avec le systeme existant.
1. Les ressources en eau
L'alimentation se fait a partir d'un captage sur la riviere Patsy (+230 meters) prevu pour un debit
de 25 cubic meter per hectare ce qui est nettement insuffisant (equivalent a un maximum de 33
liters per jour par habitant).
2. Le traitement
Il n'existe aucune forme de traitement.
66



3. Adduction
Depuis le captage partent deux conduites 0 102/114 meters per minute, en mauvais etat (datent
de 1962) avec beaucoup de pertes dues a une corrosion poussee et a une capacite r6duite due aux
d6p6ts de solides.
4. Stockage
Est compose de deux reservoirs, un de 160 rn3 pour la ville de Ouani, 1'autre de 100 cubic meters
pour les deux centres voisins. Ils datent tous les deux de 1962. Ils sont en tres mauvais etat et
presentent plusieurs fuites le long des parois.
5. Distribution
Elle date aussi de 1962 et couvre pratiquement l'ensemble du centre ville. Elle est faite par
l'intermediaire d'un reseau ramifie en acier galvanise qui irrigue environ 65 percent de la
population. Ces conduites ont ete posees de facon desordonne sans tenir compte du maillage de
l'agglomeration.  Elles sont en mauvais etat, corrosion, agressivite physique (parties non
enfouies), colmatage.
6. Le projet
*  Installation d'une unite de traitement de l'eau, physique et chimique.
* Mise en place du systeme de conduites principales et des reseaux secondaire et tertiaire.
Domoni, Ngandzale
La population de ce centre, un des plus anciens des Comores est estimee a environ 25,000
habitants en 2005. C'est un centre administratif et commercial qui regroupe quelques petites
industries et de nombreuses distilleries d'ylang-ylang.
1. Les ressources en eau
La ville est alimentee actuellemnt A partir de trois sources: les rivieres Mro Adjaho (debit tres
faible), Mro Jomani et la source souterraine de Papani. A Adjaho, la prise d'eau est faite
directement fans la riviere dans un bassin derriere une retenue. L'ensemble des installations est
en mauvais etat. A Mro Jomani, la prise est formee de trois captages qui peuvent fournir 120
liters second en periode d'etiage. Le debit reste limite a cause de la presence d'un point haut sur
le reseau de distribution. A Papani qui sert exclusivement A la desserte de Domoni Sud le d6bit
d'etiage est de l'ordre de 150 liters per second. L'ensemble des ressources est insuffisant compte
tenu du mauvais etat des captages (nombreuses pertes) et du faible debit des sources.
2. Le traitement.
L'eau qui alimente l'agglomeration et ne subit aucun traitement et reste A l'etat brut.
67



3. Adduction
Elle est constitu6e a partir de Adjaho par une conduite de 1,200 ml en acier galvanise 0150
meters per minute.
4. Stockage
II est assure par sept reservoirs de differentes dimensions (1 de 300 m3, 2 de 250 m3, 1 de 150 m3,
1 de 100 m3, 2 de 50 r3). Le reservoir de 300 m3 a fait l'objet d'une rehabilitation en 1997 et est
en relativement bon etat, les autres sont en tres mauvais dtat (fissures .. . etc.).
5. Distribution
Elle se fait generalement directement chez les usagers a partir de branchements prives. Pres de
90 percent des foyers desservis sont branches.
6. Le projet
* Rehabilitation des captages existants.
* Suppression du point haut de l'adduction principale.
*  Reparation et remplacement des conduites defectueuses.
* Amenagement d'un nouveau captage sur le Mro Goucouni.
*  Pose d'une conduite d'adduction.
* Rehabilitation des sept reservoirs.
* Rehabilitation et extension du reseau de distribution et mise en place de bornes fontaines.
2. Moheli
Fomboni
La capitale de I'ile ainsi que les deux agglomerations Bandar Salama et Djoiezi y attenantes
representent une agglomeration d'environ 18,000 habitants a l'horizon 2005 alimentes par un
reseau d'adduction cree vers les annees 60.
1. Les ressources en eau
Le captage sur la riviere M'Rochiconi est precaire. Il est constitue d'un chenal provisoire.
2. Le traitement
L'eau est livr6e brute. Elle ne supporte aucun traitement.
3. Adduction
En mauvais etat necessite la suppression de nombreux point hauts et le remplacement des parties
defectueuses (corrosion principalement).
68



4. Stockage
Se fait par l'intermediaire d'un seul reservoir mal equipe (pas de regulation de l'apport d'eau et
de controle au depart ...etc.).
5. Distribution
II est constitue da canalisations de differents materiaux qu'il y a lieu d'uniformiser. I1 presente de
nombreuses fuites sur des sections defectueuses. De nombreuses sections ne sont pas enfouies. I1
ne comporte pas de compteurs individuels.
6. Le projet.
*  Amenagement d'un nouveau captage sur le M'Rochiconi.
*  Remplacement de la conduite d'adduction.
*  Equipement du reservoir (vannes, compteur, accessoires ... etc.).
*  Construction d'un nouveau stockage (500 mi3).
  Rehabiliotation du reseau de distribution existant et creation d'un nouveau maillage.
69



Annex 5:       Financial Summary
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Infrastructure, Water and Environment Project
(In US$ Million)
I      BIPLFM4NTATION PERIOD
T   2002 11 2003 11 2004 11 2005 11 2006
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs              1.5     3.4     4.2      3.3     0.9
Recurrent Costs
Total Project Costs              1.5     3.4      4.2     3.3     0.9
Total Financing                  1.5     3.4      4.2     3.3     0.9
Financing
IDA                               1.2     3.1     3.9     3.0      0.5
Gowernment
Road Mintenance Fund                    0.1      0.1     0.1
French Cooperation               0.3      0.3     0.3     0.3      0.4
Others
Total Project Financing          1.5     3.5      4.3     3.4     0.9
70



Annex 5-A: Financial Analysis of the Road Maintenance Fund
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Infrastructure, Water and Environment Project
(Component A: Roads Periodic Maintenance)
Road maintenance needs
Because of limited resources for road maintenance and poorly managed road maintenance
programs and road funds, Comoros' road network is deteriorating. Much of the network now
requires expensive rehabilitation rather than maintenance. In 1999 it was estimated that the
funds allocated for road maintenance amounted to no more than 50 percent of the needs. The
situation is no better for urban streets. In 1998 approximately KMF 264 million (US$650,000
equivalent) were allocated for road maintenance, including rehabilitation. In 1999 KMF 270
million were budgeted for road maintenance. However, only KMF 205 million were made
available to the DGTP, compared with an estimated KMF 525 million required for adequate
maintenance. In 2000 the situation has become even worse because the economy has been
contracting and the political situation has been uncertain.
Road maintenance financing
Since 1991 road maintenance has been financed from a road maintenance fund established under
Law 91-007 authorizing the fund as an extra budgetary account of the treasury of Comoros.
Until late 1993 users' fees collected per liter of petrol generated some KMF 475 million per year,
which was adequate for road maintenance.
Since 1994 the road maintenance fund has had a major source of revenue (excluding eventual
budget contributions and supplementary budgets), the fuel tax (taxe unique sur les produits
petroliers, TUPP). Since Law 0911-011/PR took effect, 10 percent of the fuel tax has been
allocated to the road maintenance fund. An advance payment of KMF 22 millions is made each
month. At the end of the year, the amounts are regularized, depending on the actual amount of
the fuel tax collected. Figure A5-A.1 below presents the actual annual levels of funding and
expenditures compared with estimated requirements for routine and periodic maintenance and
contributions for rehabilitation works.
71



Figure A5-A.1 Road maintenance fund receipts, expenditures and required funding
1993-2000
R| RadMabtnanc Fund 19"32M00
In KFM mUons
580
480
[400
350
300
250
200                o
SO
100
1993      1994     1995      1996       1997      1998     1999      2000
|        ...U.aExpenditues   Funding Requred |
The existing mechanism of road maintenance financing, based primarily on a fixed contribution
from the fuel tax, seems to be no longer generating the resources required for adequate road
maintenance and is not serving the objective of establishing a financially sustainable road
subsector in Comoros.
Past road maintenance expenditures
Given available resources, the DGTP and the road maintenance fund have concentrated on
carrying out routine maintenance. This has been at the expense of important periodic
maintenance, leading to the current need for rehabilitation. Table A5-A.1 presents annual road
maintenance expenditures by island during 1995-2000. This shows clearly the overall decline in
road maintenance expenditures starting in 1998 and Anjouan's decreasing share due to the
political situation.
72



Table A5-A.1 Road maintenance actual expenditures by island, 1995-2000
199_             1996             1997             199|             19t9             2000
(KMF)    % of   (KW)    % of   (KWF)    % of   (KMF)    % of   (KAIF)    % of   (K)           % of
total           total            total            total             total            total
DGTP       53.6      22     54.4      22     99.9      48      90.0      30    107A       44     19.4      15
Grande
Comore     79.0      33    105.6      42      77.3     38    102.3       33     73.9      31     72.8      57
Anjouan    63.3      27     52.5      21      0.0        0     59.4      20      2.9       1      0.0       0
Mohili     42.7      18     39.0      15     28.6       14    50.4       17    58.5       24     36.5      28
Total     238.6     100    251.5     100    205.S      100    302.1     100    242.7     100    128.7    199
Figure A5-A.2 Road maintenance actual expenditure by island, 1995-2000
Road Maintenance Spnditurs |
lIb KFM millions 
350.0
300.0
250.0
200.0
160.0
100.0
50.0
1996             996            1997             1998            1999            2000
I.DGTP   Grande Conmxe  Anjouan     bihe  I
Figure A5-A.3 shows the total expenditures of the road maintenance fund during 1995-2000 and
the main categories of expenditures. Clearly, the share of the road maintenance fund devoted to
salaries, overhead, and general management expenditures has grown substantially while the share
for actual roads works has declined. The expenditures going to small and medium construction
companies has fallen by half between 1995 and 1998. Table A5-A.2 at the end of this annex
provides further details.
73



Figure A5-A.3 Road maintenance fund evolution of expenditures, 1995-2000
Road Maintenance PFud- Eolubon of main pEnditures
172
2000  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
78
1999
1998  ___          ____-
1996
100
1995
50.0        100.0        150.0         200.0        250.0        300.0
In KFM mililons
Igoutsource labor goutsource road works C spare parts biturren 13 fuel * cerrnt salaries costs [3 other expenditures
Note: Numbers in red are index values for outsource labor and works, with 1995=100
Key issues
The key issues of road infrastructure in Comoros are to (a) establish financing mechanisms to
ensure a sufficient, timely, stable and secure flow of funds for maintenance of roads and urban
streets; (b) create a system of independent management for the road maintenance fund; (c) base
resource allocation on economic evaluation; (d) reduce the unit maintenance cost of the network;
and (e) improve road safety.
Proposed reform of roads and urban streets maintenance financing
It is proposed to restructure the existing road maintenance fund and introduce a sustainable road
maintenance financing system based on road user charges (as it used to exist prior to 1994) set at
levels to generate sufficient resources to cover routine, and gradually periodic maintenance of
roads and urban streets and a contribution for the rehabilitation of urban drainage works. Under
the proposed new system, the existing contribution from the fuel tax as a source of funds for
roads maintenance would be replaced by: (a) a contribution from the vehicle ownership charge
(fixed cost to use the network); and (b) an increasing road user fee (redevance d'usage) covering
the variable costs of using the network. The road user fee will be paid monthly, directly from the
SCH to the road maintenance fund account, based on the actual quantities of oil products (gas
and diesel used for transport) sold in the country. The charges would apply to all road users.
74



Simulations show that the value of the proposed road user charges are insignificant, comprising
about 2 percent of vehicle operating costs for cars and 3 percent for trucks. The benefits for road
users from improved road maintenance in terms of reduced vehicle operating costs would well
exceed the user charges. An awareness-raising campaign explaining the uses and benefits of the
new charges will be carried out at the time the new system is introduced to help road users
understand its importance. In the meantime, the proposed legislation should be prepared and
presented for official approval.
On the basis of the proposed reforms, indicative financial cash flow projections have been
developed in line with the proposed financial adjustments (see Table A5-A.3). Financial
forecasts were built on demand projections and assumptions for user fees and contribution from
the vehicle ownership charges. Road user charges have been estimated to reach levels to fully
meet road maintenance needs (full routine needs, and gradual increasing contribution for
periodic maintenance needs, mostly financed by the donors) of the road network by 2005. By
2006, these revenues should also cover the maintenance needs generated by the recently
completed rehabilitation works of the urban streets and urban drainage rehabilitation works in
the main urban centers. However, if Government fails to introduce the necessary road user
charges, road periodic maintenance and urban streets maintenance will have to be curtailed and a
system to identify priorities introduced.
The government plans to introduce the new road financing system and user charges during 2001
(agreed during negotiations). By 2005 the new system is expected to generate sufficient
revenues to cover roads and urban streets maintenance needs. The appropriate levels have been
agreed upon and are included in the Sector Policy Letter and are summarized below:
(in KMF, prices September 2001)
2001: KMF 22 per liter, or about KMF 28 millions per month
2002: KMF 24 per liter, or about KMF 31 millions per month
2003: KMF 25 per liter, or about KMF 34 millions per month
2004: KMF 27 per liter, or about KMF 36 millions per month
2005: KMF 29 per liter, or about KMF 39 millions per month
2006: KMF 31 per liter, or about KMF 42 millions per month
The draft law on road financing will propose replacing the contribution from the fuel and
introducing the road user fees and a contribution from the vehicle ownership charges. These
charges will be raised gradually to levels needed to generate sufficient revenues for road
maintenance. The proposed system simplifies revenue collection and directly relates road use to
cost recovery. In order to succeed, the new revenues must be rigorously collected and the road
users must clearly perceive that the fee and charges go directly to road improvement and
maintenance.
75



Table A5-A.2 Road maintenance fund expenditures, 1995-2000
klamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Table A5-A.2. Road Maintenance Fbnd- Actual Expenditures
ROAD MAINTENANCE FUND
EXPENDITURES
in KFM millions          1995      1996      1997     1998       1999      2000
spare parts                       36.0      5.       7            .                   .
biutumen                          30.1      520       16.5      18.       45
fuel                                        49.1~w   -37.   -      220    4.T--.
outsource labor                   34.5      23.T4 176            S        24.3
outsource road works               .7       27       3.         18.0      11.        3
freight /Custoni s1.                         10.1     8.4 
tires                             10.7       8.8       9.6      10.0                  1.3
oil                               15.5       7.8      11         7.
others                             1.7       4.6      4.6        21        6.8
equipment rent                     O.        3        0          1.
office supplies                    4.6       3.4       5.3       8.0       S.0       2.5
office equipnient                  1T.       3.       23
equipment                          0.8       2        0.5        1.1
travel, issions                    3.3       z. 
salaries costs                     3.0       1.4    40.5        58.0      33.7      31.0
cement                             2.8       0.       1.5        9.
maintenance building               1.7       0.7      78        12.
supplies                           0.4       0.5      2.         2 
maintenance vehicles               2.6       0.2      32.T
tmterials/ roads                   0.0       0.2                 0.1
small equipment                    1.0       -        0.8        O.
furniture office equipment         1.4 
telephone, fax com                   .
TOTAL                         8       2        302.2 j 242.         205.8     128.8
76



Table A5-A.3. Road maintenance fund: sources and uses of funds, 2001-2015
bIsmic Federal RepuMic of tbe Comores
Table A5-A.3 . Road Mi'eaewce Fund- Sources nd thes of Fn&
SOURCESOFFUIIDS(inKMFWilIioes)                        2001    2002   2003   2004 | 2005   2006   2007   2008   2009   2010   2011   2012 | 2013   2014   2015
Contribution from Vehicle Ownership charge                        2       30      4               51      52      5  5     3      54       5      55              57      5
SubTotal                                                 -       20      30      40      50      51      52      52      53      54      55      55      56      57      58
t[er Fee (F1el levy)                                    342    372    404    436    469    503    537    545    580    588    596    605    613    621                  630
Gapto be 1maced                                          (2    (53       (6    (19    (29        21      (9    (14        5       (0     (5    (11       (16)   (21      (26
Cunu.iswcashbflowblsnce                                    2      55      61      81    1         88     97    11        10     If      112    122    138    15         IS
Totl SOURCES                                            39    339               S 4      90    575              5       6                       650       
tISE  OF FUNDS (in KMF nillions)                      2001    2002 12003   2004   25 2W               !U007   2008   2009   20101 2011 1 2012 !       23 1 2014 !     2015
Roads
Routine Maintenance                                      304    304    333       362    392    388    388       388      388     388     388    388    388       3|8  388
Periodic Maintenance                                     -       -       40      40      43      44      44      45       91      93      94      96      97      98     100
Managenmnt Expenses                                       35      35     55      55      55      63      64      65       66      67      68      69      70      71      72
Toal Roads                                              339    339    428    456    490    495    496    498    545    548    550    552    555    557    560
[m Street
Routine Maintenance                                                                              55      58      59       60      61      62      63      64      65      66
Periodic Maintenance                                                                              5       6       6       13      13      13      14      14      14      14
Managenent Bqwenses                                                                              10       9       9       10      10      10      10      10      10      10
Total kUb  S                                             -               _                       70      74      75      83      84       S5     8       88      89       90
1kb. Draimae                                                                                      10      10      1       1       11      11      11      11      11      11
Toebl TES                                 S                             42        45    40    556421  646    65                                         64    657    662
Read [herFeesdmk                             2000 e   2001    2002   2 2D03 1 2004   2005   2006   Z0                 2009 1  2010         2011   2012   2013   2014 1 2015
Nb mDlion Iters gasoD il                       41C      .       4.31.1   43   .                                 T1 4.40!  3-A   4.62T14.67  4.'17   4.T5    4141
NbmDilionlitersgas                        |   II.0    11250   11.419  11.59C  11.76d  11.94(  12.119  12.301  12       12.673  12.W    13.05   13.25   13.451  13.652  13.85S
Aveage User Fee in KFM                           18       22      24     25      27      29      31      32      32       34      34      34      34      34      341    34
AverageUserFeeinUSScents                        3.3       4.0    4.3      4.6    4.5      5.2     5.      5 5      .S|    6.1     6.6 .1    6.1    6.1    6.1w    6.1
Aveage nwnthly Revenues to FER int KFM ndlk a    22       2S      31      34      36      39      41|    45       45      4S      49              50      51|    52       52
77



Annex 5-B: Financial Analysis of the Urban Water Supply Subcomponent
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Infrastructure, Water and Environment Project
(Component B: Urban Water Supply)
The objective of the urban water supply subcomponent of the project is to supply 85 liters of
water per day per person to households connected to the network, and 20 liters per day per
person to those obtaining water from standpipes. The second objective is to provide access to
piped water to 100 percent of urban dwellers by 2010. To achieve these objectives, the
subcomponent will support reliable and technically and financially sustainable water operating
systems.
Current situation
About 70 percent of urban dwellers have access to clean drinking water. However, the situation
varies by island. About 77 percent if city residents on Grande Comore have access to water, 70
percent on Anjouan do, and only 38.5 percent on Moheli have access (Table A5-B.1).
Table A5-B.1 Population with access to clean drinking water (percent)
Table Water AS-B1-1. Situation in 2000
Population with access to drinking iter
Urban       Rural        Total
Qunde Conre  -  770/o        11%
Anjouan       700/0       32D/o        45%
Moheli       38%          83%          600/o
Total       70%          23%
Currently, about 32 percent of the people of Comoros live in urban areas. The urban fraction
varies by island: it is 28.5 percent on Grande Comore, 34 percent on Anjouan, and 51.5 percent
on Moheli (Table A5-B.2).
Table A5-B.2. Population of Comoros by island
Urban                    Rural              Total
Population   Percent    Population     Percent    Population
Grande Comore    78,184         29        195,750         71       273,934
Anjouan          78,744         34        153,668         66       232,412
Moheli           16,064         52         15,104         48        31,168
Total           172,992         32       364,522          68       537,514
Table A5-B1-2. below presents the expected coverage ratio (population with access to drinking
water) by island after program and project implementation. The impact of the IDA financed
78



project would increase the national coverage to about 96 percent of urban population with access
to drinking water.
Table Water A5-Bl-2. Situation in 2005-After all Donors interwtnfon
Population mith access to drinking imiter
Urban        Rural        Tobl
Ckande Comore        77/O     200/o
Anjouan       100%/        32%           55%
Moheli       100%W/        83%          920
Total        96%          28%          51%
Past and present operational set up
Previously, the parastatal utility Eau et Electricite des Comores (EEDC) was in charge of
collecting and distributing electricity and water on the three islands of Comoros. However, in
January 1998 the institutional set up of water collection and distribution changed, and the private
operator Comorienne de l'Eau et de l'Electricite (CEE) took over responsibility for delivering
water and electricity on Grande Comore island. Tariffs charged in 1999 in Moroni, Grand
Comore are presented in Table A5-B.3. Table A5-B.16 provides details of operational and
institutional parameters for Comoros' urban water systems.
Table A5-B.3 Tariffs charged in Moroni, Grand Comore, 1999
KMF per cubic meter
Connected consumers
0-4 cubic meters                            205
> 4 cubic meters                            215
Standpipe consumers                           220
Key water sector issues for Anjouan and Moheli
In Anjouan, the main water sector issue is the quality of the water distributed, which is not
currently treated. Water system management also needs to be addressed urgently. Currently, the
urban centers are managed by associations communautaires and cost recovery is virtually
nonexistent.
In Moh6li, the situation is worse than in Anjouan, with fewer than 40 percent of urban dwellers
having access to clean drinking water. Significant investments for water catchment and
collection are required. Choosing a professional operator is also a major need.
In the two islands where the CEE is not presently involved, in addition to rehabilitating and
expanding the infrastructure, it is critical to establish cost recovery mechanisms to ensure the
medium and long-term financial sustainability of the water utilities and to ensure proper
operation and management of the water systems.
79



Costs and financing arrangements of water investments
According to a feasibility study carried out by SCETAUROUTE, investments in water
infrastructure in Moutsamoudou, Domoni and Ouani on Anjouan, and Fomboni on Moheli are
likely to produce significant benefits in terms of human health and living conditions, and are the
priority investments for the next five years. The aggregate cost of these priority works is
expected to total some KMF 1.5 billion by 2005 including contingencies. The broad breakdown
by urban center is provided in Table A5-B.4. Details of the per project cost estimates are
provided in Tables A2.16-19 (annex 2).
Table A5-B.4 Water works investment costs, total program and IDA-financed
Investment Costs
(in millions KME)
Full program
Ouani                                                 305
Domoni                                                499
Moutsarnoudou                                         395
Fomboni                                               341
Total                                               1,540
It is proposed that IDA finance 100 percent of the investment costs of works, given the
anticipated problems of counter part funds (particularly for Anjouan), and 100 percent of the
design and supervision costs. Water works are estimated to be completed by mid-2005. It is not
anticipated that there will be on-lending.
Cost recovery options and targets
Recovering the costs of supplying water from households is a totally new area for Anjouan and
Moheli. Gaining acceptance of the concept will require that tariffs are set at affordable levels.
The following cost-recovery options have been considered:
1. Operation and maintenance cost
2. Operation and maintenance cost plus depreciation
3. Operation and maintenance cost plus depreciation plus debt service
4. Operation and maintenance cost plus depreciation plus debt service, plus investment costs for
the extension of the networks.
To derive a medium-term tariff (fiscal 2003-2007), the level of revenues required to cover costs
of the four options have been calculated. Table A5-B.5 summarizes the results of the cost
recovery analysis for the various options. It also estimates the average water tariffs required to
maintain the financial equilibrium of the water systems in the four urban centers considered.
80



Table A5-B.5 Cost recovery analysis summary (2005, constant mid-2000 prices)
Expenditures (millions KMF)
Popula-   Consump-  0 & M   Depreci-  Long and  Extension   Total   KMF per
tion      tion               ation    medium-  investment           cubic meter
served    (cubic                      term debt
meter/day)                     service
Ouani      21,000      1,434     21.6      3.8        8.6       21.7      55.7     106.4
Domoni    25,000       1,815     52.0      10.9      14.0       35.5     112.4      169.7
Moutsad -   43,000     3,297     74.2      16.5      11.1       28.1     129.9      108.0
oudou
Fomboni    18,000       815      22.7      4.1        9.6       24.3      60.7     203.9
Table A5-B.6 presents the estimated average cost per cubic meter of supplying water, and costs
of supplying water to connected and standpipe consumers.
Table A5-B.6 Cost structure, 2005
KMF per cubic meter
Average               Connected             Standpipes
Ouani                          106.4                   96.1                  184.1
Domoni                         169.7                  153.4                  301.4
Moutsam-oudou                  108.0                   93.0                  236.4
Fomboni                        203.9                  183.4                  267.8
Tables A5-B.7-8 present the cost structure (in KMF per cubic meter) for the connected and
standpipe consumers and the various levels of expenditures to be gradually covered to ensure the
medium and long-term financial sustainability of the water systems in the four urban centers
considered. An analysis of average affordable tariff levels needed to recover these costs, and
their relationship to household incomes is discussed below.
Table A5-B.7 Cost structure for connected consumers, 2005 (KMF per cubic meter)
Option I          Option 2          Option 3           Option 4
O & M         I + depreciation    2 + debt servicing  3 + extension
Ouani                   30.9              38.1               54.5                96.1
Domoni                  62.2              78.6               99.8               153.4
Moutsam-oudou           46.7              60.4               69.6                93.0
Fomboni                 55.8              69.6              101.8               183.4 
81



Table A5-B.8 Cost structure for standpipe consumers, 2005 (KMF per cubic meter)
Option I         Option 2         Option 3         Option 4
O & M        1 + depreciation    2 + debt servicing  3 + extension
Ouani                 118.9            126.2            142.6              184.1
Domoni                210.2            226.6            247.7              301.4
Moutsam-oudou         190.1            203.8            213.0              236.4
Fomboni               140.2            154.0            186.2              267.8
Household affordability analysis
Affordability is the financial ability of consumers to pay for certain goods and services given
their other needs. The cost of goods or services relative to income also influences consumers'
willingness to pay. It is difficult to fix the affordability level for water supply, given that water is
usually considered a basic human need. However, it has been accepted (although more as a rule
of thumb) that household expenditures on urban water supply should not exceed 5 percent of the
minimum household income. In Comoros, it is estimated that the average monthly household
income (AMHI) for a household of seven is around KMF 60,000 (mid-2000 prices). The
minimum monthly household income (MMHI) is estimated to be KMF 25,000 (mid-2000 prices)
required to cover full costs. In this analysis the average monthly household income is used as a
measure of affordability of water for connected households, and the minimum monthly
household income is used as a measure of affordability for standpipe consumers.
Table A5-B.9 displays the relationship between the actual cost of collecting and distributing
water in 2005 (mid-2000 prices) and the average (for connected consumers) and minimum (for
standpipe consumers) monthly household incomes (mid-2000 prices). The analysis assumes that
households connected to the network consume about 85 liters per day per person, and that
households collecting water from standpipes consume about 20 liters per day per person. It also
assumes that prices per liter will differ for these two types of consumers.
Table A5-B.9 Percentage of household income required to cover full system costs (option 4)
KMF per cubic meter        Percentage of household income required
Average               Connected             Standpipes
Ouani                            106.4                   2.9                   3.1
Domoni                           169.7                   4.9                   5.1
Moutsam-oudou                    108.0                   2.8                   4.0
Fomboni                         203.9                    5.5                   4.5
Clearly, the cost of water in relation to household income varies according to urban center.
However, tariffs set at levels to recover full costs of the system (option 4) would comprise no
more than 5 percent of average household income for connected consumers and be below 5
percent of the minimum household income for the standpipe consumers in all cities. These tariff
levels would be affordable based on the 5 percent criterion.
82



Tables A5-B.10 and A5-B.11 show the percentage of average and minimum household income
required to cover the costs defined in options 1-4 above. An average of 1.5 percent (connected
consumers) to 3 percent (standpipe consumers) would be needed to cover the operating and
maintenance cost alone (option 1). About 4.54.0 percent would be needed to cover full
program costs (option 4).
Table A5-B.10 Cost structure as percent of the average monthly household income for
connected consumers
Option 1        Option 2         Option 3        Option 4
O & M        1 + depreciation  2 + debt servicing   3 + extension
Ouani                  0.9              1.1             1.6              2.9
Domoni                 1.9             2.4              3.0              4.9
Moutsam-oudou          1.4              1.8             2.1              2.8
Fomboni                1.7             2.1              3.1              5.5
Table A5-B.11 Cost structure as percent of the minimum monthly household income for
standpipe consumers
Option 1        Option 2         Option 3        Option 4
O & M        1 + depreciation  2 + debt servicing   3 + extension
Ouani                  2.0             2.1              2.4              3.1
Domoni                 3.6             3.9              4.2              5.1
Moutsam-oudou          3.2             3.5              3.6              4.0
Fomboni                2.4             2.6              3.2              4.5
In all four urban centers, water tariffs set at levels equivalent to 4-5 percent of the average
monthly household income (for connected customers) and 3-4 percent of the minimum monthly
household income (for standpipe consumers) would generate adequate profits to enable
communities to contract a professional operator to properly manage and maintain the
rehabilitated water systems.
Proposed water tariffs
Tariff level. To ensure that water tariffs for household users are affordable, they will be fixed not
to exceed a maximum percentage of average or minimum household income beginning in fiscal
year 2003 (July 1, 2003). These tariffs will be increased gradually over the years, so that full
cost-recovery is achieved by 2006-2010 depending on the urban centers. However, tariffs will
never be set higher than 5 percent of average household income (for connected consumers) or
minimum household income (for standpipe consumners). Tariffs for industrial, commercial and
other non domestic users will be set at levels sufficient to achieve full cost-recovery
immediately. The proposed water tariffs are presented in Table AS-B.12 and 13 in constant mid-
2000 prices.
83



Table A5-B.12 Proposed tariffs for connected consumers (KMF per cubic meter)
Proposed tariffs
2003            2004            2005            2006
Ouani                100              105             110             116
Domoni               150              158             165             174
Moutsam-oudou        100              105             110             116
Fomboni              150              158             165             174
Table A5-B.13 Proposed tariffs for standpipe consumers (KMF per cubic meter)
Proposed tariffs
2003            2004            2005            2006
Ouani                120             126              132             139
Domoni               175             184              193            203
Moutsam-oudou        120              126             132             139
Fomboni              200             210             221              232
Tariff structure. Tariffs will be based on the principles that: (a) users will pay costs of their
actual water consumption, and (b) tariffs will be lower for less affluent domestic consumers;
more affluent domestic and non domestic consumers will subsidize consumption of less-affluent
households.
Tariffpolicy. GOC will decide, by December 31, 2002, on whether to apply: (a) a unique tariff
structure for the three islands; (b) separate tariff structure for each island; or (c) separate tariff
structure for each urban center.
Final affordability test
The household affordability test for the proposed water charges for the forecast period is
presented in Tables A5-B.114 and 15. The combined charges comprise 3.5-5.2 percent of
average and minimum household income (at constant income and price levels). These are
acceptable assuming household (connected consumers) can afford to pay up to 5 percent of
average household income for water in 2006. The proposed water charges will fully meet the
operation and maintenance costs, depreciation for all years of the covered forecast period, debt
service and, gradually, costs to extend the rehabilitated water networks and systems.
84



Table A5-B.14 Percentage of average household income of connected consumers required
to cover full system costs, 2003-06
Proposed tariffs as percentage of average monthly
Household income of connected consumers
2003            2004            2005             2006
Ouani                 3.0             3.2              3.3             3.5
Domoni                4.5             4.7              4.9             5.2
Moutsam-oudou         3.0             3.1              3.3             3.4
Fomboni               4.5             4.7              4.9             5.2
Table A5-B.15 Percentage of minimum household income of standpipe consumers
required to cover full system costs, 2003-06
Proposed tariffs as percentage of minimum monthly
Household income of standpipe consumers
2003            2004            2005             2006
Ouani                 1.7             1.8              1.9             1.9
Domoni                2.5             2.6              2.8             2.9
Moutsam-oudou         1.7             1.8              1.9             1.9
Fomboni               2.5             2.6              2.8             2.9
85



Table AS.B16 Urban water current operational and institutional situation
Pression sur  Caracteristiques                              Structure charg6e de la                                 Qualit6 du
ile   Centre          ressources en    du reseau de         QualitW de 1'eau     gestion et du recouvrement   Tarifs pay6s par les usag6s    service
ressure en    distribution                                      des cofits
Moroni          Non           Contrat           Forte chloration de I'eau par la Societe privee CEE   *   Branchements individuels:  *   Contrat
d'affermage CEE   CEE en attendant les resultats                          4m3 A 205 FC par bimestre      recent
o                                  3.850             d'analyses                                              220 FC/m3 pour le restant  *   Engageme
E                                  branchements dont                                                       *   Bomes-fontaines:              nt de la
u                                   108 BF                                                                    215 FC/m3                      CEE
d'augment
ation de
son
rendement
Moutsamoudou   Oui A horizon  4.000 A 5.000     *   Aucun traitement de    Association Communautaire  *   Pas de tarifs actuellement   Ressources de
proche       foyers                I'eau                   de Gestion de I'Eau A                                   I'association
*   Plusicurs epidemies par  Mutsamudu                                             irregulieres:
le passe et nombreuses                                                         travaux r6alises
maladies d'origine                                                             ponctuellement
hydrique
Ouani           Non sauf A    1.200 foyers      *   Aucun traitement de    Association pour le        *   Pas de tarifs actuellement   Appels
moyen-long   cotisants             1'eau                   Developpement                                           cotisations
termne                         *   Plusieurs epidemies par  Communautaire de Ouani                                 irregulieres
le passe et nombreuses
maladies d'origine
hydrique
Domoni          Non sauf A    Environ 2.000     *   Aucun traitement de    Aucune (une association est  *   Pas de tarifs actuellement
moyen-long   foyers concemrs       I'eau                   en voie de creation)
terme                          *   Plusieurs epidemies par
le passe et nombreuses
maladies d'origine
hydrique
Fomboni         Non           904 foyers                                   Association de Gestion des   *   1.000 FClbimestre/foyer    Taux de
raccordes dont 660                           Eaux de la Communaute         raccorde                  recouvrement
A Fomboni                                    Urbaine de Fomboni)                                     faible car
qualite du
service
:g __________________________  ___________________________________________________________________  ___________________________  mediocre
Or



Table A5.B17 Detailed annual expenditures of project water systems (KMF)
bbamic Federal Repubic of Comoros
Table AS-B.17. Detailed annudl expenditures in KMF
Inthule                                                       Moutsamoudou         Oujni            Domoni            Fomboni
NWr   montant   NEr  montant  SN          montant   NSbr   montant
Depenses de fonctionnement
salaires
responsables administratifs                                    2           170                   2           170
secretariat                                                            120 000                            100 000
caissier                                                       I        60000    1       60000   1         60000    1       60 000
comptable                                                      1        60 000    1      60000   I         60000    1       60 000
Salair fontainiers                                            50      1.500.000  15     450 000  30       900 000   17     510 000
Salaire techniciens ( source, adduction et reseau)             5          225   2        90 000   4       180 000    2      90 000
Salaire techniciens cornpteurs (entretien)                     2           100   I       50000   I         50 000    1      50 000
Salaire techniciens compteurs Oecture et enregistrenient)      2          100    1       50 000   2        50000    1       50 000
Gardiennage                                                                140           75 000           140OO             75 000
Total                                                                 2.475.000         835 000          1 760 000         895 000
RMactifs (chtore, ..etc.).                                            1 550 000         440 000          I 000 000         440000
Frais administratifs (bureau, loyer, consommables)                     450 000          130 000           450000           130 000
Total charges                                                         2 000 000         570000           1450 000          570 000
Total fonctionnement mensuel                                         4,475,000        1,405,0DO         3,210,000        1,465,000
Total fonctionnement annuel                                        53,700,000       16,860,000       38,520,000        17,580,000
13penses dentretien annuel                                         20,500,000        4,700,000        13,500,000
1,5 % du coat global du systnem apr6s r6habilitation et extension
Remboursement annued du pret                                       11,112,224        8,587,159        14,025,262        9,SS4,899
95 % du coOt des travaux sont couverts par le pret IDA.
(remboursement 30 ans - p6riode de grace 10 ans)
Amortissementannuel des installations                              16,494,994        3,781,779        10,862,557        4,115,702
Dur6e de vie de 40 ans, tauxde d6pr6ciation 6quivalent a 4% par an,
installations existantes degr6 d'usure moyen variant entre S et 20 ans.
tCot annuel dextension durseau.                                    28,142,156       21,747,328       35,519,544        24,274,145
|Tauxd'int6ret de 4%, tauxd'acroissement de la population 3%
Totl g4ner annuelI      129,949,374       55,676,266       112,427,363 1      60,669,746
CoOt do metre cube facture
-Sur la base d'une population 2005 de:                                 43,000           21,000            25,000            18,000
-d'un tauxde pertes (ou eau non cornptabilisee) equivalent a:     30 percent        30 percent       30 percent        30 percent
- avec un pourcentage de population brancbee au rdseau de         60 percent        60 percent       60 percent        40 percent
- pour un pourcentage alinent6e auxbomes fontaines de             40 percent        40 percent       40 percent        55 percent
- pourcentage de population aliment6e en eau maeorite                 -                 -                -              5 percent
On aura une consommation joumralire surle rbseau de
- usagers branch6s au reseau (cat 85 litres)                  2,193            1,071             1,275              612
: usagers alinent6s auxbomes fontaines (cat 20 Itres)           344              168               200              198
autres consomnumtions                                             760              195               340                5
Total eau factur6e joumeDlenent                                         3,297            1,434             1,815              815
Eau facturde annuellement                                            1,203,405         523,410           662,475           297,475
CoAt dLm6trecubed'eaufacturtautourde: KMF                                 108              106               170              204
87



Annex 6:    Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Infrastructure, Water and Environment Project
Procurement Arrangements
The following procurement arrangements will apply to all wholly or partly funded IDA financed
contracts.
General. Works or goods wholly or partly financed by IDA would be procured in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, published in
January 1995, revised in January and August 1996, revised in September 1997, and January
1999. Consultancy services wholly or partly financed by IDA would be procured in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers, published in January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999. The
borrower's procurement regulations and procedures have been reviewed and have been found
acceptable. Prior to negotiations, a General Procurement Notice has been prepared by DGI and
transmitted to IDA for publication in the United Nations Development Businesses to advertise all
assignments expected to be financed by IDA under the project. The General Procurement Notice
will be updated annually. Standard bidding and other similar documents published by the Bank
will be used by DGI for the preparation of International Competitive Bidding (ICB) for works
and /or goods, and for Requests for Proposals and contracts for consulting services.
Table A below provides information on the project elements and their estimated costs and
methods of procurement, including elements financed by the Bank, as well as those financed by
other sources (FC, GOC).
Procurement of Civil Works. All civil works contracts for road periodic maintenance and
urban water works will be procured under ICB in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
Procurement of Goods and equipment. Contracts for the supply of goods and equipment
valued at US$50,000 or more will be procured under ICB in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
Contracts for the procurement of office equipment and supplies costing less than US$50,000, up
to an aggregate amount of US$200,000 will be procured through National Competitive Bidding
(NCB).
Prior and post review by the Bank for Works and Goods contracts. All IDA-financed works
and goods contracts to be procured under ICB will be subject to prior review procedures in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. All IDA-financed goods contracts to be procured under
NCB estimated to cost the equivalent of US$25,000 or more per contract will be subject to prior
review procedures in ac.cordance with the Bank's Guidelines. All other contracts under this
threshold will be subject to post review.
88



Procurement of Consulting Services. Recruitment of consulting firms for the strengthening of
DGI, training of its personnel, preparation of detailed design and tender documents, supervision
of works, sector expertise and studies will be carried out under the Quality and Cost Based
Selection method (QCBS) in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. Recruitment of individual
consultants for assistance to the DGI and the Coordination Unit to carry out program and/or
project implementation will be done on the basis of qualifications and experience in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines.
Prior and post review by the Bank for Consultant contracts. All consultant contracts
expected to cost the equivalent of US$25,000 or more per contract with firms, and US$15,000
per contract with individuals will be subject to prior review by IDA. For contracts above $
25,000 each, the technical evaluation report will be sent for no-objection to IDA before opening
the financial envelope. All other contracts under these thresholds will be subject to post review.
These procurement thresholds are summarized in Table B below.
Procurement implementation schedule and advanced procurement actions.  Prior to
negotiations, DGI has provided a detailed timetable for implementation of the investment as part
of the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). This timetable will be used as a basis for monitoring
procurement processing. The following documents have also been prepared by DGI and
transmitted to IDA for review prior to negotiations: (a) draft General Procurement Notice; (b)
draft Specific Procurement Notice for the construction works, works supervision, DGI assistance
and major studies; (c) draft bidding documents for civil works; (d) TORs, short list, LOI, draft
model contract for construction supervision; and (e) TORs, short list, LOI, draft model contract
for DGI assistance, and important consulting assignments and studies.
Reporting. A monthly progress report up to Credit Effectiveness will be prepared by DGI in
sufficient details and transmitted to IDA. During project implementation (after effectiveness), a
quarterly report will be adequate. The details will include: major procurement actions dealt with
during the previous months and major procurement actions planned for the following months, an
update of the Procurement Implementation Table, time taken to carry out specific actions such as
short list, completion of essential bidding documents, bid evaluation and compliance with
aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement.
Procurement Capacity Assessment. A procurement capacity assessment was carried out during
appraisal and no major issues have been identified. In addition, it is expected that the core staff
of DGI will be composed of officers from DGTP who have extensive knowledge of World Bank
procurement procedures and guidelines and who have been trained under the previous roads
maintenance projects financed by IDA.
Disbursement Arrangements
The total estimated disbursement, covering all sources of funding (IDA, FC and GOC) over the
project life are summarized in Table D of this annex. The total credit proceeds would be
disbursed over five years. IDA credit disbursements will cover the percentages indicated below:
89



Civil Works (US$7.9 million)        69% of total project expenditures excluding taxes
Equipment and Goods (US$0.5 million)   4% of total project expenditures excluding taxes
Consulting Services (US$2.0 million)  17%of total project expenditures excluding taxes
Training (US$0.4 million)           3% of total project expenditures excluding taxes.
In order to deal with the situation in Anjouan and as agreed during negotiations with Comoros,
the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) of the project includes: (i) a separate disbursement
category for works in Anjouan in the disbursement table, (ii) a disbursement condition for
Anjouan with regards to the works category under which no disbursement would be made under
the Anjouan disbursement category unless the project could be supervised in Anjouan, and (iii) a
provision under which IDA would be able to cancel the amount under the Anjouan disbursement
category if one year after project effectiveness, no project activity has been initiated in Anjouan.
Closing date. The Closing Date is December 31, 2005, six months after completion of project
execution (June 30, 2005). The schedule of estimated disbursements is presented in Table D.
An aggregate amount of up to US$630,000 has been included in the project costs to refinance the
PPF. This is for expenditures on engineering and technical expertise devoted to project
preparation.
Minimum disbursements. The minimum application amount for payments directly from the
Credit account or for issuance of Special commitments will be at least equivalent of 20 percent
of the initial deposit of the special account. Disbursements will be fully documented except that
withdrawals will be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures for the items below:
- Goods contracts not exceeding US$25,000 equivalent;
- Consulting firm contracts not exceeding US$25,000 equivalent, and individual consultant
contracts valued at less than US$15,000 equivalent.
Special Account. The Special Account will be opened and maintained in a commercial bank,
acceptable to the Bank, with an authorized allocation of US$500,000 equivalent, corresponding
to about four months of expenditures. Replenishment application will be submitted at monthly
intervals and will include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting
documents.
90



Annex 6
bslamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Infrastructure, Water & Environrnent Project
Table A
Procurement Arrangements
Procurement Method
International   National
Competitiw   Competiliie
Biding      Bidding    Other  N.B.F.  Total
A. Civil Works                                   8.2          -        -       -     8.2
(7.9)          -                    (7.9)
B. Equipnent & Goods                             0.3         0.2      -      0.1     0.6
(0.3)       (0.2)                   (0.5)
C. Consultant Services & Engineering              -           -      2.6     0.9     3.5
(2.6)          (2.6)
D. Training                                       -           -      0.4     0.6     1.0
(0.4)           (0.4)
Total                                            8502                 .0
(8.2)      (0.2)   (3.0)           (11.4)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amDunts financed by MlA
- Other: Consultants services procured under QCBS procedure
- N.B.F. : Technical assistance, training and logistical support financed under FC
91



Annex 6
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Infrastructure, Water & Environnent Project
Table B
Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Rewiew
(US$)
Expenditure Category     Contract Value    Procurement  Contracts Subject to
(Threshold)        Method        Prior Review
Civil Works                     All              ICB               All
Equipnent & Goods             >=50,000            ICB              All
< 50,000          NCB              25,000
Consultant Services
Training and audits
Fims                           All             QCBS            >=25,000
Individual                  <=50,000            IC             >=15,000
Total value of contract subject to prior review: US$11.1 rrllion
92



Annex 6
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Infrastructure, Water & Environrent Project
Table C
Allocation of Credit proceeds
IDA
(US$ Million)
% of
Credit    Expenditures
Amount  to be Financed
(1) Civil works for periodic road maintenance                          95
(a) in Grande Comnore and Moheli                         3.5
(b) in Anjouan                                           1.0
(2) Water civil works                                                 100
(a) in Moheli                                            0.6
(b) in Anjouan                                           2.1
Subtotal Civil Works                                        7.2
(3) Goods & Equiprnent                                      0.5       100
(4) Consulting Services, training and audits                2.2       100
(5) Refunding of PPF                                        0.6
(6) Unallocated                                             0.9
Total                                                   11.4
93



Annex 6
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Infrastructure, Water & Environment Project
Table D
IDA Disbursement
(in US$ million)
Annual             0.6      2.0      3.3      3.3      2.2
Cumulative         0.6      2.6      5.9      9.2     11.4
Percentage         5%      23%      52%      81%     100%
Note: Figures mnay not add up to total due to rounding
Total Project Disbursement
(in US$ million)
Annual             0.8      2.4      3.8      3.7      2.6
Cumulative         0.8      3.2      7.0     10.7     13.3
Percentage         6%      24%      53%      81%     100%
Note: Figures may not add up to total due to rounding
94



Annex 6
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Infrastructure, Water & Environment Project
Table E
Project financial executfon by Components by Year - Totals Including Conti
(US$ Million)
2002   2003   2004   2005   2006    Total
A. Transport
Roads Periodic Maintenance                                       1.7     1.8     0.9              4.4
Road Safety                                                      0.2     0.3     0.2              0.8
Engineering, Studies, Expertise & Institutional Strengthening  0.2  0.2  0.1     0.1              0.7
Subtotal Transport                                        0.2      2.2     2.2     1.3             5.9
B. Urban Water
Urban Water Works                                                0.4     1.0    1.1      0.5     3.0
Engineering, Equipment, Studies & Institutional Strengthening    0.1  0.1  0.4   0.4     0.2      1.1
Subtotal Urban Water                                       0.1     0.6     1.4     1.4    0.7      4.1
C. Support to the Sectors & Program Coordination
General Studies & Expertise to the Sectors               0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0              0.1
Training                                                 0.2     0.2    0.2      0.2    0.1       0.8
Technical Assistance for Coordination                    0.2     0.2     0.2     0.2              0.9
Expertise & Logistic support for Coordination            0.2     0.2     0.2     0.1     0.1      0.8
Subtotal Support to the Sectors & Program Coordination    0.6      0.7     0.6     0.6     0.3     2.6
Project Preparation Studies (under PPI)
Preparatory Studies                                      0.6                                     0.6
Subtotal Project Preparation Studies (under PPF)          0.6                                      0.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                        1.5    3.4      4.2     3.3     0.9    13.3
Note: Figures may not add up to total due to rounding
95



Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High
Average
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every twelve months
(includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
96



Annex 6 Table F: Procurement plan-Plan de passation des marches
MEthode de                                             Documents       Prento  ds           Sgaueu
Marche                           passation des             Priode d'execution           d'invitation /   Prsentation des    Signature du
marchEs                                              appel d'offre
Debut              Fin
Ddfinition des TDRs des Etudes d'execution (dossiers de  grE d grE      Octobre 2000      Janvier 2001     Juillet 2000      Septembre 2000     Octobre 2000
consultation des entreprises)
Acquisition de vehicules et matEriel de bureautique pour  Appel d'offre national                           Juillet 2001      Septembre 2001     Novembre 2001
les DGI1, DRI, CC.
lere Tranche                                                           Ddcembre 2001    Avril 2002
2eme Tranche                                                            Decembre 2004    Juin 2005
Dossiers de consultation des entreprises pour l'entretien
pEriodique des routes et la rehabilitation des reseaux  liste restreinte  Mai 2001        Juillet 2002     Janvier 2001      Fevrier 2001       Mars 2001
d'eau et assistance technique A l'execution.
Privatisation des parcs A matEriel                liste restreinte      Juillet 2001      Juin 2002        FEvrier 2001      Mars 2001          Avril 2001
R'ogtanisaetione duMbinistEre de IDRquipement et de  grE d gre          Fevrier 2001      Septembre 2001   Janvier 2001      FEvrier 2001       Fevrier 2001
Gestionnaire financier et comptable du Projet et du FER,
assistance A la comptabilitE et fonmation des comptables   consultation  Mars 2001        Avril 2003       Decembre 2000    Janvier 2001         Janvier 2001
DGI et DRI.
Audit des comptes du FER et du Projet (2000,2001,  liste restreinte     Fevrier 2001      Juin 2003        Fevrier 2001      Mars 2001           Avril 2001
2002)
Entretien periodique des routes.                  Appel d'offTe         Janvier 2003      Mai 2005          Avril 2002       Juillet 2002        Octobre 2002
Formation des populations sur l'aspect sanitaire de l'eau   GrE a grE   Janvier 2002      Juillet 2005      Juillet 2001     Octobre 2001        DEcembre 2001
et le recouvrement des coOts. (UNICEF, mEdias ... )
Formation des populations sur la sEcurite routiere.  Grd grd           Janvier 2002       Juillet 2005     Juillet 2001      Octobre 2001        Decembre 2001
(troupes theatrales villageoises, medias, affichage ...i
Formation des personnels DGI et DRI,
(partenariat avec DDE La REunion et etablissements  Gre A grd           Janvier 2002      Juillet 2005     Juillet 2001      Octobre 2001        DEcembre 2001
specialises ...)
Rehabilitation et extension des rEseaux d'eau     Appel d'offre         AoOt 2003         Juin 2005         AoOt 2002        Janvier 2003        Mai 2003
97



Figure 1: Schedule of Project Inplementation
-  ~   2000       Z00o1 F2002                                          2003                      2004                      2005
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . I I 13 14 AIN  I I I I Al S VI NJ Dl J I1T 1 MAM                        J A  TXSIOI D J I F N AM J I J JAI SIOINIL)1  S AMe J I J JAI SI(JN DI J F 514  JIAIS
Pr(1paration generale du projet
Etudes priliminaires
Termnes tde rtif(rence pour les etudes pr6lisninaires
Elargissement RNI & RN2
Etude de faisabilit6
Impact sir 1environnenment
Etude Comportementale et sociale
Armelioration de la circtlation et la s6curit6 routi(1re
Etude Institutionnelle et recouvrement des coits
Termes de reference poor les etudes dexecution (
Appui institutionnel
Elaboration tdu code de l'Urbanisrme
ElIaboration du Code Maritime et autres textes Marit-.
Etude de Gestion aduonome des pacs en vue de la privatisatio   i
Systeme comptable du PER, Appui a la comptabilite, formation co
March6s de fournitures
Aquisition de vihicules poor la DGI, let D, ,Ia CC.C
Aquisition de materiel de bureautique (DGI DRI CC)
Foudes
Preparation des DCE (compris shemas directeurs des r6seaux  eau).
Marchhs Travaux
Procadores de paation des marches de travaum.
Entretien periocdque des routes
R'habiitation et Extension des rseaux  d'eauu
Transports
iStretien periodiquse des routes
rtande Comore                                                                                                        m m m    1 1 1 1 T T
Andjoatn                                                              _1 
Signalisatlion et scurit_ routi_.re
CQrande Comore
Anjouan
Mobtili                                                                                                                                             1
Campagnes et actions de sensibilisation
Fau en milieu urbain
Rehabilitation et Extension des r(1seaux d'eau urbains
Anjounan
Mouisamsoudou
Ozuani
Doinani
Moheli
Fomboni
Supports aux divers secteurs
Expertise et assistance
Formation
Coordination
Support et logistique                                                                                                                        i~               
98



Figure 2: Schedule of implementation- Component: Road Periodic Maintenance
20i0            200 1                  2002                  2003                 2004                  2005
Definition des taches                  4tr   tr   2tr   3 tr   4 tr   I tr  2 tr  3t  4tr  I tr  2tr3 tr  4 tr  I tr  2t 3Ptr L4tr  I tr  2tr  3tr  4tr
Etudes et marches
tennes de reference pour preparation DCE
Consultation des consultants pour DCE    01/03 N
Preparation des offres
Reception des offres                           01/05 N
Depouillenent et evaluation
Non objection et approbation                             m
Negotiations                                             m
Signature 
Contrats signes                                      31/07 N
Elaboration des DCE
Travaux
Lancement des appels d'offres                                       01/04 N
Preparation des offres
Reception des offres                                                       31/07 N
Depouillement et evaluation                                                       m
Non objection et approbation
Signature du contrat                                                                 U
Contrat signe                                                                   31/10 N
Grande Comore
Terrasements
Drainage et na9,onneries                                                                        mom
revetements de chauss6es
signalisation et securite
Anjouan
Tenrasements
Drainage et maconneries
revetements de chaussees
signalisation et securite
Moheli
Terraseements
Drainage et ma,onneries
revetements de chaussees
signalisation et securite
99



Figure 3: Schedule of implementation- Component: Urban Water Works
2000         2001                 2002                 2003                  2004                 2005
Definition des taches                4 tr  I tr  2 tr  3 tr  4 tr  I tr  2 tr  3 tr  4 tr  I tr  2tr  3tr  4 tr  I tr  2 tr  3 tr  4 tr  I tr  2 tr  3 tr  4tr t
Etudes et marches                                        -                                          _    _                                     -
temes de reference pour preparation DC1 _1
Consultation des consultants pour DCE    o 31 
Preparation des offres         _
Reception des offres                        ot s N
Depouillenent et evaluation
Non objection et approbation
Negotiations
Signature
Contrats signes                                  31/071 N
Elaboration des DCE (+ plan directeur)
Travaux
Lancernent des appels doffres                                          01/08o 
Preparation des offres                                                   I   i _
Reception des offres                                                           31/01 N
Depouillement et evaluation
Non objection et approbation
Signature du contrat
Contrat signd                                                                           31/04
AnJjouan
MoutSaMnoudDI
Travaux                                                                                         v
Ouani
Travaux
Donioni
Travaux                                                                                                           --                  -
Fomboni
Travaux-                                                                                                                        -     -
100



Annex 7:    Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Infrastructure, Water and Environment Project
US$300,000         IJS$325,000
Time taken to prepare the project (months)               24 months         54 months **
First Bank mission (identification)                     12/07/1996          l2/07/1996
Appraisal mission departure                             03/20/1998          10/10/2000
Negotiations                                            05/05/1998          01/24/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                           _/_/1998            07/01,2001
** (due to two year suspension of IDA disbursement to Comoros and one year of political
turmoil)
Prepared by: Direction Generale des Travaux Publics
Preparation assistance: PHRD grant
Name                                         Specialty
Abdelmoula Ghzala (AFTTI)                    Engineering
Philippe de Naurois (AFTTI)                  Financial Analyst
Alison Cave (AFTT2)                          Urban Planner
Wendy Ayres (AFTT2)                          Environmental Economist
Adelaide Barra (AFTT2)                       Team Assistant
Jean-Charles de Daruvar (LEGAF)              Legal
Agnes Albert-Loth (LOAAF)                    Disbursement
Abdul Haji (AFTS2)                           Senior Financial Management Specialist
Bernard Abeille (AFTS2)                      Principal Procurement Specialist
Jean-Roger Mercier (AFTE1)                   Principal Environmental Specialist
Klas Ringskog (OEDST)                        Senior Evaluation Officer (quality assurance)
Jean-Jacques Raoul (OCSPR)                   Manager (quality assurance)
101



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Infrastructure, Water and Environment Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
* Draft Project Concept Document (PCD) and Departmental Review Meeting Minutes
(3/7/97)
* Final Project Concept Document (PCD) (3/25/97)
* Recommendations of ROC meeting on ISS (7/20/00)
* Decision Meeting Minutes (9/27/00)
C. Other
- Sector work: Tourism, Infrastructure and Environment (1997)
* Identification mission BTO including aide-memoire and implementation schedule
* Preparation missions BTO including aide-memoires
*  Preappraisal BTO including aide-memoire (5/27/99)
* Appraisal mission BTO including aide-memoire (11/15/00)
* Project Infornation Document
*Including electronic files.
102



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
(as of December 2000)
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Infrastructure, Water and Environment Project
Difference between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                and actual
disbursementsa
Project    FY    Purpose                      IBRD    IDA   SF   GEF  Cancel  Undisb.          Orig      Frm
ID                                                                                                      Rev'd
P052887    1998  HEALTH                        0.00    8.40                 0.00     7.66       4.53     0.48
P044824    1998  SOCIAL FUND                   0.00   11.50                 0.00    10.34       5.80     1.43
P000604    1997  AG SERVICES PILOT             0.00    1.60                 0.00     0.78       1.02     0.00
P000603    1997  EDUCATION III                 0.00    7.00                 0.00     6.30       4.72     1.08
P000606    1994  SMALL ENTERPRISE DEV          0.00    5.10                 0.00      1.18      0.52     0.00
P000596   1994  POP & HUMAN RESOURCE           0.00   13.00                 0.00     0.51       0.46     0.00
P000593    1991  ROAD MAINTENANCE              0.00    6.60                 0.16     0.00       0.00     0.00
Total:   0.00   53.20                 0.16    26.76      17.04     2.99
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Dec-2000
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                              Disbursed
IFC                                   IFC
FY Approval  Company               Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic        Loan   Equity    Quasi    Partic
Total Portfolio:    0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval                Company                               Loan      Equity      Quasi       Partic
Total Pending Commitment:             0.00        0.00       0.00        0.00
103



Annex 10: Comoros: Country at a Glance
Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
Infrastructure, Water and Environment Project
Sub,
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Saharan      Low-
Comoros      Africa   income       Developmentdiamond-
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                        0.54       642      2.417                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                      350       500       410
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                       0.19       321        988
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                          2.5        2.6       1 9
Labor force (%)                                         2.9        2.6       2.3      GNP                              Gross
per                             primary
Most recant estimate (latest year available, 1993-99                                  capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% oftotal population)                  33        34         31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         60        50         60
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 63        92         77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               26        32         43                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of population)        48        43         64
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                     41        39         39
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)    75        78         96            -     Comoros
Male                                                             85       102                   Low-income group
Female                                                           71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1999      1998       1999
Economic ratios
GDP (USS billions)                              ..    0.20        0.20      0.19
Gross domestic investrrenUGOP                          17.4       16.5      14.7                     Trade
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP                      14.9       24.9      26.1
Gross domestic savings/GOP                              -7.0       1.6       0.2
Gross national savings/GDP                             15.6       19.3      14.7
Current account balance/GDP                             5.6        2.6       0.1     Domestic                      Ivsmn
Interest payments/GDP                                   0.4        2.5       3.8      aois                         Investment
Total debt/GDP                                         87.6      101.4     109.0      Savings
Total debt service/exports                              2.7        5.7       6.2
Present value of debt/GDP                                         67.4      72.4
Present value of debtlexports                                    302.6     287.7
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99     1998       1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  2.9      -0.3     -0 5       -1 4       2 0                   Comoros
GNP per capita                       0.3      -2.9     -2.9       -41       -0.6             --Low-income group
Exports of goods and services       11.0       6.9     -3.0        5.0      14.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999      GrowthofinvestmentandGOP(%l
(X of GDP)
Agriculture                                            40.9       38.7      39.4       i
Industry                                                8.3       12.8      13.1       '
Manufacturing                                         4.0        5.3       5.4                 _7 3
Services                                               50.8       48.5      47.5    -in
Private consumpbon                                     79.4       86.6      87.4    .20 ne
General government consumption                         27.6       11.8      12.4                    GDI        t  GDP
Imports of goods and services                          39.3       39.9      40.6
1979-89  1989-99      1998       1999     Growth ofexports and Imports (I%
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                    4.0     -0.3       -0.5      -1.4     7
Industry                                      -2.3      3.7       -0.3       0.2
Manufacturing                                4.9       0.2       0.2      -1.4    15\
Services                                       3.3     -1 2       -0.6      -1.8
Private consumption                            2.9     -1 0      -22.9      18.0
General government consumption                 2.5     -7.1      -15.8       3.7
Gross domestic investment                     -3.9     -0.5       -2.6      -2.0    Is
Imports of goods and services                  0.3     -0.9       -1.5       1.0                  rxEports   - -Impors
Gross national product                         2.8     -0.        -0.5      -1.6
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
104



Comoros
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989      1998      1999     IntIon 1%)
Domestc prices
(% change)                                                                         25
Consumer prices                                        5.7        3.5      3.5    20- .
Implicit GDP deflator                                  6 .0      3.5       3.5    |1 c / 
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                 0                    _
Current revenue                                       30.5       19.9     21.3             94   95  9s   97   9s         9
Current budget balance                                 3.4       4.3       S              -SGDP deflator  -.-CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                               -3.4       -4.2     -0.7
TRADE
(USS millions)                              1979      1989      1998      1999      Export and lnIport vels (US$ nilI.)
Total exports (fob)                                     18         6         8     w0
Otherfood                                             11         5         7
Other food                                             2         1         1     e*
Manufactures                                  .*
Total imports (cif)                                     43        52        53     40
Food                                                  11        21        22     20
Fuel and energy                                        2         8         8
Capitalgoods                                                     13       14      o
93   94  95   9e   97  99   99
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..    173          72        71
Importpriceindex(1995=100)                              64       134       136                *Exports      uimports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                              272        54        52
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                              1979    1989        1998     1996       Current account balance to GOP (%)
Exports of goods and services                           36        48        48      4
lmports of goods and servioes                          75         76       76
Resource balance                                       -40       -29       -27      o
Net income                                               1        -1       -1           -    *s
Net current transfers                           0       49        35        28     -4
Current account balance                                 11         5         0
Financing items (net)                                  -13       -12         2
Changes in net reserves                                  2         7        2      -12
M'mo:
Reserves induding gold (USS millions)          ..       29        36        39
Conversion rate (DEC, 1ocaL4USS)            212.7    319.0     442.5    461.8
EXTERNAL DEBT end RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998      1999
(USS milions)                                                                      ComposIWon of 1999 debt (US$ mIll.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           41      174       200       210
IBRD                                         0        0          0        0                     G 13
IDA                                          3       35         77       73              E 20
Total debt service                              0        1         3         3
IBRD                                         0        0          0        0                                    B:73
IDA                                          0        0          1        1
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             11       20         24        15
Official creditors                          10        4         -4        -6
Pnvate creditors                             0        0        -13       -1                                    C. 2
Foreign direct investment                             3          2        0             D: 102
Portfolio equity
World Bank program
Commitments                                  0        0          0         0     A -1I6RD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                3        2          3        0      B-IDA    D - Other muftilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                         0        0          0         1     C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Netflows                                     3        2          3        -1
Interest payments                            0        0          1        1
Net transfers                                3         1         2        -2
AFTM3                                                                                                                 9/7/00
105



Annex 11: Environmental Assessment Executive Summary
ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
INFRASTRUCTURE, WATER AND ENVIRONMENT
PROJECT
Environmental Impact Assessment
Summary
SCETAUROUTE                                              August 2000
DRU 82 456 L
106



Objectives of the study
The purpose of this environmental impact assessment (EIA) of the Infrastructure, Water and
Environment Project is to evaluate the possibilities, capacities and functions of the resources
and natural and social systems of the islands of the Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros
to:
* Facilitate the sustainable development decision-making and planning
* Forecast and manage the project's negative impacts and consequences
* Provide an opportunity for citizens of Comoros to express their views on the potential
changes in their environment and living conditions due to the project.
The programming and feasibility studies carried out by different donors, particularly the
World Bank, have led to the identification of transport and urban water operations.
Independently of any technical choices already made, this will study will provide the basis
for a dialogue with key stakeholders on environmental and social impacts of the project,
including the government, project staff, users, and the general public. It thus provides a
framework for consultations intended to achieve several objectives:
* Gather the viewpoints of project stakeholders
- Evaluate the issues arising from the project
- Provide a mitigation plan to minimize potential negative environment and social impacts
of the project
* Involve the different stakeholders in project decisions.
The EIA analyzes the direct and indirect, permanent and temporary impacts of the project on
the ecosystems and social systems on each of the three Comorian islands, including
cumulative impacts that could drive certain parameters beyond admissible thresholds. It
also helps to promote protection and improvement of the environment and of living
conditions, by improving the integration of environmental concerns into planned project
activities, and gives considerable importance to consultation with the general public.
The EIA is subdivided into five principal sections:
1. Analysis of the environmental issues, taking account of the natural resources, fragility of
the resource base and potential of the geographic areas concerned.
2. Identification and assessment of the impacts of the project's major transport and urban
water supply works.
3. Explanation of the reasons for the choices made, especially in light of environmental
concerns, from among the proposed development options.
4. Identification of environmental support measures to mitigate or offset the impacts.
5. Specification of an action program for environmental consultation and training.
107



The last two sections form the basis for an environmental management action plan for the
project.
Initial situation and major environmental issues
A natural environment is rich in resources but very fragile
The Comoros islands are small with varied geology, soils, altitude and climate. They have a
number of features which make them vulnerable to ecosystem damage. The complex relief
of Anjouan and Moheli and the presence of an active volcano on Grande Comore has led to
fragmented land use on the islands; fertile farmland is scarce and soils easily erodable. The
islands have substantial surface and subterranean water resources, but these are not well
identified and are becoming more and more endangered. The islands contain exceptional
biodiversity, including endemic species of plants and animals of worldwide importance.
However, their habitats are very small, and most endemic species are very sensitive to any
disturbance of their environment. Terrestrial and marine plants are highly varied.
A high rate of population growth
Comoros has a high population density of 238 people per square kilometer. Anjouan has the
highest densities of the islands. Population growth is accelerating. Neither sustainable
natural resource management nor protection of the environment and natural species can be
assured beyond a certain level of population pressure. If concrete and meaningful measures
are not put into place immediately, particularly to promote education and economic
development, environmental conditions will continue to deteriorate, threatening quality of
life, livelihoods and natural systems.
Runaway urban growth
Runaway urbanization is one of the consequences of rapid population growth. Informal
housing settlements are multiplying on the outskirts of all urban areas in Comoros. These
settlements have little or no access to clean water and sanitation facilities or garbage
collection, and their residents are exposed to disease-causing pathogens and pollutants.
Excessive pressure on natural resources
The pressure on the natural environment is substantial, and is leading to the rapid
disappearance of some natural resources. The coastal strip in particular is experiencing
heavy pressure. The coast is very short in Comoros and is therefore vulnerable. From
disappearance of the beaches to degradation of the coral massifs, it is not only the survival
of natural species that is threatened, but also the liyelihood of people who harvest products
of the sea. Moreover, the degradation of buffer zones has made the coastline more and more
vulnerable to direct erosion through wave action. This is threatening many inhabited areas
and cultural and historical heritage sites about which little is currently known.
108



The situation is no better inland. The threats to the terrestrial ecosystems may be measured
by the size of the forest areas that disappear every year. The devastation has been worst on
Anjouan. Only a few shreds of the original forest are left; it has been devastated by
conversion of forest for agricultural land. Cultivable soils are disappearing and rivers are
drying up. Arable soils have washed into the coastal waters, suffocating the coral and
covering the sandy beaches with mud. As the soils become less fertile, farmers clear more
forest areas and the cycle of degradation grows worse.
The tourism potential of the islands, which largely depends on the preservation of their
natural environments is already being tapped on a substantial scale. While the situation is
extremely serious on Anjouan, it is much less so on the other two islands, particularly
Moh6li, the archipelago's best preserved island.
Water resources
Of Comoros's ecological problems, the one with the most immediate consequences for the
inhabitants is the dwindling and degradation of the water resources. The problem of
diminishing flows in the permanent waterways, the result of the intensified runoff due to
deforestation, is compounded by the degradation of water quality. Not only are there
imperfections in the rainwater storage systems, but the supply networks are deteriorating,
never having been maintained since they were constructed. Moreover, defective sewage
treatment systems are a major source of pollution. Thus, regardless of the mode or source of
supply, the risks of waterborne disease are an ever-present threat, especially for young
children.
Environmental regulations are inapplicable
Framework Law No. 94-018 on the environment was enacted in Comoros in 1994.
However, there are still no implementing regulations for this law. The applicability of
environmental legislation that imposes constraints, which the Comorian authorities have no
means of implementing, and which citizens will not readily accept is questionable.
Environmental issues that must be addressed
Based on the findings of the diagnosis of environmental conditions in Comoros and the
concerns expressed by the people themselves, the priority environmental issues are:
* Control of urban growth
* Solid waste management
Control of soil erosion and biological degradation
Preservation of the forest cover and its ecological quality
Control of natural risks due to humnan activity (tofrential runoff resulting fromn land
clearance and soil loss, coastal erosion linked to sand removal)
Water resource protection and improvement
Restoration, management and protection of marine biodiversity, especially coral reefs
109



* Preservation of exotic species, such as Livingston's flying fox, coelacanth, and turtles
* Control of coastal erosion and conservation of beaches
* Control of coastal and marine pollution, such as dumping of liquid and solid waste into
the sea
* Preservation and improvement of tourism potential.
Foreseeable environmental impact of the project
All operations likely to affect the environment have been covered in this EIA, regardless of
donor (International Development Association, European Development Fund and others).
These involve works to maintain roads, and construction or repair of water supply networks.
Details follow.
Transport component
The transport component will assist Comoros improve its roads maintenance and
management. The periodic maintenance subcomponents will support periodic maintenance
of some 183 kilometers of the priority road network.
Urban water component
The urban water works component will support the rehabilitation and extension of urban
water supply infrastructure in Moutsamoudou, Domoni and Ouani on Anjouan, and
Fomboni on Moheli.
Whenever necessary, the analysis is broken down by period of construction, operation, and
maintenance of the proposed project activities. The effects of each of the activities (before
implementation of the measures proposed in section 4 of this report designed to mitigate the
impacts) are then studied with reference to the key environmental themes: soil, water,
natural environment, and quality of life.
The impacts were identified by means of a scoping process involving the principal
stakeholders in the area of environmental protection (government authorities,
nongovernmental organizations, and local associations). It should be noted that the present
study focuses on an analysis of the project's environmental impacts. A social impact
assessment, "the Behavioral and Social Study of the Infrastructure, Water and Environment
Project," has been carried out separately.
Main findings
* While taken as a whole the proposed project will to some extent increase environmental
pressures, some individual subprojects should have positive environmental impacts.
These include the construction afnd rehabilitation of water supply infrastructure on
Anjouan and Moheli.
110



* Some project activities may have both negative and positive impacts on the environment.
These include rehabilitation and extension of gravity-fed water supply networks.
* The extension of water supply networks contribute to reducing health risks.
It is not possible within the context of the present summary to provide details of all potential
impacts of the different project activities. We shall therefore comment on the following
selected impacts for each component:
Transport component
The roads periodic maintenance activities will have a limited impact on the environment
since they will involve works on existing roadways. However, traffic tie-ups due to these
activities can sometimes lead to accidents during the construction period.
Urban water component
In the case of water intake works (springwater catchment systems, tapping of groundwater
and well construction, river catchment works), there may be some accidental contamination
of water by chemical or organic pollutants during drilling or well-building. Construction of
spring water or river catchment works requires installation of concrete sills and works within
the stream itself, which can also be sources of pollution.
The catchment and borehole works do not take up a large area. They generally involve
protection perimeters that protect the areas around the catchment works from pollution or
environmental degradation. People using the land within those perimeters are subject to
certain limitations of occupancy and use.
The water is collected in reservoirs, areas that are generally small because of their
mountainside location. The reservoirs are a major source of disturbance for the rheophile
aquatic fauna accustomed to rapid currents in the higher parts of the watersheds.
All existing vegetation on the easement (emprise) where the water pipes will be installed
and on the access track will be cleared. The mains, located between the catchments and the
reservoirs, will most often cross forest areas that are relatively well preserved.  The
disappearance of these natural areas and the disturbance of the neighboring areas will be the
principal environmental consequence of the installation of water supply works.
The easement for the water supply works and associated rights of way may involve certain
farmlands. In addition to the taking of land for the easement, the plot owners may suffer
from the fragmentation of his fields and the need to make changes in their farming patterns.
The magnitude of the impact will depend largely on the nature of the crops concerned. Cash
crops with a high value added (such as ylang-ylang) are not expected to be severely affected.
The water storage facilities (reservoirs, tanks, basins) are likely to have an impact on the
landscape. To perform their role as distributor and pressure breaker, such facilities are
111



generally installed on high ground, easily visible from the surrounding areas. The largest
reservoirs (750 cubic meters on Anjouan) can reach the height of a two-story building, and
are likely to be extremely noticeable.
As for the urban water distribution works (hand-pump tubewells, networks, standpipes,
washhouses), the distribution pipes will for the most part be buried underground. They will
follow or cross existing highways and roads. As a result, the work of installing those pipes
may cause traffic tie-ups at different points and at different times. However, the new water
distribution structures will have positive effects on the quality of life and health of
beneficiaries.
Objectives of the project
The overall objective of the project is to improve living conditions and stimulate economic
growth in Comoros, while protecting the environment through investments in basic
infrastructure. This project reflects the Comorian authorities' growing awareness of the
fragility of the island environment and threats to the area's natural resources.  The
environment has become a national and regional concern, and a number of action programs
have been undertaken by the Comorian Government and by the European Union through the
Indian Ocean Commission (IOC). The different operations making up the project thus fall
within the sustainable development approach.
Overall, the project is designed to remedy the gaps in infrastructure and institutional
development in two priority sectors: transport, and urban water supply.
Transport. The present infrastructure is inadequate to serve the archipelago's long-term
economic development prospects. Interactions with other countries and among the islands
themselves are minimal. The road network, although quite well developed, is in poor
condition due to inadequate maintenance, contributing to increasingly dangerous traffic
conditions.
Urban water supply sector. There is a deplorable lack of information about the availability
of water resources. The present water supply systems, both rural and urban, are obsolete,
inadequate and in very poor condition. Water is frequently used in disregard of the rules of
elementary hygiene, and the resource is dwindling noticeably, particularly on Anjouan. This
situation contributes to the widespread health problems of urban residents. Protecting and
managing water resources on the three islands will require preservation of the woodlands
carpeting the watersheds to limit erosion, facilitate storage, and replenish the water lost
through runoff. Improved water management is a major environmental issue.
Measures to mitigate or offset environmental impacts of the project
There are two categories of measures to mitigate environmental impacts of the project: those
put into place during construction (which apply to all project operations), and those
pertaining to easements and operations of the various facilities. These measures form the
112



core of the environmental management action plan, including a public consultation and
training plans.
Measures during construction
* Creation of a coordination and worksite programming unit to manage the heaviest
operations
*  Proposal of environmental clauses to be included in the specifications for companies
submitting bids
* Organization of an information workshop for companies and government workers who
will oversee implementation of measures to mitigate or offset impacts
* Application of regulatory measures modeled on French legislation addressing admissible
noise levels, worksite cleanliness, water pollution, and implementation of measures to
protect archeological sites
. Supplementary measures designed to control chronic or accidental pollution, noise,
safety, handling of temporary easements and expropriations
 Specific requirements for the opening up of quarries and borrowpits (choice of sites and
methods of extraction, provisions for extraction, provisions for public safety, extraction
plans, prevention of pollution, and orders for restoration of the sites to their original
condition).
In addition to these measures, which apply to most of the project activities, special measures
are proposed to address particular operations (for example, use of quick-setting cement for
works located close to the aquatic environment, prevention of erosion resulting from road
works, protection of trees growing alongside roadways, safety arrangements for work sites
in areas with vehicle traffic, special provisions for the transportation of materials in urban
areas, and the like).
The measures to be taken during construction will not significantly increase project costs.
Most are either regulatory, administrative or organizational measures, or actions that are
normal for efficient work site operations (storage and reuse of excavated dirt, cleanup
activities, and the like). Most of these measures will be included in the contractor's bid
price. Moreover, experience has shown that not only is the cost of addressing environmental
concerns generally low in relation to the initial cost of works, but that this cost is largely
offset by the resultant savings in terms of future upkeep or maintenance of the infrastructure
concerned.
Measures pertaining to easements and operation offacilities
For each component, the principal measures recommended may be summarized as follows:
Transport component
Planting program to compensate for felled trees
* Protective measures to limit pressure on the forest
113



* Prevention of noise pollution
* Communication and sensitization activities to control unsafe road conditions
* Installation of signs and signals and other safety installations.
Urban water supply component
* Creation of close-in and remote protection perimeters around the catchment works and
tubewells supplying drinking water to the communities
* Hydrobiological study of the streams to be tapped for the catchment projects
* Protection of forested hillsides constituting the high watersheds where the catchment
works are installed
* Compensation for agricultural losses (financial, land, or assistance in kind)
* Landscaping to incorporate the access roads and reservoirs
* Protection of the Moutsamoudou river watershed
* Vegetation management within the reservoir (floating barrier option)
* Protection of the Hahaya tubewell (subject to the results of a hydrogeological survey)
* Biological monitoring of the marine environment and of the bacteriological quality of
the water.
The total cost of the measures in connection with easements and operation of the works is
estimated to be about KMF 210 million or approximately US$400,000. Most of these costs
will be included in the construction contracts.
Environmental consultation and training plan
The project involves community participation to enable primary stakeholders to voice their
views concerning potential changes to the environment, and to take ownership of project
decisions. This EIA is an excellent vehicle for organizing consultations and reaching
consensus. For this reason, the last part of this study contains specific proposals for
providing information to citizens, sensitizing them to environmental issues, and consulting
with them on these issues. Specifically, this part of the study covers:
*  The processes involved in consulting the public, taking account of the needs of the
different groups while also informing them about and sensitizing them to the underlying
environmental issues.
*  A training plan for administrative personnel involved in either the implementation and
supervision of measures to improve the environmental performance of the project, or in
carrying out public consultations.
It is important to emphasize that consultations were held during the preparation of the EIA.
However, these consultations were limited to the principal stakeholders involved with
environmental management (government, nongovernmental organizations, and the major
local associations). Consultations with primary stakeholders were carried out for the
behavioral and social study that was conducted at the same time as the EIA.
114



Dialogue with stakeholders will be expanded while the detailed designs for individual
project activities are being prepared. Consultations should involve project staff, local
authorities, and other key stakeholders. Proposals for the next steps for public consultation
are part of this EIA.
Provision of information, consultation and sensitization
This part of the study, carried out with the help of the Ulanga association, is based on the
premise that the Comorian Government suffers from a lack of representation in the regions,
a situation which is nevertheless offset by an ever-increasing presence of traditional
administrative bodies and local, regional and national associations. These have now come to
play an important role in the country's development process.
Following a description of the local administrative structure and social organization in the
Comoros, with its local variants, the study defines the importance and role of local
associations. The resource persons and principal contacts necessary for a public information
and consultation process are listed for each of the main activities of the project. The broad
directions and specific methods of a communication plan are outlined for each of the
project's components. It focuses on three major areas:
 Providing general information to the public, presenting the project objectives and the
associated issues to the people affected by each activity.
* Organizing consultations with the stakeholders, consisting of surveys of target groups
and the principal stakeholders.
-  Developing  sensitization  campaigns, designed to  involve the local people in
management of the project operations. The aim is to give the project the transparency
and media impact needed to attract the different actors and the people in general. They
will mainly relate to the urban water subcomponent in Moroni.
For each of these areas the target groups, strategies for providing information (verbally or by
using visual aids), and the organizations that could implement them are identified. This
section of the EIA also provides information on (a) the tasks needed to provide information,
conduct consultations with stakeholders and sensitize themn about environmental issues; (b)
groups or organizations responsible for performing those tasks and the potential
organizations that may provide support; (c) approximate time required for the different
actions; and (d) the estimated cost of the proposed actions.
The total cost of the information, consultation and sensitization activities to be carried out
under the project is estimated at around KMF 5 million, or approximately US$10,000. This
cost will be financed under the project.
115



Training activities
Protecting natural resources requires that governments and others to fully consider the
environmental impacts of their activities. In Comoros, special training is needed for all
those involved in the design, implementation, maintenance and operation of project
activities.
This chapter summarizes the variety of potential environment impacts of project activities,
suggests actions to address them, and lists the expertise needed. Finally, it describes the
principal themes to be addressed and the different training modalities to be used.
Given the important role of the government departments (in particular the DGI and DRIs to
be set up) and the Directorate General of the Environment) in implementing measures to
protect the environment, it is essential that their staff receive training.
For this purpose, five one-day workshops are proposed focusing on the following themes:
* Basics of the general ecology
General training in environmental studies
Special presentation of an environmental feasibility study
Special presentation of an EIA
* Training in methods of public consultation.
It is also proposed to provide special training for an official from the Directorate General of
the Environment working on environmental problems linked to infrastructure projects. This
would consist of a four-month internship abroad. Training activities also involve two
additional actions directed at the public:
. Publication of overviews of project operations, including descriptions of activities,
administrative procedures being followed, potential environmental impact of activities,
and significance of impacts on the country's communities.
* School courses to educate students about the environmental issues of the project. It is
expected that students will in turn educate their family members about these issues.
The overall cost of the recommended training activities would be around KMF 25 million,
or approximately US$50,000. This cost will be financed under the project.
Environmental management action plan
The environmental management action plan specifies in detail the measures to be taken to
mitigate or offset the environmental impacts of the project. It also provides details of the
public consultation plan and the training plan.
Because some the details of project activities are not yet known, the environmental
management action plan does not address any particular activity. Therefore it does not
116



specify fixed deadlines. However, it does identify the environmental action plans that will
need to be implemented to address environmental impacts of each principal project activity
once the timetable for implementing the activities is specified.
The total cost of the environmental management action plan is around KMF 240 million, or
approximately US$460,000 million, divided between:
* Measures to mitigate environmental impacts or compensate for them: KMF 210 million
($400,000)
* Consultation and training: KMF 30 million ($60,000).
This budget should, however, be regarded as a minimum. It is possible that other mitigation
or compensation measures will be identified through the additional studies and surveys to
identify the environmental impact of particular activities (hydrogeological surveys, flora
surveys, landscaping studies, and the like). The entire environmental management action
plan is to be financed by the IDA Credit. Financing of mitigation and compensation
measures is linked to the implementation schedule for the project activities.
To assure that the views of the stakeholders are fully taken into account, further public
consultations will take place before the detailed designs of project activities have been
produced. The information or sensitization campaigns will take place shortly before the
actual work prograrns are launched.
It should be noted that, in general, the DGI (or DRIs) will responsible for implementing the
measures to mitigate or compensate for the environmental impacts of the project and for all
associated information, consultation and sensitization activities.
117






MAP SECTION






IBRD 31236
0~~~~~
0                                       -
>7                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
E                                               E
EE            <                                 0 z-
g \    DE *C             C             E 
O   Z                                  j   ~ ~~~~~~~~0     c  
IF
N~~~~~ 0
b                                                     'N
N                                     AZAI   OAMIUd
C:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ERAY20






}              |                                           i          } tt Z    -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4'5-  5&
4340                                     434                                          A5'    v   A'
Z                    SEYCHELLES
COMOROS                                       z
>  ~    COMOROS
MOHELI-INFRASTRUCTURE, WATER                                                     -  Ot
-12lS' 5                                                   AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT                                                 M .     m
~ _Mbotsei                                                                                                si  4 3 M.a K5
v                       31-~~~~~~~Mtokoudia                                                              c       :        =
MADAGASCAR   OCEAN
-2O                                   2O--
v                            <                   \                                       ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~402    5   0
Thismp-opmdcdby&m.p   iou _it.0Tw. nk.
Th. boondoies, cform dno,mni-iaom ood  .y .ibr i,,yooIo
Miringoni                                                          .                                                           m rthibn m>o ,,b5X,d, O rpIly,    a of ThoWodd Br.k
l2~~~~~~~~~~~~2O'~~~~~~~~~~                                  1lyz  7,1 i
Oualiah( 
12'20'                                                                   Ziroudani aS     _unani                     -Hgmoia12'20i'
.   .   ~~~Ndrondroni   t                       Ldeen                                       ngani      
d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wn
Nioumrachou--             ,;                                                   O l          mi                 Mt-haow
klorwd  '                                                         ->r
A46a                              ~~~~~~~~HarnavounWan
Island  -
MognagniMBui 
Iskmnd . .Q. /        ,                . A  .>         t                                  URBAN CENTERS COVERED BY THE PROJECT FOR THE WATER COMPONENT
K   Ou6n6faiu'
island ,                             IsOvl#t  1, 'ln  Chandi               PROJECT ROADS
Kanzon; 'Islnd                                                               3RD H*HWAY MAINTNANCE PROJECT ROADS
12'25 '                                                                                                                                                     2'25'
MAIN ROADS
wl  L    2I    I            I 6                                         cj SELECTED CITES/TOWNS
>                                         KILOMETERS                                                 ARR
w                                                                       X  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AIRPORT                                c
-<                                                 43o40*                43>454                   L-
g _                            I                                           I                                                                                          o






IBRD 31238
43010'                                             43' 2                                   -4 ,-                        5Ok
ZBoingoua Kouni     ;                               | ,tZ SEYCHELLES
z
Mitsoamiou                                         ni              >           COMOROS
r  bJ-  \ AOuZioN ". @ t tm ';'1~~~~~~~niow
v<_4Mandza    vV       /  ONdroud6           w;
Ojomani' ~~~~~~~~zaic
|      Djomael l           \             \  Chemn  ~~~~~~~~~~~~Nio6mzmilina  7, ;'>IDA 
.H_lendueje               IJU)ll,s,IIIIIIII'MADAGASCAR;                        DA
OCEAN
Ntsaou6ni                                    Mo uaCIja,        _05
ivemb ni        Dimadjou                                     43030
Domon                                        & w r 
11030                                                    M66ni         S66yoni                                                11'30'
COMOROS
.    Mil6vHni                  6roumbdi         GRANDE COMORE-
INFRASTRUCTURE, WATER
AND EWIRONMENT PROJECT
Oussivo                             t Si**Kh
PROJECT ROADS
Vanamrouan                                                                      3RD HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE
Dza a        Koimba,RPROJECT ROADS (CLOSED IN 1997)
a  ni                                                 MAINChmoni  -  ROADS
Ntsoud.in                                                              00   SELECTED CmES/TOWNS
-1 l'0'               (tsondr    Madu6ni  w~  n   A   K    1E*$idjou                            NATIONAL CAPAL                I
alimonn\ G5E RA                                      +AIRPORTS
MORONIs d    
Tsidj6unA /COMO   R E                            'Tagaliou
Ikoni       Mkazj
~~t   >__1                                ~~~~~~~Oungoni oE
Boboni                                               P io djni
Mouandzaza-
Am  i  Selea                      Tsinimouapanga         Badamad ji
Srdimoni'                             
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~15
-    Chouani                _\Bo4r
11050                                        0 Md1e'ez  Tsinimouach,ngo                     Nivtjadzaha- 
S                       Kourani>r_ _Koura
-in~oni  ouh j   R             |       Nioumami
01    2    4    6    81   to                                                              MA bosa 
t__ _I  __ _I __  _I ___I   ISim                                              boussa
KH.OMETERS                                  Ovzibuani
XIs nmap ws pd  dby  Mop Dmign UikaiThe oWadSo                                             .I.
fl'. b  radarns, coor, deoorniohlotAs  nd ooY oter inoroooaion. '^
showno thismapdonotimpny, anthportfof TWaodBntid                     m  A oI  _urov6ni
Gr,pon j nzenfon the  ot u of're, o,y ov any                       5 $ir  Am      uanl
A=110'  eenforaccapf;menofsuch-xirieL    -       43a2      -                               ,UR2indiU
FEBRUARY 200C



