Report No. PID8012
Project Name                     Comoros-Environment, Water and (@)
Infrastructure Project
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Transport, water supply, and urban
development
Project ID                       KMPE47250
Borrowers                        Government of Comoros
Implementing agency              Ministere de l'Equipment et de l'Energie
Address Direction Nationale de
l' Infrastructure
Contact person: Ahmed Hassan
Tel: 269-732993
Fax: 269-732993
E-mail: DGTP@sntp.km
Environmental Category           A (Full assessment)
Date PID prepared                November 22, 2000
Project Appraisal Date           October 9, 2000
Projected Board Date             March 1, 2001
1.      Country and sector background
The Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros comprises three islands in the Indian
Ocean (Grande Comore, Anjouan and Moheli), with a population of around
544,000 and a GNP per capita estimated at US$350 in 1999, a significant
decline since the late 1980s.
A history of political instability and weak governance has led to poor
economic performance and continuing poverty. Political instability results
from the twin crises of separatism on Anjouan and lack of democratic
legitimacy of the government in Grande Comore and Moheli. Refusal by the
Anjouan separatists to accept a compromise led to unrest in Grand Comore and
riots that prompted the army to intervene and take over power in a bloodless
coup on April 30, 1999. A return to legitimate government will be difficult,
until all parties agree to hold elections on the entire national territory.
The military rulers are working to resolve the political crisis and improve
the economic situation. In December 1999, a civilian government was named,
with the support of 22 out of Comoros' 30 political parties, and promised to
carry out elections once the crisis is resolved. The government has also
improved economic and financial management, resulting in its ability to pay
civil servants on a more regular basis. Nevertheless, the situation remains
very unstable. The combined efforts of the Organization of African Unity
(OAU), regional neighbors and interested European governments have created a
new dynamic which holds the promise of breaking the political impasse.
Road transport. Improved roads are critical to Comoros's efforts to fight
poverty and stimulate rural growth and encouraging investment in tourist
facilities and manufacturing industries. Currently, while operation of the



road maintenance fund assures that resources are available for routine
maintenance, Comoros lacks institutional and financial capacity to adequately
provide periodic maintenance for all its 564 kilometers of roads.
Furthermore, while road transport safety is improving due to support from the
road maintenance fund and donors (IDA, European Union, Agence FranQaise de
Developpement, Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation), road travel is still dangerous
due to inadequate signs, unstable road shoulders and an antiquated and poorly
enforced road code. To reduce travel time and vehicle operating costs, the
government plans to improve both routine and periodic maintenance of roads.
It will do this by reforming and strengthening the road maintenance fund,
privatizing regional equipment pools and workshops, and strengthening the
capacity of the MinistOre de l'Equipment et de l'Energie to manage the road
sector more effectively, efficiently and sustainably. To save lives and
reduce injuries and property damage, government plans to increase road safety
by installing improved signs, rehabilitating and reshaping unsafe road
shoulders among other measures.
Urban water supply. The percentage of population with access to safe drinking
water is relatively low in Comoros (current rates of coverage are 30 percent
for Grand Comore, 45 percent for Anjouan, and 60 percent for Moheli).
Responsibilities for water resources management are scattered among multiple
public sector institutions, most of which are understaffed, have limited
resources and lack technical capabilities. Existing water infrastructure has
limited capacity and is in poor condition due to lack of maintenance. This
has resulted in poor quality services, high water losses (on Grande Comore
water losses are estimated as being as high as 45 percent) and threats to
human health as demonstrated by a recent cholera outbreak. Cost recovery for
water services is nonexistent. The government has adopted the recommendations
of the UNICEF-financed national action plan for water and basic sanitation to
(a) integrate the water sector into the national environmental action plan
(NEAP); (b) establish an institutional framework to monitor, plan and
coordinate water sector activities; (c) focus on rural and periurban
microprojects; (d) focus on the needs of beneficiary communities and increase
their contribution to service delivery; (e) use appropriate technologies to
increase low-cost, sustainable coverage of water and sanitation services; (e)
standardize construction; (f) strengthen water engineering capacity in
Comoros; and (h) introduce charges for water services. The operations of the
water and electricity authority (Compagnie Nationale de l'Eau l'electricite
des Comores (CEE)) have been privatized, which has led to improved management
and delivery of services in Grande Comore (CEE does not operate in the water
sector in Anjouan and Moheli islands). A key element of the strategy is to
assure that poor households have access to clean water at prices they can
afford. Therefore, while government plans to make water operations
financially self-sufficient by charging users full long-run marginal costs for
water, it also intends to cap prices of water from public standposts at levels
so that poor households pay no more than 5 percent of their average annual
income for water.
2.      Project objectives
The proposed project is an integral part of a multidonor-financed
infrastructure, water and environment program in Comoros, and supports the
development objectives of the larger program. The primary program objective
is to improve living conditions and stimulate economic growth in Comoros,
while protecting the environment through investments in basic infrastructure.
Focusing on two priority sectors (roads and urban water supply), the specific
- 2-



objectives of the project are to: (a) maintain road infrastructure and improve
the safety of road transport; (b) upgrade and expand urban water
infrastructure and significantly increase access to clean water for people
living on the Anjouan and Moheli islands by 2005; and (c) improve
decentralized management of road transport and water supply through
strengthening of public sector institutions, increased public awareness,
stakeholder participation, and implementation of cost-recovery measures. The
project would seek to decentralize the responsibility for project management
and promote increased participation of beneficiary communities and the private
sector in implementing and managing road maintenance and water supply.
3.      Rationale for Bank involvement
The International Development Agency (IDA) has been involved in the transport
sector of Comoros for the past twenty years, financing three highway and road
maintenance projects, most recently the Road Maintenance Project which closed
in 1997. Through these and projects in other sectors, IDA has developed a
close working relationship with Comoros.
IDA has also developed effective relationships with other donors active in
Comoros. The government is looking to IDA to take the lead in coordinating
donors as they resume implementation of their plans to support the country's
national economic recovery efforts. Through the proposed project, IDA has a
critical role in mobilizing donor support for the large multidonor program.
4.      Project description
The IDA financed project is part of a large multi-donor infrastructure and
environment program. The total amount of the program is estimated at US$52
million over eight years. A description of IDA-financed components follows:
Component A: Transport
The transport component of the project will assist Comoros improve its roads
maintenance, safety, and management through three subcomponents: national and
regional roads periodic maintenance, roads safety, and institutional
strengthening.
The periodic maintenance subcomponent will support periodic maintenance of the
priority road network. This will complement the EU financed periodic
maintenance and the routine maintenance financed by the road maintenance fund.
A program involving all donors (IDA, EU, AFD, African Development Bank, and
others) and a contribution from the road maintenance fund is envisaged
covering a total of 218 kilometers on Grande Comore, 157 kilometers on Anjouan
and 83 kilometers on Moheli. IDA will finance priority sections of the
overall roads maintenance program. Implementation of this project will
prevent further deterioration of the existing road network and contribute to
establishing an effective road maintenance policy aimed at renewing roadway
surfaces every ten to twelve years with permanent annual (minor) maintenance
of roadways and related structures through contracts with small and medium-
sized enterprises and contractors.
The roads safety subcomponent will finance the installation of traffic signals
and signs and works to stabilize road embankments. It will also strengthen
the capacity of the executing agency in monitoring the road safety and
enforcing the law. Details were finalized during appraisal.
- 3 -



The studies, expertise and institutional strengthening subcomponent will
finance a study of options for institutional setups for road maintenance,
including privatization of regional road maintenance centers and withdrawal of
the state from labor contracting. It will provide technical assistance to DNI
and DRIs to strengthen their role in planning and programming of road
maintenance, management of contracts and supervision of works. In addition,
the subcomponent will provide technical assistance to the road maintenance
fund to improve its operations and financial management.
Component B: Urban water supply
The urban water supply subcomponent will support the rehabilitation and
extension of urban water infrastructure in Moutsamoudou, Domoni and Ouani on
Anjouan (about 72,000 inhabitants) and Fomboni on Moheli (about 15,000
inhabitants). It is expected that the Agence Fran6aise de Developpement (AFD)
will finance rehabilitation and extension of water systems in rural areas of
Grande Comore, Anjouan and Moheli. The urban water supply under IDA financing
will involve UNICEF and NGOs in information, sanitary education and
communication campaigns to encourage people to participate in managing and
maintaining the water systems and in paying for water services.
The institutional strengthening subcomponent will support technical assistance
to strengthen management and operations of urban water utilities. A study of
institutional and financial issues has been completed for project preparation
and its recommendations will be used in developing an efficient, effective and
sustainable water management and cost-recovery system. This subcomponent will
also finance public consultations and public awareness raising activities to
involve beneficiaries with decisions on project issues, assist them in
selecting and managing a private operator, and gain acceptance of plans to
charge for water.
Component C: Support to the sectors and program coordination
This component will support technical assistance to strengthen coordination
among agencies responsible for different sectors under the project. It will
also provide technical assistance and logistical support for the project
coordinating unit. Although French Cooperation will finance most of the
expenses of the coordination unit, the IDA Credit will assist with logistical
support for coordination. This component will also support training on
environmental management for government staff and others involved with the
design, implementation, maintenance and operation of project activities. In
particular, training is planned for the staffs of the DNI, DRIs and the
Directorate General of the Environment. Training activities also involve two
actions directed at the public. The first involves publication of overviews
of project operations, including descriptions of activities, administrative
procedures being followed, potential environmental impact of activities and
impacts on the country's communities. The second involves school courses to
educate students about the environmental issues of the project. Approximately
US$50,000 of project funds have been allocated for training and awareness
activities on environmental matters.
Component D: Project preparatory studies (under the Project Preparation
Facility)
The Project Preparation Facility (to be refunded) has financed activities to
- 4 -



prepare the project for implementation, including feasibility studies, social
assessment, environmental impact assessment, institutional and cost recovery
study, preparation of detailed engineering designs, tender documents, and
development of maritime, construction and urban development codes.
5.      Financing                (US$ million)
Government                       0.3
International Development
Association (IDA)                11.4
Cofinancier: French
Cooperation (FC)                 1.6
Total:                           13.3
6.      Implementation
Project implementation period.   The project will take place over five years,
fiscal 2002-2006. It will be completed by June 30, 2005 and closed by
December 31, 2005.
Project coordination. The MinistOre de l'Equipment et de l'Energie through
the DNI will be responsible for overall project coordination and
implementation. The DNI, which will consolidate the existing competencies in
roads, urban and water matters, will be comprised of representatives of the
Directorate of Public Works (Direction de Generale Travaux Publics (DGTP)),
Directorate of Energy and Directorate of Urban Development, who have
experience coordinating, planning and executing projects financed by IDA, the
EU, the African Development Bank, Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FC, France)
and Islamic Development Bank. The DNI, which once set up will replace the
above mentioned three directorates, will be supported by a designated
coordination unit (cellule de coordination, CC) headed by an international
expert, who is already in place. FC is financing the coordination unit, the
technical assistance and the training program to strengthen capacity of the
DNI and DRIs in their new roles.
Project oversight. A steering committee?comprised of representatives of the
ministries of finance, infrastructure and energy, transport and tourism,
environment, and representatives of various stakeholder groups (urban
communities, road users, water users) will provide policy guidance and overall
project oversight, and will ensure coordination and cooperation between
central, regional and local authorities, government agencies involved with
project implementation, and the private sector. The steering committee will
be constituted prior to Board presentation.
Executing agency. The MinistOre de l'Equipment et de l'Energie through the
DNI (to be set up prior to Board presentation) will execute the project.
Regional directorates (Directions Regionales de l'Infrastructure (DRIs)) will
monitor implementation of road maintenance and water works on individual
islands through a decentralized management structure. Supervision of works
will be carried out by consulting firms to be recruited by DNI according to
World Bank procurement guidelines and procedures.
Procurement. Consultant services, works and equipment to be financed under
the IDA Credit will be procured according to World Bank procurement
guidelines.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements. Prior to Board
- 5 -



presentation, DNI will establish an improved project accounting system
tracking the cost of the various works, goods and services provided under the
project, in accordance with the "Financial, Accounting, Reporting, and
Auditing Handbook," dated January 1995, as well as a draft Financial
Management Procedures Manual. Also prior to Board presentation, DNI and the
road maintenance fund will appoint a financial manager acceptable to IDA.
During the first year of implementation, the road maintenance fund will
establish an improved accounting and financial management system. Assessment
of the project's financial management for adequacy and readiness for PMR-based
disbursements will be carried out within 12 months of project implementation
in order to evaluate the transition effectiveness to the new enhanced
disbursement mode. On the basis of this evaluation, DNI will prepare an
action plan, acceptable to IDA, to implement the measures recommended with
clear deadlines for implementation stages. Independent auditors acceptable to
IDA will annually audit the accounts of DNI, the project and the road
maintenance fund. The reports of such audits will be submitted to IDA no
later than six months after the end of the government's fiscal year for the
project accounts and road maintenance fund accounts. The DNI and the road
maintenance fund will appoint the auditors prior to effectiveness.
Supervision. During the first two years of project implementation, IDA will
devote some 14 staff weeks a year for supervision. During the following three
years, it will devote 12 weeks a year to supervision. Supervision missions,
which will be carried out twice a year, will generally include infrastructure
specialists. Periodically, missions will include technical and financial
management specialists. Particular attention will be paid to the operations
of the road maintenance fund, community participation in the water component,
effectiveness of cost recovery systems, and progress with privatizing water
operations.
Monitoring and evaluation. Overall project monitoring will be based on
indicators prepared during appraisal and on the project implementation plan
finalized by the MinistOre de l'Equipement et de l'Energie (MEE) and agreed
during negotiations. MEE (and later on DNI, once set up) will prepare progress
reports every three months, commencing in March 2001, and submit them to IDA
within one month thereafter. These will include information on (a) the status
of the project relative to the agreed timetable of project execution and
disbursements, (b) key performance indicators, and (c) work program and
projections of expenditures for the next quarter. This reporting will help
the DNI and the Bank identify and address problems quickly. Once a year
during project implementation, a joint annual review will be carried out with
DNI and the donors involved in the concerned sectors, to assess the overall
progress achieved during the current year. No later than four months after the
Credit closing date, the DNI will prepare and provide to the Bank a report on
the execution of the project, its costs and current and future benefits to be
derived from it, to be attached to the Bank's Implementation Completion Report
in accordance with IDA guidelines.
Midterm review. IDA will carry out a midterm review jointly with the
government, FC, DNI, DRI, the road maintenance fund and other involved parties
no later than 2§ years after the project becomes effective. In addition to
covering all areas included in quarterly progress reports, the midterm review
will (a) assess compliance with clauses of the Credit Agreement, especially
those concerning financial management and auditing; (b) implementation
progress relative to plan of physical works and institutional strengthening
- 6 -



components; and (c) performance of the road maintenance fund. In addition,
the parties will finalize decisions on tariff policies and cost recovery
mechanisms to be implemented under the water component.
7.      Sustainability
As part of a larger donor-supported program, the IDA Credit will support
interventions that complement and build upon those of other donors. In
addition, the project is based on the participation of community groups that
are already involved in providing services to residents. The project will
capitalize on existing capacity, which has already been built during previous
IDA-financed road maintenance projects, and strengthen it at central and
regional levels. Cost recovery mechanisms will be developed and implemented
to help pay for water services. The road maintenance fund will be
restructured to ensure overall long-term financial sustainability of road
maintenance activities.
8.      Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Donor coordination. Given the relatively large number of donor operations and
the government's low absorptive capacity, there is a strong need for
coordination of donor assistance in Comoros. The proposed project is part of
a larger donor-financed infrastructure and environment program, which will
facilitate coordination of donor support. IDA has been a key player in donor
coordination since the identification of the infrastructure and environment
program and the project. Coordination will be maintained during project
supervision and formal yearly donor coordination meetings are planned to be
held during the joint annual reviews.
Community participation. Worldwide experience shows that participation can
help in designing projects that reflect community preferences, and therefore
avoiding costly mistakes. Participation in decision-making also creates a
sense of ownership which should contribute to the sustainability of project
benefits by increasing willingness of beneficiaries to pay for services and
maintain the assets. In this project, communities have been consulted at very
early stage of project preparation through a social assessment study. They
have participated in decisions on the design of water systems, tariff
structure and cost-recovery mechanisms. They will also participate in the
management and operations of the water systems and of the road maintenance
fund.
Privatization of water utility operations. The operations of the water
utility have been privatized on Grande Comore, a tariff system has been set
up, and cost recovery mechanisms established. This is working well, and
similar schemes will be established on Anjouan and Moheli under the project.
The selection of the private operator will be made on the basis of competitive
bidding according to World Bank guidelines.
9.      Program of targeted intervention.   No
10.     Environmental aspects (including public consultation)
A full environmental impact assessment has been carried out for the project.
The major environmental impacts of the project's two components and their
treatment follow:
Transport. This component involves mainly maintenance of existing roads,
which will have minor, if any, environmental impacts. Major works include
- 7 -



stabilization of road embankments, which will involve some reshaping of land
surfaces and destruction of roadside vegetation.
Urban water supply. This component involves rehabilitation of existing
infrastructure and extension of urban water works. Poor construction
practices can disturb land and cause erosion, which can damage streams and
aquatic ecosystems and degrade soil cover. Carelessness during construction
can also result in contamination of water courses by chemical or organic
pollutants. Construction of small reservoirs along the streams can disturb
rheophile aquatic fauna accustomed to rapid currents in the higher parts of
the watersheds. Increased consumption of water accompanied by poor drainage
can lead to changes in the water table, and to contamination of water and
soil.
Contractors will specify in their bidding documents plans for addressing
environmental issues during construction. These plans will be included in
final contracts. Government entities and the Bank will closely monitor
implementation of the plans.
Measures to mitigate or offset environmental impacts of the project
There are two categories of measures to mitigate environmental impacts of the
project: those put into place during construction (which apply to all project
operations), and those pertaining to easements and operations of the various
facilities. The total cost of the measures is estimated to be about
US$400,000. The costs of these measures will be included in the construction
contracts.
Environmental consultation and training plan
STAKEHOLDER CONSULTATIONS. The principal stakeholders involved with environmental
protection (government authorities, nongovernmental organizations, and local
associations) were involved in identifying the project's environmental
impacts, specifying measures to address them and reviewing the environmental
impact assessment (EIA) and environmental management plan. Consultations with
primary stakeholders were carried out for the behavioral and social study that
was conducted at the same time as the EIA. Additional consultations, to be
financed by the IDA Credit, are planned during preparation of the final
designs of project works.
TRAINING ACTIVITIES. Protecting natural resources requires government actors and
others to fully take into account the environmental impacts of their
activities. In Comoros, special training is needed for all those involved in
the design, implementation, maintenance and operation of project activities.
In particular, training is planned for the staffs of the national and regional
implementing agencies and the Directorate General of the Environment. The
implementing agencies must ensure that the measures to protect the environment
are incorporated in the implementation of works and the Directorate General of
the Environment must enforce environmental laws and regulations, so training
for staffs of these agencies is particularly important. Training activities
also involve two actions directed at the public. The first involves
publication of overviews of project operations, including descriptions of
activities, administrative procedures being followed, potential environmental
impact of activities and impacts on the country's communities. The second
involves carrying out public education and communication campaigns regarding
- 8 -



the environmental issues of the project. About US$60,000 of project resources
are allocated for consultation and training activities.
11.     Contact point:
Task manager
Abdelmoula Ghzala
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-4450
Fax: 202 473 8326
12.     For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may no
necessarily be included in the final project.
This PID processed during the week ending December 1, 2000.
-9-



