                                                 Document of
                                               The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL        USE ONLY



                                                                                       Report No. 27132



                                    PROJECT       COMPLETION          NOTE

                                            (Credit No. 346%COM)


                                                     ONA


                                                   CREDIT


                               IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR8.8MILLION

                                  (USiGll.4 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                    TO THE

                                           UNION OF COMOROS

                                                    FOR A


               INFRASTRUCTURE,                WATER    AND ENVIRONMENT              PROJECT


                                               October 31,2003




Transport     Division
Africa Region


This document    has a restricted  distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise ,bedisclosed without World Bank authorization.

                   CURRENCY     EQUIVALENTS

             Currency Unit                Comorian Franc (KMF)
             US$l .oo                     420KMF (October31,2003)
             SDR 1                        604 KMF


             SYSTEM   OF WEIGHT     AND   MEASURES
                          Metric System

                          FISCAL  YEAR

                    January 1 - December 31


                       ABBREVIATIONS



CAS                        CountryAssistanceStrategy
GDI                        General Directorate for Infrastructure
GOC                        Governmentof theComoros
ISS                        Interim Support Strategy
KMF                        ComorianFranc




  Vice President:                Callisto Madavo
  Country Director:              Hafez Ghanem
  Sector Manager:                Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard
  Task TeamLeaders:              SusanneHolste

                                                                    FOR OFFICIAL     USE ONLY



                            PROJECT     COMPLETION         NOTE

                                 UNION OF COMOROS

INFRASTRUCTURE,           WATER      AND ENVIRONMENT            PROJECT    Cr. 346%COM)




 1        The project was identified by the government and the Bank in 1996, was appraised in
 dctober 2000andnegotiatedin January2001. TheBoard approvedthe credit for US$ 11.4
 million on March 1, 2001. The Development Credit Agreement was signed on April 25, 2001.
 The creditbecameeffective on July 1, 2001 The unusually long time of 54 months for project
                                               l


 preparation was due to a two-year suspension of IDA disbursements to Comoros and one year
 of political turmoil.


 Project Objectivesand Description

 2.       The objectiveof the project was to assistthe Governmentof Comoros (COM) to
 improve living conditions and stimulate economic growth, while protecting the environment
 through investments in basic infrastructure. Theprojectfocusedon two priority sectors(roads
 and urban water supply), and the specific objectives were to (i) maintain road infrastructure
 andimprovethe safetyof roadtransport,(ii) upgradeandexpandurbanwater infrastructure
 and significantly increase access to clean water for people living on the Anjouan and Mohbli
 islandsby 2004-2005,and(iii) improvedecentralizedmanagementof roadtransportandwater
 supply through strengthening of public         sector institutions, increased public   awareness,
 stakeholderparticipation,andimplementationof cost-recoverymeasures.

 3        Dueto the volatilepolitical situationandcontinuedconflict, theBankhasnot prepared
 a' Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) since 1993. The Board discussed an Interim Support
 Strategy(ISS) on November 14, 2000. The main strategicobjectivesof the ISS were to
 support the Government of Comoros while attempting to integrate Anjouan into the federation,
 createthe conditionsfor improvedeconomicmanagementandgovernance.Theprojectwas
 the only new credit considered for the Comoros at the time.        By supporting urgent periodic
 maintenanceandwater supplyinfrastructureit was to contributeto economicrecoveryand
 help provide    essential social services.     By   supporting, improved    decentralized project
 implementationand managementon all three islands,it was to support the government's
 efforts to create a federation within which all three islands enjoy considerable autonomy.


 4        The project included three components: (A) Transport: roads periodic maintenance,
 rdadsafetyandengineeringstudies,expertise,andinstitutionalstrengthening;(B) Urbanwater
 supply: urban water works and engineering studies, expertise, and institutional strengthening;
 and(C) Supportto sectorsandprogramcoordination. Theproject wasto be implemented

over a five-year period, closing on December 31, 2005. The total project cost was estimated at
US$ 13.3 million equivalent,including a foreign exchangecomponentof about US$ 10
million, or 75 percent of the total project cost. The IDA credit of $11.4 million was to finance
about 86 percent of the total project cost, comprising civil works, consulting services, goods
and equipment. The French Cooperation and Government were to finance the remaining US$
1.9million equivalent.Theprojectwasanintegralpart of amulti-donorfinancedinfrastructure
program that was to include the European Union and UNICEF.


5       The project was to be implemented through the General Directorate for Infrastructure
(GDI) of the Ministry     of Equipment, Energy and Urban Development.           The GDI was to
integrate the previously independent Directorate of Public Works, Directorate of Energy and
Directorateof UrbanDevelopment.Thegeneraldirectoratewasto be decentralizedto eachof
the islands. The GDI was to be supported by a designated coordination unit headed by an
international expert. The French Cooperation was to finance the coordination unit, technical
assistanceand the institutional training program for the central and regional directorates.


6       The project team identified the high risk associated with investing in Comoros before
the political  situation had fully stabilized,particularly becausea substantialportion of the
disbursements were planned for Anjouan which had been involved in a lengthy separatist
struggle and remained outside effective government control at the time of appraisal.        The
Development     Credit Agreement (DCA)        therefore provided for a separate disbursement
category and disbursementconditionfor works in Anjouan. The DCA also stipulatedthe
following    legal covenants for implementation:      (i) a sliding  three-year investment and
maintenance program for the road sector would be prepared by the Infrastructure Directorate
General and submitted annually to IDA by October 15, for its review and comments; (ii)
government would not undertake or order from any entity or contractoranypublicinvestment
for the road sector over US$500,000 equivalent, which is not part of the approved three-year
investmentandmaintenanceprogram,and(iii) the governmentwould (a) maintainthe road
maintenance fund under terms and conditions which would be at all times satisfactory to IDA,
(b) undertakemeasuresrequiredon its part to ensurethat the level of road userfeesto be
channeled into the road maintenance fund are promptly adjusted according to the agreed
provision under the Sector Policy Letter, and (c) ensurethat the proceedsof the road
maintenance fund shall be used solely for the purposes of defraying the cost of expenditures
incurredfor roadmaintenanceandrehabilitationoperationsin theComoros.

Reasons for cancellation


7       Hopes for reconciliation and a renewal of government have not materialized despite the
Fbmboni Agreement that was reached in February 2001 and which outlined the path to
reunification  and democratization of the country.       The new constitution was adopted on
December 23, 2001 and with it, the country changed its name to the Union of Comoros. The
constitution contained provisions for electing a president and forming a government on each of
the three islands as well as at the central level. During April and May 2002, in elections that
were surroundedby controversy,the existingleadersof Anjouan,Moheli and of the Union
were elected presidents, and a political opponent of the Union was elected as president of

Grande Comore.      It was not before long that new lines of confrontation emerged as the
agreementshadleft room for interpretationand negotiation on the specific responsibilities and
prerogatives of the four governments.      Since July 2002 disagreements over budget issues
emerged, particularly with respect to modalities of tax collection and customs administration.


8        The social and general economic climate has been deteriorating noticeably in 2003. A
disputeover control of revenuesandthe security forces, and mutual accusations of coup and
assassinationplots have charged the atmosphere further, and caused indefinite postponement of
legislative elections for the Union and the three islands. The tensions between the Union and
the islands are further compounded because Anjouan has been operating much like an
independent entity, while Moheli and Grande Comore have never been able to fully exercise
their autonomous prerogatives. Comoros is not a war-torn, post-conflict country recovering
from heavy loss of human or physical capital.       But unconventional business practices have
flourished in an institutional vacuum and poor governance, as evidenced by the single-source
contracting for the country's telephone code, by Anjouan's "double privatization" of its port,
and by the lack of competitive practices for oil or rice imports.          The few companies of
international standing that were active in the Comoros (Vivendi, Emirates Airlines, and Sun
International)haveleft theislandsin recentyears.

9        The setting-up of the Union and of the three independent islands was not properly
prepared and to-date there is        a significant   lack   of understanding as to the roles
and responsibilities of the different spheres of government. This was illustrated recently when
the army of the Union impounded a charter plane becauseit had received landing authorization
from Grande Comore but not from the Union. The ministerial set-up varies between the Union
and the islands and there is no longer an effective implementing arrangement for this project.
At the level of the Union government there is no longer a ministry responsible for transport or
infrastructure; instead there is a Ministry for Social Affairs, Solidarity, Decentralization, Post,
Telecommunication,andInternationalTransport. In additionthereis aDeputyMinister whose
portfolio includes Investments and who could conceivably become a main interlocutor. The
General Directorate for Infrastructure is attached to the Ministry     of Social Affaires but the
decreehas not been signed. In Grande Comore the ministerial set-up provides for a Ministry of
Industry,EquipmentandMining; in Anjouanthereis a Ministry of Production,Environment,
Equipment, Transport, and Telecommunication; and finally in Moheli there exists a Ministry
for Land Planning, Energy, Urban Development, Housing, Transport, and Post and
Telecommunication.       The level of human resource capacity in all four governments is
extremelylimited andqualified staff fills few positions. The GDI doesnot havesufficient
human resources at central level to implement a project of this complexity and the departure of
the foreignprojectcoordinatortirther weakenedits capacity. Giventhe currentconstellation
of authorities and lack of agreement over responsibilities        it is impossible to pursue a
reform agendathatrequiresgovernmentcommitmentandabilityto implement.

 10      The road fund is set-up at the level of the Union and managedby the General
Directorate for Infrastructure and payments are authorized by the national director and the
directorof Treasury(of the Union). Roaduserleviesshouldbe transferreddirectly from the
Oil Authority into the account of the road fund, which is held at the Central Bank.         Delays
have,however,beencommonsincethe start of the project and currentlythere is a delayof

seven months, for a total of FC 238 million, about $US 500,000. The GDI recently signed
maintenance contracts for FC 313 million, hoping that the road fund account will be credited
shortly but this might also lead to important payment delays.


11      On March 24, 2003 GOC informed the Bank of its decision to close the project. The
Bank acknowledged Government's decision and fixed July 31, 2003 as the deadline of receipt
for f!inal withdrawal applications. Government agreed with the Bank that the only project to be
supported in the new Transitional Support Strategy, to be presented to the Board in October
2003, would be the second phase of the Social Fund which relies exclusively on communities,
civil  society, NGOs and companies for its implementation.          Government requested that
periodic road maintenance and urban water supply be transferred from the cancelled credit to
this new project because of their strategic importance.     A pre-appraisal mission is currently
assessingthe feasibility of this request.


Lessons learnt

12      Comoros is not a post-conflict country but rather a country that continues to evolve in a
highly volatile political situation, with an institutional vacuum, andnon-transparentbusiness
practices. Lessons learnt might be unique and are the following:

     a. Challenged authority: the islands are preoccupied by their autonomy and are unwilling
        to acceptUnion oversightin anyof their developmentefforts; it appearsunlikelythat a
        project which depends on a central, or even deconcentrated, institutional structure could
        succeed because the islands' governments are not accepting such a set-up, insisting
        instead on fully autonomous regional representations;

     b. Failure of the road fund: a central tenet of the project was a functioning road fund that,
        would preserve investments and enable local enterprises to flourish;         due to the
        institutional uncertainties and lack of any organic texts and effective authority, the
        islandof GrandeComoroshascreatedits own roadfund, the oil importing authority
        refuses to release road user fees to the Union Road Fund, and the islands of Moheli and
        Anjouan are starved for resources;

     c. International expert as project coordinator: a rare point of consensus amongst the
        Comorians was the criticism of an international expert who managed the project unit;
        while the need for international expertise was acknowledged, the hierarchical position
        was challenged;

     d. Focusof developmentassistance:in asituationof absenceof a functioninggovernment
        and mutual distrust of the political leaders, it appearsjudicious to focus development
        assistance on communities and civil society, as proposed by the transitional support
        strategy.



