FILE COPY
RESTRICTED
Report No.  PA-63a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
INTEGRATED DAIRY BEEF DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KOREA
January 11, 1971
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US,$1                        =       Won 305
Won 1,000                     '       US$3.28
Won 1,000,000                 -       US$3,280
Won 1,000,000,000             u       US$3,280,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
1 kilogram (kg)              -        2.20 pounds
1,000 kg - 1 metric ton               2,200 pounds
1 kilometer (kmn)            -        0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)               -        2.47 acres
1 liter (1)                           0.26 gallon
1,000 millimeters (mm)       -        39.37 inches
1,100 cubic centimeters (cc) -        1 quart
550 cubic centimeters (cc)            1 pint
180 cubic centimeters (cc)  -         1/3 pint
O degree centigrade (°C)     -        320 fahrenheit
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AI                                    Artificial Insemination
AU                           =       Animal Unit
AFDC                         =Agriculture and Fishery
Development Corporation
GDP                          =        Gross Domestic Product
KDBC                                  Korea Dairy Beef Company
NACF                                  National Agricultural Cooperative
Federation



KOREA
INTEGRATED DAIRY-BEEF DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ...............................                  i
I. INTRODUCTION... . ..... 1
II. BACKGROUND.... 1
A. General. .                                                             1
B. Agricultural Sector .                       .                         1
C. Animal Health.                               .         ... I ...   3
D. Agricultural Services. . .                                            4
E. Agricultural Policies. . .                                             6
III. THE PROJECT.... 7
A. Description....                                                        7
B. The Project Areas....                                                 7
C. Detailed Features....                                                 8
D. Cost Estimates                     ....11
E. Proposed Financing                     . ..12
F. Procurement...                                                       13
G.    Disbursement. ........                                            14
H. Auditing...                                                          15
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  . ..                                           15
A. Administration ... 15
B.  Management and Technical Services  . .16
C. Lending Operations..... 17
V.  PRICES, MARKETS AND PRODUCER BENEFITS    ...                               18
A. Markets and Prices ...18
B.    Producer Benefits and Revenue Generation   ..                     19
VI.  ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION    ...20
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS ..                  ...21
This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission to
Korea in April-May 1970, composed of Messrs. F. Knobel, F. van Gigch (IDA),
M. Walshe (Consultant, Dairy Production) and D. King (Consultant, Dairy
Processing).






ANNEXES
1.   The Livestock Sub-sector
2.   Dairy Products Processing
3.   Agriculture and Fishery Development Corporation (AFDC) and Korea
Dairy Beef Co. (KDBC)
Table 1 - Balance Sheet, AFDC
Table 2 - Financial Statements of AFDC
Table 3 - Balance Sheet, KDBC
Table h - Operating Income and Expense, KDBC
4.  Dairy Farm Development Projections
Model 1: 10-Cow Dairy Farm
Table 1 - Investment Cost Projections
Table 2 - Herd Projection
Table 3 - Sales, Operating Expenses, and Net Operating Income
Table h - Financial Projections
Model 2: hO-Cow Dairy Farm
Table 5 - Investment Cost Projections
Table 6 - Herd Projection
Table 7 - Sales, Operating Expenses and Net Operating Income
Table 8 - Financial Projections
5.  Dairy Processing Facilities Development Projections
Central District Processing Facilities
Table 1- Investment Projections
Table 2 - Sales, Operating Expenses and Net Operating Income
Table 3 - Financial Projections
Honam District Processing Facilities
Table 4 - Investment Projections
Table 5 - Sales, Operating Expenses and Net Operating Income
Table 6 - Financial Projections
6.  Management and Technical Services
7.  Project Cost by Major Investment CRtegories and Foreign Exchange Component
8.   Financial Projection for KDBC Project Account
9.  Disbursements
Table 1 - Phasing of Disbursements (Annual)
Table 2 - Estimated Schedule of Quarterly Disbursement of
US$6 million Credit
10.   Organization Chart for Korea Dairy Beef Co.
11.  Terms of Reference for Management and Technical Services
12.  Financial Rates of Return
13.   Economic Rate of Return
MAP Project Areas






KOREA
INTEGRATED DAIRY-BEEF DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Government of the Republic of Korea has requested Bank
Group financing to assist the Korea Dairy Beef Company, Ltd. (KDBC) to
carry out an integrated dairy-beef development project. This would be
achieved by providing credit and technical services for the development
of about 700 dairy farms, with 10 to 40 cows each, and the development
of two modern dairy products processing plants to which Project farmers
would deliver their milk under suppliers' contracts.
ii.       The Project would be within Korea's on-going Four-Year Livestock
Industry Development Program, which, under the Second Five-Year Economic Plan,
1967-71, is given high priority. Korea is endeavoring to narrow a widening
disparity of income between the industrial and agricultural sectors through
a policy of diversification and intensification: double-cropping paddy land,
where suitable; developing idle slopelands for livestock production; and grow-
ing more high value products such as silk, mushrooms, fruits and vegetables.
In the livestock sector the Program envisages dairy cattle imports; develop-
mnent of dairy farms through forage development on slopelands, today largely
under-utilized; on-farm investments; and construction of dairy processing
facilities.
iii.      In addition to the two sub-projects of developing dairy farms
and dairy processing plants, the Project would assist Government in deve-
loping a coordinated program of applied research and demonstration in
livestock production. This sub-project would generate information needed
as a basis for the long-range development of Korea's livestock resources.
iv.       Total Project cost, including working capital during the disburse-
ment phase, would be about US$12.6 million. About 63% (US$7.9 million)
would be for dairy farm development, 20% (US$2.5 million) for dairy proces-
sing facilities, 15% (US$1.9 million) for technical services, and 2% (US$0.3
million) for working capital. An IDA credit of US$7 million would finance
about 56% of total Project cost. Other financing would be provided approxi-
mately by: participating farmers, US$2 million (16% of Project cost but on
average 25% of farm development cost); Government, US$1.5 million (12%); the
Agriculture and Fishery Development Corporation (AFDC), US$1.3 million (10%);
and KDBC, US$0.8 million (6%).
v.        IDA funds for dairy farm development and technical services would
be on-lent by Government to KDBC, Administering Agency, at 3% interest per
annum for 15 years including a grace period of 6 years. Government counter-
part funds would be made available on the same terms. IDA funds for develop-
ment of two dairy products processing facilities would be on-lent by Govern-
ment to KDBC at 9% interest per annum for 15 years including a grace period



- ii -
of 6 years.  KDBC in turn would make dairy farm development loans at 9% In-
terest for 8 to 10 years including 2 to 4 years of grace. KDBC would con-
struct and operate the milk processing plants and would have contractual
agreements with participating farmers to purchase their milk. It would ap-
ply an incentive payment plan based on the quality of raw milk delivered to
the plants.
vi.       Procurement of Project goods would be by international competi-
tive bidding for the equipment of the dairy processing facilities and local
competitive bidding for such goods as vehicles. Price quotations would be
obtained from at least three countries for importation of dairy heifers.
Other investment items for dairy farm development would be purchased by
project beneficiaries from local commercial sources.
vii.      The economic rate of return of the Project is estimated at 12%.
The financial rate of return to the dairy-beef producer is about 25%. At
full development after about seven years, the smaller producer (about 10
milk-cows) would have a net annual cash balance after debt service of about
US$2,600, being comparable to the net return from about 8 ha of paddy. The
larger producer (about 40 milk-cows) would have proportionately higher net
returns.
viii.     By year-10, milk production resulting from the Project would be
about equivalent to the total national production of 32,000 tons in 1969.
Furthermore, domestic production of beef would be increased about 1,300 tons,
or 5% of 1969 production, and approximately 3,700 female dairy animals annual-
ly would expand the domestic dairy herd.
ix.       The Project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$7 million.  The
foreign exchange risk would be carried by KDBC the first 15 years and, there-
after, by Government when all IDA funds would be repaid by KDBC.



KOREA
INTEGRATED DAIRY-BEEF DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Republic of Korea has applied for Bank
Group financing to assist the Korea Dairy Beef Company, Ltd. (KDBC), a
wholly owned subsidiary of its Agriculture and Fishery Development Cor-
poration (AFDC), in financing an Integrated Dairy-Beef Development Pro-
ject. The Project was prepared in 1969 by AFDC, in cooperation with
consultants engaged by the Overseas Technical Cooperation Agency of the
Government of Japan and two IBRD missions. It is part of the on-going
Four-Year Livestock Industry Development Program within the framework of
Korea's Second Five-Year Economic Development Plan 1967-71. This would
be the Bank Group's second agricultural operation in Korea. The first
Pyontaek-Kumgong Irrigation Project, Loan 600-KO, was approved in 1969
for US$45 million.
1.02      This report is based on the findings of a mission led by
F. Knobel and composed of F. van Gigch (IDA) and D. King and M. Walshe
(Consultants) that visited Korea in April/May 1970.
1I. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      The Republic of Korea has a population of about 31 million,
growing at a rate of 2.2% (1969), and a total land area of about
98,000 km2. It consists of the southern half of a peninsula located
on the China Coast, between the Yellow Sea and the Sea of Japan (Map).
2.02      The annual growth rate of real GNP during 1962-69 was about
11% and all major targets of the Second Five-Year Plan (1967-71), except
those in agriculture, were exceeded by 1969. Export performance has also
been impressive although it has not prevented further widening of the
chronic merchandise trade gap developed since the early 50's. During the
Second Plan, the annual rate of inflation has been about 10%.
B. Agricultural Sector
2.03      At present, about 2.6 million households farm nearly 2.3
million ha, producing principally rice, barley, pulse, potatoes, fruit



and vegetables. On the hills and steep slopes, which represent about
68% of the land, crops give way to about 6.7 million ha of idle woodlands
covered with sparse pines. Heavy population pressure on land has resulted
in subsistence agriculture on average holdings of less than 1 ha of crop-
land per household, and, although more than half of the population is rural,
it contributes only about 30% of GNP. Yet agriculture is moving ahead.
Progressive utilization of modern farming techniques and increases in the
size of average holdings due to migration, land reclamation and consolidation,
has made it possible to achieve an average annual agricultural growth rate of
about 4% during the Second Plan. While this is impressive, it was one-fourth
the rate of industrial growth and resulted in further widening the inter-
sectoral income gap. Because it will take time for migration to substantial-
ly decrease the absolute size of rural population, fuller utilization of
available cropland and development of idle but potential productive lands
remain crucial in the effort to raise agricultural productivity and relative
incomes.
Livestock Sub-sector
2.04      Cattle population is about 1.2 million head, mostly native
Korean except for about 3,000 head of specialized beef breeds and about
14,000 dairy cattle (Annex 1). The number of Korean cattle has decreased
by almost 10% since 1965 due to displacement of draft animals by mechani-
zation and by slaughter encouraged by high beef prices. The pig popula-
tion has been fluctuating between 1.2 and 1.5 million head, depending
upon availability of feed, while poultry production on an industrial scale
is making great progress. It reached more than 40,000 tons in 1968, second
only to pork at about 90,000 tons.
2.05      Although livestock farming is secondary to crop farming, it
will certainly grow in importance since there is substantial untapped
land resources that could be profitably developed for cattle production.
About 500,000 ha are unimproved slopelands (under 350 slope) covered with
native pasture and sparse scrub, and about 200,000 ha are cropped upland
and rainfed paddy fields marginally suited for crop production. In addi-
tion, about 700,000 ha of lowland irrigated paddy fields could be double-
cropped in hay, silage or green feed, and about 1 million ha of idle
woodland or rangeland is suitable for regeneration of plant coverage
through oversowing, liming and fertilizing.
2.06      Beef production, estimated at about 36,000 m tons in 1968, is
based on the slaughter of native Korean cattle, which are raised primarily
for draft purposes. Korean cattle are extremely hardy and have a good
potential for crossing with Friesian or Hereford. The average Korean farm
has 1 to 2 head of cattle, which is sold when it no longer serves as a
source of power. In recent years specialized fattening farms have been
established but they are still minor sources of beef supply.



-3-
2.07      Dairy cattle in 1969 numbered about 14,000, up from 1,000 in 1961,
principally because of the Government's policy of importing about 8,000
dairy heifers. Total production in 1969 was 33,000 tons of raw milk. The
emerging dairy farming pattern is one of small farms of a five- to six-head
average herd size, including heifers for replacement. Dairy farms are
generally located around the main cities, principally Seoul, but urban
expansion is forcing their relocation to other districts. Nearly all dairy
farm operations are done manually, including milking. Farms are generally
understocked, and the current stocking rate - about 2 ha per cow equivalent -
can be greatly improved. Grazing is currently of minor importance and most
farmers tend to feed excessive quantities of concentrates, reaching 3,000
to 4,000 kg per cow annually.
Dairy Products Processing Sub-sector
2.08      Koreans began milk processing operations for pasteurized bottled
milk around 1962, for condensed milk in 1963 and for powdered milk in 1965.
Except for the Seoul Milk Cooperative bottled milk plant, most factories
are small. Total installed processing capacity in Korea on an 8-hr basis
is about 46,000 m tons milk per year, and total production is about 30,000
m tons. Plants, however, are badly distributed; in the Seoul area, the bot-
tled milk plants are already working more than an 8-hr day, and would be ap-
proaching a 16-hr day by 1973/74. Furthermore, this would be used up by in-
creased production from outside of the Project. A new plant to be supplied
with milk by Project dairy farmers in the Central District is planned under
the Project which would serve the greater Seoul area (para 3.12). There is
no plant of adequate size in the other Project area, Honam District, which
is an important milk producing region. However, one is proposed under the
Project (para 3.12). See Annex 2 for further detail on dairy products pro-
cessing.
C. Animal Health
2.09      Animal health hazards are not a serious impediment to livestock
production. Virtually all the common diseases, including tuberculosis,
brucelosis, black leg (clostridium) and anthrax, have been recorded, but
control measures, including vaccines and prophylactic measures, are readily
available. There in no foot-and-mouth disease or rinderpest. Tick-borne
piroplasmosis and anaplasmosis occur and could be hazardous to imported
stock, but both are effectively controlled by spraying. Cattle can be pro-
tected against Internal parasites, including liver fluke, by routine drench-
ing. The two main production hazards are infertility and mastitis, 1/ parti-
cularly common to new dairy production areas worldwide. Available evidence
1/   An infection of the milk glands that may cause serious loss in produc-
tion and quality of milk.



- 4 -
suggests that infertility may be caused by a poor artificial insemination
service, and most farmers need guidance in mastitis control. Strict quaran-
tine and import regulations ensure that major diseases are not introduced
through importations.
D. Agricultural Services
Research, Extension and Education
2.10      Agricultural research and extension services are provided princi-
pally by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry through the Office of
Rural Development and the National Agricultural Cooperative Federation (NACF).
Services are numerous and there are adequate facilities; however, the quality
of livestock research and extension needs considerable improvement. A priori-
ty task would be to provide the farmer with simple input-output data on the
production and yields of grain and forage and on fertilizer and concentrate
use and to work out the management and husbandry systems best suited to the
Korean environment. Current programs are deficient in meeting these needs
but would be improved by provision of certain technical services included in
the Project (para 3.18).
2.11      There are more than 180 agricultural high schools and 16 agricul-
tural colleges, 13 of which offer training in livestock production, manage-
ment and processing and in veterinary medicine. Short courses are available
to farmers through the extension service. The Korea-German Pilot Dairy Farm,
administered by NACF, and the Korea-New Zealand Demonstration Dairy Farm, ad-
ministered by the Korea Dairy Beef Company (KDBC) (para 2.16), provide
practical training in dairy production and management.
Agricultural Credit
2.12      The banking system has two main components:  commercial banks and
special financial institutions. Control and supervision are exercised by a
Monetary Board through the Bank of Korea (Central Bank). There are five
national commercial banks with head offices in Seoul and branch networks in
the main cities, and, since 1967, six foreign banks. The commercial banks
provide mainly short-term funds to commerce, manufacturing and the service
sector. They make no loans to farmers and a minimal amount of credit goes
to agro-industry and commodity dealers.
2.13      There are seven special financial institutions, one of which, the
National Agricultural Cooperatives Federation (NACF), is designated by
Government for lending direct to farmers and agricultural cooperatives.
NACF is both a bank, receiving deposits and making loans, and a general
cooperative institution that engages in a wide range of other activities,
including marketing, supply and mutual insurance. Its credit operations



are the largest individual item, followed by supply and marketing activi-
ties. 1/ Interest rates on loans to farmers range widely from 3.5% (long-
term irrigation) to 24% (fishery). Its short-term rate for agricultural
production is 15% and medium-to-long term rate for livestock is 9% per
annum. Its outstanding loan portfolio of around US$275 million equivalent
is about equally divided between short-term and medium-to-long-term loans.
Despite the growing supply of capital funds available to NACF, it is unable
to meet the total credit needs of the agricultural sector and private
borrowings are common at an interest cost of around 50% per annum. In
order that the integrated approach envisioned for execution of the Project
would be carried out and, furthermore, to correlate credit with competent
technical services at the end-user level, NACF would not be a participant
in the Project since these activities would be performed by KDBC (para 4.01).
AFDC and KDBC
2.14      AFDC was established by special legislation in 1967 to foster
agro-industry development in Korea through financing equity investment and
providing long-, medium- and short-term loans; encouraging domestic and
foreign investments; providing technical and managerial assistance and train-
ing; developing domestic and export markets; and introducing an improved in-
stitutional framework. It has a qualified staff to provide management and
technical guidance to its affiliated companies.
2.15      AFDC's investment policy is to sell its shares in an enterprise
as soon as the project becomes viable and capable of independent management.
The principal financial resource of AFDC is subscribed capital from Govern-
ment, which was increased from US$10 million equivalent in 1968 to US$21
million in 1970 (total authorized capital is 10 billion Won - US$33 million).
Its financial statements are shown in Annex 3.
2.16      KDBC was established by AFDC in February 1969 as one of its 22
diversified agro-industry investment projects. The objective of this enter-
prise parallels the national policy of fostering investments in the livestock
industry to increase the protein food supply, while also providing the rural
people with wider opportunities to increase their cash income. This objective
may be achieved under the Project through a vertically integrated approach from
the farm-level-production stage through the marketing-to-consumer stage. It
also has responsibility for the development and operations of the Korea-New
Zealand Demonstration Dairy Farm at Pyongtaek, some 50 km south from Seoul
(Map). As administering agent for the Project, KDBC would be linked to AFDC
by the financial support it would receive (para 3.20) and by the capable back-
stopping mentioned in paragraph 2.14.
1/   NACF handles about 60% of total supply needs of farmers and markets
about 30% of farm products moving into commercial channels.



- 6 -
E. Agricultural Policies
General
2.17      A key problem of Korean agriculture is how to raise the level of
farm income more nearly to that of other sectors (para 2.03). Until recent
years, farm income policy was based largely on high rice price support.
However, rice prices in Korea are already above those in the world market
and further rises would have an unfavorable effect upon the general price
level. The Government has, therefore, shifted its policy and now supports
diversification through double-cropping of paddy fields, where suitable,
and development of idle slopelands. Diversification is taking place also
in the direction of high value products such as silk, mushrooms, fruits and
vegetables and livestock production on slopelands 1/.  In addition, the Gov-
ernment continues investing in irrigation, consolidation of lands and im-
proved farm technology.
Livestock Policies
2.18      The principal guidelines for livestock development within the
framework of the Second Plan are contained in the Four-Year Livestock In--
dustry Development Program, 1968-71. This program encourages commercial
production, individually and by cooperatives, of the major animal species,
with emphasis in beef and dairy cattle. Participating producers receive
priority to lease or buy public lands, are granted financial assistance for
the purchase of cattle and for farm development, receive subsidies for pas-
ture establishment and are entitled to tax relief measures. The program
contains provisions for stabilizing feed prices and improvement of livestock
marketing through the construction of processing facilities. In terms of
dairy production, the Four-Year Program envisages cattle imports, development
of dairy farms through pasture development on slopelands, on-farm investment
and construction of dairy processing facilities. The Project would be a major
factor in implementing these objectives.
2.19      The Dairy Farming Development Law of 1967 provides the institutional
framework for dairy development. It empowers the Government to designate areas
in which public lands cannot be used for any purpose other than dairying. The
Project falls within designated areas. The Law also gives dairy farmers priority
rights to purchase or lease private and public lands for pasture development. In
addition, dairy farmers are exempt from business, property, and acquisition taxes.
Processing facilities such as those envisaged under the Project would be exempt
from corporate, business, acquisition, property and commodity taxes, as well as
from custom duties, as is any corporation whose equity shares are controlled 51%
or more by AFDC.
1/   Economic Position and Prospects of the Republic of Korea, EAP-12a,
March 16, 1970.



-7-
III. THE PROJECT
A. Description
3.01      The Project would be vertically integrated, progressing from the
production stage through the marketing stage. About 700 dairy farms would
be developed to supply raw milk to two new processing and marketing facili-
ties, and would contribute to the domestic supply of beef by the fattening
of dairy steers. The Project would be confined to the development of up-
lands best suited for dairy production and for which a reasonable experience
exists.
3.02      To serve the long-range development strategy of the livestock sub-
sector, the Project provides for field trials within Project areas and out-
side to measure productivity of potential livestock resources. It also pro-
vides for development of Korean livestock production expertise through in-
country training and overseas training grants.
B. The Project Areas
Central District
3.03      The Central District comprises four counties (guns) located in
the provinces of Kyunggi and North Chungchong (Map), midway between the
cities of Seoul and Taejon. The new four-lane Seoul-Pusan expressway and
the Seoul-Pusan railroad cross the District, which has a good transport
network. About 72,000 farm households produce principally rice, barley and
wheat, pulses and potatoes on a total of about 54,000 ha of paddy land and
31,000 ha of uplands. It is estimated that the District includes about
6,500 ha of sparsely wooded slopes of less than 350 that could be profitably
cleared for pasture development. Livestock population comprises about 31,000
native bred cattle, kept principally for draft purposes; about 1,000 head of
dairy cattle; and about 26,000 swine. The climate is characterized by long,
cold winters; fairly short and relatively dry autumns and springs; and hot
summers, with high monsoon rainfalls during July and August. Average
temperature is 12.50C with a range of -50C to 28.70C. Rainfall averages
about 1,200 mm. As in most of Korea, soils tend to be infertile, acid and
low in organic matter, requiring heavy dressing with phosphorus, potash
and lime for pasture production.
Honam District
3.04      Honam District includes six counties (gun) situated in North
Cholla province, within a radius of 60 km of Kwangju city (Map). The
District is served by the Seoul-Pusan railroad line and is expected to



- 8 -
have access to the Seoul-Pusan expressway during 1971. There are about
130,000 farms, with production patterns similar to those in the Central
District, although a more benign climate permits more double-cropping of
paddy lands, particularly with barley and wheat. Livestock production
comprises about 36,000 native cattle, mostly draft; 600 dairy cattle: and
1,000 swine. It is estimated that there are more than 7,500 ha of sparsely
wooded lands of less than 350 slope that can be cleared for pasture pro-
duction. Soils and rainfall are similar to those in the Central District.
C. Detailed Features
Dairy Farm Development Sub-project
3.05      About 700 dairy farms would be developed, about equally distri-
buted between the Central District and Honam District. Typical pros-
pective participating farmers are those now producing rice, barley and ve-
getables on paddy land and cropland. Generally the farms include a variable
quantity of unused uplands suitable for pasture development. Korean farmers
take good care of their animals and farmers who have gone into the dairying
business in recent years show a high level of animal husbandry. Participa-
ting Project farmers would receive 8- to 10-year loans from KDBC to finance
land clearing, pasture establishment, dairy heifers and artificial insemina-
tion (AI), farm structures, dairying equipment, and machinery. Loans would
be made on the basis of approved farm plans (para 4.07). Short-term financ-
ing if needed to cover operating expenses during the development years would
be available from several Special Government Funds.
3.06      Types of Farms and Phasing.  Development would take place on two
types of dairy farms: small farms with an average capacity of 10 cows, rang-
ing from about 5 to 15 cows (5 to 15 ha); and medium to large farms from
about 20 to 40 cows (15 to 50 ha) (Annex 4). During Project year-l, on-farm
development would start in the Central District on about 200 small farms and
about 35 medium to large farms. During Project year-2, the same pattern
would be followed in the Honam District. For the following two Project
years, development would be of an almost equal rate in both districts. De-
velopment on each farm would be phased over three years but milk production
would begin in farm year-2 to -3. The total on-farm development program would
be phased over five years.
3.07      On small farms, an average of about 10 ha would be developed for
grass and forage crops. Animals would be housed in conventional stall-barns
and, in general, machine milked. One man would manage 10 cows, including the
farming operations. Farm machinery provided under the Project would include
a small hand-tractor plus attachments for cultivation, silage and forage cut-
ting equipment and usually a small milking machine. Since the seasonal de-
mand for labor is becoming increasingly critical, a milking machine would fill



- 9 -
this gap. Also, it would be more economical as it would be less than the cost
of one year-round laborer that it would replace. Small type milking machines
are common to Japan. Farmers would be encouraged to build inexpensive bunker-
type silos.
3.08      On medium to large farms, an average of about 35 ha would be devel-
oped for pasture and forage. Cows would be housed in loose cubicle or free-
stall-type buildings with access to an open yard and self-feed silage. Cows
would be milked in a milking parlor, and a pipeline milking plant would be in-
stalled. Machinery provided under the Project would include four-wheel trac-
tors and attachments and forage harvesting and milking equipment.
3.09      Under the Project, concentrate feeding would be confined to around
1,000 kg and 700 kg annually per head of milk cow and dry stock, respectively;
a drastic decrease over usual levels in Korea (para 2.07). Farmers would be
encouraged to use grazing. It is expected that such a practice would be more
common in the larger units for which fencing is provided under the Project.
3.10      Pasture Development.  A key element of on-farm development would
be the development of idle, low rolling hill land. At least 14,000 ha are
readily available in the two Project areas (paras 3.03 and 3.04). Develop-
ment would include clearing of brush, plowing, leveling, fertilizing and
sowing with grasses and legumes. On small farms, development generally would
be done manually, as is traditional in Korea, but on large farms, mechanized
equipment, provided under the Project, would be used. On both types of farm,
clearing and pasture seeding would start during farm year-l to provide enough
forage feed in farm year-2 to support the cattle. Based on available ex-
perience, the most promising pasture species for Project areas are cocksfoot,
bromegrass, tall fescue, timothy, ladino and red clover and alfalfa. Maize,
forage sorghums and sudan grass grow well and would be used for silage and
forage production for winter feeding.
3.11      Cattle.  Participating dairy farms would be stocked with high-grade
Friesian weaner heifers weighing around 225 kg, 8 to 10 months old and not
mated. Cattle would be imported with proceeds of the proposed IDA credit. It
is estimated that small farms would receive, on average, 7 heifers and medium
to large farms about 15. The heifers would arrive during the second year of
farm development and may be held for short intervals on the Korea-New Zea-
land 220-ha dairy farm until they could be moved to participating farms. They
would be artificially inseminated with imported semen at 12 to 15 months and
calve down beginning in the second and the third year at about two years of
age. The resulting male calves would be fattened on participating farms until
the sixth to seventh year, when full carrying capacity for female stock would
be attained. From then on, a flow of weaner steers would be generated by Pro-
ject farms for fattening elsewhere.



- 10 -
Dairy Products Processing Sub-project
3.12      Funds are provided in the Project for the construction of two dairy
processing facilities, one to serve the Central District and the other for
the Honam District (Annex 5). The Central District facility would be design-
ed principally to supply whole milk to the greater Seoul area while the Honam
facility would process baby foods and whole milk for the Kwangju city area.
The latter would utilize raw materials produced locally and seasonal milk
surpluses from the Central District. Project funds would also finance con-
sultant services to design and draw up specifications for the facilities
and to provide technical services during the startup period of plant opera-
tions (Annex 6).
3.13      Central District.  Facilities would consist of (a) a collecting
station, (b) a milk processing plant, and (c) three distribution stores.
Construction would be completed in Project year-2 so that operations would
be coordinated with the expected milk flow from the participating farms
(para 3.06).
3.14      The collection station would be constructed near Chonam, in the
center of the District, for the convenience of participating farmers. The
milk delivered to the collecting station would be cooled, bulked and tan-
kered some 80 km to the processing plant close to Seoul, or, in case of
seasonal surpluses, to the Honam processing plant. Although the Seoul
plant would initially pasteurize, homogenize and bottle milk, provision has
been made to add a second line for whole flavored milks in the second year
of plant operation and an ice cream plant in the third year. To keep ven-
dors' delivery distances short and to ensure that milk is cold when it
reaches the consumer, provision has also been made for three refrigerated
distribution stores. Vendors would purchase milk from these stores or from
the factory for delivery to customers by specially equipped bicycles.
3.15      Honam District.  Facilities would consist of one collecting-
processing plant and one distribution store, both located in or near Kwangju
city. Construction of these facilities would be completed in Project year-3
so that operations would coincide with the beginning of milk production from
participating farms (para 3.06).
3.16      Major equipment, which would initially be for processing infant
powdered milk formula, would include a continuous evaporator and spray
drier. Equipment would also be provided for batching and mixing both liquids
and powders to various formulae and for packing in bags or nitrogen-fil-le
cans. In the third year of plant operation, more simple bottling eqn41m.Olt
than that installed in the Seoul plant would be provided, along with a re-
frigerated distribution store and special transport, as in the Central Dis-
trict. A small butter plant to process the offtake from fat standardizing
and a small batch condensed milk plant have also been allowed for.



- 11 -
3.17      Plant Design, Construction and Startup.  Detailed factory planning,
construction and startup would be handled by Koreans with KDBC, assisted by
a Dairy Processing Specialist or consultants (para 4.03).
Livestock Production Applied Research Sub-project
3.18      The Project's Technical Services would also include specialists
in Agronomy and Animal Nutrition (para 4.04). Their functions, in addi-
tion to giving guidance to Project farmers, would be to assist Government
in developing a coordinated program of applied research in livestock pro-
duction to generate the information that would provide the basis for the
long-range development of Korea's potential livestock resources. General
trials on plant production, nutritional feeding requirements and dairy man-
agement would be carried out on the Korea-New Zealand Demonstration Dairy
Farm, as well as on Project or other suitable farms. Presently, the Korea-
New Zealand farm is geared only to the production of forage feed for the
dairy herd and a somewhat rigid regime of dairy production. It would be a
desirable base, however, for carrying on general trials on plant production,
nutritional feeding requirements and dairy husbandry practices; however,
technical expertise would he needed for this program of research.  Also it
would be desirable to develop information on forage crop production, double-
cropping of lowland paddy fields and pasture development on uplands on each
of three watershed areas (Map) covered by an ongoing UNDP/FAO Korean Uplands
Development and Watershed Management Project (Annex 1, para 22).  Contacts
with the management of the Korea-New Zealand dairy farm and the UNDP/FAO
project indicated that close cooperation with the Project could be expected,
and, furthermore, KDRC would investigate the possibility of obtaining bi-
lateral aid. The Project specialists would cooperate with local professionals
on the design and choice of methodology of these research projects and would
supervise their execution. An agreement would be made between Ministry of
Agriculture and Forestry and KDBC that would include the scope and methodology
of work; the amount and source of logistical support including personnel and
materials; and administrative responsibility. Such agreement would be subject
to the review and approval of IDA. Appropriate assurances to this effect were
obtained during negotiations.
D. Cost Estimates
3.19      Total Project cost, including working capital requirements during
the disbursement phase, is estimated at US$12.6 million. These estimates
are based on prevailing local prices and include a contingency allowance of
about 10%. The Project's estimated foreign exchange component is about US$6
million, or about 48% of total Project cost. The detail of investment costs
by major categories and estimated foreign exchange components are given in
Annex 7 and summarized in the following table.



- 12 -
Total Project Cost
x of
%  of     Total
Total    Foreign
Won (billion)         US$ (million)      Project  Exchange
Category       Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total   Cost    Component
Dairy Farm
Development      1.1    1.3    2.4    3.7    4.2    7.9        63         53
Dairy Processing
Facilities       0.4    0.4    0.8    1.3    1.2    2.5        20        48
Management and
Technical
Services         0.4    0.1    0.5    1.3    0.6    1.9        15    3 32
Subtotal      1.9    1.8    3.7    6.3    6.0   12.3        98        49
Working Capital   0.1      -      0.1    0.3      -     0.3       2          -
Total         2.0    1.8    3.8    6.6    6.0   12.6    100           48
E. Proposed Financing
3.20      The total cost of the Project would be financed as follows:
IDA        Farmers      AFDC/KDBC   Government    Total
Category       (US$m)   )  (US$m)  (%)  (US$m)  m)  (US$m) (%)  (US$m) (%)
Dairy Farm
Development       4.4   56    2.0    25      -      -     1.5   19    7.9  100
Dairy Processing
Facilities        2.0   80      -      -    0.5    20      -      -    2.5  100
Management and
Technical
Services          0.6   32      -      -    1.3    68      -      -    1.9  100
Working Capital      -    _       -      -    0.3   100      -      -    0.3  100
Total          7.0   56    2.0    16    2.1    16    1.5   12   12.6  100



- 13 -
On the above basis, IDA funds would finance about 56% of dairy farm develop-
ment, 80% of dairy processing facilities, 32% of management and technical
services, or about 56% of total Project cost. This would mean that in addi-
tion to the foreign exchange component of about US$6 million, IDA would fi-
nance US$1 million local currency expenditure. Other sources of financing
would be as follows: participating farmers would contribute on-average 25%
of new on-farm investments in cash, labor and kind (US$2 million equivalent)
and Government would provide counter-part funds (US$1.5 million equivalent).
ADFC would increase its equity capital in KDBC by about US$1.3 million to be
used for construction of the dairy processing facilities (US$0.5 million),
Project management and technical services (US$0.5 million) and working capi-
tal (US$0.3 million); and KDBC would finance the other part of the Project
start-up expenditures (US$0.8 million) for management and technical services
from its own resources. Assurances were obtained during negotiations with
respect to financing Project costs.
F. Procurement
3.21      Dairy heifers and semen would not be subject to international com-
petitive bidding because the type and quality of stock needed can be ob-
tained only from a few countries specializing in their breeding and export.
However, an element of competition would be introduced by requiring quota-
tions from at least three countries. Dairy heifers, as well as semen, would
be purchased under the close supervision and approval of the Dairy Husbandry
Specialist (para 4.03) with respect to age, quality and suitability of stock.
Certification of the Director, National Animal Quarantine Station, Ministry
of Agriculture and Forestry, on animal health standards would also be ob-
tained. (See Annex 1, paras 25 to 27, regarding the import of dairy stock.)
Assurances with respect to importation of dairy stock and semen were obtained
during negotiations.
3.22      Other goods required for dairy farm development such as farm
machinery, dairying equipment, fencing, fertilizers, seeds, and farm struc-
tures would be obtained through existing commercial channels. International
competitive bidding would not be appropriate since individual contracts would
be small and numerous and the size and combination of farm investments would
vary considerably. Imports having a hlgh foreign exchange component, such as
agricultural machinery and dairy equipment, are imported from Japan, United
States, Australia and countries in Western Europe. There are no discrimina-
tory import quotas or controls. Imports of cattle, farm machinery, and dairy
equipment are exempt from lmport duties.
3.23      International competitive bidding would be applied for the pur-
chase of machinery and equipment for both dairy processing facilities. It
is possible that local suppliers may bid and win contracts for such goods
as stainless steel tanks, milk cans, ml1k bottles, and small (10 HP) electric
motors equivalent to about US$2no,oo0.  Internationally procured goods ex-
ceeding US$25,000 would be subJect to  DA'.s review and approval.  Construc-



- 14 -
tion of the dairy processing facilities would be by Korean contractors under
competitive bidding. There are many experienced and qualified contractors to
ensure good quality performance. The siting, plans, specifications, procure-
ment, and construction contracts for the dairy processing units would be sub-
ject to the approval of the KDBC Technical Director - Dairy Processing
Specialist, or equivalent consultant service. Assurances with respect to
international procurement of dairy plant equipment and approval of specifi-
cations for both plants by IDA were obtained during negotiations.
3.24      Local competitive bidding would be followed for the few vehicles
and motorcycles required for the management and technical services compo-
nent of the Project. Several local assembly plants ensure a competitive
and adequate supply.
G. Disbursement
3.25      The IDA credit would be disbursed as follows:
-    Dairy Farm Development (excluding imported cattle and semen),
56% of the funds disbursed by KDBC to participating farmers;
-    Imported Cattle and Semen, 100% of foreign expenditures;
-    Dairy Processing Facilities, 100% of foreign expenditures for
imported plant machinery, equipment, milk-tankers and trucks
or 100% ex-factory cost of locally procured equipment, and 44%
of civil works expenditures;
-    Management and Technical Services, 100% of total expenditure
including salary, emolument, international travel, housing,
and other allowances of specialists in Dairy husbandry, Dairy
Processing, Agronomy and Animal Nutrition; 100% foreign ex-
penditure for laboratory equipment, research materials in-
cluding seeds and fertilizers for field trials, and interna-
tional travel of trainees; and 100% of total expenditures fer
transport equipment such as Jeeps and motorcycles.
KDBC would certify and submit to IDA the suppliers' invoices and other ap-
propriate documentation.
3.26      As shown in the following schedule, the disbursement period would
extend over five years:



- 15 -
US$ (thousands) by Project Year
Category               1        2        3         4       5      Total
Dairy Farm Development          400    1,300    1,500    1,000    200       4.4
Dairy Processing Facilities    -         500       800      300    400      2.0
Management and Technical
Services                     200       150      100       100      50     0.6
Total                     600    1,950    2,400    1,400    650        7.0
The phasing of disbursements for each major investment category and the fore-
cast of estimated disbursements on a quarterly basis are shown in Annex 9.
H. Auditing
3.27      KDBC would maintain separate accounts for the several components
of the Project, i.e., dairy farm loans, dairy processing facilities and
technical services. It would submit quarterly and annual reports to IDA
within 30 days of the close of the respective periods. Its financial state-
ments, audited annually by an independent accounting service acceptable to
IDA, would be submitted to IDA within 90 days of the close of the fiscal year.
Assurance with respect to Project accounts and audit were obtained during
negotiations.
TV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Administration
4.01      As key administrative agency for the Project, KDBC would expand
its staff to about 25 professionals and would have five departments--admin-
istration, technical services, dairy processing, marketing, and finance
(Annex 10). Each would be headed by a Korean director, under the President
and Vice-President. Technical Services and Dairy Processing would be the
two most important departments for Project execution. Technical Services
would be directly responsible for the fulfillment of dairy farm develop-
ment, supervision of farm plans and applied research in livestock produc-
tion. Dairy Processing would be responsible for development and operation
of the two dairy processing units. Any appointments made during the dis-
bursement period of the Project with respect to the heads of these two de-
partments plus the positions of President and Vice-President would be af-
ter consultation with IDA. Assurances to this effect were obtained during
negotiations.



- 16 -
4.02      The capital of KDBC would be increased from its present authorized
capital of 150 million Won (US$490,000) to 600 million Won (about US$2 million)
to give it the financial resources needed (para 3.20) to implement the Project.
It would be a condition of effectiveness that KDBC's financial structure had
been established to IDA's satisfaction.
B. Management and Technical Services
4.03      The Technical Services Department, headed by a Korean Director,
would be assisted by a Dairy Husbandry Specialist as a Technical Director.
Primarily, he would be responsible for the development, approval, and super-
vision of about 10 Korean livestock production technicians employed and
paid by KDBC. A Dairy Processing Specialist, or an equivalent consultant
contract service, would be attached to the Dairy Processlng Department as
Technical Director. he would be responsible for approving the location,
design and specifications of the two dairy processing facilities as well
as supervising construction, procurement and installation of equipment,
and management of startup operations.
4.04      Other technical services, Project-oriented, would have an impact
on the further development of the Korean livestock industry (para 3.18).
These would include: (a) an Agronomy Specialist responsible for determin-
ing the most economic and feasible kinds of forage feed and methods of pro-
duction, and for formulating and carrying out a forage seed multiplication
scheme; (b) an Animal Nutrition Specialist to conduct feeding trials to de-
termine the most economic feeding regime for different categories of live-
stock; (c) an AI service to ensure the success of breeding unmated heifers
imported under the Project; and (d) overseas training fellowships for
Korean agriculturists in countries with similar ecological and environ-
mental conditions.
4.05      An AI service would not only ensure that an efficient service
would be available to Project dairy farmers but would also assist Korea
toward fulfilling one of the needs for the long-term development of its
livestock industry (Annex 1, paras 31 to 33). This service would include
a small laboratory building and equipment for the storage and processing
of imported frozen semen and transport and training for Project livestock
production technicians and about 10 inseminators. IDA finance is provid-
ed for this component of the Project if such technical services cannot be
obtained by KDBC from a bilateral aid source or contract supplier of
semen.
4.06      It is anticipated that the Dairy Husbandry Specialist, Dairy Pro-
cessing Specialist and Agronomy Specialist would be recruited from outside
Korea. The animal Nutrition Specialist could be a Korean for whom out-of-
country job-related training for 6 to 12 months would be desirable. Terms of
reference for these specialists are shown in Annex 11. During negotiations,



- 17 -
assurances were obtained that the qualifications, functions and contracts of
the four technical specialists would be subject to IDA approval. Furthermore,
employment of the Dairy Husbandry Specialist would be a condition of effect-
iveness and the other specialists would be on-board within about 7 months from
the date of signing the credit.
C. Lending Operations
Policies
4.07      Applications for dairy farm development loans would be submitted by
farmers to KDBC livestock technicians located in the Project area. Based on
farm development plans prepared by the technicians in cooperation with the
farmer-applicants and approved by the Technical Director-Dairy Husbandry
Specialist, loans would be granted after approval by the General Manager and
Head of the Finance Department, KDBC. Principal security for a loan would
be a grassland mortgage and an assignment by the borrower on his milk sales
to KDBC milk plants in an amount sufficient to cover the payment terms of
his contract. Also, the borrower would pledge an insurance policy under the
national livestock insurance program administered by NACF.
Financing Terms for Farm Loans and Dairy Products Processing Plants
4.08      The terms for IDA funds and Government funds are summarized in the
following schedule:
Term of
Interest      Loans         Grace  Period
(X)       (Years)           (Years)
(Usual IDA terms)
IDA funds to Government
Government and IDA funds to
KDBC-Dairy Farm Development           3            15                6
KDBC to farmers                         9           8-10              2-4
IDA funds to KDBC-Dairy
Processing Plants                     9            15                6
A term of 15 years for IDA and Government funds to IDBC is predicated on the
making of 10-year farm loans in Project year-3, plus an allowance for slip-
page of one to two years. Assurances during negotiations were obtained from
Government and KDBC with respect to these terms. A spread of 6% on funds
used by KDBC for dairy farm development would be needed to cover its admin-
istrative costs, credit risk on sub-loans and the foreign exchange risk on
the full IDA credit which would be repaid to Government over a period of 15
years. An interest charge of 9% for IDA funds that would be used for the
milk plants iA reasonable in view of their strong financial viability (Annex
12).



- 18 -
V. PRICES MARKETS AND PRODUCER BENEFITS
A. Markets and Prices
Markets
5.01      Government intervention in pricing and marketing of livestock pro-
ducts is minimal. Korea has been a milk consuming country for a relatively
short time. However, with the demand for all animal protein foods rising
rapidly, the market outlook for dairy products is good. In order, however,
to make a reasonable demand forecast, it is necessary to draw on the expe-
rience of Japan, which has a longer milk consumption history, initial diet-
ary patterns similar to those in Korea, and development along lines now being
followed by Korea.
5.02      The region of Kyushu in Japan has a per capita income of about
US$250 equivalent, which is midway between the overall average for Korea
and that for Seoul. Fluid milk consumption in Kyushu is about 7 kg per
capita annually compared with about 1.6 kg in Seoul. For the purpose of
the Project, it was conservatively assumed that per capita consumption of
fluid milk in Seoul by 1975 would be at least half as much as the current
consumption rate in the Kyushu area. Assuming then that the amount of fluid
milk consumed in Seoul in 1975 would be in the same proportion as it was in
1969 to the total of all milk consumed in any form in the rest of Korea, over-
all consumption of dairy products would reach about 90,000 m ton. Assuming
further that overall milk consumption in Korea would grow beyond 1975 at
the same rate as estimated for 1969-75, overall consumption of dairy products
in 1980 would be about 150,000 m ton. Thus, commercial channels could comfor-
tably absorb expected production, which is estimated at about 135,000 m ton,
including the output of the proposed Project. In addition, Korea has a school
lunch program that absorbs the equivalent of 60,000 m ton of fluid milk, pro-
vided as milk powder by USAID. This constitutes almost the entire milk products
imported by Korea. USAID intends to phase out its contribution to this program
on the understanding that it will be progressively substituted by locally pro-
cured milk. Up to the present, however, no supply from local sources has been
forthcoming. Should it materialize, additional investment in dairy development
in Korea may be required much before 1980, and could well be an important part
of a possible Phase II project before then.
5.03      Along with dairy products, prices for beef have been continuously
rising with the increase in the demand for these products. Fresh meat prices
doubled from about 300 Won/kg in 1966 to about 600 Won/kg in 1969 (US$1 to
$2/kg). There is little grading of beef and prices usually are based on vol-
ume. Though the distribution system of livestock and livestock products fol-
lows traditional practices, the system is fairly efficient. There are some
600 registered livestock markets, mainly of three different types: small lo-
cal market, medium local market and large city market, all under the control



- 19 -
of livestock or agricultural cooperatives. Dealings at the market centers
are negotiated, usually by a broker who may charge a 2% commission. Slaughter-
house facilities at major market centers - Seoul, Pusan, Taejan, Osam - are
modern and well operated. The beef market outlook is good and existing chan-
nels are adequate for the beef that would be produced under the Project.
Prices
5.04      The retail price of fluid milk is 20 Won per 180-cc bottle (equiv-
alent about US$0.07 per 1/3 pint), and is not out of line with prices pre-
vailing for similar products in other countries when allowance is made for
the overvaluation of the Won (para 6.03). The retail price of baby food,
the main type of milk powder to be processed under the Project, is 300 Won
per 500 g can (equivalent, about US$1.00 for 1.1 lb) (para 6.04). Commer-
cial imports of dairy products into Korea would require authorization of
Government and would be subjected to import tariffs of 80% to 150%.
5.05      Compositional quality of raw milk varies as a result of lack of
incentive payments but can be solved by paying for milk according to quality
(Annex 2, paras 36-38). An appropriate sliding price scale would be 1.5 Won/
kg per 0.1% fat differential above or below a basic payment for 3.2% fat milk
value. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government and
KDBC that a satisfactory incentive quality milk payment plan to producers
would be applied under the Project.
B. Producer Benefits and Revenue Generation
5.06      Dairy farmers are expected to achieve sufficient increments in
disposable income as a result of investing under the Project to encourage
their participation. It is estimated that, at full development, after about
seven years, the average small farm would achieve a net annual cash balance,
after debt service, of about 0.8 million Won (US$2,600, Annex 4, Table 4)
equivalent to the estimated net cash income of about 8 ha of paddy fields.
In the case of medium to large farms, the net annual cash balance would be
about 3.0 million Won (US$10,000, Annex 4, Table 8), comparable to the net
cash income of 30 ha of paddy fields. The estimated financial rate of re-
turn on dairy farm investment is about 25%, which is satisfactory for a Pro-
ject of this nature. The sensitivity of these results was tested, changing
the value of selected variables. Financial returns were alternatively com-
puted: decreasing the price of milk by 30%; increasing the cost of for-
eign exchange by about 30%; doubling and reducing by one-half the cost of
concentrate feed; and decreasing by 15% the milk yield per cow. The lowest
returns corresponded to a decrease in the price of milk and were of the
order of 15%. The analysis thus suggests that the expectation of satisfac-
tory returns to on-farm investment under the Project is warranted (Annex 12).
5.07      Farmer's total incremental incomes are composed of sales, net of
operating expenses, plus cattle retained to build up the herd. These reten-



- 20 -
tions are a measurable source of savings that can be taken as the lower limit
of personal savings generated by the Prolect. It is estimated that savings
in the form of cattle retention during the life of the Project would be about
27% of farmers' total incremental farm incomes. Furthermore, dairy farmers
in Korea are reinvesting extensively in their farms and it is likely that
Project farmers would similarly reinvest their savings. There would be vir-
tually no public savings, except for the surpluses achieved by KDBC in the
operation of the dairy processing facilities, since participating farmers
would be exempt from paying most forms of taxes (para 2.19). At about year-
8, dairy processing facilities would produce a net cash income after debt
service of about 400 million Won per year (US$1.2 million).
VI. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The Project would assist Korea in initiating the development of a
considerable, but undeveloped, livestock potential. Under the Project, about
9,000 ha of idle, medium sloping hills would be brought into production, ex-
panding the meager land basis of Korea and thereby increasing agricultural in-
come and raising domestic availability of protein foods. It is expected that,
after about 10 years, milk production under the Project would amount to about
32,000 ton, about equivalent to the national production during 1969 (para
2.07). It would be retailed principally in the form of baby foods and bottled
milk. At the same time, the Project would produce an annual crop of weaner
steers, which, once fattened, would increase domestic production of beef by
about 1,300 m ton, equivalent to 5% of production during 1969. In addition,
the Project would produce about 3,700 head of female dairy cows annually, many
of which would serve to expand the domestic dairy herd.
6.02      The most important benefits of the Project are more difficult to
quantify. There would be field trials on the utilization of various types
of land resources now unproductive but which appear capable of providing
the basis for a substantial expansion of the Korean livestock industry.
Modern technology in livestock production would be introduced in an agri-
cultural milieu traditionally oriented to crop production; local livestock
production expertise would be developed through in-service training and
training abroad; an efficient service of AI would be promoted, not only to
serve the Project, but to provide the basis for the improvement of the na-
tive breed for beef production, and local production of pasture and forage
seed adapted to the Korean environment would be encouraged.
6.03      The economic rate of return of the Project is estimated at 12% (An-
nex 13). It was arrived at by aggregating the expected financial cash-flows
of Project farms and processing plants, and deducting the Project's manage-
ment and technical services costs. To reflect the scarcity of foreign ex-
change in Korea, a shadow rate of exchange about 20% to 40% higher than the
current rate of 305 Won/US$ was used to price the foreign exchange component
of the Project. Furthermore, the value of the Project output was also ad-
justed on the basis of international prices - valued at the assumed shadow



- 21 -
exchange rate - to show the savings realized when goods similar to those pro-
duced under the Project do not have to be imported.
6.04      For economic rate of return computations, the baby foods produced
under the Project were valued at the estimated wholesale price of similar
products mixed in Korea but utilizing imported ingredients. The price of
such substitute is about 25% cheaper than the local product. The economic
valuation of bottled milk presents a more complicated problem. While bottled
whole milk is not traded in world markets, some indication of the economic
desirability of producing bottled milk in Korea can be obtained by comparing
prices in other countries. The retail price of bottled milk to be sold
under the Project - 20 Won per 180 cc - is in the upper range of retail
prices in a sample of countries with long traditions of milk consumption.
Furthermore, the Korean product would be retailed in a labor-intensive
form at a cost of about 4 Won per bottle, which most probably overestimates
the opportunity cost of the labor involved. Retailing milk in small bottles
to fit the particular pattern of consumption of Korean buyers is inherently
more costly than retailing in larger containers, as is common in other
countries (Annex 2, para 41). Allowing for the overvaluation of labor in-
volved in retailing and for the cost of retailing in small volume, it is
estimated that the retail price of bottled milk in Korea lies between 16
to 17 Won per 180 cc, or about 15% higher than the highest retail price in
Northern Europe. Accordingly, the value of fluid milk produced under the
Project was scaled down by that amount.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with respect to the
following substantive issues:
(1) Government would:
(a) cause the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry to:
(i) enter into an agreement with KDBC to conduct
an applied research program in livestock pro-
duction (para 3.18);
(ii) permit the importation of dairy cattle, prin-
cipally young, unmated heifers, and semen
(para 3.21);
(iii) support an incentive milk payment plan to sup-
pliers of raw milk to KDBC milk plants (para
5.05); and
(b) on-lend the proceeds of the IDA credit directly to KDBC
and advance Government funds, via AFDC, to KDBC upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA (paras 3.20 and 4.08).



- 22 -
(2)  KDBC would:
(a) obtain the approval of IDA with respect to specifi-
cations for dairy processing facilities and for in-
ternational procurement of dairy processing machinery
and equipment exceeding US$25,000 in value (para 3.23);
(b) during the disbursement period of the Credit, make any
appointments to the positions of President, Executive
Vice-President, and Heads of the Technical Services
and Dairy Processing Departments only after consultation
with IDA (para 4.01);
(c) submit to IDA for its approval the qualifications, duties
and contracts for the employment of specialists in Dairy
Husbandry, Dairy Processing, Agronomy, and Animal Nutrition
(para 4.06); and
(d) make long-term loans for dairy farm development on terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA (para 4.08).
7.02      In addition to the customary conditions, the following have been
agreed upon as conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Credit:
(a) that KDBC was adequately capitalized (para 4.02); and
(b) that a Dairy Husbandry Specialist satisfactory to IDA
was employed (para 4.06).
7.03      The Project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$7 million to the
Republic of Korea. The foreign exchange risk would be carried by KDBC dur-
ing the first 15 years when it would have the use of IDA funds. Thereafter,
Government would bear the risk since it would have the use of these funds
for general purposes.
January 11, 1971



ANNEX 1
Page 1
KOREA
INTEGRATED DAIRY-BEEF DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Livestock Sub-sector
A. Dairy-Beef Production
Introduction
1.        Livestock farming in Korea is of secondary importance to crop
farming and until recently, cattle were raised primarily to be draft
animals. The number of Korean cattle has decreased by almost 10% in
the last five years due to displacement of draft animals by mechaniza-
tion and a high beef price that encourages slaughter. Dairy farming has
developed during the last decade with the importation of Friesian cattle.
At present, Government policy, by legislation, subsidies and low interest
loans, strongly encourages the development of livestock farming.
Beef Production
2.        Beef production is predominantly based on the slaughter of na-
tive Korean cattle. Out of a total cattle population of approximately
1.2 million, less than 3,000 are imported beef breeds - Brahman, Hereford
and Aberdeen Angus. The average Korean farm has 1 ha of cultivated land
and 1.2 head of cattle. Specialized fattening farms - a new enterprise
in Korea - buy cattle in the open market, two to three years old or over,
and sell after an intensive feeding period of approximately 100 days. In-
variably the animals are stalled and handfed rice straw and native grass
or hay, supplemented with about 2 kg of concentrate per day. On a few
farms, corn silage or silage and hay from improved pastures is fed. The
fattening farms are usually large by Korean standards and have considera-
ble resources in terms of upland and cropland; they are generally located
adjacent to cities. The number of animals fed in a lot usually varies be-
tween three to seven head and three to four lots are bought and sold annu-
ally. Native Korean cattle are hardy animals but have a slow growth rate
and a low fertility level of approximately 50%. When crossed with Friesian
or Hereford, the first generation's growth rate is increased by 30%. Low
fertility is probably a result of poor feeding rations and inadequate
management.
Dai   Farming
3.        The number of dairy cattle increased from 1,332 to 13,760 in the
period 1961-69. This increase was due mainly to importation of some 8,200
head from a number of countries. Early in 1970, 110 weanling heifers were



ANNEX 1
Page 2
imported from New Zealand for the Korea/New Zealand dairy farm, a demonstra-
tion project sponsored by the Government of New Zealand and administered by
the Korea Dairy Foods Company (KDFC). Importation policy was successful
and cattle from all sources had little difficulty in adapting to the
Korean environment.
4.        The dairy farming pattern emerging is one of small farms.  The
average size of dairy herd is about six head, including replacements.
Twenty-seven percent of farms have one head and only 28Z have a herd size
in excess of 11. However, farmers with herds of 11 or more account for
40% of the total dairy cattle population. Dairy farms are generally loca-
ted around the main cities, Seoul and Pusan, but urban growth is forcing
the relocation of the industry.
5.        Nearly all dairy farm operations are manual, including milking.
Labor requirements are high and a good estimate is one workman per five
cows, for milking, feeding, feed procurement and management. Capital in-
vestment in housing, silos and storage accommodation is fairly high. Farms
are generally understocked and, on most farms, the stocking rate is approx-
imately 2 ha per cow equivalent. Corn or grass silage provides the winter
forage, and green soilage is fed in the summer period.  Grazing is of minor
importance and most farmers do not graze.
6.        A major criticism of present production methods is that large
quantities of concentrates are fed, estimated at 3,000 to 4,000 kg per
cow per annum. The farmer pays 22 Won per kg for dairy ration and re-
ceives 50 Won per kg for milk. This price ratio encourages excessive
feeding of concentrates and has encouraged the development of dairy herds
on farms with little potential for forage production. There is consider-
able scope for improving the efficiency of dairy and beef production in
Korea by increasing reliance on grass and forage and by reducing substan-
tially the quantity of concentrates used. Much improvement in the effi-
ciency of forage and grass production, management and storage could also
be achieved. The introduction of different management systems based on
yard and cubicle housing with self-feed silage, coupled with mechanical
milking and forage harvesting, could improve labor productivity, particu-
larly on the larger units.
7.        An encouraging feature of Korea livestock farming is the high
level of stockmanship. Farmers take good care of their animals and on
a number of farms cows are milked three times daily. Two main livestock
problems are evident: breeding, which generally may be attributed to
poor artificial insemination (AI) service, and mastitis. Farmers have
little knowledge of the disease and lack information on modern methods
to prevent and control it.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
B. Framework for Livestock Development
Land Resource Potential
8.        General.  Korea has approximately 9.9 million ha of land, 23%
of which is used to produce rice or cultivated crops. A summary of land
use is shown in the following tabulation.
Million ha
Paddy fields (irrigated or
rainfed)                              1.3
Dry fields (upland crops)               1.0
Forest (most mountainous)               6.7
Other                                   0.9
Total              9.9
All valley land, whether irrigated or not, is occupied by paddy fields,
which, in the narrow sloping valleys between the foothills, are carefully
terraced. On the broadside of the ridges, where the slope is gentle, there
are upland crop fields and village compounds. Farther up the hills and on
steeper slopes, crops give way to woodlands of sparse pine. Suitable land
for pasture development is in the zone where cropland changes to woodland
on slopes of less than 350, These substantial untapped land resources could
be profitably developed for cattle production. The following land use clas-
sification is proposed as a basis for developing that potential.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
Category                   Area          Present State of Knowledge
(ha)
A.   Unimproved upland, native                      Sufficient knowledge and
grasses covered with sparse                   experience available for
scrub                          500,000        immediate development;
production information in-
complete.
B.   Upland, currently cropped;                     Sufficient knowledge and
better utilized for pasture                   experience available for
and forage                     100,000        immediate development.
C.   Rainfed paddy fields,                         Sufficient knowledge
better utilized for                           available for immediate
pasture and forage              100,000       development.
D.   Paddy flelds with poten-                      No information available
tial for double-cropping                      on possible yields.
hay, silage or soilage          700,000
E.   Woodland or rangeland                         No information available
suitable for surface                          on development.
regeneration                 1,000,000
9.        Category A represents 500,000 ha with slope of less than 350.  It
includes 40,000 ha of unimproved grassland with a good potential for live-
stock production in Cheju Island (paras 16 to 19). The proposed Project is
aimed primarily at establishing livestock farming on this type of land. A
stocking rate of one cow equivalent per 3/4 ha should be attainable.
10.       Category B represents approximately 100,000 ha characterized by
extremely low organic matter level, poor texture and contour, which makes
cultivation difficult and results in crop yields about 30% below average.
11.       Category C includes an estimated 100,000 ha of rainfed paddy out
of a total paddy area of 1.3 million ha. It is uneconomic to irrigate land
in this category and rice yields are low.
12.       Only 46% of the 1.3 million ha in rice paddy is double-
cropped. Category D, representing some 700,000 ha, may have such a poten-
tial. Hay could be harvested during May when weather conditions are good
and in sufficient time to permit rice planting in June. Drainage is the
major restriction on double-cropping, particularly in the southern half
where the growing season permits barley harvesting before rice planting.



ANNEX .
Page 5
13.       Category E includes an estimated 1 million ha out of a total of
6.7 million ha of woodland that could be developed as rangeland for summer
grazing. The contour is too steep for developing re-seeded pasture, but
production from native sward could be increased many times over by surface
application of lime and fertilizer and by oversowing with a suitable legume.
With low cost improvement, this category could possibly sustain a stocking
rate of one cow equivalent per 2 ha over the summer grazing period (five
to six months).
14.       Three distinctive types of farming enterprise could develop on
the basis of this land use classification, and future exploitation of
Korean land resources will depend on the successful demonstration of fea-
sibility:
(a) Type 1 - Livestock production farms based on grass and
forage production, with a farming system similar to that
set out in the proposed Project. This pattern would de-
velop on land use categories A, B and C;
(b) Type 2 - Intensive dairy or beef producing farms based
on the feed-lot system. Second-crop hay from paddy
fields would provide the forage, which would be supple-
mented with purchased concentrates; and
(c) Type 3 - Beef breeding farms on rangeland. Breeding
cows could graze while suckling for a period of five
to six months. The calf crop would be fattened on
type 2 farms.
15.       No particular structural or social problems are envisaged in the
development of farming patterns based on type 1 farms as most of the farm-
land would be owner-occupied. However, this would not be the case if feed-
lot-type farming is to develop. Under this system, a number of farmers
would have to work together to supply paddy hay, making it necessary to
develop a suitable organizational structure - cooperative or otherwise.
Likewise for type 3 farming, since rangeland is usually owned by a number
of farmers with grazing and other rights, it would be necessary to sub-
merge individual interests in a cooperative or some other structure be-
fore land could be developed for summer grazing.
16.       Cheju Island.  Cheju Island is situated 50 miles off the south
coast of Korea between the East China Sea and the Yellow Sea. It is a
volcanic island, oval in shape and rising gradually from a fairly flat
coastal area to 400 m and then quickly to Mt. Hallah, a volcanic cone
1,950 m high. Out of a total area of 180,000 ha, 500,000, located in a
band round the coast, are cropped. This cropland merges into native
unimproved grassland, and an estimated 40,000 ha, located between the
coastal cropland belt and the steep slopes of Mt. Ilallah, are available
for immediate development.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
17.       Cheju is by far the most favored location for pasture-based live-
stock farming in Korea. The climate is favorable, rainfall varies from 30
in on the west coast to 70 in on the east, with approximately 10 snow days
per year. Although experience in pasture production and livestock farming,
based on mixed pasture is limited, there is convincing evidence, both on
Cheju research station and Isadore Association Development farm, that high
producing pastures could be cheaply established. There is a good potential
for either dairy or beef farms, based on an eight- to nine-month grazing
season, with silage providing the winter feed. Since development of grass-
based livestock farming is only now beginning, it is possible to establish
farnis sufficiently large for economic viability.  Immediate constraints to
the development of livestock farming on Cheju include scarcity of breeding
stock; poor water supplies; insufficient electricity supply; insufficient
capital for farm machinery, buildings and roads; and insufficient workin!g
capital.
18.       The Isadore Development Association, in cooperation with the
provincial government, plans to develop 65 farms per year, approximately
10 ha in area and mainly for mixed farming, including livestock produc-
tion from grassland. To date, 295 farms have been settled, including 65
in 1969. Isadore Association also provides technical guidance in pasture
establishment, management and animal production techniques. In addition,
training courses are given to farmers in pasture and crop production, ani-
mal production techniques and machinery use and maintenance. The Associa-
tion owns and operates a large farm on which sheep and beef production from
grass is emphasized; it also runs a 1,500-pig unit.
19.       The development of livestock farming in Cheju Island, particular-
ly of beef production on pastures, could provide the base for a future Bank
Group-financed project.
Generation of Technical Information Under the Project
20.       At present, available information permits the development of only
a fraction of Korea's land resources potentially suited for livestock pro-
duction (paras 8 to 13). The full realization of this potential depends
upon the generation of simple input-output data, which is indispensable to
base investment decisions. The development of such information has been es-
tablished as an important objective of the Project. To that effect, one of
the prime functions of the teclhnical services would be, in addition to assis-
ting Project farmers, to provide overall research support on livestock pro-
duction. The detailed investigational work to be accomplished by the Project's
technical services is set out in the Terms of Reference for Management and Tech-
nical Services (Annex 10).



ANNEX 1
Page 7
Organization and Facilities for Investigational Work
21.       The Korea/New Zealand dairy farm at Pyongtaek (para 3) has the
necessary facilities in terms of land (about 220 ha), buildings, dairy
stock, equipment and land resources to support required investigational
work under the Project. In addition, it is administered by the KDBC, ad-
ministering agency for the Project. It would, therefore, be necessary for
that agency to explore the possibility of drawing up an agreement with the
New Zealand Government making these facilities available. Preliminary dis-
cussions with a New Zealand Government representative in Korea indicate that
such an arrangement may be worked out.
22.       It would be desirable for Project technical experts to work in
close cooperation with the UNDP/FAO Uplands Watershed Management Project
in Korea on pilot investigations on the yield of hay from rice paddy double-
cropped and on the development of rangeland. The objective would be to
achieve integrated development of all agricultural resources within a water-
shed area, working from the baseline of efficient water utilization. Three
watersheds located in representative areas, comprising a total of 273,000 ha,
are being developed and a project manager, employed by FAO, is assigned to
each (Map). The mission discussed these aspects with the FAO representative
in Korea and is confident of full cooperation. The objective would thus be
to develop 50 ha of second-crop hay and 100 ha of rangeland in each of the
three watershed areas. The Government would provide the necessary financing.
The feasibility of establishing a farmer cooperative to utilize rangeland by
grazing and a feedlot to utilize paddy hay should also be explored. Alterna-
tively, individual farmers producing hay should be supplied with working ca-
pital to purchase stock and provide buildings to use the feed.
Integration and Coordination with Ministry of Agriculture
23.       It is essential that technical assistance be linked as closely as
possible with existing governmental services to ensure the greatest possible
use of expertise provided under the Project and to exert maximum influence on
future development of livestock farming in Korea. It can be achieved by es-
tablishing the following work arrangement witih Owmr-msn.  TheP*Uf6W# r    '
Agriculture and Forestry would undertake research in cooperation with KDBC
on important aspects of the Project and on problems whose solutions are essen-
tial to future development of livestock farming. For example, suitable re-
search projects would include response to Incremental levels of concentrate
feeding for different categories of stock, yield of second-crop paddy hay on
a regional basis and carrying capacity of improved rangeland. The technical
staff of KDBC would review and approve the research project, including metho-
dology used and duration, and would be entitled to inspect and supervise to
ensure that execution of the project is up to the required standard. This
approach is aimed at utilizing available expertise and facilities to the ful-
lest possible extent and would give guidance to investigational work by estab
lishing research priorities.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
C. Import of Dairy Foundation Stock
24.       Importations of dairy foundation stock to Korea have been confined
almost entirely to in-calf heifers. Farmers are anxious to purchase heifers
close to calving to generate income from milk sales in the shortest possible
time. This consideration was important in earlier importation decisions.
There are, however, worthwhile advantages in changing dairy cattle import
policies to favor importing heifers at approximately 500-lb weight, 8 to 10
months old, and not mated, as proposed under the Project. These cattle
would be mated in Korea and would calve down at approximately two years of
age at weights approximating 1,000 lb before calving.
25.       Transport charges account for approximately 60% to 70% of the
total cost of importing stock. In general terms, two 500-lb heifers
can be transported for the same cost as one 1,000-lb in-calf heifer. Since
the purpose of the importation exercise is to introduce foundation breeding
stock, the greatest number would be imported by transporting at the lightest
possible weight. This is still true when female calves imported in foetal
stage are included in calculations. In addition, when in-calf heifers or
yearling heifers are considered in the herd projection model on a ratio of
5 to 7, respectively, there is a two-year lag in herd projection based on
in-calf heifers reaching the same number of milking cows. Furthermore, the
total number of animals sold for slaughter or fattening would be higher for
a yearling model, while the financial rate of return is similar. This indi-
cates a considerable economic advantage in favor of importing heifers, not
mated, at approximately 500-lb liveweight. Finally, heifers imported at the
400- to-500-lb liveweight stage will be exposed to less risk in transport than
would pregnant stock, and young stock have a better opportunity of building
up disease resistance and becoming adjusted to the new environment. Importa-
tion at this stage also permits better Project planning and coordination.
26.       Selection of stock is an important aspect in importing dairy cattle
and a number of countries are in a position to supply suitable Friesian heifers.
The Credit would finance the importation of high-grade Holstein/Friesian stock,
contrary to the usual practice in Korea of importing pedigree stock. Apart from
price considerations, there is much more selection possible when commercial stock
rather than pedigreed are considered. Heifers should be selected from bulls with
a high AI rating in the national or regional animal breeding program. A minimal
dam yield should also be specified when possible, the level of yield depending
on the feeding and management conditions existing in the country of origin.
27.       The Technical Director for Dairy Husbandry would have full respon-
sibility for planning and supervising livestock importations. In addition,
he would work out an efficient procedure for selection, assembly and purchase
of livestock in the supplying country. Usually this can be done by employing a
reputable stock agent or organization.  The prospect of future business should
be a strong incentive to such representatives to complete the work efficiently



ANNEX 1
Page 9
and at a reasonable cost. The agreement should contain a clause by which the
purchaser can suspend all further purchases if a consignment is not up to stan-
dard or if delivery is not made within a specified time period. An alternative
arrangement is to appoint an experienced individual within the supplying coun-
try to select and purchase stock and use a stock agent to supply all services,
including payment for stock, assembly and export. It may be possible in some
countries to have a government or semi-government specialist assigned to this
work. The Dairy Husbandry Specialist would have authority to travel to the
supply country to ensure that all aspects of selection, purchase and supply
are properly handled.
28.       Before cattle would leave the country of origin, adequate prepa-
rations would be required to ensure proper care and maintenance on their
arrival. Farmers participating in the Project would sign agreements that
they would take stock and the Dairy Husbandry Specialist would ensure that
each had the necessary feed and housing facilities and had been instructed
on feeding, management and routine health control measures. He would also
have responsibility for ensuring that necessary quarantine facilities, in-
cluding accommodation, feeding and veterinary staff, would be available to
handle each consignment. Furthermore, he would ensure that there was an
adequate organization for handling and transporting cattle and for provid-
ing extension service. A high-ranking government official should be named
at this stage to see that all government departments and agencies cooperate
fully in executing the importation.
D. Breeding Policy
29.       Friesian cattle can adapt without difficulty to the Korean envi-
ronment and the decision to base the development of dairying on this breed
is sound. Furthermore, the Friesian is an excellent dual-purpose animal
and can serve as the base for developing efficient beef production. The
male calves from the national dairy herd would fill an immediate gap in
the supply of suitable cattle for feeding on specialized beef fattening
farms.
30.       Native Korean cattle must provide the foundation stock for the
development of beef farming in the foreseeable future. It is suggested
that such cattle be crossed with Friesian to provide a breeding cow suita-
ble for single or double suckling. This crossbreed could then be bred to
a Hereford to provide a good beef animal. Although a small number of Zebu
and Brahman have been imported, it appears unnecessary to complicate breed-
ing or production by developing a multiplicity of breeds.



ANNEX 1
Page 10
31.       The development of an efficient Al service is basic to the deve-
lopment of livestock farming in Korea, both for dairy and beef. Korea
should adopt a policy of emphasizing import of dairy and beef semen from
proven bulls rather than one of importing breeding bulls. Importation of
semen should be restricted to countries or regions with an efficient breed-
ing program based on progeny and performance testing and only from bulls
with a high rating in the testing program of the exporting country. Adop-
tion of this breeding policy will enable Korea to avoid incurring the ex-
pense of developing a national breeding scheme, including herd testing and
bull studs. This means that Korea should import dairy female foundation
breeding stock and semen.
32.       There is need to improve the AI service to fulfill its important
role in the Project and in general livestock improvement. It is recommend-
ed that Korea contract with a foreign country or animal breeding service
for the purpose of high quality semen and include, as a provision, that the
supplying organization provide technical assistance for development of an
efficient AI service in Korea. It is further suggested that KDBC undertake
importation of semen and provide an efficient AI service to farmers partici-
pating in the Project.
33.       The possibility of technical assistance for Al development from
bilateral aid sources should be investigated. For example, New Zealand
could be approached on this basis and might provide assistance for an AI
service located at Pyongtaek (Korea-New Zealand dairy farm). The compo-
nents needing attention in technical assistance include semen storage and
diluents, use of frozen semen techniques, training of AI techinicians and
establishment of a check procedure on technician performance in the field.
It would also be necessary to study the most efficient method of providing
AI service on a national basis.
October 20, 1970



ANNEX 2
Page 1
KOREA
INTEGRATED DAIRY-BEEF DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Dairy Products Processing
A. Introduction
1.        The dairy products processing component of the Project aims at
establishing a profitable business by providing products of high and con-
sistent quality at moderate cost, thereby raising the status of milk as a
quality food. This may be done by adopting incentive payment schemes for
higher quality milk; improving laboratory control of milk and products and
their formulation; utilizing automatic machinery where warranted, along
with appropriate techniques for reducing heavy work; and operating shifts
where practicable. Attention should be given to reducing the cost and im-
proving the utility and appearance of packaging, in the case of milk bottles,
by a new bottle design and aluminum capping system. Distribution of market
milk should be improved by the use of refrigerated stores, conveniently
placed to keep vendors' delivery distances short, and by suitable thermal
protection of vendors' bicycles.
2.        Milk production would be developed in two districts:  Central
and Honam. In the Central District, a collecting and cooling station is
planned where milk would be received, graded and cooled, and tankered to
a bottling plant to be constructed near Seoul; surplus milk would go to
the proposed Kwangju plant. Distribution facilities in Seoul would be
provided for. In the Honam District, milk reception and processing would
be combined in or near Kwangju city, and the major initial processing fa-
cility would be for powdered infant milk formula. A bottled milk plant
with distribution facilities would be provided for later in the Project
and other minor facilities in both districts.
3.        Capacities and types of plant and the schedule of installation,
are based on planned Project milk flows, market requirements, and the as-
sessed operating and maintenance abilities of Korean factory workers and
tradesmen. They give weight to the recommendations of the Overseas Tech-
nical Corporation Agency of the Government of Japan (OTCA), which assisted
the Agriculture and Fishery Development Corporation (AFDC) in Project pre-
paration.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
4.        In view of the complexity of the plants and the collection sys-
tems, depending in part on decisions that cannot yet be made on siting,
farm selection and the like, further detailed design work is essential,
and the following provides only a frame of reference. General Japanese
practice will be a useful guide in developing the plans, but, as will be
seen, a number of divergences are recommended.
5.        Generally, the factory equipment list put forward by AFDC in the
initial preparation had considerable duplication of individual machines to
allow operating continuity, especially in the llonam plant. It is reconmen-
ded, however, that factories have fewer pieces of highly reliable equipment.
This occasions little capital cost change and reduces operating cost.
B.  Milk Procssin  Cpacitv and Product Demand in the Project Areas
6.        At first it would appear that there was already enough milk pro-
cessing capacity in the country as a whole to handle all the milk produced
now, with factories working less than eight hours per day. However, many
are small and inefficient and they are badly distributed.
7.        In the Seoul area, which represents the major pasteurized bottled
milk market, the dairy industry is quite well developed. It will, however,
be essential to construct new major bottled milk processing facilities there
by about 1973 because the transport of bottled milk over even moderate dis-
tances is costly. Until this time, existing plants, by working extended hours
and with minor plant additions, should be able to satisfy the demand.  There
would also be sufficient milk available, assuming some is transferred from
existing drying plants to the fluid plants.  There should be no difficulty
in marketing the milk produced in the early stages of the projected plant
operation, and it has been arranged that milk supply will increase steadily
and fairly rapidly in a manner that should facilitate the marketing as well
as make for good plant efficiency. In 1973-74, there should still be plenty
of excess dried milk capacity in the Seoul and nearby Chonan area, conve-
niently placed to handle any unexpected surplus. After 1973, surplus (drying)
capacity will be available in the Project's Honam plant.
8.        In Honam District, the dairy industry is little developed; faci-
lities comprise only a few small bottling plants and a miniscule condensed
milk plant. It is impossible to contemplate the further development of the
dairy industry in this area without providing appropriate processing faci-
lities. These would take the form first of a drying plant, its major imme-
diate product to be dried baby milk formulas. This plant would help satisfy
the demand for an important product and at the same time provide much needed
adequately sized balancing facilities fot market milk production in the area
over the long term. Because milk powders have good storage life, no problem
is seen in their marketing or distribution.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
9.        Normal growth of present bottled milk demand in the District
should be satisfied until about 1976 by existing production and proces-
sing capacity. Explosive growth rates could occur, however, with adver-
tising and/or distribution to hearby cities currently without supplies,
and bottled milk could ultimately be the major demand. While it would,
therefore, seem necessary to provide for another plant, as recommended
by AFDC, and especially since the present major one is badly sited in the
city center, the equipping and commissioning of such a facility should
not be done until the major one has settled down. Other facilities pro-
vided for include a small butter unit to balance low-fat powder produc-
tion and provide some local needs, and a small condensed milk plant to
meet an existing demand and market product-line needs. The plant would
also be able to utilize most types of second grade milk.
C. Milk Collection
10.       Because Korea generally has good low-temperature water supplies,
the farmer would water-cool his milk on the farm to about 160C or less.
At such temperatures, deterioration of reasonably hygienically produced
milk is slow, allowing a flexibility in collection timing, including once-
daily collection. The farmer would accordingly deliver the cooled milk in
cans, either directly to the factory (for a higher payment) or to the road-
side once daily at a prearranged time for factory-truck collection. The
cans from the previous collection would be returned at the same time. Sim-
ple shelters are needed to keep the sun off the cans at the roadside and
several farmers can use the same one.
11.       On a few larger farms with good access, collection may be made at
the farm, and provision has been made for collection at a later stage by
milk tanker pumping out of cans at roadside. In this case, simple senses/
rejection tests would be done and samples taken for analysis before the milk
is picked up. Second grade milk would be handled separately, possibly in
cans carried on racks at the side of the tanker.
12.       Farms would be selected, not only for their topographical and
managerial suitability, but also on the basis of access, grouping (near-
ness to other dairy farms in the collection area) and water supply. The
latter considerations are essential to maintain good milk quality without
excessive costs in cooling facilities and/or transport.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
D. Central District
Collecting and CoolinStion
13.       All milk from the area would be received, filtered and cooled at
this station, and farmers' milk payments would be made from it. The labo-
ratory would check incoming milk quality and provide services to the farm
field staff. Initial collection would be by 2,000-kg flat-deck trucks, and
provision has been made for future pickup from cans at roadside or farm using
a tanker-mounted milk meter. Initially one, and the next year two, 10,000-
liter milk tankers would be based at the collection station for deliveries to
Seoul or Kwangju. Provision is also made for a tanker trailer when needed.
14.       The major machinery would consist of a roller-conveyor for can
handling, a 360-can/hr rotary canwasher, milk scales and receiving vats
to permit separation to two grades of milk, the second grade use depend-
ing on the defects. The cooler would be plate type and a 6,000-liter/hr
milk throughput, arranged to water-cool the milk to within 20C of the
water temperature and to 40C with chillwater. The 10,000-liter agitated
insulated storage tanks, with provision for a third, are allowed for, as
well as twin 10-ton freon or other automatic refrigeration units. There
would be space for three, along with an icebank tank to reduce peak power
loading. Units are sized to cool the milk to 100C, the maximum safe long-
distance transport temperature, on a single unit in an emergency. Provi-
sion has also been made for a hot water boiler, oil-fired, with a capacity
of 0.8 x 100 BTU/hr. No steam is needed in this plant, but the canwasher
will require special ordering. No standby is necessary for this plant.
There will be a car and a motorcycle provided for general use.
Seoul Plant
15.       All milk is to be received cold by tanker at the Seoul plant,
where only first grade milk would be homogenized, pasteurized and bottled.
Distribution would be made from the plant and vendors accounts would be
handled there. The laboratory would control product composition and quali-
ty and do necessary investigational and product development work. Adequate
allowance has been made for a ve-y* high standard of construction and site
development and for groups of visitors within the plant.
16.       The initial principal machinery installation would consist of
high-class automatic crate handling and decrating equipment; bottlewash-
ing, filling and capping equipment; automatic recrating equipment, all
for 12,000, 180-cc bottles per hour. Milk equipment includes two 10,000-
liter and one 5,000-liter insulated agitated receiving/storage tanks with
provision for four, a 3,000-liter/hr standardizing separator/clarifier; a
3,000 liter/hr homogenizer; a high-temperature, short-time HTST plate pas-
teurizer with automatic flow diversion and such, also plated for at least
85% regenerative cooling, followed by chillwater cooling to 4°C; and
suitable intermediate storage vats, pumps, and the like. Initially, the
pasteurizer should be derated to more nearly match the bottling line.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
17.       In the second operating year, a second bottling line, with manual
crate and bottle handling, and a capacity of 3,000/hr would be added. There
would also be three 720-liter batch pasteurizer/mixing vats, along with an
1,800-liter/hr clarifier, homogenizer and plate cooler, and suitable storage.
This would be a multipurpose line that could be used batch-wise for flavored
milks, or with the No. 1 line pasteurizing equipment at full capacity, for
increasing ordinary bottled milk capacity.
18.       In the third year, provision is made for a 500-liter/hr ice-cream
plant of standard type, with batch pasteurizers.
19.       Refrigeration equipment would include three 10-ton units, initial-
ly for chillwater supply, with an additional 30-ton unit for the ice-cream
plant in the third year. The milk and ice-cream storage rooms have inde-
pendent freon units, and provision has been made for some air cooling in
restricted areas (such as those for visitors). The boiler has a 2,000-
kg/hr streaming capacity (a hot-water boiler is a preferred alternative)
and is oil-fired; provision is made for a standby unit in project year-3.
A car and a motorcycle would be provided for general use and there would
be a distribution truck.
Distribution System
20.   Milk would be distributed from the factory coolroom directly to
some vendors and from conveniently located refrigerated stores to others.
Distribution to the stores and large users would be by two 6-ton and one
2-ton insulated trucks; one 6-ton and one 2-ton would be scheduled for the
first year and the second 6-ton unit the second. One 2-ton flat-deck truck
is scheduled for each of the first two years for bottle collection and the
like.
21.       The stores provided for would be of prefabricated construction
with aluminum skin and lining and suitably protected; interior size would
be 7 x 4 x 2-1/2 m high with 10-hp freon units. A loading dock, office
and facilities would be attached and each run by one man. Two would be
provided for project year-l and one for project year-2. The structures
themselves and the surroundings would be chosen with promotion in mind.
No provision has been made for refrigerated ice-cream transport. Although
independent vendors would handle the milk from the stores, it could be in
the interest of the Korea Dairy Beef Company (KDBC) to provide them
with suitable uniform clothing and delivery bicycles, so fitted as to
provide display space and insulation for the milk crates.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
E. Honam District
22.       All milk from the area would be received, tested, cooled and
processed at this plant. It would also act as a balancing station for
surplus milk from the Central District and for processing some types of
second grade milk. All routine transactions with the farmers would be
made here, and, later, financial transactions with milk vendors.
23.       Initial provision would be for milk can reception and for a
10,000-kg/hr cooler and a clarifier. There would also be 10,000-liter
insulated agitated storage/reception tanks. The initial processing fa-
cility would require equipment for producing dried milk; this would in-
clude a standardizing separator with a maximum capacity of 4,000-liters/hr,
batching vats for mixing/standardizing, and heat treatment equipment com -
bined with the evaporator to permit heat treatments up to those required
for high heat skim milk powder. The evaporator would be the continuous
falling film type, with double effect and vapor recompression, and an
evaporative capacity of 2,200 kg/hr. The drier would have an evaporative
capacity of 450 kg/hr.
24.       Because it would be desirable to make a number of different pro-
ducts, a good measure of flexibility would be essential to control temper-
ature, pumping rates, and so on. This plant should balance at about 45%
solids from the evaporator at 3,000-kg/hr input on unmodified whole milk.
The types of drier that should be considered most seriously are the hori-
zontal type with pressure jet atomization and the squat vertical type with
disc atomization, both of which are suited to small-scale operation and
sufficiently flexible. A steam air heater would also be provided. Appro-
priate pneumatic powder conveying systems and 4-by-4-ton powder batching
bins are included, along with appropriate precautions for handling low
moisture (2%) powders. There would be blending equipment for dry mix
powders and filling systems for 1-kg bags and 500-g gas packed cans (1,500
cans/hr).
25.       Refrigeration equipment provided for would include initially two
30-ton units for chillwater, with appropriate storage, plus a third similar
unit for bottled milk later. These capacities assume water precooling of
milk in all cases. Coolrooms would have independent freon units, and
allowance has been made for some local air cooling, again by independent
units. Initially, one 4,000-kg/hr 250-psi oil-fired package-type steam
boiler would be provided, followed by a standby unit in project year-2.
A centralized electrical switchroom would have local motor controls.
26.       A bottled pasteurized milk facility would be provided about the
third year. This would include a 1,500-liter/hr HTST plate pasteurizer with
automatic flow diversion and at least 85% regenerative cooling, and a



ANNEX 2
Page 7
1,500-liter/hr homogenizer. Two 720-liter batch pasteurizers and a
1,500-liter/hr clarifier would produce flavored milks and such. The sin-
gle bottling line would provide for manual crate handling, decrating and
the like, and 6,000-bottle/hr automatic washing, filling and capping ma-
chinery for 180-cc bottles. There would also be a small butter unit fea-
turing a stainless steel batch churn with a capacity of 300 kg butter/
batch and semi-manual packing. An evaporated milk/sweetened condensed
milk plant, utilizing a 5,400-liter batch pan and appropriate can handling
(397-g) and filling equipment would be included. The milk butter and con-
densed milk facilities would be separately housed. A car and a motorcycle
would be provided for general use.
27.       A distribution system similar to that described for Seoul (para
20) would be set up for the bottled milk installation. In this case, only
one distribution station is scheduled and one 6-ton insulated truck. Dis-
tribution of powder and canned products would be directly from the plant
warehouse and butter from the butter chillroom. The refrigerated truck
needed for the ice-cream plant at Seoul might also be used for butter trans-
port in due time.
F. Detail Planning of Factory Facilities and Technical Assistance
Design
28.       Preliminary planning for the Project by OTCA in Japan was excel-
lent for estimation purposes but there are many modifications necessary to
meet changes in the proposals, specific problems, and capacity alterations,
and to make provision for expansion, as well as to solve the inevitable pro-
blems that will emerge when sites are chosen. Consequently, details must
be worked out and some consulting service would be needed. No suitable
consultant with experience in this field is available in Korea, but AFDC
has good general engineering planning facilities and some Korean indivi-
duals, currently employed in dairy factory management, would be of great
value.
29.       To provide the Korean inpult, it is recommended that a high tech-
nical official in the planned staff for KDBC, possibly the Technical Dir-
ector or someone near him, be recruited as soon as possible, to work with
the AFDC engineers and the consultants in planning the factories and the
associated utilities and in preparation of specifications. It is impor-
tant that he should also have responsibilities for the operation of the
plants later and the authority to act on the planning, construction and
later development as needed.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
30.       The external consultancy would do its work in Korea to assist
in building up local expertise. This would be easiest to organize if
two experts on dairy processing could be made available to KDBC/AFDC by
way of an aid program. In such a case, it may be possible to enlist fur-
ther OTCA assistance, which would be most valuable.
31.       The fastest possible start on planning following granting of the
loan is essential because only two years are available before the first
plant must be in operation. If possible, preliminary planning; site selec-
tion, at least to the taking of options to purchase; and investigation of
the availability of building contractors and such should be done by AFDC
and precede the hiring of consultants.
Plant Startup and Operation
32.       For plant operation, it should be possible to recruit some
Koreans with experience, since the dairy industry has been operating
there for some years and the staggered start of major facilities allows
for KDBC staff training. If the aid scheme suggested for consultants can
be organized, effort should be made to have some extra experts available
for plant startup, and, in any case, the equipment suppliers would have
staff on hand. It is important that provision for this be made in quota-
tions for plants and in ordering.
33.       If international consultants are to be used, they should be able
to give assistance during the startup period. In either case, a key per-
son will be the Korean(s) appointed for the planning phase. With the
phasing of construction of the plants recommended and the development of
expertise by the Koreans involved, both in design and plant operation, it
should be possible for the consultants to complete their work with the
startup of the drying plant at Kwangju and leave later developments to
the KDBC staff.
G. Timing and Construction
34.       Because of lack of bottled milk processing capacity in Seoul, it
is important to have the Seoul plant operating by first milk flow from the
Project. Consequently, the main facilities in the Central District should
all be planned and their construction coordinated to ensure this.
35.       There would be no milk available until the following year in
Honam, allowing for more time for planning and construction. It is, how-
ever, important to have the drying plant operating by the fourth year, as
it provides for surplus milk from the Central District and the milk from
the Project in Honam District could not be processed anywhere else, nor
cooled for distance transport, since there is no suitably large facility.
In the fifth year, a standby boiler facility is scheduled for Honam and
the ice-cream plant for the Central District. The latter needs to be
available for the summer season.



ANNEX 2
Page 9
H. General Technical Processing and Product Quality Considerations
Milk Quality
36.       Present quality standards for milk as received at the plants
leave much to be desired. They are of a simple acceptance/rejection type
for content (30% min) based on hygiene quality and composition, including
flavor and smell (senses), an alcohol test (68%) and specific gravity
(1.028 to 1.034). The hygiene standards, while they could be improved,
are of less concern, however, than the composition standards, which, in
effect, set a very low level for total milk solids. They are, in fact,
considerably lower than those in milk produced from average cows in
Korea, in which fat content, for instance, is commonly around 3.4% to
3.5%. There is no increased payment for milk of higher solids content;
consequently, the temptation to add water to the milk is great. With
these standards, control is difficult and bottled milk is therefore, of
low and somewhat variable solids content, which gives rise to justifiable
customer dissatisfaction. More suitable standards would include, first
of all, provision for incentive payments for milk of higher total solids
content. This could be based on fat, protein, or solids not fat (SNF).
The Japanese system is based on fat content and provides for a basic
payment of 50.96 Won/kg at 3.2% fat. Each 0.1% fat above this to 3.8%
brings an additional 0.9 Won/kg and each 0.1% fat less, a deduction of
0.8% Won/kg, with rejection for town milk at 3.0% fat. Such milk would
presumably then be used for manufacturing, at 30 to 40 Won/kg. In addi-
tion, milk under 8.0% SNF is paid for only at 25.43 Won/kg. Similar
systems are used in other countries and are well documented.
37.       The Milko meter provides the cheapest way to test accurately the
numbers of samples required for fat. This test costs about US$0.03 equiva-
lent per sample. The more familiar Babcock Test costs about US$0.12 equiv-
alent per sample. Automated dye binding methods for protein cost about
US$0.08 per sample, standard yeldahl tests rather more. Direct weighing
tests for SNF cost about US$0.04 equivalent per sample. Although protein
is probably a more satisfying basis for test, it is suggested that the pay-
ment scheme be set up on a fat basis and that basic payment be made on 3.2%
fat with 1.5 Won/kg per 0.1 fat above and below this, no milk being used
for bottling that tests below 3.2%. In Korea approximately 1.5 Won/kg
would be the appropriate incentive at a standard 3.2% fat milk value of
50 Won/kg. This should be supplemented by a reject test on SNF with a
minimum of 8% and a substantial penalty for lower levels, say minus 25
Won/kg. Testing should be done on a spot-check basis, approximately
weekly, for each supplier rather than on composite samples; this system
is used in England and Ireland. Additionally, the methylene blue test
is recommended for daily hygenic quality tests. This is well suited to
conditions in Korea and is well documented; an appropriate time stan-
dard could be three hours for first quality milk.



ANNEX 2
Page 10
38.       Thus, the recommendation is that standards be established for
milk as received at the factory on the following lines:
(a) Senses test daily--putrifaction, contamination, feed
flavors, would downgrade;
(b) Methylene blue test daily;
(c) Fat test periodically - standard payment for, say, 3.2%
fat, + 1.5 Won/kg per + 0.1% fat deviation; method rec-
ommended, Milko tester; standard samples for calibration
to be provided by KDFC, Seoul laboratory;
(d) SNF test periodically - gravimetric, say, 25 Won/kg if
below 8.0%; and
(e) Other indicative tests such as specific gravity.
39.       It is further recommended that standards decided on be written
into the contracts with the farmers, since Government-enforced standards
do not nmet the needs.
Problems in Milk Processing
40.       An occasional problem is a shortage of some machinery spare parts,
such as gaskets for plate heat exchangers, which may necessitate KDFC hold-
ing stocks. The significance of this is likely to be lessened by the pro-
bable forthcoming joint Japanese-Korean venture by the Japanese firm UEDA,
which has supplied most dairy processing equipment to Korea and which plans
to stock spare parts in Korea.
41.       Problems applicable to bottled milk include the quality and
design of Korean milk bottles. These vary in size and break easily, re-
presenting a rather high cost factor in production. The design of the
pouring lip and cardboard capping system necessitates the use of a celo-
phane overwrap to protect the bottletop from contamination. This is also
expensive. The English bottle design with an aluminum foil cap crimped
over the bottle top, so protecting the lip, is much better and the caps
are substantially cheaper. These foil caps are automatically date-stamped,
which is an essential quality control factor, and they give a much better
appearance than cardboard caps. Cardboard caps and overwraps have been
provided for in the costing, but serious consideration must be given to
aluminum foil caps for the Project on account of improved hygiene and ap-
pearance and lower cost. Since AFDC is to be involved in a new glass
bottle plant to be constructed, it should be possible for them to arrange
for production of more suitable bottles.



ANNEX 2
Page 11
42.       The heat treatment commonly applied to milk in Korea, as in Japan,
is far beyond that required for pasteurization, but is short of requirements
for sterilizing. It imparts a definite cooled flavor to the milk and would
alter its food value. If product identity is required, KDFC should contem-
plate reducing the heat treatment applied to more normal levels.
43.       Generally, standards for market milk appear adequate.  It is
recommended that standardization for fat be considered.
44.       From operating costs, it is noticeable that packaging for baby
milk powder is very costly. It appears to be possible to utilize existing
less costly methods of packing, such as foil schets, at considerable cost
saving to the consumer and probably an increased market. The baby food
currently available and costed in this Project has about 20% sucrose and
10% lactose. If all lactose were used, a better quality product would be
produced at about 5% higher cost. This cost increase could probably be
reduced or even eliminated by appropriate action on the local Korean prices
for lactose, but, in any case, a slightly higher cost would probably be
thought more than worthwhile by nutritionists and would fit with the KDFC
plan to market quality products.
October 20, 1970






ANNEX 3
Page 1
KOREA
INTEGRATED DAIRY-BEEF DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Awriculture and Fishery Development Corporation (AFDC)
Korea Dairy Beef Co., Ltd. (KDBC)
A. AFDC
ObJectives and Functions
1.        AFDC was founded December 1, 1967, by the Agriculture Fishery
Development Corporation Act, passed by special legislation in October
1967. It is intended to be a major force for implementation of the na-
tional policy of achieving a balanced growth of agriculture and industry
by encouraging farmers and fishermen to broaden their productive activi-
ties efficiently, thereby stimulating an overall increase in rural income.
In contrast with a 10% annual growth rate for the overall economy of the
country, the agricultural sector has been expanding at an annual rate of
only about 4%. To achieve its objective of "enhancing income levels of
agricultural and fisheries communities," ADFC performs the following prin-
cipal functions:
(a) financing equity investments and long-, medium- and
short-term loans for the development of industries
producing, storing, processing and marketing agricul-
tural and fisheries products;
(b) encouraging domestic and foreign investments in such
industries;
(c) providing technical and management assistance, and
technical information and training for relevant indus-
tries;
(d) creating and developing domestic and export marketing
of agricultural and fisheries products; and
(e) introducing improved institutional frameworks and carry-
ing out other activities necessary for a smooth growth of
agribusiness.
2.        In carrying on its operation, AFDC exercises much greater inde-
pendent judgment and decision-making power than do other government cor-



ANNEX 3
Page 2
porations in this country. The broad autonomous character of AFDC is
ensured by a special instruction issued by the President of the Republic
of Korea on December 7, 1967, to Cabinet officials concerned. The Presi-
dential instruction said:
(a) in view of its special character, the Agriculture and
Fishery Development Corporation should develop its busi-
ness basically on its own initiatives and through its
autonomous activities;
(b) restrictions and controls on the AFDC should be minimized
so that the AFDC can be staffed with the most competent
workers and operated under creative management of its
president;
(c) AFDC should be exempted from the Budget and Accounting
Law Concerning Government Corporations, and, instead,
be allowed to establish flexible accounting and other
regulations to govern its activity and operation; and
(d) as a result of such measures as outlined above, AFDC
should become a model for management and operation of
state-owned enterprises.
3.        The most important functions of AFDC are to develop plans for
viable enterprises for storing and processing agricultural and fishery
products, construct and operate physical facilities needed for such pur-
poses, and provide for the necessary risk capital and loans needed for
the successful initiation and maintenance of such enterprises.
Investments
4.        AFDC has invested in 22 enterprises during the past two years.
The order of priority in AFDC investment is determined by judging projects
according to the following criteria and selecting those that:
(a) have sufficiently high profitability which can make
effective contributions to increasing cash incomes
of farmers and fisherw-..Ei.
(b) can significantly increase exports or replace imports;
(c) can substantially increase employment levels;
(d) are most desirable from the viewpoint of community
development; and
(e) can effectively serve the purpose of the overall national
economic policy.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Investments have r.enged f roir intensive labor production enterprise (e.g.,
sericulture, mushrooms, tobacco) to processing (e.g*, manufacture of glu-
cose, fruits, -vegetables) and to cold s.orage and marketing (e.g., oranges,
apples).  Only five of the 22 companies lhave passed one year since the
startup of their production facilities.  About six of these, inot expected
to break even in 1970, are mostly in the verv early stages of operation.
In 1971, all existing AFDC-financed companies, except Korea Cold Storage
Co., are expected to earn profits.  AF  i) holdings at the end of 1969 ac-
count for l00% of the capital atock -In seven companies, 50% or more in
11 and less than 50% irn  fcurb
.Ita1 Resources
5,         AFDC's initial authorized capital of 5 billion Won (US$16 mil-
lion) was increaled  o 110 bill.on Won (US$32 million) to strengthen its
irternational credit ra'tUing and to ma1-e its operation more effective.  By
the end o.. 1969, the Goverment lhad paid in 5 billion Won (US$16 million)
and also grTnte-d a loavi of 728 million WonI (US$26 million).  AFDC holds
slightly more than 30% or! abotut 2.6 billion Won (US$8.5 millior) of the
total peid-ia capital of lts 22 affiliated enterprises.  External borrow-
ings (TBRr), AB -ind private ban1ks) -iil become an incraasingly important
source of fund@.  Earninags krom i-arkei:t-1g, ' both c2umestic anld export, and
interest on loans coniia.atnte its prineipal operating income.  In 1969,
AFDC realized a net profit of abauou: 15 million Won (JS$50,000), compared
with a loss of a slUghUly smaller ,mount in 1968, its starting year.  See
financdai statme.eats given in Tables I a.nd 2 fir ope'zations irL 1968, i969
and 1970 2orecaut,
Mlanagemnent
BEy virtute of Its b:-osd autortomons character Kpara 2) AFDC has
beeu ab te to aEitract a, qualified and. comp mevtt proierisional staff for
key adininistr       naianr1i  , vlan-,ninrs  rese.ch rrkd technical posi-
tions.  It i'.s headed by onle President,: appointed by the President of the
Republic; ane. E eutive Y                   up to fout o-.xectors; and one
Auditox.  The 3,oard 'ef 1irzctore :is corpoScd of the  resident, Vice-Pre-
sidenit and Pire.ct3ve.  Each Director headsv a matn department.
7.         Of pavtrcular :Ziportance t.o t,ic Proj e,z would be the relationship
between AFDC and KDBC, F-roject adminilatnring agency. AF])C would supervise
the operations o. KDBC witbin e broad policy fralework, .would give manage-
ment trainring, antd expect it to operate -M a strictly cormmercial basis,
maintaining an independent: account of Its operations Jn order to show how
efficiently and effectlvely it uiaili2es its capital.  It would also give
assistance ia procurement of Project goods and ser.Nices, technical assis-
tance in the planning of the proposed two dairy processing units, and do
research and market promotion f£r its dairy products. In summary, the
services and assistance that AVFP  giYes ;so ite affiliated companies would
enhance .KDBC's cepabiiity to nuccessfully ianpi.ment the Project.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
B. KDBC
History
8.        KDBC was founded by AFDC in February 1969 as an affiliated enter-
prise to be engaged in livestock production, milk processing, and marketing.
Since then, its operations principally have been the development and man-
agement of the Korea-Now Zealand Dairy Demonstration Farm and preparation
of the proposed project. The Korea-New Zealand dairy farm was started in
1969 unde: a bilateral aid program (Colombo Plan) 1/ between Korea and New
Zealand for the purpose of determining whether certain New Zealand pasture
and forage production practices could be applied in Korea.
Capital
9.        KDBC is incorporated as a limited liability company.  The full
amount of share capital, entirely held by AFDC, amounts to 150 million Won
(US$490,000). It would be further capitalized by AFDC (funds may be ob-
tained from Government) by about US$1.3 million equivalent. This would be
used for the planning and development of two dairy products processing fa-
cilities (about US$0.5 million), project management and technical services
(about US$0.5 million) and working capital (about US$0.3 million). Since
KDBC's present authorized capital is only 150 million Won, it would be ne-
cessary for it to be increased to about 600 million Won (about US$2 million
equivalent). In effect, AFDC's investment would be equity capital for which
no fixed rate of dividend is stipulated. If any additional working capital
would be needed, AFDC would advance it to KDBC at 18% per annum. KDBC's fi-
nancial statements for 1969 and estimated for 1970 are shown in Tables 3 and
4.
Organization
10.       At the time of appraisal, organization of KDBC was fairly simple.
It consisted of about 15 employees, ranking from the President (General Man-
ager) to a tractor driver. To administer the Project, KDBC's staff would
need to be expanded to about 25 professional personnel and departments orga-
nized. Qualified Koreans would be available. The Mission discussed with
KDBC an organizaLlon plan. as weillno asLfiu,it recuiremertts. and aRreed to
an organization similar to that shown in Annex 9. Basically, KDBC would be
organized in five major departments: Administration, Technical Services,
Dairy Processing, Marketing, Finance. Each would be headed by a Korean un-
der the administration of a president and executive vice-president. Key de-
partments for execution of the Project would be Technical Services and Dairy
Processing.
I/   New Zealand's contribution consists of limited technical assistance
(farm manager and a crop specialist), some agricultural machinery
and 110 Freisen heifers and 9 bulls.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
11.       In addition to the Heads of Technical Services and Dairy Process-
ing Departments, there would be two Technical Directors--Dairy Husbandry
and Dairy Processing, the latter possibly a consultant service. Other tech-
nical assistance would include a specialist in agronomy, one in animal nu-
trition and about 10 specialists in livestock production (see Annex 10 for
terms of reference).
October 20, 1970






KOR-
ITU3ajRATED DAIRT-BE-F DEV-ELOPIIE   PROJECT
Condensed Balance Shieet, AFDC
(Wn illion)'
1Z'31,O1)  1969      1968                                                                 12/31/70        19h9 I1968
ASSETS                                                                                    LIABILITIES ATD CAPITAL
Current Assets                          4E50%      2,295   1,147                          Current Liabilities                         25          123          83
Cash                                    156        2L1      h33                         Fixed Liabilities                        h,603         919            4
Receivable-trade                         175        38
Courodities                               -         70      -                             Long-term borr-ovings                  4,583         905            4
Short-term  credits to subsidiaries   3,620    l,L98        570                           Reserve for retiresents                   20           11           -
Short-term credits                       179        13       1L
Prepayments                               -        111      -                           TOTAL LIABILITIES                        4,628        1,0b2          87
9uspense payments                         -         99      -
Fayment guarantees                        31        U1       33                         Paid-in Capita!2)                        6,500        5,000      3,000
Account income                            -        li7       12
Account under construction                35        18       84                         Capital Surplus                              1            1           -
Other assets                             309       Jh9        1
Nct Profit (Loss)                         100          (10)        (25)
Fixed Assets                             6&6    3         69 1 90
Loss brought forvjard                    15           26          11
Physical assets                          290        42      3214                           Profit                                  115           16         (14)
Intangible assets                         8I        83       92
Investments                            6,290     3,572   1,L88                          TOTAL CAPITAL                            6,60L 92,975
Deferred Accounts                           61         41               _                  TOTAL LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL          11,229        6,033       3,062
TOTAL ASSETS
11,229     6,033   3,062
Source: AFDC
1) Forecast October 1 by AFDC
2) Authorized capital 10 billion won
October 20, 1970                                                                                                                                                   H '



ANNEX 3
Table 2
KOREA
INTEGRATED DAIRY-BEEF DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Statements of AFDC
(Won million)
12/31/0 1)   1969        1968
Operating Revenues                    1__6_2 _0.6                33.1
Exports                                  676      169.7          2.4
Domestic sales                           370      317.9        121.3
Commissions-export and import             35       1h.5          -
Interest on lendings                     548      24h.1          0.4
Interest on deposits                      -        70.4        209.0
Other                                     53
Operating Expenses                       1,125      4453         115.8
Export                                   584      151.7         15.1
Domestic sales                           360      261.1        100.5
Interest paid                            136       32.5          0.2
Other                                     45        -            -
Gross Profit                               557      361.3        217.3
General and Admin. Expenses                34       369.6        225.Q
Salaries                                 162      114.9         92.4
Miscellaneous                            185      224.7        132.6
Special Administrative Expenses             20       17.4          7.
Survey                                    -        12.2          0.5
Project development                        5        2.5          0.5
Management                                 8        2.7          4.6
Guidance to subsidiaries & Research        7                     1.4
Sales expenses                            64        -            -
Operating Profit (Loss)                    126      (25,)        (1.7)
Non-operatin&r Profit                       -        62.3          3.9
Current Gross Profit (Loss)                126       36.6        (10.8)
Non-operating Expenses                      10       21.0          3.1
Current Net Profit (Loss)                  116       15.6       (13.9)
Source: AFDC
1) Forecast October 1 by AFDC
October 20, 1970



ANNEX 3
KOREA                                       Table _
INTEGRATED DAIRY-BEEF DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Balance Sheet, KDBC
(Wton rooo}
12/31/701)            12/31/69
Current kssets
Cash on hand                               144 4l
Cash in bank                              1400                15,087
Final goods finished                        -                    153
Partly finished goods                       -                  2,758
Stores                                    738                  2,461
Suspense paymient                           -                      5'7
Calves                                                           193
Grass                                                          1 ,200
Subtotal                      22X 020
Fixed Assets
Tangible
Building                               110,377                13,7142
Structures                             9,603                   6,103
Delivery                               7,6142                  3,3.2
T4achinery                              7,150
Furniture and fixtures                 3,472                   2,291
Land                                  69,889                  148,6714
Other facilities                          871                     871
Cattle                                17,828                   2,238
Constructions in process                    -                 11 719
Subtotal                       i6,632
Tntangible-leasehold right               14,9914                    791
Unamortized Expenses
Organization                              607                     607
Development                           19 659                   6
Subtotal                       20566
Total Assets                           l.83,274                ll8,1409
1.T ABTLITIE,S
Current                                       -                 12,1148
Long-term borrowings (AFDC)              18,200                 10,800
Imployees deposits                          596                 1
Total Liabilities                        1M,79                   22,9hb
CkP IT,*L
Issued Capital (AFDC)                  150,000                 100,000
Nid from Government                      24,038
Loss brought forward                     (9 560)                 (14,539)
Total Capital                           17                       95,46
A,APTT'kL AND LIARILITIES                 183,271                ll8,h09
Source., KDRC
1) Forecast October 1 by KDBC
October 20, 1970



ANNEX 3
Table b
KOREA
INTEGRATED DAIRY-BEEF DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Operating Income and Expense, KDBC
(Won '000)
19701)        2/14 to 12/31 1969
Net Sales                                 3,240                 817
Cost of Sales                             3,996                 572
Manufacturing cost of
production                              19,946                 725
Final inventory                          15,950                 153
Gross Profit from Sales                     756                 275
Selling, Administrative
Expensea                                 3,384               6,005
Salaries                                  1,487               2,156
Travelling, communication                   246                 668
Office supplies                             244                 321
Representation                              752               1,1446
Repairs, maintenance                        481                 675
Administrative, technical
services                                                       709
Miscellaneous                               174                  30
Operating Profit_(Losq)                  (4,140)             (5,730)
Non-operating Revenues                                        2,007
Interest on deposits                        600               1,815
Miscellaneous                                -                  192
Gross Profit (Loss)                      (3,540)             (3,723)
Less interest paid                        1,481                 815
ND                f   + aP               !n9                 (4,538)
Source: KDBC
1) Forecast October 1 by KDBC
October 20, 1970



IIDRFA
nKI2          Dn n W- cva1P   PT
Dairy Fare Development Projections
Model 1: lo-Cmw Dairy parm
Investment Cost Projections
Average        Average       Average                 Develop0ft Phasing
Iiiecti nt Ite                               llnit           units          unit           Cost                        Farm Year                           Total Cost for
Per Farm        Cost         Per Fya x.                                                           600 Fais
(_ __ '~~~~~ 000 -- )                               ~          ~          0 twal ' GO.OWQLIS  o
?attwe EwtAbli.skut V                         ha             9.5             10             95             1a0              15              h0             57             187
Farm Structures:
Cav Bkm                                     uiit            12              60           720            360               -              360           1432           1,4,17
Silo d hay abed                              Al             12              15           180            180               -               _             10i             35h
Cattle  V                                     head             7             125           875              -              875              -              525          1,721
Machinery and equipxtt
Tiller ad attatbata  3/                     8et             .1             340           340            3140              -               -             20h             669
Milking -achine                             it               1             150           150              -               -              150              90            295
Milk Dael                                   mite            12                            Z 8             -                -              4O              29              95
Milk cooler and pwp                           aite           1              30            30              -                -              30              18              59
Total                                                                               2,4s38            920             890             628           1,4a63         h,797
I/ In addition the Government provides a subsidy of asbut 62,000 Won/ha for pasture establishment in the form of fertilizer, lime, pasture seeds and foodgrains.   -i'
2/ One-year old grade Frieuian heifers at a CIF cost of 390 US$/head, port of Pusan, 119,000 w3n, plus quarantine and other costa equivalent to 6,000 Won/head.
I/ In additin Govemnent provides a subsidy to the manfacturer of about 80,000 Won per tiller.
October 2C, '973



n Tghf~X REA,
DsT irY,104 Fr    aoPnt Prolaotions                                                           7
Model 11 10-Coi Paiir; ?arm
ard nro_octoon
CATEGOORY                          Unit             Value       1           2                               r              6           7 o3
Won
MZRD CO0POSITIONY
Cows                                 No.           180,000       -          -           7          6           7           8          8           7            8
In-ualf Heifers                     No.           180,000       -           7           -          3           3           2          2           3            2
Heifer Calves                        No.            60,000       -          -           3          3           3           3           3          3            3
Bull Calves                         No.            60.000       -           -           3          2           -           -          -
Total                               No.                                     7          13         14          13          13         13          13           13
Animal Units                        No.                          -          7           7          9          10          10         13          10           10
BIRTHS
Heifer Calves                       No.                          -          -           3           4          4           5          5           5            5
Bull Calves                         No.                         -           -           4          3           5          5           5           5            5
fatal                               No.                         -                      7           7           9         10          10          10          10
PURCHASES
Heifers - not mated                 No.             125,000     -           7           -          -           -          -           -           -           -
Total                               No.                         -           7
MORTALITY
Cows                                No.                         -           -           -          -           1           -          -           1           -
Heifer Calves                       No.                         -           -           -          1           -          1           1           1           1
iull Calves                         No.                         -           -          1           -           1          1           1           1          1
Hei.ers, 9-24  months               No.                         -           -           -          -           -          -           1           -          1
Total                               No.                         -           -           1          1           2          2           3           3          3
SAILS
Cull Cows                           No.            125,000      -           -           -          1           1          2           2           2          2
Cull Heifers, 9-24  months          No.            100,000    -             -          -           -           -          1           -           -          -
Bulls, 24 months                    No.            140,000    -             -          -           3          2           -           -          _           _
Heifer Calves                       No.              25,000     -           -           -          -           1          1           1           1          1
ull Calves                          No.             20,000      -          -           -           1          4           4          4           4           4
T,  ta-                              No.                        -           -          -           5           5          a           7           7          7
T§NTCAL COEFFIGIITB
~~,alvanf Iniervol    -  11 months  ~~~~lAotation L.ngth .. 280 days                                                Mortality:
Ccvir,g   ber  val   -  14 months                                           Milk Yield          _                                           Adults              -  3%
Cc capetior  cW -te           - 2l Ist Lactation -  2,600 kg                                                                                Cattle 9-2li mo   -  hS
Caiv-irg Rate - IOOS                                                              Subsequent    -  3,00 kg                                  Calves 0-9  mo   -  20%
Age of lit Calving    -  214 mo.
End of year figures.
2/  Cowa aso  in-calf are included in cullng pe'oentaga
-er 20, 1970



KOREA
INTEGRATED DAIRY-BEEF DEVELOPMENT PROJFCT
Dairy Farm Development Projections
Model 1: 10-Cow Dairy Farm
Sales, Operating Expenses, and Net Operating Income
Price                                                          Farm Year
unit   oe   nt        1          2           3              14             5             6              7           8            9-11
U   (Wo0n)i  (__--             __                   ---------- Won'000-      ------    --------7-B-.-
SALES
Milk                                                 1         50          -          -          910          1,225           1,310         1,660         1,660        1,660          1,660
Cattle                                        _/                           -         -            -             565             510           455           355          355            355
Total                                                                 -          -          910          1,790           1,820         2,115         2,015        2,015          2,015
OPERATING EXPENSES
Fertilizer                                           ha   10,000           20         50          85            115             115           115            115         115            115
Reaseeding and Liming                                ha    8,000           -          -           -              16              16            16             16          16             16
Corn seed  21                                        ha   4s,000           10        10           10             10              10            10            10           10             10
Labor                                           man/year 180,000           -        180          180            180             180           180            180         180            180
Feed:
Milk  cows                                   head/year  .2,000  3/       -          -          154             154            176           220            220         198            198
Dry cows                                          n      15,000  1iT     -          91          78             143            104            78             65          78             78
Veterinary and Al                                                          -          21          33              44              48           48             48           48            48
Machinery Operation and Maintenance                                        30         70          70              70              70           70             70          70             70
Miscellaneous                                                              -          10          10              10             10            10             10          10             10
Subtota 1                                                             60       1432         620             742            729           747            734         725            725
Total 5                                                               65        480         680             820             800          820            810         800            810
NET OPERATING INCOME                                                        o5)     (48o)         230            37c          1,020         1,295          1,205       1,?15          1,205
1/  See Table 2.
2/ Two sowings of 50 kg/ha each on 2.5 ha.
1,000 kg/cow/year at 22 Wm/kg.
700 kg/AU/year at 22 Won/kg.
5/Including a contingency allowance of about 10%.
U  Before lebt service
October 20, 197^



[.;<ATED DAIlY-BEEF DEVELOPME1.T PF1JF,CT
Dairy Farm Development Projections
Model 1: 10-Cow Dairy Farm
Financial Projections
Farm Year
1        ~~~2          3             4             5            67                                       9 -10            11
----------------------------------------------------------    Won   '000  ------- ----------------------------------------------------
Cash Inflow
Sales                             -            -            91O         1,790        1,820         2,115        2,015         2,015           2,015          2,015
Loan:
Long-term                      6go          667           477           -            -             -             -            -              -               -
Short-term                     105          728           695           -            _             _            _             _              _               _
Farmer's Contribution            230          223           151           -            -             -             -            -              -               -
Total               1,025         1,618        2,233         1,790         1,820        2,115         2,015         2,015         2,015           2,015
Cash Outflow
Investment                       920          890           628           -            -             -             -            -              -               -
Operating Expenses                65          480           680           820          800           820           810          800            810             810
Total                 985         1,370        1,308           820           800          820           810           800            810            810
Annual Cash Balance
Before Debt Service               40           248          925           970        1,020         1,295         1,205        1,215          1,205           1,205
Debt Service
Long-term Debt:
Interest (9%)                   32            92          144           165
Annuity±/                       -             -            -             -            402          402           402          402            402             -
Short-term Debt:
Interest (15%)                   8            51           53            -             -            -             -             -             -              _
Principal                       -           105           728           695           -             -             -             -             -              _
Total                   40          248           925          860           402           402          402           402            402             -
Annual Cash Balance
After Debt Service                -             -           -             110           618          893           803           813           803           1,205
1/  For calculation purposes it is assumed that on-average long-term loans would be for 9 years including 3 years of grace
and that they would be amortized on an equal semi-annual annuity plan.
October 20, 1970



KOREA
INTEXGRATED DAIRY-BEEF DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Dairy Farn Development Projections
Model 2:  40-Cow Dairy Farm
InSestment Cost Projections
Average     Average      Average                   Development Phasing
Investment Item                             Unit             Unit        Unit         Cost                          Farm Year                            Total Cost for
Per Farm     Cost        Per Farm              1            Z             3                    100 Farms
(-          ------Won '000-------------------                (Won '000,000) (US$ '000)
Pasture Establishment  1/                    ha               36           10  1/      360                150           110           100              36               118
Farm Structures:
Cow barn  2/                              AU               50          40         2,000              1,000           500           500            200                656
Silo and hay shed                         AD               50           12          600                400            -            200              60               197
Fencing                                   ha               36            9          330                130           100           100              33               108
Cattle  3/                                  bead              21          125        2,630                 -          2,630            -              263               862
Machinery and Equipment:
Tractor and a&tachments                  set                1        2,500        2,500              2,500            -             -              250               820
mtilking -chine  4J                      imit               1       1,000         1,000                 -             -         1,000              100               32c
Total                                                                         9,420              4,180         3,340        1,900             9b42            3,089
1/  In addition the Government provides a subsidy of about 62,000 Won/ha for pasture establisbment in the form of fertilizer, lime, pasture seeds and foodgrains
2/  Loose housing and milking shed plus self-fseding silage.
3/   One-year old grade Friesian heifers at a CIF cost of 390 US$/head, port of Pusan, 119,000 Won, plus quarantine and other costs equivalent to 6,000 Won/head.
i    Including cooling equipment and cortainers.
Note: Figures are rounded.
October 20, 1970



KORE-
IIITULTD DmL-uW D1Vm4
Dairy Fam DeveloPment Pro1ectione
M4odal jj,40Owm Dein Ft
C;A'11 iORY                       Unit           Vlu           t         2          3 I4_ 6___-_-_-
NJND CQIFSTZON /
No           180,000            -    _         17          16         21         22         25         29            31
L -oolf Heifers,  9- 21a mo.    No.             180,000                19           _          8          7          9         12         11             9
(olve ; - F.male$                  No.           60,000       -          -          8          a         11         13         14          13           10
-Males                     No.           60,000       -          -          9          7         11          7          2           -            -
f',tat                            No.                                  19         34          39         50         51         53         53            50
Total Animal Units                 No.                                  1 1i       17         24         28         31         37         40            40
BIRlfl
Heifer Calves                      No.                        -          -          9          9         12         14         15         18            20
Bull Calves                        No.                                                         a  10  8  12         14         16         19           20
Total                              No.                             -              19          17         24         28         31         37           40
PURCNASIS
Hoifers - not mated                No.          125,000      _         21                      -          .          -          -          -             -
Total                              No.                        -        21           -          -          _          _          _          _             _
MORTALITY
A(dlts                             No.                       -          -           1          -          1          1          1          1             1
Calves - Heifers                   No.                                   _          1          1          1          1          2          2             2
-Bulls                     No.                        -                     1          1          1          2          1          2             2
Hleifera,  9 - 24 months           No.                       -                      -                     -          1          _          1             1
to ls,  9 - 24 months            No.                                   - _        _                     1          -          _-                       -
Total                              No.                       -           -          3          2          4          5          4          6            6
SAIZS
Cull Cows                          No.          125,000       -          _          1          1          2          5          5          7             8
Ifn-calf Heifers                   No.          180,000      _    -                 -          -          -          -          -          1            2
Barren Beifers                     No.          100,000      -          2          -           -          1          1          1          1            1
Bulls,  9 - 24 months              No.          140,000                 _          _           9          6         11          7          2             -
Heifer Calves                      No.           25,000                  -                     -          -          -          -          3            8
9eill Calves                       No.           20,000      -          -           -          -          -          5         12         17           18
Total                              No.                        -         2          1         10           9         22         25         31           37
YUIAL COVfO~
Calving Intaryal   -  114 months                                      eLatation lengh   - 280 days                              M*rtalitys
conception Rate    -  88%                                              mmk Yield.                                                     dle-3
PCermnt;ga   18% i/                                                 lot Lactation -  2,600 kg                              Cattl  9-24 m.  -  14%
Net.  -   0%                                       &ub~~~~~~84soquont    -3,500 kg                        CalT" 0-9  lio.  -20%
Age of lt Calving   -  24 mo.
1/  End of year figues.
2/  Cowe not in-calf are included in oulling pse ntaP
s ner ?0, 1970



KOREA
INTESRATED DAIRY-BEEF DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Dairy Farm Developnent Projections
wModel 2: hO Cow Diiry farm
Sales, operating Expenses, and Net Operating Income
unit                                                          Fai Y.a
Unit      Price        1          2           3         4         5        r               ?                 9         10
(WMr)             ~
SALES
Milk                                                   2         50          _          -         2,340    2,975      3,665      4,biO      4,845      5,630     6,330      6,420      6,420
cattle                                                           1/                   200           125    1,385      1,190      2,365      1,945     1,850      2,020      1,685      1,685
Total                                                                   -        200         2,465    4,360      4,855      6,775     6,790      7,480      8,350      8,105      8,105
,°ERATINO EXPENSES
Fertiliser                                            ha    10,000           70       150           260       360       360        360        360        360       360        360        360
RSeeding Mod TLAing                                   ha      8,000          -          -           -          70         70        70         70         70         70        70         70
Corn Seed  2/                                         ha      4,000          36        36            36        36        36         36         36         36        36         36         36
Labor                                             an)/year  180,000          -        180           360       360       360        360        360        360       360        360        360
Feed:
Milk cou                                       hasu/year  22,000  3/       _          -           396       374       506        594        660        770       858        858        858
Dry cows                                                   13,000  4/      -        273           221       416       468        533        468        351        260       130        130
Veterinary and AI                                                                       8 84        106       132       164        190        192        194        196       176        176
Iacbinery Operatica and Maintenance                                         150       300           3C0       300        300       300        300        300       300        300        300
Bmilding Maintennce                                                          -          75           75        75         75        75         75         75         75         75        75
Miancflmaeoua                                                                10         20            20       20         20         20        20         20         20         20         20
Subtotal                                                               266     1,118         1,774    2,143      2,359      2,538      2,541     2,536      2,535      2,385      2,385
Tot&12/                                                                290     1,230         1,950    2,360      2,600      2,790      2,800     2,790      2,790      2,620      2,620
NET OPEMATING TNCOMES                                                       (290)   (1,030)          515    2,000      2,255      3,985      3,990     4,690       5,560    5,485       5,485
1/ See Table 5.
TwO sowings of 50 kg/ha each on 2.5 ha.
1,000 kg/cow/year at 22 Wen/kg.                                                                                                                                                              II
700 kg/AU/Year at 22 Won/kg.                                                                                                                                                                  4=
5/  Including a contingency allowance of about 10m.
6 Before debt service.
October 20, 1970



INTEC-RATED DAIRY-BEEF DEVELOPME4T PROJFC1
Dairy Farm Development Projections
Model 2: 40-Cow Dairy Farm
Financial Projeetions
Farm Year
1            2            3             45                        67                                       9101
----------------------------------------------------------- Won'00  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
ash Inflow
ales                             -           200        2,465         4,360        4,855        6,775         6,790        7,480          8,350         8,105          8,105
loan:
Long-term                   3,135         2,505        1,425           -            -             -            -            -              -             -              -
Short-term                     465        2,045        2,275           985          300           -            -             -             _             _              _
'armer's Contribution         1,045          835           475          -             -            -            ---                                        -             -
Total               4,645         5,585        6,640        5,345         5,155        6,775        6,790         7,480         8,350         8,105         8,105
'ash Outflow
nwestaent                     4,180        3,-40         1,900          -             -            -            -             -             -              -             -
Iperating Expenses              290        1L230         1,950        2,360        2,60O         2,790        2,800         2,790         2,790         2,620         2,620
Total               4,47o         4,570        3,850        2,360         2,600        2,790         2,800        2,790         2,790         2,620         2,620
Lnnual Cash Balance
kefore Debt Service             175        115             790        2,985         2,555        3,985        3,990         4,690         5,560         5,85         5,485
*ebt Service
,ong-term Debt:
Interest (9%W                 140           `95          572           686
Annuity                         -            -             -            -         1,549         1,549        1,549        1,549          1,549        1,549             _
,hort-term Debt:
Interest (15%)                  35          157          173            74           21           -            -             -             -            -
Annuity                                     448        2.045         2,275          985           300          -             -
Total                 175         1,015        2,790        2,985         2,255        1,849         1,549        1,549          1,549        1,549             -
mnual Cash Balance
dfter Debt Service               -             -            -            -            -          2,136         2,441        3,141         4,011         3,936         5,4835
For calculation purposes it is assumed that on-average long-term loans would be for 9 years including 3 years of grace,
and that they would be amortized on an equal semi-annual annuity payment plan.
)ctober 20, 1970



KORLEA
IGTBGRATED DLIRY-BE3 D0VEO?fM   PROJ
Dairy Processing Facilities Development Projections
Central District Processing Facilities
Investment Projections-/
Projeet rear
1              2             3            4         Total Cost
-  -     _----------- -------------                   --n-000,OW)-___-  (Uss' )
Collecting Station
Ld and Site Iprovents                                     -            3.7             -             -             3.7
ildings and Strwctures                                    -            7,5             _                           7.5
Machinery aid Utilities                                    -           18.0             -             -            18.0
Vehicles                                                   -           12.6            9.0           7.0           28.6
Office and Other 3quipnt                                   -            3.0             -             -             3.0
Sabtotal                                     -            4h.8            9.0          7.0           60.8       199.0
Seoul Processing Plant
Land ard Site Improvwernts                                 -           55.0             -             _            55.0
Buildings and Struwtures                                   -           41.9             -            5.3           47.2
Machinery mid Vtilities                                    -           86.5           22.0          56.0          164.5
Office and Other EqLiment                                  -             3.0             -            -             3.0
Vehicles                                                   -             1.6             -            -             1.6
Subtotal                                     -           188.0          22.0          61.3          271.3       887.0
Distribution Stations
Land and Site Improvements                                 -             3.2            1.6           -             4.8
Buildings and Structures                                   -             2.6            1.3           -             3.9
Machinery and Utilities                                    -             2.0            1.0            -            3.0
Office ani Otber Equipment                                 -             o.6           0.3            -             0.9
Vehicles                                                   -            10.0            8.0            -           18.0
Shbtotal                                     -            18.4           12.2            -            30.6      100.0
Total                                        -           251.2           43.2          68.3          362.7    1,186.0
1/ Each item includes a contingency allowance of about 10%. Installed costs are quoted for machinery, utilities and equipment.
Gctober 20, 197G



KOREA
ImmTAo D¢in-Baw  ovKw1     PROJECT
Deiry Procesdng F-aij.ties Develvaent Proj.ctions
Central District Pr **ailes
Sales.,Opermting E.penoes and Net Oper2ting Ince
(Won aill-ion)
Project  Tear
I          2             3           4             5          6             7           8          9            10         11-13
SAM 3                                                 -         352.0        657.o        856.0    i,088.O        1,142.0    1,274.0   1,274.0         1,353.0     1.371.O
milk                                            -               200.0        405.0        512.0       650.0         685.0       760.0      760.0         805.0       815.0
Cofleeti.. Station
Pdrnil.                               -            -           9.1.        ¶1.2         12.A        13.6          13.6        13.6         _           13.6          -
k Ccolit  mg                                       -           1.9          2.5          2.9         3.3           3.3         3.7         -            3.8          -
Vehicles 
u lad0i1                                         -           2.5          6.o          7.4         8.9           7.6         7.6         _            7.6           -
flpa4r, R4p.vcssn
AR , N                                           -           5.5         10.6         13.7        15.6          14.3        1h.3         -           14.3          -
Gerel O ctbf- d                                                2.3          3.2          4.1         4.3           4.3         4.5         -            4.6           -
S.btotal                 _            _          21.6         33.5         40.9        45.7          43.1        43.?       43.7          43.9         43.9
Sel PIlt
pqronl                               --            -          15,1         17.7         22.0        29.5                  -                -             -           -
Processimg I
Cort-lmr                            -                       36.3         59.0         81.7       103.3
Other  ateriaels          :                      -           I4.4         5.8          7.2         8.5
F1   am Pwr                         -            -           9.9         12.5         15.0        18.8
Rql a a  Iintm*e                    -                        3.2          3.2          4.0         5.0
Vehicie                              -            -           1.4          1.4          1.9         2.4
0O-erl 0v.ad                          -            -           8.1         10.9         13.9        16.9            -           -          -             -
3sbt.tal                                         78.7        110.5        15b.7       184.4         193.0       216.0      216.0         231.0        235.0
Distribuiono Sltims
Pam3_  y                                                       2.7          4.3          4.3         4.6            -           -          -             -
PWtrigrtizE uip       t               -            -           0.9          1.3          1.3         1.4            -            -
yebl*in ,
Ful  - 01                           -            -           1.1          1.8          2.2         2.3             -           -
a7ir, RvIscomnt
IiRitomc                           -             -          4.3           7.4          8.4         9.4            -           -
Gmral Ovrlbad                         -            -           1.2          1.8          2.0         2.2            -           -           -            -            -
Subtotal                _             _          10.2         16.6         18.2        19.9          20.6        23.4       23.4          25.0        25.3
Interest *n -orking Capital                                      5.0          5.0           -          -              -           -          -             -           -
TetaL expe-ses          _                       31-.5        570.6        716.8       900.0         941.7      1043.1    1043.1         1104.9       1119.2
NF TDPRATIP4G JNCOME%1                 -        __              36.5         86.4_    139.2   _        i.o         200.3       230.9        2309        24EI.1       2S
Before debt service, alotaes4 fcr resources snd depreciaticn.
X?,ber 20, 197,).



KCBEA
I:7_GRATED DAIRY-BEEF DRVELO0PFT PRCJECT
Dairy Processing Facilities Development Prcjections
Central District Processing Facilities
Financial Prajection.
?rzLject Year
1        2         3        4         5         6         7        8         9         10         11         12
-ash r.fl Dw
Lales                                   -         -       352       657       856   1,088      1,142    1,274    1,274       1,353      1,371      1,371
LDr_-zer_  /                                  2 2DD       35        55                 -         -              -         -          -               -
-horternZ                             -         2        50        50        -       -          -         -         _          _          _         _
-qui-rv Contribution                     -        51         8        13        -        -         -         -         -          -          -          -
Total                              -      253        445       775      856   1,088      1,142    1,274    1,274        1,353      1,371      1,371
Cas^ 2utflow
Investmen:                               -       251         43       68        -        -         -         -         -          -          -          -
jperatineg Thcenses                      -        -        311       566       717     900        942    1,043    1,043       1,105      1,119      1,119
Total                              -      251        354       634      71 7     900        942    1,043    1,043       1,105      1,119      1,119
Annual Cash Balance
Before Debt Service                      -         2         91      141       139    1l8         200       231       231        248        252        252
Debt Service
Lhong-term loan:
Interest C510                                    2          5        7         7
Annuity eE                                                                             28         28       28        28         28         30         -
Short-term loan:
Interest (18%)                         -        -           5        5        -        -          -        -         -          -          -
Amortization                           -        -           2       50        50       -          -        -         -          -          -
Total                              -         2        12        62        57      28         28        28        28         28         30         -
Annual Cash Balance
After Debt Service                        -       -          79        79       82      160        172       203      203        220        222        252
Working capital from AFDC
Based jo eq-al semi-annual annuity payment plan Df 6 years after 4-year grace period
Iotober 2^, 1?7O
LO ~fl



KOREA
IRrRATESD DAIRY-AM DUVK.0OPMTr PROJI=T
Dairy Processing Facil_ties Development Projections
Honam District Processing Facilities
Investment Projections -
Project Year
1-2                3               4              5              Total Cost
------------------------------------- (Won '000,000)- -       ------------  (US$ ' 000)
Kwangju Pnocessi3g Plant
Land and Site Inprovements                            -                22.0              _             _               22.0        72.2
Buildings and Structures                        _76.8                                    -              -              76.8       252.0
Machinery and Utllities                               ..              177.4             9.4           88.2            275.0       902.0
Office and Other Equipmnt                             _                 4.5              -              -               4.5        14.8
Vehicles                                              _                11.6             4.0            9.0              24.6       80.7
Subtotal                              -               292.3            13.4           97.2            402.9      1321.7
Distribution System
Land and Site Inprovements                            -                 -                -             1.6              1.6         5.2
Buildings and Structures                              -                 -                -             1.3               1.3        4.3
achiiwry and Utilities                                -                 -                -             1.0               1.0        3.3
Office and Other Equipuent                            -                 -                -              .3               .3         1.0
Vehicles                                              -                 -                -             5.0               5.0       16.4
Subtotal                              -                 -                -             9.2               9.2       30.2
Total                                 -               292.3            13.4          106.4             412.1     1351.9
1/ Each item incliues a contingency allcwance of about 10%.  Installed costs are quoted for machinery, utilities and equipment.
October 2s., 1970



0 a                    N    t0                BR 
I      1,111                           II(,,            1-
I                   I                  t i   l           I  
0            ,   o   -                                                                       a'  -   O O_1  
N   .        o   '.   O      i-w     ^.S4-j<            Li N             ^          ,        4
a r   0O     r 0O~u 0      00           ..iC            '0   0        0
o            w' .                                                                             .w<r.ww   
. ~ ~   ~     ~     ~    ~     0          0 E0 'a   IC 'o Ia<E 
I  g   v    |  ~   - F    84 ., ;il       o 
o           o         '.o~        000Ic ,           0 w am                   -' o'           BI
g   ~~~ | M ~~~~w  40_9g        wO                         I  N40 
'.)     0l                                                                              N  a oco  
a;   ~~ S                                          0f 01 b          soi   



K_Kl
INIURUTRD MMI-BRT        DWVgWPMT  7WRT
Dairy Processing Facilities Development Projections
Honaem District Processing Facilities
Financial Proections
7Won m -illion7)
Project Year
1-2          3             4            5           6           7            8            9           10           11          12            13
Cash Inflow
Sales                           -             -              641        726        1,196       1,432        1,554        1,611        1,686       1,706        1,715         1,715
L,oan;
Loan-term                   -            234            11           8>          -          -             -                         -           -            -             -
Shart-termi/                -               3           60           60
Equity Contribution              -             58             2           21         -           -             --                                    -           -             -
Total                 -            295           714          592       1,196       1,432         1,554        i,611       1,686        1,706        1,715         1,715
Cash outflow
Ivestnent                       -             292            13         106          -           -             -           -            -            -           -             -
Operating Mensees               -             -             56T         640        1,040       1,239         1,339       1,381        1,441        1,459       1,467         1,467
Total                 -             292          580          746        1,040      1,239         1,339        1,3381       1,441       1,459        1,467         1,467
Annl Cash Balace
,teioere Debt Service              -               3           134         146          156         193           215         230          245          247          248           248
Debt Service
Long-term Loan:
Interest  5%)               -                             7           8
ALnuit7r /                  -             -                         -'0                       40            40          40           40           40
Short-tem Loan:
Interest (O8W)              -             -               5            5                      -                        -
Amortisation                -             -               3           60          60
T otal                -               3            15          73          loO          40           40           40           40           40
Awual Cash Balance
AfGr Debt Serrce                                               ii-  _  119   73           56        153           175          l92         205          2C7          248           248
W/ working capital from AFDC.
B/ Based Dr equal semi-annual annuity pLyment plan of 6 years, after 4-year grace period
October 2c, 1970



KOREA
INTBGRATED DAIRY BEEF DEVELOPMENT ROJECT
Management and Technical Services
Investments Projections
Project Year
Number        1       2        3       4        5      Total     Cost
- - - - - - - - -Won ' 000,0 00----------  (US 000)
CATEGORY
2
Central office building          550 m2        10.0      -       -       -        _       10.0        33
Project vehicles:
Automobiles/jeeps                 13         12.7      -       -        -               12.7        42
Motorcycles                        6          0.9      -       -       -        -        0.9         3
Furniture and equipment              -          6.6      -       -        -       -        6.6        21
Materials and equipmentl/            -         14.0      -       -        -       _       14.0        46
Training Grants                  3 man/years    -        3.1     3.0     -        -        6.1        20
Salaries:            2/
Project specialists -        13 man/years   29.3    41.0    41.0    25.0    10,1    146.4          480
Local staff                                  27.4    30.4    32.4    32.7    32.7    155.6         511
Semen                                            -       -       1.6      5.3     5.3     12.2        40
Office supplies and utilities        -          1.8      1.9     1.9     2.0      2.0      9.6        31
Sales expense                        -         10.0    20.0    20.0    20.0    20.0       90.0       295
Per-diem and miscellaneous           -          5.8      6.5     7.0     7.0      7.0     33.3       110
Gas, oil, repairs                    -          9.0      9.0     9.0     9.0      9.0      45.0      147
contingency-about 10%                          12.5    13.1   114.1      9.0      8.9     57.6       188
Total                               140.0   125.0   130.0   110.0    95.0    600.0    1,967
1 Laboratory and other research equipment, e.g., scales, seed cleaner, fertilizer and seed for field trials
and multiplication.
2/ Animal Husbandry Specialist 5 years; Dairy Processing Specialist or Consultant Services 3 years;
Agronomy Specialist 3 years; and Animal Nutrition Specialist 2 years.
October 20, 1970






KOREA
INTEGRATED DMI 1F-BEEF DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost by Major Investment Categories and Foreign Exchange Component
0/0
-------------- Won (million) --------------           ------------ US$ (thousands) ------------               Foreign
CATEGORY                                 Local             Foreign             Total           Local              Foreign           Total              Exchange
Dairy Farm Development
Pasture Establishment                           84                  9                93                275                 30               305                 10
Farm Structures                                 750                83               833              2,459               273              2,732                 10
Cattle and Semen                                39                748               787                129             2,454              2,583                 95
Machinery and Equipment                        242                449               691                793             1,473              2,266                 65
Subtotal                                  1,115             1,289              2,404              3,656             4,230              7,886                 54
Dairy Processing Facilities
Central District:
Collecting Station                             33                 28                61                109                 90               199                 45
Seoul Processing Plant                        162                108               270                532                355               887                 40
Distribution Statioons                         14                 17                31                 45                 55               100                 55
Honam District:
Kwanju Processing Plant                       201                202               403                661                661             1,322                 50
Distribution System                             4                  5                  9                12                 18                 30                  6
Subtotal                                    414                360               774              1,359             1,179              2,538                 46
Management and Technical Services
Central Office Building                          11                -                  11                36                 -                  36
Vehicles                                          5                10                 15                18                 32                 50                 65
Furniture and Equipment                           7                -                   7                23                 -                  23
Materials and Equipment                          10                 5                 15                 32                18                 50                 35
Training Grants                                   7                -                   7                 -                 22                 22                100
Project Specialists - salaries and
allowances                                     -                160                160                -                 525                525                100
Local Staff - salaries                         171                 -                 171               562                 -                 562                 -
Semen                                            -                 13                 13                 -                 44                 44                100
Office Supplies and Utilities                    10                -                  10                34                 -                  34
Sales Expense                                    99                -                  99               325                 _                 325
Per diem and miscellaneous                       37                -                  37               121                 -                 121
Gas, Oil and Repairs                             40                10                 50               132                 33                165                 20
Subtotal                                    397                198                595             1,283                674              1,957                 34
Working Capital                                   100                 -                100                329                 -                329
Total Project Cost                        2,026              1,847              3,873             6,627              6,083             12,710Y/
1  Rounded to US$12.6 million



KORfEA
TN'I'EGRATED DAIRY BEEF DEVELOPNENT PR;r'ECT
Financia1 Projection for KDBC Project Account
(won Mrillion)
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -_-_-_-_-_-_-  - - - - -  Project Year - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
1         2                      4          5          6          7         8         9        10        11        12        13       14-i5
JOURCE OF FUNDS
IDA Credit
Dairy ram loans                       125        388        45o        325         66          -          -         -         -         -        -          -         -         _
Dairy processing plants                -         200        26-3        66         85
Technical services                     61         45         47         31          16
C.vernment Contribution for
Dairy Farm Loans                         42        120        150        108         22          _          -         _         _         _         _         _         _         _
AFDC/Govement Equitl/
Capital for Dairy Plants                 -          50         67         17          21
AFDC/Government EquityI
Capital for vorking capital              75         15         -           -          -
Working Capital from AFDC                -          35          -          -
Sales
Central District dairy plant           -          -         352        657        856      1,088       1,142    1,274    1,274    1,353    1,371    1,371    1,371    1,371
Honam District dairy plant             -          -          -         641        726      1,196       1,432    1,554    1,611    1,686    1,706    1,715    1,715    1,715
Dairy Far Loans
Interest (Of) /                         8         38         89        120          97         47          8                  -                   -         -         -         -
Amortization                           -          -          -          37        150         282        377       396       394       361       249   '14            21        -
TOTAL                                   311        900      1,424      2,002      2,039      2,613       2,959    3,224    3,279    3,400    3,326    3,200    3,107    3,086
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Development
Dairy farm loans                      167        517        600        433          88         -
Dairy processing plants                -         250        336         83        106          -
Technical services                     61         45         47          31         16         -
Operating Expenses
Central District dairy plant                      -         311        566         717        900        942    1,043    1,043    1,105    1,119    1,119    1,119              -
Honam District dairy plant             -          -           -        567         640      1,0o0      1,239    1,339    1,381    1,441    1,459    1,467    1,467              -
EDBC - headquarters                    8o0        B          80          80         80        100        110       120       130       140       150       150       150        -
Debt Service
To Goverment                           -           7          42         85        105        117        358       358       358       358       358       358       358       358
To AFDC for vorking capital            -          -            6         41         -          -          -         -         -         -         -         -         -          -
Cash Balance                               3          1          2        116        287        456        310       384       367       356       240        106        13        (8)
TOTAL                                    311        900      1,424      2,002      2,039      2,613      2,959    3,224    3,279    3,400    3,326    3,200    3,107    3,O86
1/  AFDC/Covernment contribotion to KDBC for construction and working capital of the dairy processing plants would be equity capital and non-repayable.
(Additional working capital of about 35 million won would be loaned by AFDC to KDBC on short-tern at 18% interest).
2/  Talcolated on basis of 9-year average loan te= including 3 years  of grace. Income shown as interest relates to those amounts of principal outstanding
hot fr,,  hich no, principal installmnnts l ave natured.  Thereafter, interest and principal payments are merged and calculated on basis of equal semi-annual
annuity payments.
of  rased on total loan of about 2.6 billion won to be repaid in 15 years including 6 years of grace.  Interest calculated at 3% for IDA and .overnmer.t funds3
rue io'r lairy frm  levelop.ent   d t-hn             rrices and n   for IDA funds used for dairy processing facilities                 . loan would be covered by the First
'olbriJli,ro  loan Ar-reeroent bet.ee   ove,nm      KDBC_
'Orluf,f&.r 1 'il,



ANNEX 9
Table 1
KOREA
INTFGRATE) DAIRY-BEEF DEVELOPMENT PROJFCT
Disbursementa
Phasing of IDA Disbursements (Annual)
(US$TO00)
____           -- Project Year -----------------
1       2        3        14      5      Total
Dairy Farm Development
Model 1 - Farm Plans Initiated        200      200     200       -        -      600
Pasture -stablishment                 3        4       6        4        2      19
Farm Structures                      38       37      75       -        37     187
Cattle and Semen                     -       573     573      573      -    1,719
Machinery and Equipment             152     152      254      102     102      762
Subtotal                         193     766      908      679     141   2,687
Model 2- Farm Plans Initiated          35       35      30       -        -      100
Pasture Establishment                 2        3       4        2       1       12
Farm Structures                      19       25      33       16       8      101
Cattle and Semen                     -       284     284      291       -      859
Machinery and Equipment             195     195      247       79      67      783
Subtotal                         216     507      568      388      76   1,755
Dairy Procissing Facilities
Central District                     -       515     180      135       -      830
Honam District                       -        -      640      100     390   1,130
Subtotal                          -      515      820      235     390   1,960
Management and Technical  Services
Project Specialists                 100     140      140       85       35     500
Materials and Equipment              50       -       -        -        -       50
Transport (vehicles)                 50       -       -        -        -       50
Semen                                -        -        5       17      18       40
Training Grants                      -        10      10       -        -       20
Subtotal                         200     150      155     102       53      660
Total                            609   1,938   21451   1,014       660   7,062
Percent of Total                   9      27       35       20       9      100
1/ Rounded to US$7 million.



ANNEX 9
Table 2
KOREA
INT9GRATED DAIRY-BE:Y DEVEOPMENT FROJECT
Disbursements
t,stimated Schedule of Quarterly Disbursement of US$7 Million Credit
(US$ '000)
Quarter                                       Quarter
Ending       Disbursed      Balance          Ending         Disbursed         Balance
1971                                          1975
Dec. 31         150          6,850           March 31          1400            1,250
1972                                         June 30          400               850
March 31        150          6,700            Sept. 30         200               650
June 30         150          6,550           Dec. 31           200               450
Sept. 30        150          6,v400            1976
Dec. 31         450          5,950            March 31         150                300
1973                                        June 30           150               150
March 31        500          5,#450           Sept. 30         150
June 30         500          4,950
Sept. 30        500          49450
Dec. 31         600          3,850
197T
March 31        600          3,250
June 30         600          2,650
Sept. 30        600          2,050
Dec. 31         1400         1,650



K O R E A
INTEGRATED DAIRY-BEEF DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART FOR KOREA DAIRY BEEF CO.
PRESIDENT     l
|  (MANAGER)
| EXECUFTIVE     l
|   VICE - PRESID:EN:Tl
ADMNISRA                  DAIRY                       NIC  SERVICES                         MAARKErlNG                         FINANCE
DEPARTMEN| PROCESSING                             DEPATEN                                   DEPARTMENT                         bEPARTMENT
ACCOUNTING  GENERAL       IPROCUREN           DAK                                               P
~~NTIN1~    [ERVCE          AN  UPIS           FARMS           RSAC             OE                N  AE                                             AM
CENTRAL           HONAM                                                                                                           z
DISTI  DISTRICT                                                                                                                     z
SCURCE: IDA MISSION                                                                                                                                                _
IERD-5044(R)






ANNEX 11
KOREA
INTEGRATED DAIRY-BEEF DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Management
and Technical Services
1.        Technical Director - Dairy HusbandEy Specialist - would act as
a Technical Director within the Department of Technical Services, Korea
Dairy Beef Co., (KDBC). Including, but not limiting the generality there-
of, he would have the following minimum specific duties, responsibilities
and powers, which he might delegate in whole or in part to assigned tech-
nical staff:
(a) advising the administrative officials, (President and Direc-
tor, Department of Technical Services) on major policy deci-
sions in respect to the Dairy Farm Development Sub-project;
(b) executing the Sub-project in accordance with policies and
procedures agreed to with KDBC administrative officials;
(c) recormending to KDBC the employment of the livestock tech-
nicians needed to carry out Sub-project activities;
(d) prescribing the duties and responsibilities of the livestock
technicians and training them in the technical and economic
aspects of livestock production and to prepare dairy farm
development plans;
(e) approving or disapproving dairy farm development plans pre-
pared and appraised under the Sub-project and recommending
approved plans to KDBC for lending;
(f) inter alia, providing guidance on farm buildings, including
design and specifications for type and design of cow barns,
and feeding arrangements; design and specifications of milk-
ing parlors and milking plants; milking practices, hygienic
milk production, mastitis identification and control; approv-
ing the selection of imported female dairy stock and the cy-
cling of imported stock to approved participating farmers;
organizing, approving and giving overall supervision to the
Al technical service; and, in cooperation with KDFC's milk
processing plants, establishing a quality control service;



ANNEX 11
Page 2
(g) providing such supervision and technical assistance as
necessary to ensure successful completion of each dairy
farm development plan and loan;
(h) establishing a farm accounts system, with particular atten-
tion to maintaining an adequate sample of farm records as
needed for Project evaluation; and
(i) giving assistance and cooperation to the Agronomy and Animal
Nutrition Specialists to carry out their terms of reference.
2.        Agronomy Specialist - would be attached to and administratively
responsible to the Department of Technical Services, KDBC. Including, but
not limiting the generality thereof, he would have the following minimum
specific duties and responsibilities:
(a) carrying out investigational work to determine the most
suitable grass, forage and legume plants for Korean condi-
tions, including:
(i) methods of establishment and cultivation techniques;
(ii) seeding rates;
(iii) response to fertilizers, and
(iv) grassland and forage management, stocking rates
and the role grazing can play;
(b) carrying out studies on a regional basis on yields of hay
or silage from rice paddy that may be double-cropped and
techniques of harvesting and conserving this feed;
(c) investigating the cheapest method of establishing reseeded
pasture on unused upland and comparison of costs when per-
formed manually and mechanically;
(d)  investio-ting *athnAe  mor duveiovint  r*ngaiand for grazing,
including techniques of oversowing legume and response to
surface application of fertilizer and lime;
(e) formulating and supervising a scheme for pasture end forage
seed multiplication with participating Project farmers, or
other farmers, using imported foundation seed;
(f) coordinating and cooperating with the UNDP/FAO Korean
Uplands Development and Watershed Management Project on
pilot investigations of the yield of hay and silage from
double-cropped rice paddy land and the development of
rangeland pasture; and



ANNEX 1 1
Page 3
(g)  coordinating this Su1b-project activity  iith the resources
of the Ministry of Agricu1lture nd For:esty to yield re-
quisite data and information for preparation of a possible
Phase II livestock developpnat lptojec t
3.        Animal Nutrition SpaecialisL -- °,c]ild be5 a~tached to and adminis-
tratively responsible to the Technic,.- Services Departm.-nt, KDBC.  Includ-
ing, but not limiting the generality thereef, he wculd have the following
minimum specific duties and responsibiti;.-
(a)  conducting trial work on establishing the miost economic
feeding regimen for difiEe-ent categories of livestock,
entailing:
(i)  feeding trials with fctEaga  harveated at dife.rent
stages of growth and etiXred as aileage or hay;
(ii)  the response to different leless of conicentrAte
feeding in combination WiL,h different types and
quality of forage; gnd
(iii)  the response to concentrat:eo whan animals are grazed
or fed green silage crops;
(b)  comparing different methods of fieding, including stall
feeding, self-feed or easy feceding wethad&;
(c)  developing comparative informatior an vaT4.ous vlnter sys-
tems; and
(d)  coordinating this Sub-pro-e1ct activiti  wfth '.lhe resources of
the Ministry of AgricuLt re- A7lrd for7i'Ovty to yield requisite
information aALd data for prof -  Zic  oEf    ,sible phase II
livestock deve1opment project.
4.        Techical Diracto_                                     - Ui l  ;!z a i  would be
attached to and administratively responoibe to to e ,           Processiug
Department, KDBC.  It is envisaged tlh  this mniht be a package contract
which, inter alia, would have the foll. .dTn  apcc .c dut.ies and functions:
(a)  advising the administratU' o2f'.cial; (zesaident and
Director, Department of Draity sosing) on major
policy decisions in respec - to the 'Daiiy foduct r Pro-
cessing Facilities Sub-pr, sct';



ANNEX 11
Page 4
(b) giving guidance for the development of the Sub-project
including:
(i)  siting of facilities;
(ii) design, layout and specifications of structures
and equipment;
(iii)  preparation of international and national tenders
for materials, equipment, utilities, and labor;
(iv)  evaluation of tenders and recomendation of awardee;
and
(v)  supervision of construction, installation of equip-
ment and utilities;
(c) guiding management and training key personnel for the start-
up operations (one to two years) of the facilities.
October 20, 1970



K0RFA
INTEGRATED DAIRY -BEEF DE7ELOPFENT FROJEC
Financial Rates of Return
Farm or PLant Year                                                               Financial Rate
1          2           3           4           5           6           7           8           9          10         11            of Return
____________________________________________________________________________________________                                        Over 11 Yr.
v-----------------------------------------         ------'00Wn  ------------------------------------------_-___----
--------                                             000 won---
mgadal 1 - 10-Cov Dairy Farm~2
Sales                                            -           -          910       1,790      1,820        2,115      2,015       1,840        2,015       2,015      2,015
Incremental Value of Herd                        -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -      1,980
Operating Expenses                              (65)       (480)       (680)       (820)       (800)       (820)       (810)       (800)       (810)       (810)      (810)
Interest on Short-Term Borrovirg                ( 8)       ( 64)       ( 60)         -           -           -           -           -           -           -         -
On-Farm Investaent                             (920)       |890        (628)         - _                     -           -
Balance                                     93Y)  (1.43I4)         45t)    9,70         1,020       1,295       1,205       1,080       1,205       1,205
Senaitivity Analyais
Awuunptions:
Milk price decreases frco 50 Won/i to 35 Won/l                                                                                           15
Rate of exciange is devalued from 305 Won/S$ to 450 Won/us$                                                                              22
Cost of feed dDubles                                                                                                                     18
Cost of feed decreases by 50%                                                                                                            31
'Rilk yield increases by 15%                                                                                                              32
Hbdsl 2 - 400-i DLairy Farm                                                                                                                                                                 23
Sales                                                       200       2,465       4,360       4,855       6,775       6.790       7,480       8,350       8,105      8,105
Incremental Value of Rterd                       -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -           -       7,800
Operating &xpenses                             (290)    (1,230)    (1,950)    (2,360)    (2,600)    (2,790)    (2,800)    (2,790)    (2,790)              2,620      2,620
Interest on short-Te.-m  Drrowing               (80)       (157)       (189)        (63)                     -           -
On-Fa`r  Investment                           4 i,O     80(3 4 o(1,900               _           _
Balance                                                                                 23                                  4 °90
t____________________~~~~~~~~ - ' ;On-- -                                                             -
central MsL~ict Y-.cessing Facilities                                                                                                                                                       38
Sales                                            -          3-          657         856       1,088       1,142       1,274       1,274       1,353       1,371      1,371
Residual Value of Land                                                   -           -           -           -           -           -           -            -         68
Operating Expensea                                -                                (717)       (900)       (942)    (1,043)    (1,083)    (1,105)    (1,119)   (1,119)
Investicn.                                     (251.)       f83)        '68)         -           -           -           -           _           _           _         _
Ealance                                                             15         133        162                                              248         2592       31-6
Honam Msitrict Processing Facilitie3                                                                                                                                                        37
Sales                                                       641         726       1,196       1,432       1,554       1,611       1,686       1,706       1,715      1,715
Operating Expenses                               -         (572)       (6h5)    (1,040)    (1,239)    (1,339)    (1,381)    (1,448)          (1,459)    (1,467)   (1,467)
Investnent                                     (292)        (13)       (1            -           -            -          -           -           -           -         -
Balance                                   t293)         56         (25)        156         193         215         230         247         287         240        248
OCtDber ?C , 1970






XORO
nrrORiTED ~MUT MF? IZVLOflT P!OJECT
3conaoic Rate of Retur6-
1        2        3                           ProJect iear                9         10        11         1F       13
--------------------------- ---------- wn    100O,0W ---------------------~-----------------------------------
n~~~~~-o  '000--
Sale8: 2/
Sal": 2 I -                                             -       259       6C2      991     1,207    1,357    1,492    1,556       i,6o8     1,635      1,635    1,635
Cattle                                         _         7       11       170      304        470      446      438       407       399        394       394       394
Incremental Value of the Herd                     -        -             -         -        -        -             -                   -          653       653       661
Operating kxpuaies                               (25)    (174)    (392)    (632)    (752)       (8131    (826)    (834)    (832)       (827)     (821)     (821)    (821)
on-Fars Invstuent                               (375)    (710)    (935)    (676)    (222)        -        --                 -          -         -         -
lhirv ProctuuIn racilitiev
se                                                -         -       317    1,072    1,315      1,S76    2,1-2    2,313    2,430      2,496      2,515     2,520    2,520
operating hpena I
Central DI=trict                                                (316)    (571?    (717)      (900)    (942)  (1,043)  (1,043)   (1,105)   (1,119)   (1,119)  (1,119)
soZnI yisatiet                                 -                  -      (572)    (645)   (1,040)  (1,239)  (1,339)  (1,381)   VL,Jsl)   (1,459)   (1,167)  (1,467)
C.mzrAl DSt2ict                    _                  (286)      (49)     (78)      -         - _   _   _    _
Fan District                                   -        -       (333)     (15)    (121)
Ia f and Th'ta.  rriea                            (148)    x135)    (123)      (96)      (96)
Subside                                                B       l tS                    t
Btkaflc                                      (629)  (1,412)  (1,733)    (89-1        -        800      398    1,027    1,137      1,130      1,798      i.,795    1,803
Trie intea3l rate oe return is aboat 12%.
1/ Thn foreign esrhaage component of investenenz end opeasting e)penzes has been vplued at a shadw rate
of exchange of 400 WorA3$, against the ea-gvi4 rate of 30 Won/US$.
2/  Milk salea are an incoer   to the farmer and an ;peratiug expese to the processi-ng facil ities that
cancel each otar out in tha calcul-ation of the anmal balance.
3/ The sales of battle miUk and milk powdera inve been devualuac, by 25% and 15%, respectively, relative to the
valuae at domestic market prices to raflact the contribution of these sales to the economy as an alternativ6
to the iaportatl'n of close substitutes.
4/ An average subsidy of 6a 000 Won per ha of pastureland developed,plus about 80,000 Won per power tiller.
October 20 , 1970






>~~~~~~~~~~~a                                 DEVELOPMENT*PROJECT
r  f   Of  N O R T H  KOREA          AREAS
.IAPA#~~~~~~~~
SS0M <50* YK~~~ANGWON<E 
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RVNA BO U NDAGR IESJ
ttGr,~~~~~~~~~~ROD
Cheju S 8rio           n uf
5-"D~~~~~KRA-E ZEAAN SAN EAEM
_=vX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 20 4ef0  \0* 0
t ....................~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...   ....  .........--PVI(LSUDRE
C heX   STRICT                         t   POT
_            w                             K; t,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IIOMC rfTERS
JULY 1970LUU56



