CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 234 KO
Project Agreement
(Integrated Dairy Beef Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
KOREA DAIRY BEEF COMPANY LIMITED
AND
AGRICULTURE AND FISHERY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
DATED FEBRUARY 11, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 234 KO
Project Agreement
(Integrated Dairy Beef Development Project)
BETWEEN
0                 INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
KOREA DAIRY BEEF COMPANY LIMITED
AND
AGRICULTURE AND FISHERY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
DATED FEBRUARY 11, 1971


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 11, 1971, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and KOREA
DAIRY BEEF COMPANY LIMITED (hereinafter called KDBC) and
AGRICULTURE AND FISHERY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (hereinafter
called AFDC).
WHEREAS (A) by a development credit agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Korea (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association
(hereinafter called the Development Credit Agreement), the Association has agreed
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
seven million dollars ($7,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that KDBC and AFDC agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
(B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and KDBC, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to KDBC on the terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
(C)   KDBC and AFDC, in consideration of the Association's entering into
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants of AFDC
Section 2.01. (a) AFDC shall relend the proceeds of the Government Loan
to KDBC and shall provide KDBC, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the carrying out of the Project.


﻿4
(b)   AFDC   shall duly perform   all its obligations under the Second
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, AFDC
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Second Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.02. Without limiting the generality of the provisions of Section
2.01 (a) of this Agreement, AFDC undertakes that, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, it shall, not later than December 31, 1973, increase its total cash
subscription to KDBC's capital stock to six hundred million Won. To this end,
AFDC shall (A) fully subscribe in cash to the authorized capital of KDBC as of
the date of this Agreement; (B) from time to time, and in agreement with the
Association, cause KDBC to increase its authorized capital in agreed amounts; and
(C) except as the Association shall otherwise agree, fully subscribe in cash to each
capital increase made by KDBC pursuant to paragraph (B) of this Section.
Section 2.03. AFDC shall not take any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of KDBC or for the suspension of its operations.
ARTICLE Ill
Particular Covenants of KDBC
Section 3.01. (a) KDBC shall carry out the Project described in Schedule
2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with sound administrative, agricultural, economic, financial and
engineering practices.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, KDBC shall make loans
under the Project in accordance with the lending policies and procedures of KDBC
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. In carrying out Part B of the Project, KDBC shall employ
contractors acceptable to the Dairy Processing Specialist referred to in Section 4.05
of this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods
and services (other than consultants' services) to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be procured on the basis of international competition under
procedures consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits, published by the Bank in August 1969, and in. accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.


﻿00                                              5
(b)   KDBC    undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision for the
insurance of, the imported goods including livestock to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower against marine, transit and
other hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by KDBC to replace or repair such goods.
(c)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, KDBC shall cause all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the
Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) KDBC shall furnish to the Association, promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications and work schedules for the Project, and any
material modifications or amplifications thereof, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(b)   KDBC: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of
the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's
representatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so relent to it and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, KDBC shall,
not later than December 31, 1973 increase its capital stock to 600 million Won
by the issue to AFDC of a further 300,000 ordinary shares each of W1,000.
(b)   Subject to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, KDBC shall
increase its capital stock at such times and in such amounts as shall be satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 3.06. KDBC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreements. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, KDBC shall
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision
thereof.


﻿6
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of KDBC
Section 4.01. KDBC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound
practice.
Section 4.02. KDBC shall: (a) at all times manage its affairs and carry on
its operations in respect of the Project, in accordance with sound agricultural,
business and financial practices and under the supervision of experienced and
competent management assisted by experienced and competent staff in adequate
number; and (b) promptly take all requisite steps for the acquisition and retention
by KDBC of all such lands, interests in land and properties and all rights, powers
and privileges as may be necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 4.03. (a) For the purpose of carrying out the various technical and
administrative aspects of the Project, KDBC shall maintain five departments,
adequately staffed, to be designated Technical Service Department, Dairy Processing
Department, Marketing Department, Administrative Department and Finance
Department, with functions and responsibilities as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
(b)   KDBC shall establish and maintain the position of a Director in each
department referred to in Section 4.03 (a) of this Agreement, and shall recruit
and maintain to such positions adequately qualified personnel.
Section 4.04. Until the date of final disbursement of the Credit, KDBC shall
consult with the Association about (i) any appointment to the posts of the Director
of the Technical Services Department and Director of the Dairy Processing
Department and (ii) any changes in appointments to the posts of its President
or Vice-President, sufficiently in advance of such appointment or change, as the
case may be, for the Association to have adequate opportunity to comment on
them.
Section 4.05. KDBC shall, upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, (i) employ an internationally recruited Dairy Husbandry Specialist,
acceptable to the Association, with powers, functions and duties as set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, employ an internationally recruited (A) Dairy Processing Specialist, (B)
Agronomy Specialist, and (C) an Animal Nutrition Specialist, acceptable to the
Association, with powers, functions and duties as set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement, not later than August 31, 1971.


﻿7
Section 4.06. KDBC shall adopt regulations as to lending policies, satisfactory
to the Association and consistent with the lending policies and procedures of KDBC
as set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, providing, inter alia, for security
for KDBC loans such as farmland mortgages, assignment by borrowers of their
milk sales to KDBC, and pledges of livestock insurance policies.
Section 4.07. KDBC shall not (i) amend the Articles of Incorporation or
Regulations, or (ii) acquire, establish or take over any subsidiary without the prior
approval of the Association.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants of KDBC
Section 5.01. KDBC shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations and financial
condition.
Section 5.02. KDBC shall: (i) maintain separate accounts in respect of each
Part of the Project; (ii) have its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (iii) furnish to the Association
as soon as available, but in any case not later than three months after the end
of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year
as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish
to the Association such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of KDBC and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
ARTICLE VI
Particular Covenants of KDBC and AFDC
Section 6.01. The Association, KDBC and AFDC shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Association, KDBC and AFDC shall from time to time, at the request of any of
them, exchange views through their representatives with regard to the performance
of their respective obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations
and financial condition of KDBC and AFDC and other matters relating to the
purpose of the Credit.


﻿8
Section 6.02. The Association, KDBC and AFDC shall promptly inform one
another of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by any
of them of its obligations under this Agreement, or the performance by the
Borrower, KDBC and AFDC of their respective obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreements.
Section 6.03. KDBC and AFDC shall enable the Association's representatives
to inspect their respective plants, sites, works, properties and equipment and any
relevant records and documents.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 7.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 7.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association,
KDBC and AFDC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two
dates:
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       a date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify KDBC and AFDC of this event and, upon the
giving of such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the parties thereunder
shall forthwith terminate.
Section 7.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VHI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 8.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated


﻿9
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For KDBC:
Korea Dairy Beef Company
7, 1-Ka, Myung-Dong
Chung-Ku
Seoul
Republic of Korea
Cable address:
KODAIRYBEEFCO
Seoul
For AFDC:
111, Hap-Dong
Sudaernoon-Ku
Seoul
Republic of Korea
Cable address:
Agrifidec
Seoul


﻿10
Section 8.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of KDBC and AFDC may be taken or executed, respectively, by President, KDBC
and President, AFDC or such other person or persons as KDBC and AFDC shall
designate in writing.
Section 8.03. KDBC and AFDC shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person
or persons who will, on behalf of KDBC and AFDC, respectively, take any action
or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken or executed by KDBC
and AFDC pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 8.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / J. Burke Knapp
Vice President
KOREA DAIRY BEEF COMPANY LIMITED
By /s/ HoEulWhang
Authorized Representative
AGRICULTURE AND FISHERY
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
By /s/ Ho Eul Whang
Authorized Representative


﻿11
SCHEDULE I
Procurement
1.    With respect to any contract for goods included in Category III (a) of
Schedule 1 of the Development Credit Agreement estimated to cost $25,000
equivalent or more:
(a)   If bidders are required to pre-qualify, KDBC shall, before qualification
is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and
shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association shall
reasonably request. The list of pre-qualified bidders, together with a statement of
their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
pre-qualification, shall be furnished by KDBC to the Association for its comments
before the applicants are notified and KDBC shall make such additions or deletions
from the said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, KDBC shall furnish to the Association, for
its commehts, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedure to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
*         modification or addition to the bidding documents shall require the Association's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, KDBC shall, before a
final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the
bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report by the Dairy
Processing Specialist referred to in Section 4.05 of this Agreement on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award
of said Dairy Processing Specialist, and the reasons for the intended award. The
Association shall promptly inform KDBC whether it has any objection to the
intended award and shall state the reasons for any objection it may have.
(d)   If the contract shall be awarded over the Association's objection or
if its terms and conditions shall, without the Association's concurrence, materially
differ from those on which bids were asked, no expenditures thereunder shall be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(e)   Copy of the contract shall be furnished to the Association promptly
after its execution.
*


﻿12
2.    With respect to any other contract for goods included in Category III (a)
of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement, KDBC shall, promptly after
the contract is awarded, furnish to the Association a copy of the contract as well
as a copy of the record of public opening of the bids, the bid evaluation report,
recommendations for award of said Dairy Processing Specialist and a statement
of the reasons for any departure from such recommendations. The Association
shall promptly inform KDBC if it finds that the award of the contract is not
consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits and, in such event, no expenditures under such contract shall be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
3.    With respect to all contracts for goods included in Category III (a) of
Schedule I to the Development Credit Agreement, for the purpose of evaluating
bids, bid prices shall be determined in accordance with the following rules:
(i)         The term Local Bid means a bid submitted by a manufacturer,
established in the territories of the Borrower for equipment
manufactured in the territories of the Borrower; any other bid
will be deemed to be a Foreign Bid.
(ii)        The bid price under a Local Bid will be the ex-factory price
of the equipment.
(iii)       The bid price under a Foreign Bid will be the sum of:
(A)   an amount representing the c.i.f. price of the equipment
net of any taxes on their importation; and
(B)   any such taxes, as generally apply to such equipment if
imported into the territories of the Borrower by
non-exempt importers, or 15% of the amount specified
in paragraph 3 (iii) (A) of this Schedule, whichever shall
be the lower.
4.    With respect to goods included in Category II of Schedule I to the
Development Credit Agreement, KDBC shall purchase principally, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, unmated young heifers, (approximately 500 lbs.
in weight and 8-10 months old), by inviting quotations from at least three countries
to be selected in agreement with the Association. All purchases under said Category
II shall be subject to the approval of (i) the Dairy Husbandry Specialist referred
to in Section 4.05 of this Agreement as regards age, price, quality, source and
suitability of livestock and semen and (ii) the certification of the Director, National


﻿13
Animal Quarantine Station, of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry of the
Borrower as to animal health standards.
5.    Contracts with respect to Category III (b) and contracts for goods included
in Category IV of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement shall be
awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding. Local competitive bidding in
this connection means inviting the local contractors or suppliers to make bids for
the civil works or goods, as the case may be. Before bids are invited with respect
to Category III (b), KDBC shall furnish to the Association the specifications in
respect thereof for its comments, and shall make such modifications in such
specifications as the Association shall reasonably request. Contracts with respect
to said Category III (b) shall be awarded with the approval of the Dairy Processing
Specialist referred to in Section 4.05 of this Agreement.
6.    Goods to be purchased under loans to be made under Category I of Schedule
1 to the Development Credit Agreement shall be procured through regular
commercial channels from responsible suppliers.
7.   With respect to goods included under Category V (b) of Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement, no international competitive bidding will be
required.
8.    Copy of any contract under paragraphs 4, 5 and 7 of this Schedule shall
be furnished to the Association promptly after its execution.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Departments of KDBC
The five departments of KDBC referred to in Section 4.03 (a) of this
Agreement shall carry out, inter alia, the following responsibilities:
1.   The Technical Service Department will be responsible for the execution
of dairy farm development, supervision of farm plans and applied research in
livestock production.
2.    The Dairy   Processing Department will be responsible for the
establishment, development and operation of the two dairy processing units and
for the preparation of tender documents for dairy plants and equipment and
supervision of construction works.
3.    The Marketing Department will carry out the general marketing
operations of KDBC and will conduct surveys and make studies of livestock and
beef prices, price relationships, markets and marketing methods, and the promotion
of the sales of livestock and dairy products.
4.    The   Administration  Department   will be   responsible for the
administrative matters of KDBC.
5.    The Finance Department will be responsible for the credit operations
under the Project and management of the finances and accounts for the Project.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 3
Lending Policies and Procedures of KDBC
1.   Applications for dairy farm development loans under the Project will
be submitted by farmers to livestock technicians of KDBC. KDBC will make the
loans (i) on the basis of approved farm development plans, which plans would
be prepared by KDBC's livestock technicians in cooperation with the farmer
concerned and approved by, or modified with the approval of, the Dairy Husbandry
Specialist referred to in Section 4.05 of this Agreement or such other person as
he shall designate in writing; and (ii) with the approval of the Director of the
Finance Department referred to in Section 4.03 of this Agreement. Loans will
finance up to 75% of the cost of each approved farm development plan and will
be for a term of 8 to 10 years, including 2 to 4 years of grace, at an interest
rate to farmers of 9% per annum.
2.    KDBC will take, inter alia, and as appropriate, the following securities
for loans under paragraph 1 of this Schedule:
(a)   mortgage of the borrower's farmland;
(b)   assignmen  by the borrower of milk sales to KDBC; and
(c)   pledge by the borrower of the insurance policy under the national
livestock insurance program administered by the National Agricultural
Co-operative Federation of the Borrower.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 4
Powers, Functions and Duties of Specialists
1.    Dairy Husbandry Specialist also to be designated Technical Director, shall
act as a Technical Director within the Department of Technical Services referred
to in Section 4.03 (a) of this Agreement. He shall, inter alia:
(a)   advise the administrative officials, (the President of KDBC and the
Director, Department of Technical Services referred to in Section 4.03
(b) of this Agreement) on major policy matters concerning Part A
of the Project;
(b)   supervise the execution of Part A of the Project in accordance with
policies and procedures set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(c)   recommend the employment of qualified        and suitable livestock
technicians needed to carry out Part A of the Project;
(d)   prescribe the duties and responsibilities of the livestock technicians
referred to in paragraph (c) above and train them in the technical
and economic aspects of livestock production and in the preparation
of dairy farm development plans;
(e)   approve   or  disapprove  dairy  farm  development plans or any
modifications thereof and recommend approved dairy farm
development plans for lending;
(f)   provide guidance on farm buildings, including design and specifications
for type and design of cow barns, and feeding arrangements; design
and specifications of milking parlors and milking plants; milking
practices, hygienic milk production, mastitis identification and control;
approve the selection of imported female dairy stock and the cycling
of imported stock to approved participating farmers; organize, approve
and give overall supervision to the Al (Artificial Insemination) technical
service; and, in cooperation with KDBC's milk processing plants,
establish a quality control service;
(g)   provide such supervision and technical assistance as may be necessary
to ensure successful completion of each dairy farm development plan
and loan in respect thereof;


﻿17
(h)   establish  a  farm  accounts system, with     particular attention  to
maintaining an adequate sample of farm records as needed for
evaluation of the farm development program;
(i)   assist the Agronomy Specialist and Animal Nutrition Specialist referred
to in Section 4.05 of this Agreement in the carrying out by them
of their functions and responsibilities; and
(j)   have the power to delegate to the extent necessary the functions and
responsibilities included in the foregoing paragraphs, to other members
of technical staff.
2.    Agronomy Specialist shall function within the Technical Services Department
referred to in Section 4.03 (a) of this Agreement. He shall inter alia:
(a)   carry out investigational work to determine the most suitable grass,
forage and legume plants for Korean conditions, including:
(i)         methods of establishment and cultivation techniques;
(ii)        seeding rates;
(iii)       response to fertilizers; and
(iv)        grassland and forage management, stocking rates and the
potential for grazing cattle;
(b)   carry out studies on a regional basis on yields of hay or silage from
rice paddy that may be double-cropped and techniques of harvesting
and conserving this feed;
(c)   investigate the cheapest method of establishing reseeded pasture on
unused upland and comparison of costs when such pasturing is
performed manually and mechanically;
(d)   investigate methods for developing rangeland for grazing, including
techniques of oversowing legume and response to surface application
of fertilizer and lime;
(e)   formulate and    supervise a scheme for pasture and forage seed
multiplication with participating farmers under the Project, or other
farmers, using imported foundation seed;


﻿18
(f)   coordinate and cooperate to the extent possible, with experts under
the UNDP/FAO Korean Uplands Development and Watershed
Management Project established pursuant to the Plan of Operation
dated November 22, 1967, on pilot investigations of the yield of hay
and silage from double-cropped rice paddy land and the development
of rangeland pasture; and
(g)   coordinate research activities under the Project with the Ministry of
Agriculture and Forestry of the Borrower and to use the requisite data
and information for preparation of a possible second livestock
development project.
3.    Animal Nutrition Specialist shall function within the said Technical Services
Department. He shall inter alia:
(a)   conduct trial work on establishing the most economic feeding regimen
for different categories of livestock, entailing:
(i)         feeding trials with forages harvested at different stages of
growth and stored as silage or hay;
(ii)        the response to different levels of concentrate feeding in
combination with different types and quality of forage;
and
(iii)       the response to concentrates when animals are grazed or
fed green silage crops;
(b)   compare different methods of feeding, including stall feeding, self-feed
or easy feeding methods;
(c)   develop comparative information on various winter feeding systems;
and
(d)   coordinate the activities referred to in paragraphs 3 (a), (b) and (c)
above, with the said Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and to use
the requisite information and data for preparation of a possible second
livestock development project.
4.    Dairy Processing Specialist also to be designated, except in case of a
consulting firm, Technical Director, shall function within the Dairy Processing
Department. The Dairy Processing Specialist shall inter alia:


﻿19
(a)   advise the administrative officials (President of KDBC and Director,
Dairy Processing Department referred to in Section 4.03 (b) of this
Agreement) on major policy matters concerning Part B of the Project;
(b)   guide execution of Part B of the Project and in that connection shall:
(i)         approve siting of facilities;
(ii)        approve design, layout and specifications of structures and
equipment;
(iii)       prepare international and national tenders for materials,
equipment, utilities, and labor;
(iv)        evaluate tenders and recommendation of awards; and
(v)         supervise construction and installation of equipment and
utilities; and
(c)   guide managerial staff and train key personnel for the start-up
operations (one to two years) of the dairy processing facilities.


