CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 234 KO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Integrated Dairy Beef Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 11, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 234 KO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Integrated Dairy Beef Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 11, 1971


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 11, 1971, between REPUBLIC OF KOREA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) Korea Dairy Beef Company (hereinafter called KDBC) is a
company duly organized on February 14, 1969 under the Commercial Code of
the Republic of Korea to carry on and promote livestock and dairy development
in Korea;
(B)  The authorized capital of KDBC consists of 300,000 shares each of
W1,000 and the Agriculture and Fishery Development Corporation (hereinafter
called AFDC), a corporation established by the Agriculture and Fishery
Development Corporation Act 1968 (Law No. 1960), now holds all the issued
share capital of KDBC consisting of 150,000 shares each of W1,000;
(C)   KDBC has agreed to increase its authorized capital to six hundred
million Won by the issue from time to time of a further 300,000 ordinary shares
each of W1,000 and AFDC has agreed to subscribe in cash to such shares and
to provide certain further funds to KDBC, all in accordance with the proj-1ct
agreement of even date herewith between the Association, KDBC and AFDC
(hereinafter called Project Agreement);
(D)  The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the financing
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending the Credit
as hereinafter provided;
(E)  The Project will be carried out by KDBC with the assistance of the
Borrower and AFDC and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to KDBC the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(F)  The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿4
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   The following subparagraph is added tc Section 2.01:
"13. The term 'Project Agreement' shall have the meaning set
forth in the Development Credit Agreement."
(b)   Section 5.01 and paragraph (h) of Section 6.02 are deleted.
(c)   Paragraph (i) of Section 6.02 is renumbered as paragraph (h).
(d)   Section 6.06 is amended by inserting the words ", the Project
Agreement" after the words "the Development Credit Agreement".
(e)   Section 8.02 is amended by inserting the words "or under the Project
Agreement" after the words "the Development Credit Agreement".
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association,
KDBC and AFDC of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(b)   "First Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and KDBC pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) (i) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement
of the Association, and such term includes all schedules to the First Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(c)   "Second Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement to
be entered into between KDBC and AFDC pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of


﻿5
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time by the agreement
of the Borrower and the Association, and such term includes all schedules to the
Second Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the agreements and schedules
thereto referred to in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Section;
(e)   "Economic Planning Board" means the Economic Planning Board
established under Article 19 of the Government Organization Law, Law No. 1506
of December 14, 1963, as amended up to July 24, 1967, and as the same may
be amended from time to time;
(f)   "Articles of Incorporation" meam the Articles of Incorporation of
KDBC as of February 14, 1969, as amended up to November 19, 1970, and as
the same may be amended from time to time;
(g)   "Regulations" means the following regulations of KDBC, as the same
may be amended from time to time with the consent of the Association:
(i)        Regulations on Organization as of November 19, 1970; and
(ii)       Regulations on Lending Policies and Procedures to be adopted
by KDBC pursuant to Section 4.06 of the Project Agreement;
(h)   "Won" and the letter "W" means the currency of the Republic of
Korea;
(i)   "Act" means Agriculture and Fishery Development Corporation Act,
of 1968, Law No. 1960, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(j)   "First Subscription" means the subscription in cash to be made by
AFDC to the authorized capital of KDBC as of the date of this Agreement, pursuant
to paragraph A of Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement;
(k)   "Subsidiary" means any company which is owned or effectively
controlled by KDBC or by any one or more subsidiaries of KDBC or by KDBC
and one or more of its subsidiaries;
(1)   "farm development plan" means a proposal for investment in land
clearing, fencing, stock handling facilities, machinery, watering facilities, pasture
establishment, dairy heifers, artificial insemination, stock, pasture and dairy
management equipment and tools, farm structures, or other related on-farm items
or any combination thereof, and for the provision of working capital and technical
services in connection therewith;


﻿6
(m) "Government Loan" means the funds to be made available by the
Government pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million dollars ($7,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than consultants' services) to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.03 (a)
of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1977 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on May 15 and
November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
May 15    and   November 15    commencing    May 15, 1981    and   ending
November 15, 2020, each installment to and including the installment payable on
November 15, 1990 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%)
of such principal amount.


﻿7
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Director, Bureau of Economic Cooperation, Economic
Planning Board of the Borrower, and such other person or persons as he shall
appoint in writing, are designated as representatives of the Borrower for the
purposes of taking any action reqjired or permitted to be taken under the provisions
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE Ill
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause KDBC to carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative,
agricultural, economic, financial and engineering practices, and shall provide or cause
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b)   Without limiting the generality of the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, the Borrower shall (i) relend the proceeds of the Credit to KDBC
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
KDBC under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Association; (ii) make available to AFDC, except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, an amount equivalent to one million five hundred thousand dollars
($1,500,000) to be lent to KDBC by AFDC pursuant to a loan agreement under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association; and (iii)
make available, whenever necessary, funds to AFDC to subscribe to the increases
in KDBC's authorized capital referred to in Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the First Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the First Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(d)   The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its agencies to take all
action which shall be necessary on their part to enable (i) KDBC and AFDC to
perform all of their obligations under the Project Agreement and the Second
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and (ii) KDBC to perform all of its obligations under
the First Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which might interfere with such performance.


﻿8
(e)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause KDBC to maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of KDBC.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause KDBC to: (i) maintain separate accounts
in respect of each Part of the Project; (ii) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (iii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than three months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iv) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of KDBC and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause KDBC to take out and maintain
with responsible insurers insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with sound practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall promptly cause its Ministry of Agriculture
and Forestry to enter into an agreement with KDBC, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association, to assist KDBC in developing
and carrying out a program of applied research in livestock production.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall promptly, after consultation with the
Association, prepare and implement or cause to be prepared and implemented a
plan offering price incentives to farmers supplying milk to KDBC.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take all necessary steps to ensure that KDBC
acquires title satisfactory to the Association to the lands on which the dairy
processing facilities under the Project are to be established.


﻿ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by KDBC and AFDC of their respective obligations
under the Project Agreement and the Second Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the
performance by KDBC of its obligations under the First Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition of KDBC and
AFDC and of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations and financial condition of KDBC and AFDC and of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof, the performance
by the Borrower of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement,
the performance by KDBC and AFDC of their respective obligations under the
Project Agreement and the Second Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the performance
by KDBC of its obligations under the First Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to inspect all plants, sites, works,


﻿10
property and equipment of KDBC and to visit any part of the territories of the
Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in i-s territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   A default shall occur in the performance of any obligation on the
part of AFDC or KDBC under the Project Agreement or the Second Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, or on the part of KDBC under the First Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.


﻿*                                 11
(b)   KDBC shall have become unable to pay its debts as they mature or
any action or proceeding shall have been taken by KDBC or by others whereby
any of the property of KDBC shall or may be distributed among its creditors.
(c)   The Borrower, AFDC or any other authority having jurisdiction shall
have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of KDBC or for the
suspension of its operations.
(d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of AFDC or for the
suspension of its operations.
(e)   The Project Agreement, the First Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the
Second Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any material provision thereof shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated or waived without the prior approval of the
Association.
(f)   Any amendment, suspension or repeal of the Act or of any provisions
thereof which materially and adversely affects the operations or financial condition
of KDBC or AFDC, the performance by KDBC or AFDC of its obligations under
the Project Agreement or the Second Subsidiary Loan Agreement, or the
performance by KDBC of its obligations under the First Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, shall have been brought into force and effect.
(g)   A change shall have been made in the Articles of Incorporation and
the Regulations without the Association's consent.
(h)   A subsidiary or any other entity shall have been established or acquired
or taken over by KDBC, if such establishment, acquisition or taking over would
adversely affect the conduct of KDBC's business or its financial position or the
efficiency of its management and personnel.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following events are specified:
(a)   The event specified in Section 7.02 (a) or (e) of this Agreement shall
occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower, KDBC and
AFDC.
(b)   The event specified in Section 7.02 (h) of this Agreement shall occur
and the situation specified therein shall not have been corrected within


﻿12
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower, KDBC and AFDC.
(c)  Any event specified in Section 7.02 (b), (c), (d), (f) or (g) of this
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)  The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
KDBC and AFDC have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary
corporate and governmental action.
(b)   The execution and delivery of the First Subsidiary Loan Agreement
on behalf of the Borrower and KDBC have been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
(c)  The execution and delivery of the Second Subsidiary Loan Agreement
on behalf of KDBC and AFDC have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
(d)   KDBC has employed the Dairy Husbandry Specialist referred to in
Section 4.05 of the Project Agreement.
(e)  The First Subscription referred to in Section 1.02 (j) of this Agreement
has been made.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)  That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, KDBC and AFDC and
constitutes a valid and binding obligation of KDBC and AFDC in
accordance with its terms.


﻿13
(b)  That the First Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower
and KDBC and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the
Borrower and KDBC in accordance with its terms.
(c)  That the Second Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, KDBC and
AFDC and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of KDBC and
AFDC in accordance with its terms.
Section 8.03. The date June 11, 1971 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01 (a), 4.01
(b) (ii), 4.01 (b) (iii), 4.01 (b) (iv), 4.02 and 5.02 (a) of this Agreement and
the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall
cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister, Economic Planning Board of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister, Economic Planning Board
Seoul
Republic of Korea
Cable address:
EPB
Seoul


﻿14
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
By /s/ Dong Jo Kim
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿15
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in             % of Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)            to be Financed
I.    Loans for farm                 1,900,000           56% of total expendi-
development (exclud-                               tures
ing cattle and semen)
II.   Cattle and semen              2,500,000            100% of foreign ex-
penditures
III.  Dairy processing
facilities:
(a)   Machinery and            1,200,000           100% of foreign ex-
equipment                                    penditures or 100%
of local expenditures
ex-factory
(b)   Civil works               600,000            44% of total expendi-
tures
IV.   Vehicles for manage-             50,000            100% of total expendi-
ment and technical                                 tures
services
V.    Technical services:
(a)   Specialists speci-        475,000            100% of total expendi-
fied in Section                              tures
4.05 of Project
Agreement
(b)   Research materials         75,000            100% of foreign ex-
and equipment,                               penditures
training fellow-
ships
VI.   Unallocated                     200,000
TOTAL         7,000,000


﻿16
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any member of the Bank (other than the Borrower) or of Switzerland;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes, such percentage shall be
reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will be withdrawn on account
of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures.


﻿17
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Categories I and
III (b) shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation
to such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program of livestock and dairy
development and consists of the following:
Part A
The extension through KDBC of long-term loans (8-10 years) to farmers
for the development of about 700 dairy farms in the Central District and the
Honam District;
Part B
The construction of two suitably located dairy product processing facilities;
Part C
The provision of management and technical services, including the
employment of specialists in dairy husbandry, animal nutrition, agronomy and dairy
processing, assisted by livestock production specialists; and
Part D
The provision of applied research in livestock development, including trials
on plant production, nutritional feeding requirements and dairy management, as
well as development of information on forage crop production, double-cropping
of lowland paddy fields, and pasture development on uplands.


